 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  had not heard of any complaints of this kind, and had not introduced in these Bills any provision upon the subject; his main object was to consolidate the law, remedying also some defects and difficulties that had arisen in the construction of the statutes; it would be for the House to consider hereafter whether any new enactments should be added of the nature alluded to. He ought to have mentioned that he had placed in the margin references to the books of authority where the present law was to be found; if the forms of the House would allow him to circulate the Bills in that shape, it would be very convenient.
 MR. ELLICE  could not resist seconding the appeal just made by his hon. Friend to the noble Lord opposite, to reconsider whether he might not better serve the cause which he wished to promote by not persevering in his proposition. He assured the noble Lord, that, as one of the West Indian body, he felt deeply grateful to him for the interest he had evinced in their cause. There was not one of the body who did not think the noble Lord had made the proposition in the best possible feeling, and he had come to the House prepared to give him his support; but since he had heard the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, his views had undergone a change. He agreed with the hon. Member for Middlesex in thinking that the concessions contemplated were of some importance in the present state of the West Indian colonies. His reason for begging the noble Lord to reconsider the matter arose from a feeling in his mind that expectations might be raised, and inducements afforded, to indulge in speculations in the colonies not justified by the result likely to be obtained by the concessions of the Government. There might be many expectations of various kinds raised, which, he felt satisfied, would end in disappointment. He would not join the Chancellor of the Exchequer in telling the colonies how they were to manage their affairs; but he would tell them that, as their position was now fairly ascertained, and as a fixed line of policy would be pursued towards them, that they should do the best they could to meet their situation. He had considerable experience of West Indian property; and his object had been to serve his tenants as much as he could, and avoid the responsibility of further advances in the dangerous situation of the colonies. He had told his tenants that if they could not pay their rent he would not demand it of them. [ A laugh. 79
 LORD G. BENTINCK : Sir, if I consulted my own wishes, aware as I am that the Motion I am about to propose will receive no opposition from Her Majesty's Ministers, I should much prefer to make no statement on this occasion; but I believe I should not be consulting the general wish of the House, or the wishes of those who are deeply interested in the produce of the sugar-cane, if I were to make this Motion for a Committee of Inquiry without some preliminary observations. It has been represented to me by many of those who are interested in Her Majesty's colonies in the East and West Indies—it has been represented to me, from those colonies, and from persons in this country who are interested in them, that the course which I am proposing is not consistent with the necessities of this case; that there is something pusillanimous in the Motion which I am going to bring before the House; that, in point of fact, the West Indian interest and the interest of the Mauritius and the East Indies, connected with sugar and coffee planting, are  in extremis, 8 "Like cordials after death, comes late;" l. 9 l. 10 11 l. s. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 12 l. l. l. l. s. l. l. l. l; l. s. l. s. 13 s. 14 "That for one shilling sterling of daily wages, free labourers would work in Porto Rico from sunrise to sunset, and on a moderate calculation would perform more work during that time than two slaves would perform." "That in the year 1828, 1,437,285 acres of land in Porto Rico, were hold by 19,140 proprietors. At the same time, 423 individuals were proprietors of estates worked by slaves. Of these 275 were devoted to the production of sugar, and 148 were other plantations. In 1822, there were but 29 sugar estates, and the value of the sugar exported annually amounted to 57,000 dollars; but in consequence of the liberal conduct of Governor Le Tone, great encouragement was given to sugar planting under his administration, and a considerable immigration took place into this island." "That the planters from the neighbouring islands of St. Croix and St. Thomas brought their slaves to Porto Rico, and that in consequence of the introduction of these slaves, and the capital possessed by their owners, the island had continued to prosper since 1828, and had been, and still continues to be, a very considerable source of revenue to the mother country." "So long as the fertility of the land remains unexhausted, it is probable that the slovenly labour of the small free proprietors may continue to raise a considerable quantity of export produce; but it cannot be doubted that most of its
 15 "The enormous importation of slaves has caused increased production of sugar, as I said before, from 20,000 tons in 1838, to 49,000 tons in 1847." s. s. s. d. 16 17 l. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. 18 pari passu s. 1. s. 19 "The easy and independent circumstances of the peasantry, as compared with those of our own countrymen at home, is very striking. Probably no peasantry in any other quarter of the globe have such comforts and advantages." "The deterioration of properties proceeds from the want of continuous labour, which is the natural effect of an insufficient population, and the means possessed by the peasantry of rendering themselves in a great degree independent of going to labour as servants for hire. It is satisfactory to reflect, that whatever number of immigrants is likely to come from any part of the world, there is room for all, and spare land of the greatest fertility and abundance, so that any probable multitude can be provided for without a diminution of the comforts of the present population." —"a land of plenty—a field fitted for raising abundance of food, and, he might add, with a promising sugar crop." "In a country like this food is plentiful, and little covering suffices for the labouring classes. Even the dearth of last year did not produce much effect on those classes. No case of destitution has ever or could ever occur here." l. "Almost all persons, without exception, have subscribed, although it has been a very difficult task to explain to the labouring men of this fortunate colony the meaning of starvation and intense cold." 20 21 "The noble Lord had confined his attention to the West India Islands; but let him turn to the Mauritius, and he would find that there the greatest prosperity was manifest, and that the production of sugar had immensely increased. He would ask, if it was for a moment to be supposed that these petitioners could be favoured by the admission of their produce free of duty? [Lord G. BENTINCK had not made any proposition of that kind, but simply that an inquiry should be entered into.] He was drawing the attention of the House to the petition, and he found that one of its prayers was, that the petitioners should be permitted to have their sugar imported duty free. But, at all events, the noble Lord was in favour of at least 50 per cent being imposed as a protection to the West India planters. Now, if they were to refer to the entire history of the West India colonies, they would find that more complaints were made in that House on the part of the planters during the most palmy days of protection, than had been heard of late years; and the noble Lord might rest satisfied that a system of free trade and open competition would be most beneficial for all parties concerned; that it would lead to greater economy of production, be the means of embarking more capital in the growth and manufacture
 22 * l. l. s. * 23 l. l. l. 24 l. l. l. l. 25 l. Economist, l. l. l. Economist l. l. 26 Commercial Glance "In the 16 months from the 12th May to the 12th September, 1846, the exports of cotton to the Brazils were 1,981,620 l. l. l. "From about the middle of 1846 to the same period of 1847 our exports to Brazil were heavy, and considerably in excess of the demand. To Bahia, particularly, they were stimulated, owing to the prospects of a large crop and consequent increased means of the natives to pay for them; all this resulted in accumulation of stocks; so much so, that in July and August of the past year the public stores were full to overflowing, and British ships had to remain, in many instances, for several weeks, without being able to discharge their cargoes for want of storage and room ashore in the custom-house, where all goods must go. I need scarcely tell your Lordship that the dealers in Brazil are sagacious enough, when the markets are so overstocked, to purchase sparingly, and the anxiety of importers to effect sales must have the
 27 ad valorem; "Several thousands of both sexes are annually imported from Africa into Brazil. I have heard the number estimated at 30,000 and upwards. In October last several cargoes of slaves were landed in Bahia, or on the coast in the neighbourhood; and in a letter from Bahia, written about three months ago, I saw it stated that the assortment was not considered very suitable, there being too many old women amongst them, which were a drug in that market." l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 28 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. d. l. l. 29 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. s. 30 l. l. Champion, l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 
 
 BRITISH. FOREIGN. 
 Ships. Tonnage. Ships. Tonnage. 
 Cuba 878 271,701 297 68,046 
 Brazils 1,188 284,267 109 22,693 
 2,066 555,968 406 90,739 31 l. l. l. l. l. l. s. s. l. 32 l. l. l. l. s. s. s. s. l. l. l. l. l. l. 33 l. l. l. l. l. l. s. 34 
 
 Maryland 717 
 Virginia 1,722 
 Mississippi 22 
 Delaware 2 
 Alexandrina, Colombia 3 
 Total 2,466 at £58 6 4 
 South Carolina 8 
 Georgia 833 
 Alabama 31 
 Total 872 at £81 5 0 
 Louisiana 203 at £120 16 8 
 Grand total 3,601 £266,197 10 0; l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. s. l. s. 35 l. s. l. s. d. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. l. l. l. l. l. s. l. s. d. l. l. 36 l. l. l. l. l. s. l. l. l. s. d. s. d. s. d. d. l. l. l. l. l. l. 37 "The distress of the colonists may be traced to one plain and undeniable cause—they have overstocked the market. Though they possess the undisputed monopoly of the markets of this country, they have gone on increasing the extent of their produce until they have far outdone the demand for sugar in the markets of Europe. The
 38 * l. l. "Who could ever believe, when the British people had emancipated for conscience sake so vast a number of these unhappy beings, at so heavy a pecuniary expense, that they would ever consent to admit the produce of the slave planter again into this country? " l. l. "For saints themselves will sometimes be— Of gifts that cost them nothing—free." * 39 Unity, The noble Lord held up the sketch of the slaver. "Swanage, Dorset, Jan. 31, 1848. "My Lord Duke—I received your Grace's note yesterday. Lord George need not be afraid of the authenticity of the picture. I saw the counterpart of it at Rio; the only difference was, that the deck was  four feet nine high (these were pronounced by connoisseurs superb accommodations after incidents What I have said is true. in Brazils or the West Indies is the time to see it in its worst and most brutal form." Slaney "When captured, several of the slaves were
 40 Times "'If we do not take it,' they say, 'England will. Mr. President Polk has justified the invasion of Mexico, in order to demand from them the payment of a debt. England has a hundred-fold greater claims upon Cuba than ever we had on Mexico: 45,000,000 l. 41 l. l. "The continent—the whole continent, and nothing but the continent, is our motto; and Uncle Sam will not be satisfied until, putting his hat on the British colonies, resting his right elbow on the paradise of California, with his left hand on the eastern seaboard, he can throw his leg like a freeman over the southern continent of America, with his heel in Cape Horn, and Cuba for a cabbage-garden." 42 "A Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the present condition and prospects of the Interests connected with and dependent on Sugar and Coffee Planting in Her Majesty's East and West Indian Possessions and the Mauritius; and to consider whether any and what measures can be adopted by Parliament for their relief."
 LORD GEORGE BENTINCK : The right hon. Gentleman misunderstood me. I said I was not prepared to make a proposition to admit foreign and exclude slave-grown sugars, because I did not think after what had fallen on a former occasion from the noble Lord opposite (the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs), to the effect that such a distinction could not be made, I could succeed in that proposition without depriving Her Majesty's Ministers of their offices, and I was not prepared to make it on that account. But I was prepared to exclude slave-grown sugar, and foreign with it, if the one could not be excluded without the other.
 LORD G. BENTINCK : From what are you quoting these opinions?
 LORD J. RUSSELL : It will be introduced in the other House of Parliament in a few days.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I do not think there are any documents of an official nature of the purport referred to by the hon. Member which can be laid before this House. I stated, on a former occasion, when I asked the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. Osborne) to postpone a Motion of which he had given notice on the subject, that I would take an early opportunity of informing the House what had been done by former Governments and by the present Government in the way of naval and military defences; and I shall take the opportunity of giving that information when I lay the financial statement before the House.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I quote from the pamphlet of Mr. Scotland. He says—
 "Contrast the resident Cuba proprietor with the Jamaica absentee proprietor, the one a practised planter, skilled in the cultivation of his estates, and on the spot to correct all abuses, and regulate, with prudent care and management, the contingencies of his property, with a strict regard to economy; the other living in a far distant country, an alien to his estates, perhaps in the hands of an usurious mortgagee—perhaps, as in some cases, plundered by an avaricious and unprincipled attorney, and only served faithfully by a hard-working overseer, or a humble bookkeeper, badly and indifferently paid. Can any one wonder that a Jamaica property thus burdened and thus mismanaged cannot compete with a Cuban or a Brazilian sugar estate? Reader, wonder no longer. If I speak not the truth, confute me—you shall then have the facts." 69 "What crops hare been made on Worthy Paris during the last three years?—In the year 1843, 190 hogsheads; in 1844, 200 hogsheads; and Since the 15th of March, in the present year, 400 hogsheads. The estimate for next crop is very nearly 700 tons. There was a mechanical difficulty in the estate this year, which has thrown a large proportion of the present crop into the next. "What other machinery is in use to economise manual labour?—On Worthy Park a tramway was laid down for the purpose, at an expense of 300 l. "What are the circumstances that induced you to incur so heavy an expenditure for machinery?—I felt convinced, in the first place, that there would be a reduction in the protecting duties. I concluded that whatever amount of labour I was employing for any certain purpose, required the same amount of labour in a slave country. I calculated the expense that was incurred by the slaveowner, and I calculated that if I could accomplish the same purpose, by an investment, even to an equal amount in value of slaves, in simple machinery, subject to very trifling wear and tear, I should always be able to produce sugar cheaper than the slaveholder could. It was also in consequence of the general complaint in the country of a want of labour, which could only be overcome by the introduction of machinery." 70 Commercial Dictionary 71 "Were a system of husbandry continued in the British colonies similar to the one pursued during slavery, I admit that slave labour would prove to be the cheaper of the two; but were a proper and economical method, similar to what we see in Great Britain and many other countries, substituted for the barbarous employment of the hand here, the reverse, I apprehend, would be found to the case. Wherever slavery exists, its numerical force must be adequate to all the calls that may be made upon it at any one time. Thus, if 300 labourers are required during crop, this number must be retained throughout the whole year; and if they are to be fed, clothed, and housed, economy demands that employment shall be found for them, and this necessarily implies the continuance of the system now in force in those countries. In every other respect the British planter has unquestionable advantages over his foreign competitor."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I beg the noble Lord's pardon if I have, though unintentionally, misstated his argument; and I must return him my thanks, on the part of my Colleagues and myself, for the forbearance which he is disposed to show towards Her Majesty's Government. 48 l. l. l. l. l. l. 49 The Ministry and the Sugar Duties. 50 l. l. l. 51 52 53 l. l. l. l. l. Progress of the Nation, l. 54 l. l. l. l. l. 55 s. d. 56 s. d. d. d. d. 57 s. d. 58 s. d. 59 s. d. 60 l. 61 "It is the opinion of the Committee that the progress of the liberated Africans in moral and industrial habits has been greatly retarded by the frequent change of system in their location and maintenance, and by the yearly influx of thousands of their rude and uncivilised countrymen; and it therefore appears absolutely necessary for the future prosperity of the liberated Africans already located, that one uniform system should be pursued towards them, and that a check should be put upon the influx of their captured brethren." 62 l "With respect to the West India colonies, he did not believe it would be in the power of the Legislature to bring them into a sound and healthy state of cultivation, even if the duties that existed before the year 1844 were to be continued for twenty years. New modes of cultivation should be introduced, new systems of management must be adopted, and a resident should be substituted for an absentee proprietary." 63 d. d. s. d. "The wages of field work have within the last month fallen from 10 d. s. d. d. "Nor is it apprehended that by this unavoidable measure (the reduction of wages) the working classes will be subjected to any serious deprivations; for as there is reason to suppose that at the higher rates, by working three days in the week, they were enabled to support themselves and families in case and comfort, it is anticipated that at the lower rates, by giving their labour more freely and continuously, they may accomplish the same object." 64 The Ministry and the Sugar Duties "While the physical force thus became dear from emancipation, management did not become cheap, nor mind active and fertile: it is probably too near the truth to say that, at this moment, in the cultivation of West Indian estates, the special charges of slavery have remained, while the special charges of freedom have supervened upon them." 65 The Sugar Planter's Manual. "In the course of twenty years, ending 1791, the planters of Jamaica (however profitably employed in the service of the mother country, were labouring to little purpose to themselves; it appeared that no less than 177 sugar plantations had been sold during that period for the payment of debts; that 55 had been abandoned by the proprietors; and that 92 others remained in the hands of creditors." 66 "Every British merchant holding securities on real estate, is filing bills in Chancery to foreclose, although when he has obtained a decree he hesitates to enforce it, because he must himself become proprietor of the plantations, of which, from fatal experience, he knows the consequences. "Sheriffs' officers and collectors of internal taxes are everywhere offering for sale the property of indiduals who have seen better days, and now must view their effects purchased for half their real value, and less than half their original cost. Far from having the reversion expected, the creditor is often not satisfied." "The ruin of the original possessors has been gradually completed; estate after estate has passed into the hands of mortagees and creditors absent from the island, until there are large districts—whole parishes—in which there is not a single proprietor of a sugar plantation resident." —"now see approaching the lowest state of human misery—absolute want to their families, the horrors of a gaol to themselves." "The case submitted to them in these papers is one of severe distress affecting the proprietors of the soil. Your Committee have received abundant evidence of the distress which is said to have existed, in a considerable degree, for ten or twelve years past, and to have been greatly aggravated within the last three or four. In concluding their consideration of the causes of the depressed state of the West Indian colonists, your Committee have not forgotten that their depression has existed in former times, and at periods anterior to the abolition of the slave trade. To one of these periods their attention has been specially called by the reference of the report of the Committee of 1807, whence it appears that during the late war, and while still supplied with slaves from Africa, the planters complained of inadequate returns and of unequal competition in foreign markets. These results were then ascribed to the circumstances of the war, which has long ceased, and which were necessarily independent of the causes now alleged." —"in almost every district the progress towards abandonment is manifest; the returns of the custodes and magistrates authenticate cases most distressing, of ruin perfected, and peril impending." 67 68 l. s. l. s. l. s. l. s. l. l. l. s. l. s. l. s. s. l. s.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : From what has been said by the noble Lord who has just sat down, the House will already have inferred that it is not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to oppose his Motion; and I do not rise, therefore, for the purpose of objecting to the appointment of the Committee for which he has moved. My noble Friend the First Lord of the Treasury, early in the month of November, intimated to the noble Lord, that if he wished to move for a Committee with the objects which he has now explained to the House, Her Majesty's Government would not oppose the proposition. The noble Lord has stated several points in which relief may be afforded the West India interest, with reference to some of which Her Majesty's Government, as well as the noble Lord, think some inquiry may be advantageous; but I should deceive both him and the House, and, what is still more material, the West Indians themselves, if I led them to suppose that in consenting to the appointment of this Committee, Her Majesty's Government meant to imply the slightest doubt of the propriety of the course which they adopted in 1846, or the slightest intention of departing from the provisions of that Act. I think it but fair to all parties that this statement should be made as decidedly as possible, and as early as possible, because I believe that upon a subject of this description uncertainty is the worst of evils; and, as I remember well the hon. Member for Bristol to have said on a former occasion, the greatest kindness which can be shown towards them is to state distinctly and explicitly what the views of the Government are. I propose at the same time to state what are our intentions as to various points of a minor description, on which we do believe that effectual relief to a certain extent may be given to the West India interest, whose present state of distress is, I am afraid, undeniable, and which we most
 43 s. 44 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. 45 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. 46 47
 MR. ROBINSON  said, that the object of his rising was to state that, differing as he did altogether from the Government on this question, he nevertheless gave them credit for the statement which had been made by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that, in consenting to this Committee, they would be no party to any delusion respecting any intention to depart from the Bill of 1846. The sooner, in his opinion, that determination on the part of the Government was known the better; as well as that the West Indians should know that they were not to
 72 73 s. l. l. 74 75 76
 MR. ROBINSON  wished to ask whether any correspondence or communication had taken place between the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs and the Minister of the United States on the subject of the Navigation Laws; and, if so, whether the noble Lord intended to lay such correspondence on the table?
 MR. HUME  suggested that all the references should be appended in a sheet at the end of the Bill. With regard to the question of the hon. Member (Mr. Cripps), he (Mr. Hume) must say, that if the public were not to have the protection of the law, or of the dread of the law, against improper proceedings of justices of the peace, the Government ought to adopt some rule that should prevent any one being appointed a justice till he had been examined and was known to be qualified to
 7 l.
 MR. HUME , after the long discussion, which had taken place on this most important question, did not rise to enter into its merits. He only rose to submit to the noble Lord (Lord G. Bentinck) the propriety of not pressing for the appointment of this Committee after the candid statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer as to the intentions of the Government. The noble Lord had so framed his Motion as to include an inquiry into everything connected with the colonies. He had not defined or limited his views to any one object. But what had been the response of the Chancellor of the Exchequer? Why, he said, "I make no objection to a Committee; but I am bound to tell you that, whatever you do, we will not go beyond what I tell you;" and the right hon. Gentleman had explicitly declared what the object of the Government was. The right hon. Gentleman said that one of the most important points in the case was to let the West India interest know what they had to expect. Would not the appointment of a Committee create expectations which would not be realised? He, therefore, appealed to the noble Lord who had brought forward this Motion, with an anxious desire to relieve the distresses of those whose case he advocated. He believed the noble Lord had avoided the recital of the disastrous state of circumstances, which few were aware of. He had had the state of things in the colonies put before him, within a short period, and he considered these important interests were in most imminent danger. He therefore submitted to the noble Lord that he should not press his Motion for a Committee; but, on the explanation given by the right hon. Gentleman, cast the entire responsibility upon Her Majesty's Government. Many of the propositions of that right hon. Gentleman were good; and he was glad to hear the Chancellor of the Exchequer frankly confess that it was by no means the intention of the Government to depart from the principles of free trade in their treatment of the colonies. He believed that those principles had not yet had a fair trial in the colonies; and that, if they had, the colonies would not be in their present distressed condition. He had no hesitation in saying that free labour could compete with
 77 78
 MR. HUME  wished to put a question to the First Lord of the Treasury. It had been stated that of late years the defences
 3
 MR. OSBORNE  wished to ask at what period it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce a Bill for facilitating the sale of encumbered estates in Ireland?
 MR. CRIPPS  wished to ask whether the fourth Bill would limit the power of the judges of the local courts to entertain actions for unliquidated damages? He did not know whether the Attorney General had heard any complaints upon the subject; but it was becoming a common practice to bring actions against magistrates, for the mere purpose of harassing them, for what the parties were pleased to call illegal commitments, laying their damages under 20 l. l. 1.
 The ATTORNEY-GENERAL  then rose to move for leave to bring in four Bills:—
 "A Bill to facilitate the performance of the duties of Justices of the Peace, out of Sessions, within England and Wales, with respect to persons charged with indictable offences:—A Bill to facilitate the performance of the duties of Justices of the Peace, out of Sessions, within England and Wales, with respect to summary convictions and orders:—A Bill to regulate the holding of Courts of Special Sessions and Petty Sessions:—and a Bill to protect Justices of the Peace from vexatious actions for acts done by them in execution of their office." 5
 SIR J. PAKINGTON , though, of course, not pledging himself to the details of these measures, could not refrain from expressing his thanks to the hon. and learned Gentleman for his most praiseworthy effort. If arrangements could be made for prevent-
 6
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : There has been a correspondence between the American Minister and myself on the subject to which the hon. Gentleman refers. The American Minister intimated to Her Majesty's Government the disposition of the Government of the United States to go hand in hand with the Government of this country in any relaxation which Parliament and the Government might be disposed to make in our Navigation Laws. The answer Her Majesty's Government returned expressed their satisfaction at that communication, and stated that it was their intention to submit to Parliament a proposition on the subject, to which they hoped Parliament would give its sanction. I
 4
 MR. WILSON , on the Order of the Day for the Adjourned Debate on Lord George Bentinck's Motion being read, rose and said, that in addressing the House on this debate, it was his intention to confine himself strictly to the subject-matter introduced by the noble Lord, and to refrain from travelling into any questions connected with the general policy of the country, which had been noticed in the course of the preceding discussion. He would be perfectly satisfied to look at the question merely as it affected the interests of the cultivators of sugar, and to take the result of the arguments on the statements made by the planters themselves—on the condition of the demands they were making for increased protection—and on the power of Government to afford it to them. The demands put forward by the West Indian interests might be taken as they were summed up in a pamphlet in favour of these claims, under four heads:—
 "1. That moral considerations compel us to prohibit the introduction of slave produce as long as moral considerations compel us to prevent slavery. "2. That slave labour is cheaper than free labour, and therefore to expose the West Indian planter to a competition with slave labour, confining him to the use of free labour, is unequal and unjust. "3. That the exclusion of slave-labour sugar would be a protection to the British planter, and enable him to compete, and that the produce of Brazil and Cuba should be excluded. "4. That the Legislature has therefore the power to protect the colonies by excluding or charging with a heavier duty the produce of slave labour." 85 86 s. d. d. Mauritius Mail —"as long as slavery existed among them there could be no progress, no liberal institution, no good government, no security for life and property." 87 s. 88 89 90 91 92 Royal Gazette "Some slight consideration, however, will convince us that we have neither been for years pursuing a phantom, nor have little to hope from the present measure of the Home Government. In the last three years we have received the largest accessions to our population which we have ever obtained since the emancipation. It is estimated that since 1844 not less than 30,000 labourers have been introduced into the colony. It is quite true that the exorbitant rates of agricultural wages, which prevailed in 1844, prevail now; and that in these three years a vast number of the peasantry have withdrawn entirely from the coasts, and settled upon their own freeholds up the rivers and creeks in the paradise of the interior. These may or may not be lamentable facts. But it is equally true that, as compared with 1843 or 1844, the sugar crop of 1847 has remarkably increased, and that every colonist of observation and experience attributes this increase solely, under Providence, to the importation of Coolie and Portuguese labourers effected in the interim. The sugar crop of 1843 and 1844 was about 35,000 hogsheads; the sugar crop of 1847 will be about 50,000 hogsheads. When three years ago the authorities conceded to us Coolie immigration, every cane field almost in the colony was a wilderness of weeds; labourers in many places could not be obtained for love or money to take a hoe or shovel in their hands; the arrogance of the native peasant was intolerable: the dependence of the planter upon him humiliating and disastrous in the extreme. The colony, which depends wholly upon its sugar cultivation, not only is in a crisis just now, but will have, in all probability, crisis after crisis to go through till the Sugar Bill shall have fully developed itself, and the sugar of the British West Indies enjoys no favour whatever in the markets of the mother country. We entertain some hope that things will, in the end, go right, from a fact which has come under our observation within the last fortnight, and which proves, to our mind at least, that the population can and will bend and accommodate themselves to circumstances. For our part, we would ask no more in order to fight the battle of free-labour with slave-labour produce. It was clearly enough demonstrated to the people that sugar was not, at the old rate of wages, paying the planter: and the alternative was, in many districts, submitted to the peasantry, either of not working at all, or of working for wages reduced at the rate of 25 per cent. With wonderful smoothness and placidity, all things considered, the people have agreed within the last few days, in the finest and most extensive sugar district of the colony — the Arabian coast of Essequibo—to accept the reduced rate; and the same thing we learn has happened on the east coast of Demerara.
 93 l.
 MR. BERNAL  observed, that it was his unfortunate position, being connected with the West Indies, to coincide in a great proportion of what had been said by the hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat. He did not belong to the standing committee of West Indian merchants. He did not attend their meetings; and any sentiments he might express in connexion with this subject must he at his own door. He did not pretend to do more than to express the honest convictions of his own heart, and nobody, except himself, was to be made responsible for what he might say. In a great portion of the speech delivered by the hon. Member for Westbury, he coincided unreservedly. Clear, lucid, and temperate as it was, it always compelled his admiration, and frequently his concurrence; but his hon. Friend must forgive him for saying, that in his (Mr. Bernal's) opinion, one portion of that speech, and one portion of the argument upon which it was founded, were to some extent suicidal. The hon. Member had dilated on the magnificence of the island of Cuba—he had spoken of the glories of the splendid city of Havannah, and of the fortunes of the noble Spanish families there resident, who, by their presence and their princely expenditure contributed in so material a degree to the refinement, comfort, and luxury of the colony; but he would take leave to ask the hon. Member whether, while he was expatiating on those topics in such glowing terms, there did not he  perdu 109 110 111 l. 112 s. s. d. l. s. l. l. l. l. 113 114 congé, 115 l. l. l., l., 116
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said, in reply, that the President of the Board of Trade expressed his expectation that he (Lord G. Bentinck) would have drawn attention to the case of the Worthy Park estate; but he thought the answer of the hon. Member
 161 Capital versus Emigration. l. l. l * l l., * 
 
 1833 … … £4,014,334 
 1834 … … £24,891,960 
 1835 … … 
 1836 … … 
 1837 … … 
 1838 … … 
 Average £4,978,390 
 1839 … … £18,473,644 
 1840 … … 
 1841 … … 
 1842 … … 
 1843 … … 
 Average £3,694,725" 162 l., l.; l. Hansard, "But for the comfort of the West Indians and others concerned in the growth of sugar, there was a qualification in the noble Lord's (Lord G. Bentinck's) statement which entirely destroyed the whole anticipation, because he said that the possibility of the importation he spoke of from the East Indies would entirely depend on its being sold here at a high price." * "He had it on the authority of Messrs. Allen and Neville, the great sugar-brokers of Calcutta, that whenever sugar in the East Indies fell to the price of 8 rupees, then the natives consumed a large quantity; but whenever the price rose to 11 rupees, or 11½ rupees (that is 23 s. "His noble Friend (Lord John Russell) had calculated in his estimate, that the effect of the free import of Brazil and Cuba sugar would be to lower the price 6 s. s., s. s. * 163 "His glass is run, his hour is come; No doctor can relieve him;" l. l. "Sir Fowell Buxton, Mr. Wilberforce, and the writers in the  Anti-slavery Reporter "If it could be accomplished he would like to see an increased intercourse between Africa and our own colonies; and if means could be pointed out which would be free from abuse, the Kroomen might go to our colonies during the cane harvests, as the Irish labourers come to this coun-
 164 "He himself utterly abhorred the slave trade, and he would not adopt any course that would tend to increase it; but he was bound to say he believed that, in passing this measure, so far from increasing the slave trade, it would be the most likely means of putting an end to it. "He could not sit down without repudiating the idea that he should ever have been induced to recommend such a measure as the present, if he thought that the effect of it would be to increase the evils of slavery. On the contrary, his settled opinion was that it would lead to the extinction of slavery in no very great number of years." l "For the early, though not, certainly the immediate mitigation of this evil, I looked to the education and industrial training of the negroes." 165 "The people should have every encouragement to take the air on deck, especially while their berths are being cleansed and ventilated, and the surgeon will be careful to promote dancing and singing. They are on no account to be called on to do any work on board, except cleaning their own deck and sleeping places, or receiving at the hatchways fuel, provisions, and water; and he will be particularly careful that they be not placed to draw water from the sea, or otherwise employed in any situation in such a manner as to endanger personal safety. "He will use every exertion to promote cleanliness among the people. In suitable weather, bathing may be enjoined on the emigrants." —"to teach Lavolta's high and swift couvantos." "The man that hath not music in himself, Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds, Is fit for treason;" 166 Boston Atlas: "The fact cannot be disguised, that there is a party in the United States which looks to the annexation of the island of Cuba to this country as a thing highly desirable. The question has yet only been broached publicly by a few presses, but those presses are known to represent the views of a large and influential class of citizens. That the scheme meets with favour in certain quarters cannot be doubted. Indeed, whatever scheme may be proposed, however absurd and unconstitutional it may be, if it be a scheme by which the slave power of the country can be strengthened, it is sure to find favour and friends. We therefore consider the matter as settled, that one of the issues likely to be presented to the people, within a few years, will be the annexation of Cuba to the United States. And if we are not greatly in error, there are causes at work in Europe which will precipitate the decision of the question. "The conclusion to which we have come is, that there is a determination on the part of Great Britain to got Spain to cede to her the island of Cuba, in payment of the seventy millions of pounds which she owes to British subjects. If Spain refuses to make the cession, then to seize the island by force and hold possescion. This could easily be done by England, with her immense army and navy, and boundless wealth. "This, we know, is but supposition on our part, but we think it is plausible. It also explains the attack which Lord Palmerston made upon 'the States of North America,' and the studied si-
 167 "England has never acknowledged herself a convert to the 'continental policy' of Mr. Polk, any more than she did to the 'continental policy' of Napoleon Bonaparte. Every one can imagine the excitement which a step like the seizure or purchase of Cuba by Great Britain would create in our own country. We are naturally jealous of the encroachments of that Power; and Cuba is the key to the Gulf of Mexico, and is larger and of more value than all the other West India islands combined. We should be restless, for we would ill brook this nigh approach of John Bull upon our southern border, with the key of the Gulf in his pocket. The southern States would cry aloud against it, because of the near neighbourhood of a colony of liberated slaves, a thing for which they have a lively dread." Times l. 168 "Beware how you abandon me to myself. Thou canst save me, Thou ought'st, thou must. So choose betwixt my rescue and my grave, And quickly, too, The hour of sacrifice is near."
 MR. B. COCHRANE  said, he would take the opportunity of putting a question to the right hon. Home Secretary, on a subject which he thought the House would deem important, as it involved considerations of justice as well as the interests of many hon. Gentlemen who were Members of that House. He wished to ask whether it was the intention of the right hon. Baronet to bring in any Bill to amend the present law with regard to the trial of election petitions? Many hon. Members of that House had been and others might be subjected to great hardship by having petitions presented against their return, and by finding, when it had been proved that the petitions were not well grounded, that they were still liable to bear the expenses of defending their seats. It was true that Election Committees had the power of deciding that petitions were frivolous and vexatious; but it was perfectly well known that they rarely did so unless in very strong cases; and it often happened that when hon. Members who had been petitioned against were declared to have been properly returned—when it was clear that they had justice on their side—they were still saddled with very considerable expenses. There was another point connected with the trial of election petitions which he considered deserved attention. A Member who was petitioned against was totally ignorant in what order the charges made against him by the petitioners would be proceeded with before the Committee; and it was, therefore, impossible for him to have those witnesses present who might be essentially necessary to meet any particular charge; and the adjournment of the Committee, to enable him to obtain the attendance of the requisite witnesses, was attended with great expense. He thought
 81
 MR. DISRAELI  wished to take this opportunity of putting a question to the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs respecting the past negotiations in the River Plate. The House would recollect that when the mission of Mr. Ouseley terminated, a copy of his instructions was laid upon the table by the Foreign Secretary. Since that period another mission had taken place to the same quarter; that mission had also terminated; and he wished to know whether the noble Lord would have any objection to lay upon the table a copy of the instructions furnished to Lord Howden?
 MR. DISRAELI : I am sure, Sir, that the hon. Gentleman who has just addressed you is mistaken if he supposes that it is merely to accident we owe the brilliant attendance which now distinguishes this assembly; it is not to be ascribed merely to the fortuitous circumstances to which he has referred. It must have been inferred that it was his intention to address the House, and give us the advantage of his oriental experience, as he has just done in that speech in which he has said that he should place the House in a dilemma. But I cannot help feeling that the greatest
 120 l. 121 l. l. 122 123 124 Imus, imus precipites 125 l. 126 l. l. 127 128 l. l. l., l. l. 129 literatim, "The noble Lord had confined his attention to the West India Islands; but let him turn to the Mauritius, and he would find that there the greatest prosperity was manifest, and that the production of sugar had immensely increased. He would ask, if it was for a moment to be supposed that these petitioners could be favoured by the admistion of their produce free of duty? [Lord G. BENTINCK had not made any proposition of that kind, but simply that an inquiry should be entered
 130 131 132 133 134 135 136 137 138 139 sœvior armis. longœ pacis mala,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  moved a Resolution permitting the use of Sugar and Molasses in Distilleries.
 MR. GOULBURN : I feel, in common I believe with the rest of the House, that it is desirable for this debate to come to an end to-night. But I trust the House will allow me to make a few observations on this subject, in respect to which I stand in many respects in a peculiar situation. I thought it my duty in 1846 not to offer any opposition to the proposal then made by the Government with respect to the sugar duties. In taking such a course upon that occasion, I gave evidence that I had divested myself of those feelings which properly belonged to me as a colonial proprietor; and I adopted a course which, as far as the interests of the colonies were concerned, appeared to me then to be of a most doubtful character. But balancing against that the inconvenience which the general interests of the country would have sustained from another change of the Government at that particular period, I felt it my duty to give a preference to the general concerns of the empire over the particular interests of the colonies in which I had a deep and permanent stake. And I think that this very circumstance of the colonial interests
 151 152 "By the course, which the Legislature has pursued we find ourselves in a situation of great danger, we occupy valuable possessions of the Crown which merit the consideration of Government, and it is the duty of the Executive to devise means by which we may be extricated from the unhappy position to which the vacillation of the Legislature and the changes of policy on the part of the Government have reduced us." 153 154 155 156 157 —"reminded the Committee that it was necessary to look further than the present moment, and to ask themselves if they had fortified their minds sufficiently to bear the consequences of the step they were about to take. When they abandoned the slave trade, the Spaniards and other foreign Powers might possibly take it up. Had they virtue enough to bear the idea of another country reaping profits they had laid down, and to abstain from that envy natural to competitors in trade, so as steadily to pursue and firmly to adhere to their determination? If so, let them thankfully proceed to vote the immediate abolition of the slave trade. But if they should repent of their virtue (and he had experienced miserable instances of such repentance), all hopes of future reformation would be lost, and they would go back to a trade which they had abandoned with redoubled attachment, and would adhere to it with a degree of avidity and shameless ardour to their own humiliation, and to the degradation and disgrace of the nation in the eyes of all Europe. These were considerations well worth attending to before they took a decisive step in the business. If they had virtue enough so to act, they would do themselves immortal honour, and would succeed in the abolition of the most hateful traffic that ever the hardened heart of man could bear." 158 159 160
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said: I wish to take the present opportunity of offering a few observations; but I can assure the House I have no desire unnecessarily to
 140 141 142 s 143 144 145 "I promised to let you have my unbiassed opinion as to the new importation of Asiatics, and this I am now about to do, having previously gathered information on the subject from the planters most worthy of credit and most respected. This Asiatic race resembles the Andalusian horses in this respect—that their good or bad qualities depend entirely upon those who manage them. Those persons who imagine they can derive the same advantage from the Asiatics as from the negroes by the system of rigour, are
 146 l.; l. l., l. 147 "Your memorialists could point out the advantages possessed by the island of Jamaica for becoming a commercial depôt, especially as to position with respect to both continents of America and the surrounding islands. If the navigation laws were withdrawn, foreigners would bring assortments of goods from Europe, Asia, and North America, and other foreigners would come to purchase and re-export these; and, as the Government of England already permits the abolition of all differential duties hitherto enforced for the protection of her manufactures, no injury could arise from an extension of this permission and a relaxation of the navigation laws. The benefit to Jamaica from such relaxation of the navigation laws would be infinite; it is the most desirable been that her inhabitants could solicit or receive from Your Majesty's Government; it would aid Jamaica out of her difficulties: it would be hailed with exultation, and acknowledged with every sentiment of gratitude and respect; and it would be an honourable and generous concession on the part of Great Britain, which would exalt her in the esteem and admiration of all other nations." 148 "I am told that Lord George Bentinck intends to cite the case of Worthy Park as favourable to his views. I therefore briefly mention to you that, having increased the cultivation, and made the
 149 l. 
 
 The loss from these causes £9,300 
 The price estimated at 4,700 
 14,000" "Under such circumstances it is not surprising that there should be a balance due to the trustees. This was charged to my mismanagement by those who were interested in causing the removal of any one entertaining the unpopular views I did in Jamaica. An impartial examination, however, of the past before several legal and perfectly competent parties has led the trustees to a very different conclusion as regards my management, and I return at once to manage the estate, and I hope that by August next I may be able to disprove Lord George Bentinck's views, and be in a better position to make out a fair case with those who interest themselves in the sugar question." 150
 MR. HEYWOOD  regretted that he was not in the House when the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn referred to him last night, with respect to the trade between Lancashire and the Brazils. He we quite aware that there was considerable competition between the Americans and this country, in the Coarser description of cotton goods sent to the Brazils, but in the department of the printed and dyed calicoes, there had been a great increase of trade. He found from the trade report of Messrs. Du Fay and Co., published on the 1st January, 1848, that the exports from this country to the Brazils, printed and dyed calicoes, in 1846 was 44,625,737 yards, and that in 1847 they had increased to 57,360,867 yards, being an increase of 13,745,130 yards. He found, on the other hand, that the exports of the same class of goods to the West Indies, in 1846, amounted to 20,362,120 yards, and in 1847 to 14,844,675 yards, showing a decrease of 5,517,445 yards. With respect to woollen goods, he found that our exports to Brazil, in 1846, amounted in value to 76,322 l.; l., l. l.; l. l. 117
 MR. BAGSHAW  said, that having been concerned in the East India trade for more than thirty years, he begged to give as concisely as he could his views respecting this question as regarded that part of the world. It was in 1817 that he first landed in that important country. He found it to be then in a flourishing condition, because it had not up to that time been interfered with by the British manufacturing interest. At that period the whole of the vast population of that country were entirely clothed with the manufactures of their own provinces. In less then ten years afterwards, however, they ceased to be manufacturers, and were entirely clothed with the manufactures of England. As a matter of course, the whole of their export trade was entirely abolished. An exorbitant duty was placed upon every article exported from that empire, while every article from England was admitted duty free, or if not, upon payment of an  ad valorem 118 s. s. d. 119 s. s. s. s. s.
 MR. P. SCROPE  inquired when the House would be put in possession of a continuation of the papers relative to the proceedings of the Poor Law Commissioners in Ireland; and also whether any proceedings were being taken in Ireland by the Government, by indictment or otherwise, against those parties who were opposing the execution of the poor-law to such an extent as to occasion the death of a number—a considerable number, he feared—of Her Majesty's subjects? He stated this in general terms only, but he could refer to cases appearing upon papers already returned to the House by the Poor Law Commissioners to show that deaths were occurring by starvation, that being recorded as the cause in verdicts on coroners' inquests, and which deaths were entirely attributed in the Poor Law Commissioners' reports to the neglect of boards of guardians and relieving officers to relieve the poor according to the law of last Session, notwithstanding those poor were entitled by law to be relieved and saved from perishing. That, he conceived, was an offence against the law, whether the parties were guilty by non-payment of their rates or non-fulfilment of their duties as guardians, or relieving officers. The law in Ireland in this respect stood nearly upon the same footing as in England; and persons authorised by law to relieve the poor would, if any of them perished for want of the relief prescribed by law, be liable to indictment for a misdemeanor, if not for a higher offence.
 MR. T. BARING  said, that of all the painful descriptions which this debate had called forth of the present state and future prospects of the West India colonies, he thought there had been nothing more painful for the House to have heard than that part of the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, in which he figured the present condition of our own colonies, and contrasted it with the flourishing condition of Cuba and Porto Rico. Nothing, in his opinion, could be more disheartening than when the hon. Gentleman pointed to Cuba, and said, "See what slavery has done!" and then pointed to the British West India colonies, and said, "Behold the result of freedom!" The hon. Gentleman stated that he was not exactly aware how many hundred miles of railway had been completed in Cuba; but he was well aware that, after the utmost possible effort had been made to finish one short railway in Demerara, only twelve or fifteen miles had been formed. The hon. Gentleman also stated that he had examined a ship that was going out to Cuba, fitted up with iron tanks for sugar making, but that no such advantages were available to the merchants of Great Britain; no such improvements could they send to their own possessions. Finally, the hon. Gentleman
 94 95 s. s. s s s s s.; s., s. s., s. s., s. s. 96 97 l., l. l. l. l. 98 99 "Worthy Park Estate, in Jamaica, during the management of George Price, Esq.:— 
 
 Expenditure. Produce made. 
 Sugar. Rum. 
 £ Hds. Puns. 
 Nov. 1, 1843, to Oct. 31, 1844 7,481 261 82 
 — 1845, — 1845 9,865 309 135 
 — 1845, — 1846 12,852 303 146 
 — 1846, — 1847 18,856 267 128" l. l., l. 100 "Seven miles from Kingston. Between 1,000 and 1,100 acres. Sugar and cattle. Buildings and dwelling-house in good order. New steam-engine, erected in 1839. Advertised for Sale last year in the London and colonial papers. Offered for sale in the autumn in Jamaica, no reserved price being mentioned; but there were no bidders. Put up to auction in London. The owner, who attended the sale, states that there were but four or fire persons present, that they did not appear disposed to bid, and the estate was withdrawn, after having been offered for 2,000 l. l. l. "On my return here I found things even worse than I anticipated, both in a commercial as well as agricultural point of view. Short as the time has been, already nearly half the sugar estates in the island are in the course of abandonment; that is, they are only taking off the canes remaining on the ground. No preparation is being made for 1849 crop; and I am not far wrong when I say that that crop will not exceed 20,000 hogsheads. I only wish I could leave the island altogether, and get to America. I have got four properties here containing 4,000 acres of land, and I would gladly exchange them for 500 acres in America. I am almost distracted, for I look upon myself as ruined, and my children beggared, and what I am to do God only knows." 101 l. l. l. 102 s. d. s. d.; s. d; s. d., s. d. s. d. 103 104 d. l. l. 105 "Impelled by energy and invigorated by the spirit of freedom in commercial transactions, my belief is that the colonists will gain and not suffer by this great change in our policy. I believe that the cultivation of sugar itself will be advanced to a greater extent when the colonists know that
 106 "The colonial empire of this country is an empire of which every British statesman is most justly proud, and to which the people of this country attach the highest value. I trust that when this better system has been adopted we shall see the colonies increase and flourish; that we shall be proud of them as our creation; that we shall continue to see them in the enjoyment of that liberty which we have given them: and that both they and the mother country may flourish in union for ever." "No one would regret more than myself that this measure should inflict upon the West India colonists a permanent injury. No Government can be insensible to the great interests in the West India colonies; and I believe that if permanent and irremediable injury were to be inflicted upon them, we should inflict, not a benefit, but an injury, upon the consumers of sugar; for I look to them as the great source whence this country will obtain a permanent supply; but I believe that, with their means and capital, they will be able to cultivate upon more advantageous terms than any other country, even those that use slave labour, and that it is to them that we shall in time be indebted for the larger supply of our sugar." 107 l. 108
 SIR E. BUXTON  believed that the Act of Emancipation had in many respects answered the expectations of its promoters; and he felt persuaded that if it had not been for the fatal measure of 1846, that Act might have afforded a triumphant example of wise benevolence to all the nations of the earth. He confessed he feared there was very little chance that our West Indian colonies could successfully compete with the slave-grown produce of Cuba and Brazil. The produce of these latter countries was constantly increasing, while there was but too much reason for believing that the produce of our own colonies was decreasing. With respect to the proposed been for encouraging the immigration of labourers, it would be disgraceful in him to forget that the greatest effort ever made for the abolition of slavery was made by this country; and he was sure that the people of England would not allow immigration to be anything else than an immigration which was really free. He certainly regretted to find that this country should now be consuming a greater quantity of slave-grown sugar, and should be affording a greater encouragement to slavery, than it did before the labours of Wilberforce had begun. He could not allow that debate to close without entering his protest against the measure for the admission of slave-grown sugar into this country.
 SIR G. GREY  was not able to state that it was the intention of the Government to bring in any Bill to amend the law relating to the trial of election petitions, with regard to the points to which the hon. Member had referred. The hon. Gentleman had complained of the practice with reference to awarding costs in case of the failure of a petition. Now, he did not think it would be possible to deprive Election Committees of all discretion in the matter. There was now a discretion vested in them; and if the party in whose favour a decision was given applied to the Committee for costs, it was in their power to grant costs if they conceived the circumstances warranted them in doing so. But it would be impossible to provide by Act of Parliament that whichever party succeeded in obtaining the decision of the Committee should be reimbursed the whole of the costs he had incurred, for such a provision would be productive of greater inconvenience than the present practice. He believed the reason that Election Committees so seldom made orders for the payment of costs was, because they were very seldom applied for. The proceedings before those Committees were frequently very protracted, and when a party found that he was not likely to gain the object with which he prosecuted a petition, he believed it was the practice to give an intimation to the other side, and the petitioner retired from the contest on a sort of understanding that no application was to be made for costs. Under such circumstances, the party petitioned against was generally too happy to find that the opposition to his return was withdrawn, for it was more economical to terminate the contest in this manner than to carry it on for several days longer, in uncertainty as to its ultimate result, He did not think, therefore, that the law on this subject could be altered with any advantage. The hon. Member for Bridport had also referred
 82
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  felt that the mode in which his hon. Friend had put the second question was so vague, that he was really at a loss to give an answer. The hon. Member appeared to have entered rather into a discussion on the general merits of the poor-law, than to have inquired respecting any particular occurrence. As the hon. Gentleman proposed to put a notice on the paper upon the subject, he would perhaps then state to what
 84
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  replied, that he did not think the instructions referred to by the hon. Gentleman could at present be produced, consistently with the public interests. Though the mission of Lord Howden had failed, two other persons were still employed—one by the British and the other by the French Government— in continuing negotiations; and the two negotiations were so connected with each
 83
 VISCOUNT MAHON  wished to state briefly the grounds on which he had al-
 249 250 "We ought to remember that this is not a Bill to entitle a number of Jews to seats in Parliament as Jews, but to remove the restriction which pre vents Christians from electing them. Is it not a scandal that we should think it necessary for the sake of Christianity to impose this restriction?" 251 252 253 254
 LORD BURGHLEY  seconded the Amendment. The question (said the noble Lord), though it appears to me to admit but of very few arguments on either side, is yet one of no trivial nature; it is one on the result of which is to depend whether this Legislature is henceforth to be a Christian one or not; it is a question as to whether it be right or wrong that we admit Jews into Parliament. I wonder that the fact of his being obliged to alter the oath, and erase from it the words "on the true faith of a Christian," which every Member swears to before he can take his seat, does not show clearly to the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government, that he is bring-
 227 "I will say that one of the unavoidable consequences of this measure will be that every one of the forms and ceremonies which give us assurance of Christianity must be abolished. It is perfectly obvious that if we pass this Bill it follows, as a necessary consequence, that every form of oath which requires a profession of the Christian faith must be abandoned. Now this is a most important alteration in the usages of the country. Before Catholics and Protestant Dissenters were excluded, there was still a necessity for all public functionaries to profess Christianity; from the earliest period a belief in Christianity was required as necessary to official appointments, or to seats in Parliament. No person who rejected
 228 "When his hon. Friend used this expression (that they were about to unchristianise England by this Bill), he knew that an attempt would be made to put a misconstruction on his meaning; but his hon. Friend did not conceive that he could use a more appropriate term, or one more approaching to the nature of truism, with regard to this subject."
 LORD J. RUSSELL  having moved that the Jewish Disabilities Bill be read a Second Time,
 MR. B. COCHRANE  said, that he wish ed, before the hon. Member had concluded his very able speech, he would have explained what he meant by the term "negative Christian." He would not follow the hon. Member through his new edition of the history of England; but would con tent himself with saying that he differed entirely from him when he said that Christianity was not a part and parcel of the law of England. He differed from him with respect to the Act of 1753; and must observe, that he (Mr. Cochrane) thought a Gentleman so well read in the history of that period as the hon. Member, ought to be aware how much excitement was produced by the passing of that Act, and that it was in consequence subsequently repealed. He thought that many hon. Members would concur in his feeling of very deep regret that the Government should ever have brought forward the question which was now under discussion; for while, on the one hand, no man with a proper sense of character and integrity would sacrifice his conscientious convictions from the dread of having his motives misinterpreted; so, on the other, the charges of intolerance, uncharitableness, and selfish exclusiveness, were such as no man with kind and generous feelings would willingly incur. But the painful character which belonged to all religious discussions was increased on the present occasion, the Bill having been introduced not merely on general grounds, but to meet an individual case—that of a gentleman, than whom none could stand higher in private or public worth, who had been returned as the representative for the city of London. He (Mr. Cochrane) was fully aware what great claims Mr. Rothschild possessed on the consideration of the House and the country—that he had always proved himself a most zealous and generous citizen. It might not be within the knowledge of those present that Mr. Rothschild not only sub scribed last year most largely to the funds of the British Association, but also devoted his whole time to their proceedings, and also placed three ships at the disposal of the Committee for the carriage of meal. But then, this was not an individual case, to be decided on personal merits; it involved the greatest of all interests—the interests of religion; and here he would say with how great doubt and fear he approached any question involving religious
 238 239 240 brutum fulmen; 241 liberate,  Si Dieu n'existait pas, il faud rait l'inventor." "Accordingly, as the sequel of James II.'s reign will abundantly show, when the people found themselves compelled to make an option, they preferred, without any inconsistency, their first idcl to their second; and when they could not preserve both the Church and the State, they declared for the former." 242 "There is some analogy between religion without an establishment, and virtue without practice; and as monarchy is the outward form in which the spirit of man's inward reverence for man spontaneously clothes itself, so a church with its rites and its ceremonies is the outward form of an in ward religious faith." Furor est post omnia perdere naulum;" fait accompli, a nécessityé politique,
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he had intended to have presented certain petitions that evening, but he should now have to present them at a future stage of the Bill. He
 221 222 223 Essay on Indifference, "The age which is most to be pitied is not the age which is fanatic for error, but the age which neglects or despises the truth." 224 225 A laugh. 226
 MR. NEWDEGATE  was most anxious to meet the wishes of the House, and should therefore, with the leave of the House, withdraw his Amendment. He had a deep impression upon the subject which was then under the consideration of the House. A Christian nation was asked to cast aside every religious consideration—every consideration of Christianity—in order to admit the Jews, who repudiated Christianity, to legislate for that Christian nation. And he must express his surprise that the right hon. Gentleman should have compared the feeling against this measure to that which was excited against the mea sure of 1829. He could not but express his surprise at hearing a member of a Church professing to be the most exclusively Christian desiring to cast aside every consideration connected with Christianity, in order to admit those who were the most opposed to that religion. There was but one solution of this anomaly, and that had been given by the noble Member for Arundel, in justification of his supporting the introduction of the mea sure before the House. The noble Lord declared that he was for breaking down all the legal enactments which had been reared for the defence of the Church, well knowing that when these were removed, infi-
 279 s. d. s. s. s. 280 l.; l., 281 282 "As for those virtues that belong to moral righteousness and honesty of life, we do not mention them because they are not proper unto Christian men as they are Christian, but do concern them as they are men. True it is, the want of these virtues excludeth from salvation. So doth much more the absence of inward belief of heart; so doth despair and lack of hope; so emptiness of Christian love and charity. But we speak now of the visible Church, whose children are signed with the mark 'one Lord, one faith, one baptism.' In whomsoever these things are, the Church doth acknowledge them for her children—them only she holdeth for aliens and strangers in whom these things are not found. For want of these it is that Saracens, Jews, and infidels, are excluded out of the hounds of the Church. Others we may not deny to be of the visible Church as long as these things are not wanting in them. For apparent it is, all men are of necessity either Christians or not Christians. If by external profession they be Christians, then they are of the visible Church of Christ; and Christians by external profession they are all whose mark of recognisance hath in it those things which we have mentioned. Yea, although they be impious idolators, wicked heretics, persons excommunicable—yea, and cast out for notorious improbity. Such we deny not to be imps and limbs of Satan, even as long as they continue such. Is it possible, then, that the soil-same men should belong both to the synagogue of Satan and to the Church of Jesus Christ?—unto that Church which is his mystical body? Not possible; because that body consisteth of none but only true Israelites—true sons of Abraham—true servants and saints of God. Howbeit. of the visible body and Church of Jesus Christ those may be, and oftentimes are, in respect of the main parts of their outward profession, who, in regard of their inward disposition of mind—yea, of external conversation—yea, even of some part of their very profession, are most worthily hateful in the sight of God himself, and in the eyes of the sounder part of the visible Church most execrable." 283 "forum exterius;"  "forum interius" 
 MR. SCULLY , in the absence of the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. John O'Connell), asked the following question, which had been put upon the paper by the latter hon. Member:—"Whether, considering the enormous and every-day growing increase of destitution in many parts of Ireland; the nearly total want of means among her small farmers and agricultural labourers to purchase food and maintain their families; and the inability of the poor-law to support the overwhelming pauperism of the country—the Government have not some measure ready for the pro viding of relief by means of food or employment, and thus far preventing the wholesale wasting and destruction of human life among the poorer classes of Ireland."
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, that if the hon. Gentleman who just sat down had approached this question with consider able difficulty, on account of the religious considerations it involved, he thought it needed some apology from him (Mr. Milnes), who maintained the other side, to enter upon, or even touch upon, the religious grounds of the question, knowing so well as he did, from his short experience of the House, how ill adapted it generally was to the discussion of religious topics. Nevertheless he felt that the religious part of the question had been on that evening discussed with the solemnity which it really deserved; and therefore he should not abstain from taking up such points of the question as he thought the speeches that had gone before him actually required. His
 243 244 245 246 247 248
 MR. SHEIL : If the honourable, the learned, and exceedingly able Gentleman who has just sat down had been a Member of the House of Commons when the Member for Tamworth brought forward the measure of emancipation, the speech which he has this night pronounced against the Jew, would have been fully as apposite upon that great historical occasion. With all his habits of fine forensic discrimination, I do not think that he can distinguish between the objections urged against the Catholic and against the Jew. He has, for example, strenuously insisted that in the writ by which the sheriff is commanded to hold an election, a reference is made to the maintenance and the defence of the
 272 273 274 Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire: 275 276 277 278
 MR. WALPOLE  was bound to defend the principle upon which Jews were excluded from a seat in Parliament, without infringing upon that constitution which it was the high boast and privilege of this country to have established. He fully agreed with the hon. Baronet who had just sat down, that the question at issue was not so much one of expediency as of principle. At the same time, he could not al together overlook the question of expediency; and he thought that the House would see that the reasons based upon this ground for admitting the Jews to Parliament, did not preponderate over those for their exclusion. He would allow that their paucity of numbers was some argument for their admission; and he was still more willing to concede that the high integrity of their character afforded an argument much stronger. But when hon. Members came to apply the common test, which was applied in all cases where an alteration was made in the constitution, they would find that there was no reason for extending these privileges to the Jews. They could not say that at present the Jew laboured under any practical grievance, or was subject to any vexatious restriction. They could not say there was any exclusion on the ground of dress or worship, as on the Continent; nor could they contend that any great principle of civil and religious liberty was to be vindicated. The House should bear in mind that when the Test Act was repealed, the important principle was admitted that Dissenters and Nonconformists might obtain admission into corporations, in the affairs of which, prior to that, they could take no share. The main reason for passing the Roman Catholic Relief Bill was because a large portion of the inhabitants of the empire were nearly in a state of civil war, and it was necessary to ensure tranquillity. Could anything of the kind be said now? The people concurred in the propriety and policy of those Acts; but could it be maintained that they did so with respect to the
 265 266 "de communi consilio super quibusdam rebus ad regem, statum, et defensionem Angliœ et Ecclesiœ Anglicanœ pertinentibus." 267 268 269 270 271
 MR. W. P. WOOD  thought the disqualifications affecting the Jews reflected so much disgrace on our legislation that the sooner they were removed the better. The hon. Gentleman who moved the Amendment had called upon them as Christians to reject the Bill; but he on religious far more than political grounds, and as a member of that Church which he believed to embody the purest form of Christianity, called upon them to support it. Twenty years had elapsed since he first signed a petition in favour of the Jews. He had often since then revolved the matter in his mind, and the lapse of time and the accession of experience had only tended to strengthen his conviction that the removal of Jewish disabilities was a mea sure which was sanctioned by considerations of justice, truth, and policy; and that therefore the sooner it was carried out, the better it would be for the honour of the country. That religion should have no connexion with polities, was a maxim which had passed into an adage; but, like most adages, it was susceptible of a double interpretation. All men knew that after death came judgment; and, knowing this, it was impossible but that they must feel that in the performance of their political duties they were bound to keep in mind
 229 230 Lardner's Testimonies, 231 de heretico comburendo. 232 233 v. 234 235 "Res est enim præter ceteras voluntaria, nec imponi cuiquam necessitas potest ut colat quod non vult. Potest aliquis forsitan simulare, non potest velle." 236 "That no native of the said territories, nor any natural-born subject of His Majesty resident therein, shall, by reason only of his religion, place of birth, descent, colour, or any of them, be disabled from holding any place, office, or employment under the said Company." 237
 SIR G. GREY  complained of the inconvenient form in which the question was framed, involving as it did a series of assumptions, the disproving of which, if he were to undertake that task, which, how ever, he did not intend, would necessarily lead to a long debate. It was unfair in any Member to avail himself of his privilege to insert upon the paper, contrary to the rule of the House, late at night, a question like that which had been read by the hon. Member. On the present occasion he could only repeat what he had al ready stated on a former occasion, namely, that the Government was not prepared to submit to Parliament a proposition for the resumption of public works, or the system which superseded the public works; that was to say, the system of feeding all the destitute poor of Ireland by means of advances of public money. He would take that opportunity of reading to the House some papers, which would show the manner in which relief had been afforded in Ireland under the Poor Law Act:—
 "By a statement furnished to the Committee of the British Relief Association by their agent in Ireland, dated the 31st of January, it appears that assistance has been afforded out of the funds at his disposal to those unions in which either a temporary pressure arose from the inefficient action of the board of guardians, or the extent of the distress really exceeded all the power of legal relief duly and fully exerted by them. 'The selection of the proper cases for the interference of the association was made by the Poor Law Com missioners; and the expenditure of the relief afforded at their recommendation was superintended by the temporary poor-law inspectors, and accounted for according to the provisions of the Irish Poor Relief Acts.' But the chief mode of relief adopted by the association has been the assistance given in food and clothing to the children of the poor through the medium of schools. It
 220 "Extract from Poor Law Inspector's report at Skibbereen, Jan. 30, 1848:—'Many lives (I may say, hundreds) have been saved by the plan adopted of giving food to the children at the schools.'" "Amount of poor-rates collected in Ireland in the last quarters of the years 1846 and 1847:— 
 
 1846. 1847. 
 October £26,805 £121,255 
 November 36,639 151,684 
 December 46,440 168,860 
 Total £109,884 £441,799 
 
 Total amount collected in the twelve months:— 
 1846. 1847. 
 £390,071. £970,318." l.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH : Sir, there is one part of the subject which I think has been singularly overlooked, not only by the noble Lord who has just sat down, but by other hon. Gentlemen who have taken the same view of the subject, and it is this: if the Bill of the noble Lord be rejected, what substitute will hon. Gentlemen opposite propose in its stead? Have they well considered this question? Surely they will not let the law remain in its present state. Have they considered the dilemma in which the House is placed by the fact that an hon. Gentleman who professes the Jewish religion is become a Member of the House of Commons? It appears to me that, as a necessary consequence of that event, Parliament must adopt one of two alternatives. Either Parliament must agree to the Bill of the noble Lord, which will en able an hon. Member who professes the Jewish religion to perform his duties in the House of Commons, or Parliament
 255 256 257 258 259 260 261 262 263 264
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  believed the hon. Member alluded to the petition which had been presented in the case of "Buron  .v. "From what I know of the circumstances, I believe that you are free from blame in this mat-
 288 "Temple, Jan. 21, 1848. "My dear Attorney General—I am favoured with your letter on the subject of the actions by Buron and others against Captain Denman. "The power of the Crown to require the services of the Queen's counsel at all times is not disputed; and as in this country every Queen's counsel is known to be under an oath to plead for the Crown at its pleasure, I conceive that he accepts every retainer from a subject under as plainly implied a reservation that he may be withdrawn by the Crown, as that he may be incapacitated by sickness or death. This power may indeed he exercised so as to do injustice to individual suitors; and the question now is, whether it has been so exercised in this particular case. "In the first place, I must exonerate you from any responsibility. Mr. Hay's petition seems to imply that I had acted as counsel for the plaintiffs except during a short interval, until the month of May last, and that you then required my services. The fact is, that I have not so acted in any way since the month of June, 1845; and that in the following month of July (1845), having been appointed Soliciter General, I was almost immediately called upon to advise and assist the Ministers of the Crown upon certain measures (which became law under the Act of 8th and 9th of Victoria, cap. 92) involving the consideration of the whole system of the slave trade on the coast of Africa, of the conduct of our naval commanders there, and of our relations with the Court of Brazil. It was obvious that I could not, after communications of this nature, and upon these subjects, with the Ministers of the Crown, assist the plaintiffs in these causes as their leading counsel, after the defence was taken up by the Government. It was, probably, this consideration that induced the then Attorney General to require my services, and at least restrain me from appearing against the Crown upon the trial. You, as Attorney General, when the causes seemed about to be tried a few months ago, merely abstained from interfering with the decision of your predecessor. And as far as regards the mere loss of my assistance, there could be no hardship or injustice, for the whole bar was open to the plaintiffs for the selection of a leading counsel to supply my place. "But it is urged that after having been consulted and trusted with the case by the plaintiffs, I at least ought not to appear as counsel against them; and certainly if I possessed a knowledge of any facts imparted to me by the plaintiffs, which I might in a moment of inadvertence disclose, or the consciousness of which could in any way affect my conduct in the cause, I should feel it my duty to request your authority, not indeed to act as counsel for the plaintiffs, for my communications with the Crown while I was Solicitor General render that impossible, but to retire from the case altogether. And as you allude to imputations in the newspapers, or elsewhere, of undue motives, I
 289 "But whatever may be my own inclinations, or my interest, I have no grounds upon which I can claim indulgence, for having only held some consultations upon the pleadings many years ago, and argued a demurrer, I think early in 1845, I have not the slightest recollection of a single fact communicated to me on the part of the plaintiffs upon which I can found a claim to be excused from appearing as counsel for the Crown. "Whether from the plaintiffs being foreigners, and the importance of all that belongs to our legal institutions being placed beyond suspicion among foreign nations, you may think it right to release me from appearing upon the trial for the Crown, is a question entirely for your own consideration, upon which I do not offer an opinion.—I remain, my dear Attorney General, very truly yours, "FITZROY KELLY." v.
 MR. F. MAULE  said, that since the discussion of last year the subject had been carefully considered, and although the Government could not adopt the plan of the gallant Officer of doing away altogether with canteens in barracks, yet they had determined that on the expiration of the present licenses for the sale of spirits in canteens, no spirituous liquors should afterwards be sold in canteens in barracks.
 COLONEL LINDSAY  asked the Secretary at War if it was in contemplation to restrict the sale of spirits in barrack canteens, and to propose any alteration in the existing system of letting them; or any plan which may be calculated to place those establishments on a footing more beneficial to the service?
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  replied, that he was not able to say more than had been said by his noble Friend. He hoped the estimate would be adhered to; but as to being responsible for any architect, it was quite out of the question.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : The hon. Member will understand that if he proceeds it is against the wish of the House. It is for the public convenience that I ask him to put it off; it is to allow a debate to continue that has already begun. I have no objection to the hon. Gentleman's Motion. It is a general rule to allow debates to proceed in preference to other matters; and it is right to call the hon. Member's attention to that rule, as he is probably less acquainted with our usages than Members are who have had more experience.
 MR. STAFFORD : Before the hon. and learned Member rises to answer the appeal which has been put to him, I, as the Mover of the Amendment which was under discussion in the House last night, can say, that I believe it to be the universal wish on this side of the House that the debate should close this evening. I therefore ask him, whether it will be desirable for him to proceed with the Motion, against, I may say, the whole sense of the House?
 Mr. URQUHART  begged to inquire of the Attorney General what decision had been come to relative to the employment of Queen's Counsel?
 MR. GOULBURN  wished to know why Jamaica had been omitted in the statement of the affairs of the several West Indian colonies laid before the House; and also if there would be any objection on the part of Government to lay the last intelligence from Jamaica on the table.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that as the right hon. Gentleman had had the kindness to give him notice of his intention to ask the question, he had applied to the Colonial Office on the subject, and was enabled to state that the reason that no blue book had been laid on the table respecting Jamaica was, that it had not been received. Owing to the ample information which had been forwarded by Lord Elgin, Earl Grey had stated he could add nothing to the sources of intelligence already opened by the noble Lord. With respect to the latter part of the right hon. Gentleman's question, he had to say that no despatch
 290
 MR. HUME : Sir, I have to ask the hon. and learned Member for Youghal, whether he intends to bring on his Motion, consisting of forty articles, every one of which would occupy an ordinary night's debate. I merely speak with a view to his having his whole statement to lay before the House. He must allow me to say—and I do it with all deference I am sure, now that the House is all together, and the public are so anxious upon the question—I am quite confident that I may appeal with perfect safety to the Mover and Seconder of the Amendment of last night, that they are as anxious for the debate to proceed without interruption as those on this side of the House. Under these circumstances, I trust the hon. and learned Member for Youghal will postpone his Mo-
 291
 MR. OSBORNE  said, he understood the estimate; for the Now Houses of Parliament was 1,400,000 l.,
 MR. OSBORNE  thought that after the answer given by the noble Lord, considering that they had a deficient and sinking revenue, he was entitled to put a question to the First Lord of the Treasury. He begged to ask if the noble Lord was prepared to check this enormous expenditure, and if he would give that House an assurance that no more than 1,400,000 l.,
 MR. ANSTEY : The noble Lord says, that the demands of Russia at the time, the concession of which could alone have prevented the occurrence of war, were just demands. Those were the demands set forth in the note of the Russian Envoy presented to the Porte, and afterwards referred to in the declaration of war. They speak for themselves; they include a demand for reforms in every department of the Turkish Government; they claim for Russia the right to see those reforms executed, and to establish an efficient control over the Turkish Government, under
 304 "It will remain to be seen when the papers are produced which Government has announced, whether Ministers did feel it to be impossible to prevent a war between Russia and Turkey; and whether before they desisted from interference they had made every effort to dissuade Turkey from entering into the contest. The speech states that the Government had done their utmost to carry into effect the provisions of the Treaty of London, and that they will lay before Parliament papers to show the progress of those negociations. I hope, Sir, when those papers are produced, that they will be unlike the documents laid before Parliament at the end of last Session—that their contents will not be partial, meagre, and unsatisfactory—that they will not be confined merely to the correspondence of the negotiating parties—but that they will indicate the views and policy of Government during the whole of that long and important transaction." "As to our war in the East, whatever may be the prejudices of the public generally it does not lack defenders among the most distinguished Members of both Houses of Parliament." 305 306 "It will not escape your Excellency, that the Duke of Wellington and Lord Aberdeen have put everything in motion to wrest from us confidences as to the conditions of our future peace with the Turks. It appeared to us useless to repeat the assurances which, on this point, all the declarations of the Emperor contained, or add even any development of them. We shall confine ourselves to these generalities, for every circumstantial communication on a subject so delicate would have drawn down on us real dangers; and if once we were to discuss with our Allies the articles of a treaty with the Porte, we shall only content them, when they would have believed that they had imposed upon us irreparable sacrifices." "It is in the midst of our camp that peace must be signed, and it is when it shall have been concluded that Europe shall know its conditions. Remonstrances will then be too late, and it then will suffer what it can no longer prevent." 307 308 La Callé and La Bastion de France, 309 310 confidantes. 311
 MR. ANSTEY : Mr. Speaker, before I proceed to answer the appeal which has been made to me by the hon. Member for Montrose, I beg to assure the hon. Member who has just sat down, that if it were possible for me to postpone the Motion in which I have an interest in favour of his Motion, I should be most happy to render to that hon. Member that poor service. But as to the other hon. Member (Mr. Hume), I do put it to this House that the appeal which has been made to me is not fair—that I am unfairly dealt with, when the appeal which has been addressed to me by that hon. Gentleman in private, is repeated thus with all the assistance and support that the presence of a number of impatient Members—I mean impatient for the termination of this debate, and unwilling perhaps to permit the opening of the Motion in which I am interested—can give it. To that hon. Gentleman, in private, I made this answer, and I now again make it in presence of this House—that
 292 res integra, 293
 MR. ANSTEY : I am perfectly aware that the course I am taking is not the general one; but I think, Sir, that I shall show the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), before I sit down, that I have very good reason for making this an exception to the rule that he has propounded. It would be impossible for me to pursue any course but that on which I am going to insist, without displeasing, in the most eminent degree, the noble Lord himself. When I inform the noble Lord, which I do at this early period, that I am about to ask for more than papers—that the object of my Motion is preliminary to another of a much graver kind, affecting the position of some Colleagues of that noble Lord, and perhaps of that noble Lord himself; I trust that I do not mistake the character of the noble Lord the Member for the city of London, when I express my conviction that he will be the first to urge me to proceed with it. 294 "I think that any Member of Parliament who promotes discussion upon foreign affairs does a great public good. For it is astonishing, and at the same time lamentable, how great an apathy exists in England with regard to our relations with foreign countries, and how much indifference there is as to whether our interests in every part of the world are properly protected—whether the reciprocal obligations of treaties are properly observed—whether everything that is good in the laws, institutions, and practices of a foreign country is carefully collected and sent home—and, above all, whether every opportunity is turned to account for extending our commercial relations. For these, my Lords, I apprehend, in the present times, are the real duties of diplomacy. It is always, therefore, with satisfaction that I see any subject connected with our foreign relations discussed in Parliament, in order that the country may have an opportunity of learning its true position with respect to other nations." 295 296 297 298 299 300 301
 MR. ANSTEY : I shall come to that question of Greece sooner than the noble
 302 "The speech of Lord Palmerston, whose name is henceforward associated with those of the first orators in Parliament, has insisted on the preservation of the general peace, and proved that aft Austro-Turkish policy would only tend to disturb it." "I think that the principles on which the foreign policy of this country has been conducted are exceedingly unfortunate. I am of opinion, that they are alike injurious to the honour and to the interests of the empire. … I think it would be mischievous if it went out to the world, that this House entirely approved of the foreign policy of Ministers. Sir, I object to the policy of making the integrity of the Turkish dominion in Europe an object essentially necessary to interests of Christian and civilised Europe."
 MR. ANSTEY : The speech will speak for itself, if the noble Lord will hear it.
 "I do not wish to see Turkey garrisoned by Russians, nor the Russian frontier extended in that line; indeed such an extension would not be for the interest of Russia herself, and I am sure it would not be for the interest of the rest of Europe. But, I ask, was there no alternative between putting Russia into possession of Turkey, and the cessation of the existence of Turkey as an independent Power? I must conclude, Sir, from what has occurred, that the Russian war has not ended satisfactorily to our Government." 303
 MR. MAGAN  moved that the House be counted.
 Mr. W. S. O'BRIEN  inquired whether the Government intended at an early period to bring forward the long promised Registration Bill for Ireland?
 Sir W. SOMERVILLE  said, that it was the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill on the subject.
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  replied, he had been assured by the architect that not more than 1,400,000 l.,
 LORD PALMERSTON : Those were the demands made before the war. There was no territorial aggrandizement demanded till after the war.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : That referred to Greece, not to Russia.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Not Russia—Greece. I spoke of Greece.
 MR. F. O 'CONNOR  said, that when there was a general charge made against Irish Members of not bringing forward practical measures with regard to distress in their own country, he thought the House owed a debt of gratitude to the hon. Member for Stroud for the effective, but, at the same time, calm manner, in which he had introduced the present question. He concurred in the opinion expressed by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland that it was difficult to bring so complicated a machinery as that of the New Poor Law system suddenly into perfect operation. He was aware, from his own experience of the character of the people of Ireland, that when the Government took away from the landlords of that country the great powers and patronage which they had hitherto possessed, perfect chaos must intervene before order could be restored. There were, however, two questions now before the country on which he congratulated Her Majesty's Ministers: one was an announcement which he had seen in the  Times
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  was desirous of making a single observation. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had said, that no question was more deserving the attention of the House than that concerning the Irish Poor Law. Now, it was on that very ground he regretted that this Motion had been brought forward by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Stroud. It was because he was desirous of going into a discussion on the very questions which the hon. Gentleman had mentioned respecting the reclaiming of waste lands, the doing away with the quarter-acre system, and so forth, that he considered this to be a most inopportune and ill-advised moment to bring forward the subject, there being no opportunity on such an occasion as this for entering upon any such discussions. He, therefore, protested against its being supposed that because English Members declined going into the consideration of those questions on the present occasion, there was any want of feeling on their part for the distresses that at this moment afflicted the people of Ireland.
 SIR GEORGE GREY'S  only objection to the Bill was this: From the information he had received, and the best consideration he could give the measure, the inconvenience it sought to remove was occasional, and the effect of removing it would be more than counterbalanced by the permanent inconvenience which would result from this Bill. Unless gentlemen of the bar could attend the sessions regularly, it was likely they would give up their attendance altogether.
 The EARL of LINCOLN  said, that he was most unwilling to make such an appeal to the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Labouchere), but he would ask him whether, under all the circumstances of the case, it would be right to proceed with the discussion of the New Zealand Bill at the
 329 sub silentio, 330
 The EARL of LINCOLN  thought the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere)
 359 pro formâ,
 The EARL of LINCOLN  objected to raising the discussion upon which he wished the House to enter in Committee. If it was the wish of the House to go into Committee he would not oppose it; but he thought it fair to give notice that, if they did so, he intended to raise the discussion to which he referred upon the bringing up of the report, and that he reserved to himself the right to move any Amendments on the report which he should find to be necessary.
 The EARL of LINCOLN  thought, that the right hon. Member had answered in a lawyerlike manner, and rather evaded the question. That which he desired to know was, whether, if the constitution were suspended in the northern portion of New Zealand, there was a power under the Bill to enable the Governor to establish the constitution in the southern portion? He would ask the Attorney General if it was his opinion that the first clause of this Act gave a power to the Governor to restore the constitution in one province of New Zealand, whilst it continued suspended in another. For his part, he (the Earl of Lincoln) was of opinion that the constitution was to be suspended for five years, unless the Queen in Council directed the contrary.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the noble Earl had accused his right hon. Friend of taking a lawyerlike view of the case; but in his opinion the noble Earl took a special pleading view of the Bill.
 365
 The EARL of LINCOLN  said, that the first clause repealed the provisions of the Act which gave two legislative assemblies. Did the Attorney General say, that under that clause there would be a general assembly?
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  stated, that the constitution which was to be suspended, provided for a House of Lords (the general assembly), and two Houses of Commons (the legislative assemblies); the latter to be elected by the two different provinces of New Zealand. The general assembly was to be composed of members of the legislative assemblies, elected for that purpose by the legislative assemblies; and therefore, as long as there were not two legislative assemblies, there could not be a general assembly according to the constitution of 1846.
 The EARL of LINCOLN  thought, as the right hon. Gentleman had insisted on going into this piecemeal discussion, that he should at least not have given answers which were not borne out by the Bill itself. He sincerely regretted, on every ground, that there was no representative of the Colonial Office in that House. The right hon. Gentleman had taken his information from the Attorney General; but was he quite sure that the answer he had just given was accurate? Was it a fact that under the fourth clause the Governor of New Zealand would have power to grant to the south provinces that constitution which it was the object of the first clause
 364
 MR. F. SCOTT  joined with the noble
 360 "The able and important judgment transmitted to me in your despatch of July last, establishes on the highest legal authorities both of this country and America, that the views I expressed are those which, for nearly 300 years, have been uniformly recognised and acted on by the consent of civilised nations." 361
 MR. ADDERLEY  believed the constitution to be that of universal suffrage, checked by the qualification of reading and writing the English language; but the present was a hasty mode of proposing its suspension. It was too important a matter to be dealt with in the way which was attempted. If any proof were wanting of this, there could be none greater than the fact, that the question before the House being the second reading of a Bill for suspending the constitution, the whole debate had turned on two other questions, viz., the conduct of the Bishop, and the Treaty of Waitangi. He therefore hoped that the question might be raised in a manner more fitting the importance of the subject, and that the right hon. Gentleman would allow the discussion to take place before the Bill went into Committee.
 MR. C. BULLER  considered that the reply of his right hon. Friend to the question put by the hon. Member for Cocker-mouth was strictly correct. Undoubtedly the discretionary power of renewing the constitution was left to the Governor; that was to say, that he would be able to do so by and through a Legislative Council nominated by the Crown. Under the fourth clause it would be in the power of the Governor, at any time, being so advised, or taking it on his own responsibility, or instructed by the Colonial Secretary, by and with the advice of the Legislative Council, to constitute, by ordinance, a provisional legislative council, "to be nominated or elected." Supposing, therefore, at the end of two or three years, the Governor thought that the southern or the northern provinces were in a fit state to receive free representative institutions, under this clause, as he (Mr. Buller) took it, he would have power to propose an ordinance to his council, constituting provincial legislative councils to be nominated by him, or to be elected by the people or by the municipalities.
 MR. PACKE  moved the Second Reading of the Epiphany Quarter Sessions Bill. The object of the Bill was to postpone the period of holding the sessions for a week for the convenience of magistrates, jurors, and witnesses. Although he might encounter the opposition of the bar, on the ground that it would interfere with the discharge of their professional duties during the ensuing term, still he would submit that the measure if carried would be of convenience to a great many persons.
 MR. PACKE , in reply, said, he was free to confess that he did not see the force of the objections which had been urged against the Bill. No man acknowledged the efficiency of the bar more readily than himself, and he should be sorry to promote any measure having the slightest tendency to impair that efficiency. He had hoped to secure, without injury to any party, and without opposition from any quarter, the quiet enjoyment of their Christmas holidays to the magistrates, jurors, prosecutors, and witnesses, called upon to attend the sessions; but finding that he could not effect that object, and having drawn the attention of the House to the subject, he would not further press the Bill.
 MR. URQUHART  begged to ask, whether it were the intention of Ministers to advise Her Majesty to call the Bishop of Hereford to the House of Peers?
 MR. URQUHART  said, that was not an answer to his question. He wished to know whether it were the intention of the Government to advise Her Majesty, in the exercise of Her undoubted prerogative, to call the Bishop of Hereford to the House of Lords.
 MR. CARDWELL  would not he tempted by the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down to enter into any discussion upon that long-vexed question—the interpretation which was to be placed upon the Treaty of Waitangi. Upon former occasions, when discussing that question, he had taken a different view of the subject from that entertained by the hon. Gentleman; and he wished now to say that subsequent reflection had not at all tended to satisfy him that the legal construction then adopted by nearly one-half of the Committee—with but a bare majority in their favour—was in any respect erroneous, neither had the occurrences which had since taken place in the colony tended to create in his mind the smallest impression that the practical well-being of that colony had at all been advanced by the construction which unfortunately was put upon that treaty by the majority of the Committee in 1845. But having said that, he did not think it would be right again to occupy the time of the House by entering into long legal arguments, to which justice only could be done when the House was expressly prepared to sit upon the question judicially. The question now arose in a purely collateral shape, and he thought it would be an unfair intrusion upon the House longer to occupy its attention with that Subject. His right hon. Friend (Mr. Gladstone) had only interrupted the Speaker's leaving the chair for the purpose of obtaining satisfaction upon two particular points —the one a purely personal question, in which it was important to see that justice was done to a highly-respected individual; the other, a great public question affecting the destiny of the whole island of New Zealand. With regard to the first question, he regretted to say that the answer of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the
 356 "It is my duty also to inform your Excellency that I am resolved, God being my helper, to use all legal and constitutional measures, befitting my station, to inform the natives of New Zealand of their rights and privileges as British subjects, and to assist them in asserting and maintaining them." "Whether by petition to the Imperial Parliament, or other loyal and peaceable methods; but that, in so doing, I shall not forget the respect which I owe to your Excellency, nor do anything which can be considered likely to add to the difficulties of the colony." 357 "Through Mr. Meurant, they acquainted me that affairs were very peaceable in the northern districts, and no complaints to make; but said there had been a great deal of excitement on the part of Kiwiti and many of the natives, owing to a report, very widely circulated, that the Government intended taking possession of all uncultivated land, and that more troops had arrived to put such directions into execution. Previous to my arriving, Kiwiti had came down with about thirty followers to Waka, to know if such was the case, as he considered it to be in open violation of the Treaty of Wastangi, and in direct opposition to what had been the view of his Excellency the Governor; but Waka eased his mind, by telling him there was no truth in such report, and which I most fully corroborated." "I desired Mr. Meurant to acquaint the native chiefs, Tupe and Kururoa, of my arrival, and begging they would repair on board the ship the following morning, which the former did, and who, I
 358 "The body of Private Weller, of the 58th Regiment, was found and carried away by the enemy, who read prayers over, and buried him at Aramoho, without degrading mutilation."
 MR. AGLIONBY  was induced to rise principally by the concluding observation of the hon. Baronet who had just sat down. He had the honour to belong to the New Zealand Company, of which the hon. Baronet had expressed his fears, and whose position, complaints, and claims had so frequently engaged the attention of the House. From the moment he became connected with that Company, which was not until some years after its establishment, he had seen nothing in its proceedings to make him regard with anything but pride and pleasure his joining so many public-spirited men—men of as high feeling in that respect as any in the country. He begged to inform the hon. Baronet, of whose kind feelings and general philanthropy no man had a higher opinion than himself, that he was at perfect liberty to enter upon a close investigation of the affairs of the Company; and if he did, he would find that fears had been excited and remarks made with regard to the Company by interested and turbulent persons, which were not justified by the facts. If the hon. Baronet would make the investigation, all the information in the possession of the Company should be placed at his disposal. There should be no secrecy whatever. At the same time there were
 353 354 "I am not then at present aware of any circumstances which need prevent the immediate introduction of representative institutions into that
 355
 MR. AGLIONBY  observed, that many hon. Members had come down to the House prepared to take part in the discussion on the New Zealand Bill: and it would be a most inconvenient course if a subject so important as to which the hon. Member for Stroud had called attention was brought before the House without notice.
 MR. AGLIONBY  observed, that the original intention of the Government had been to grant to the southern portion of New Zealand a constitution immediately, and to the northern portion the same been after the lapse of two years. The change in this view had been caused by the strong representations of Governor Grey; but he (Mr. Aglionby) did not think that the recommendation of that officer would at all warrant the suspension of the constitution with regard to the south for so long a period as five years. There were no complaints whatever in respect to the conduct of the inhabitants of that part of the colony; they were admitted to be peaceable and orderly, and it was not maintained
 363
 MR. LABOUCHERE  referred the hon. Gentleman to the fourth clause, wherein it was stated that the Governor of New Zealand would have the power, if he should think fit, to introduce a constitution to one, while he withheld it from another portion of the colony. It had been thought advisable to intrust the Governor with this discretion, and it was a point on which it would be better to leave everything to his own judgment. It might be, that the appearance of partiality would cause great excitement, and be productive of very serious consequences to the peace of the colony; but if, without danger, a constitution could be granted to the south within the period of five years, there would be no obstacle whatever placed in the way of the Governor making the concession. With regard to the other point adverted to by the hon. Gentleman, the Governor would not have power to alter the charter, but would be able, by an ordinance of the Legislative Council, to make those Amendments which might be necessary to the good government of the colony.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  objected to make the alteration which his hon. Friend proposed. Considering the distance this colony was from the mother country, five years was not too long a period to suspend the constitution. If at any time within the five years it should appear expedient to Earl Grey to bring within the constitution the whole or part of the country, he would be able to do so. All that the Bill did was to lay down five years as the maximum time during which the constitution could be suspended, without the Government being obliged to come to the House for the purpose: and he thought on these grounds that five years was a better term than three years.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  was very far from accusing the noble Lord of wishing to disturb the business of the House; but he could not consent to postpone going into Committee. He was sorry to think that the noble Lord meditated any opposition to the Bill; but he thought that any observations upon the question of the suspension of the abolition of the constitution could be made quite as well when discussing the clauses of the Bill in Committee.
 MR. LABOUCHERE : I am aware that strictly I have no right to address the House again, having already, in reply to the noble Lord, offered some remarks to the House on the question before it; but still, I hope the House will allow me, under the circumstances, to make a few additional observations, after the speech of the right hon. Gentleman. I can assure the right hon. Gentleman that he cannot attach more importance than I do to the conduct of the Government of this country towards the natives of New Zealand being characterised by the most perfect good faith, and to all arrangements entered into with them being carried out, not only in the strictest but in the most liberal manner; and that he cannot have a stronger
 343 344 345 "It appears to me that you have found it expedient to admit their pretensions to a considerable extent, and that such policy has been attended with no apparent advantages.…. I should wish you to understand that, while I would scrupulously fulfil every engagement entered into, I would avoid any further surrender of the property of the Crown." —"that the claimants, or their progenitors, or
 346 bonâ fide "And if the Bishop had consulted the instruc-
 347 "These complaints, and the request for the investigation of claims, were made in the districts in which the missionaries are the principal land claimants; and your Lordship will see that Captain Sotheby states that some of the young men spoke in a most determined manner, and threatened to take the law into their own hands. Captain Sotheby's observations quite accord with all the information which has reached me from other sources; and I can only trust that my being able shortly to conclude some definite and amicable arrangement with the land claimants in the north may for ever set these exciting questions at rest." 348 349 350
 MR. LABOUCHERE : I had hoped that upon the principle of this Bill there was no serious difference of opinion on either side of the House. With regard to the necessity of suspending the constitution of 1846, after the strong recommendations of Governor Grey, I thought the propriety of such a course was generally admitted. I therefore did think that, the House being agreed upon the principle, the Committee would offer a more suitable opportunity for the discussion of the measure, than the second reading would have afforded. The second reading, although there was little difference of opinion on the principle, was not passed quite so  sub silentio 331
 MR. REYNOLDS  would be the last Member in the House to encourage any act calculated to interrupt the public business of the country; but as to the observation of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose, that this discussion would interfere with the New Zealand Bill, he would say it was of more importance that
 327
 MR. HUME  rose to order. He was very unwilling to interrupt the hon. Member who was addressing the House; but he must remind that hon. Gentleman that he had merely given notice of his intention to put a question to the right hon. Secretary for Ireland. He was quite aware that any hon. Gentleman, on the Orders of the Bay being read, might enter into the discussion of any subject; but if such a course were pursued, it would occasion great inconvenience and waste of time. Several hon. Gentlemen had come down to the House prepared to discuss a Bill which stood on the paper (the New Zealand Bill); but the hon. Member for Stroud had opened the book of Ireland, and was entering into statements which would require answers and explanations. He understood that Her Majesty's Ministers had not received any notice of the intention of the hon. Member to enter into this question, and that they were consequently unprepared with documents which would enable them to answer his statements. He, therefore, put it to the hon. Gentleman whether it would not be more convenient if he gave notice of his intention to bring the state of Ireland under the consideration of the House on a future day, and allowed the debate on the New Zealand Bill to be proceeded with.
 MR. HUME  thought the suspension for five years was too long a period, and proposed three years.
 MR. SCROPE  considered that the subject to which he was referring was one of paramount importance, and possessed stronger claims on the attention of the House than either the New Zealand Bill, or the measure for removing Jewish disabilities. He had said that the poor of
 319 "The poor-law cannot be said to be in operation in this union;" and on the 29th of November he added, "there are now wandering about the union 1,600 persons or more waiting for admission into the House." "The valuation of this union, of which Lord Farnham was chairman, was 127,000 l. l., d. 320 Russell on Crimes and Misdemeanors: "Thus, where an indictment stated that the defendant, an overseer, had under his care a poor person belonging to his township, but neglected and refused to provide for her necessary meat, &c, whereby she was reduced to a state of extreme weakness; and afterwards, through want of such reasonable and necessary meat, &c, died, the defendant was convicted and sentenced to a year's imprisonment. And where an overseer was indicted for neglecting to supply medical assistance when required to a pauper labouring under dangerous illness, the learned judge before whom the indictment was tried held that an offence was sufficiently charged and proved, though such pauper was not in the parish workhouse, nor had previously to his illness received or stood in need of parish relief." Blackstone's Commentaries, —"if a man does an act of which the probable consequence may be, and eventually is, death, such killing may be murder, although no stroke is struck by himself, and no killing may be primarily intended (as was the case of the son who exposed his sick father to the air by reason whereof he died), as was the case of the parish officers, who shifted a child from parish to parish till it died for want of care and sustenance." 321
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, he rose to put to the right hon. Secretary for Ireland the question of which he had given notice. He considered that the present condition of Ireland had not received proper attention. He believed that many of the inhabitants of this country, if they were called upon to render any further aid to the people of Ireland, would say, "We have passed a poor-law to relieve the miseries and distresses of the Irish people; let that poor-law take its course; let it be carried oot effectually: let the landlords of Ireland, by the help of that poor-law, settle the matter themselves; and do not trouble us on the subject, or, at all events, don't ask us for more money." He would, therefore, claim the indulgence of the House for a few moments, while he called their attention to some of the statements which had appeared in the public journals with reference to the misery and destitution which existed in Ireland. He would not refer, as his authorities, to the repeal journals, which might be disposed to represent matters in their worst aspect, but he would read some passages from a newspaper which was supposed to be the organ of the Government—the  Dublin Evening Post, Dublin Evening Post 313 ex-officio 314 "As I have adverted to what may be fairly termed the principal object of these illegal confederacies, I may observe that at no period does there appear to be less reason on that account for interfering with the rights or remedies of landlords, because you are all well aware that the principle that every individual has a right to be supported by the land is not only an acknowledged principle, but has been embodied in an Act of Parliament in full execution, by which Act the most stringent measures are provided for making effectual provision for the poor under all circumstances, and that, too, at the cost of the very class of persons against whose rights there is this general opposition." 315 l. l l. 316 The hon. Member here quoted from a work by Mr. Tuke a specific case; but as the hon. Member, on a subsequent day, before our report was sent to press, retracted the statement, and added, that Mr. Tuke's pamphlet had been withdrawn from circulation, we have suppressed this part of the hon. Member's speech. 317 l. s. d.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, the right hon. Gentleman would, perhaps, make the question more clear to the House, if he stated whether his remarks referred to the north or to the south island of New Zealand, or whether he considered that the Treaty of Waitangi referred to both one island and the other?
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  differed from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He did not think the discussion of the Treaty of Waitangi foreign to the Bill now before the House; on the contrary, he believed that it was raised on everyone of those clauses which related to the land question. If the question was to be settled on views of international law, some reference should be had to the laws of real property under which, for so many centuries, the New Zealand tribes had transmitted their lands from generation to generation. He thought that our character in the eyes of foreign States, and particularly in the eyes of those possessing a semi-barbarous population, was already low enough, and he was not minded to assist Ministers to degrade it still further. He should oppose the adoption of as much of this Bill as related to enactments. He was clear that upon the present state of our information this question of occupation and property, with which this Bill proposed to deal, should be determined with a due re-
 362
 MR. SERJEANT TALFOURD  said, that the whole matter had been fully considered
 328
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that, after the strong opinion expressed by the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, he would not revive the question as to the inconvenience of discussing a measure of this nature at the present moment. He would at once enter upon the consideration of one or two points connected with the Bill, as well as of points of a collateral nature, not directly embodied in the provisions of the Bill, but of such vital importance to the well-being of the colonists and natives of New Zealand, that it would be impossible to fairly discuss the Bill without entering into a review of these points, and their bearing upon the general subject. The provisions of the Bill he found to be of two kinds—they were partly suspending, and partly enacting. With respect to the enacting clauses, although they undoubtedly did contain provisions of an unusual character, delegating all the powers of the State to a few individuals, yet as they were in accordance with the recommendations of Governor Grey, and seemed to be called for by the force of circumstances, he thought it would be better to pass these provisions. But as to the suspending provisions, he could not help feeling a wish to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman, upon which he thought he had some claim to explanation. He did not understand why the constitution of 1846 should be suspened for a term of five years, rather than repealed altogether. In ordinary cases of suspension, when it was found necessary to step in between a law and its operation for a given period, it was always considered that the law so suspended had a presumptive title to renewal—that the reasons for the validity of the law revived in full force at the expiration of the term for which it had been suspended. But the House was not about to discuss the provisions of a constitution ac-
 332 333 "The position I understand to be adopted by the New Zealand Company's agent, that, if tracts of land are not in actual occupation and cultivation by natives, we have therefore a right to take
 334 "It appears that you have found it expedient to admit these pretensions to a considerable extent; and, having done so, no apparent advantage could be suffered to weigh against the evil of acting in a manner either really or even apparently inconsistent with good faith. While, however, you scrupulously fulfil whatever engagements you have contracted, and maintain those rights on the part of the native tribes to land which you have already recognised, you will avoid as much as possible any further surrender of the property of the Crown." "No claim shall be admitted in the said land courts on behalf of the original inhabitants of New Zealand to any land situate within the said islands, unless it shall be established to the satisfaction of such court that either by some act of the Executive Government of New Zealand, as
 335 336 "All that I advised was this—that the theory of the ownership by tribes of unoccupied land should not be made the foundation of any future transactions; and that what I conceive to be the rights of the Crown, that is, of the public (where no engagements to the contrary have been made), should be carefully attended to in the disposal of land wherever no property has yet been recognised." 337 338 "In reference to my despatches, of the numbers and dates named in the margin, upon the subject of the excitement which was stated to exist amongst the native population regarding the reports in circulation upon the views which were supposed to be entertained by Her Majesty's Government, regarding the waste lands claimed by various chiefs, I have now the honour to enclose the copy of a letter from Captain Sotheby, R.N., which was forwarded to me a few days since by the senior naval officer upon this station; from which it will be seen that the reports in circulation regarding the intentions of the Government in reference to the waste lands of the natives, together with the recent arrival of troops and pensioners, has created much anxiety in the minds of the natives in the northern portion of this island. I have also to state to your Lordship, that, within the last few days, I have received alarming accounts from various quarters of the island regarding the excitement created in the portions of the country most densely inhabited by the natives, upon the subject of the introduction of the new constitution into this country, and the steps that may be taken regarding the registration of their lands. I am not yet in a position which would enable me to state whether actual insurrection, upon an extensive scale, is to be immediately apprehended; but I cannot now entertain any doubt that the country is in a very critical state. I will lose no time in
 339 "Through Mr. Meurant, they acquainted me that affairs were very peaceable in the northern districts, and no complaints to make; but said there had been a great deal of excitement on the part of Kiwiti and many of the natives, owing to a report, very widely circulated, that the Government intended to take possession of all uncultivated land, and that more troops had arrived to put such directions into execution. Previous to my arriving, Kawiti had come down with about thirty followers to Waka, to know if such was the case, as he considered it to be in open violation of the Treaty of Waitangi, and in direct opposition to what had been the view of his Excellency the Governor; but Waka eased his mind by telling there was no truth in such report, and which I most fully corroborated. They suggested to me, without seeking it, the propriety of issuing circulars in the native language to contradict it, as it was widely circulated into the interior, and parts of the country not visited by men-of-war or official persons, and where there are many Europeans only too ready to raise dissatisfaction amongst the natives. I had the honour of forwarding a letter to you relative to this matter on the 10th instant." 340 "On the authority of the Governor, that such was not the intention, or even the wish, if it were practicable, of the Government, and that no land would be taken excepting with the will and consent of the chiefs, and then granting them a pension; but which kind of remuneration the natives do not seem to understand." 341 "I should also observe that the position I understand to be adopted by the New Zealand Company's agent, that if tracts of land are not in actual occupation and cultivation by natives, that we have therefore a right to take possession of them, appears to me to require one important limitation. The natives do not support themselves solely by cultivation, but from fern-root, from fishing, from eel-ponds, from taking ducks, from hunting wild pigs, for which they require extensive runs, and by such like pursuits. To deprive them of their wild lands, and to limit them to lands for the purpose of cultivation, is, in fact, to cut off from them some of their most important means of subsistence; and they cannot be readily and uprightly forced into becoming a solely agricultural people. Such an attempt would be unjust, and it must for the present fail, because the natives would not submit to it; indeed they could not do so, for they are not yet, to a sufficient extent, provided even with the most simple agricultural implements; nor have they been instructed in the use of these. To attempt to force suddenly such a system upon them must plunge the country again into distress and war; and there seems to be no sufficient reason why such an attempt should be made, as the natives are now generally very willing to sell to the Government their waste lands at a price which, whilst it bears no proportion to the amount for which the Government can resell the land, affords the natives (if paid under a judicious system) the means of rendering their position permanently far more comfortable than it was previously, when they had the use of their waste lands, and thus renders them a useful and contented class of citizens, and one which will yearly become more attached to the Government." 342
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that the whole of his remarks referred to the north island alone, and to the north island excluding the south side of it. He might add, that he thought there was no practical difficulty in the case at all, because he believed the natives were ready to part with their claims at a very reasonable price.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that he did not intend to offer any obstruction to the Bill or any part of it; but as to the question of suspending or repealing the present constitution of New Zealand, he would take further time to consider it; and if he felt it his duty to propose an Amendment, he would take an opportunity of giving notice of it.
 MR. W. SMITH O'BRIEN  complained of the interruption of the hon. Member for Montrose. He conceived that no question could be brought before the House more deserving of their immediate and serious consideration than the subject to which the hon. Member for Stroud had called attention; and he thought it was a reproach upon the House that they should have allowed a single day to pass after the commencement of the Session without considering that question.
 MR. W. SMITH O'BRIEN  did not wish to lead the House into a premature discussion on the Irish Poor Law, although he thought it was a subject quite as deserving of the early attention of the House as a new constitution for the colony of New
 325 326
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  would not detain the House for one moment, but was anxious to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland to the oppression which was now practised under the quarter-acre clause.
 SIR B. HALL  concurred in what had fallen from the hon. Member for West Surrey. He was quite ready to go into the subject of distress prevailing in Ireland, but he would not do so on such an occasion as this, because he did not wish to encourage so inconvenient a mode of dealing with great public questions. He was anxious that a day should be appointed when the subject should be brought fully and deliberately under the consideration of the House; and, whenever that might happen, he should be prepared to give it his best attention.
 SIR E. N. BUXTON  said, that on a former occasion he had expressed an opinion that the Bishop of New Zealand was perfectly right in taking the part of the natives when he believed that they had suffered wrong; and that whether he could carry out his intentions in such a way as not to injure the Colonial Government was a question on which the House was then unqualified to decide. He now held in his hand incidental evidence that the right rev. Prelate had not, at all events, lost the confidence of the Governor. In a recent communication to the Bishop, the Governor said, "Your Lordship has often aided me in my difficult duties in this country; would you do once more to this extent?" And then the letter went on to beg the Bishop to use his influence to induce the missionaries of the Church of England to accept what the Governor considered fair terms, in reference to their grants of land; which terms they had since accepted. He must also say that the strong—perhaps he might almost say the excited—opinion of the Bishop respecting the new charter transmitted to New Zealand, was not singular, for he (Sir E. N. Buxton) had letters in his possession from missionaries belonging to the Wesleyan body, speaking as strongly as language could express it, their dread as to the new charter. He might have selected some passages from these letters; but the expressions contained in them respecting the charter were so strong, that he assured the House the Secretary of the Wesleyan body had waited upon him to request that he would not read them. None
 351 "It will be your duty to obtain, by fair and equal contracts with the natives, the cession to the Crown of such waste lands as may be progressively required for the occupation of settlers resorting to New Zealand." "The treaty must be regarded as the fundamental law of the country, and must be so interpreted as to harmonise with the other laws of New Zealand relating to like subjects." "There is no claim here to possession of territory in consequence of sovereignty." d. 352
 SIR G. GREY  hoped the House would not suppose that there was any desire on the part of the Government to stop the discussion of this question, although they certainly were not prepared with documents which would enable them to answer any statements that might be made—that was to say, they were not prepared to enter fully into the question of the administration of the poor-laws. The hon. Member for Stroud had stated that he had given due notice of his intention to put a question to the Government on the subject of the Irish Poor Law; but he must observe that the hon. Gentleman had not intimated that he would put that question on reading the Order of the Day. He was not surprised that his hon. Friend (Mr. Scrope)—although probably he had only intended to occupy the attention of the House for a few minutes—should have spoken for nearly an hour; and he thought there was not much prospect that the hon. Gentleman would soon bring his remarks to a conclusion. He considered, therefore, that the interruption of the hon. Member for Montrose was not very unreasonable, especially as several hon. Gentlemen had given notice of their intention to bring the subject to which the hon. Member for Stroud was referring distinctly under the consideration of the House. He would put it to his hon. Friend, whether it would not be more convenient if he confined himself to the question of which he had given notice, and allowed the House to proceed with the business on the paper. He had no idea that a discussion would have been raised on this subject to-day; his noble Friend the First Lord of the Treasury, and other Members of the Ministry, were absent from the House; and he certainly thought it was scarcely fair that a question of this importance should be mooted without the usual notice having been given.
 SIR G. GREY : It is not the intention of Her Majesty's confidential adviser to recommend Her Majesty to increase the number of Spiritual Peers.
 SIR G. GREY  replied, that the Act passed during the last Session of Parliament for creating a Bishop of Manchester, provided that no addition should be made to the number of Lords Spiritual.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, the hon. Member for Stroud had given him notice of his intention to put three questions respecting the unions of Cavan, Carrick-on-Shannon, and Ballina, but he had spent more than an hour in addressing the House before he came to the subject-matter of those interrogatories. He (Sir W. Somerville) had not come down to the House prepared to enter into a discussion on the Irish Poor Law; but he was the last man in that House who would complain if any hon. Member should come forward to call the attention of the Government to the distress which unhappily prevailed to so grievous an extent in Ireland. He was of opinion, however, that the hon. Member for Stroud had done very great injustice to that House and to the country by stating that there existed either within the walls of that House, or outside of them, any disinclination to administer as far as was possible to the necessities of the destitute poor of Ireland. Since he had come to this country, many parties who were aware of the position he held in Ireland as one of the Commissioners for carrying out the provisions of the poor-law in that country, had made many inquiries of him which satisfied him that the deepest possible interest was felt throughout England as to the manner in which the Irish Poor Law was working, and as to its capacity to relieve the wants of the destitute. He did not complain of the tone of the speech made by the hon. Member for Stroud; but
 322 323 l. 324
 LORD NUGENT  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal so much of the Act of 2nd and 3rd Victoria, c. 56, as gave power to magistrates, under the sanction and approval of the Home Secretary, to inflict separate imprisonment in gaols upon
 369 370 371 372 "As a general rule, I assert with confidence, that when secluded, prisoners prefer the hardest and, under other circumstances, the most irksome labour, to idleness which is constrained." 373 "It appears to me that no effectual reform in prison discipline can take place so long as our county gaols remain on their present footing. What is wanted is to hare houses of detention for untried prisoners, and distinct penitentiaries for criminals." 374 in loco parentis 375 376
 VISCOUNT MAHON  was sorry that the subject of prison discipline had been left in so unsatisfactory a state at the close of last Session. At the beginning of that Session Earl Grey had made a statement which he (Viscount Mahon) much regretted, to the effect that it was in the contemplation of Government to abolish, if possible, the system of transportation. That declaration the Ministers had not been able to carry out. The Government then introduced two Bills, one respecting the treatment of Irish convicts, as well as of those of this country, and another Bill with respect to prison discipline. The period of the Session at which they were introduced was so late, that he suggested the expediency of proceeding with one Bill only, and that the other should be proceeded with in the following Session. His right hon. Friend acceded to that proposition. He now wished to inquire when the House might expect that Bill? He wished, at the same time, to throw out a suggestion to his right hon. Friend, that his Bill would require much deliberate consideration, and it would greatly conduce to good legislation on the subject if the right hon. Baronet took care to introduce his Bill as early as possible.
 LORD NUGENT  was sorry that his right hon. Friend had so entirely misunderstood him, as he appeared to have done, on the question of solitary confinement. The fault was probably attributable to the inefficient manner in which he had explained the objects of this Bill. The right hon. Baronet seemed to take for granted that it was his (Lord Nugent's) intention to have a restoration of that exceedingly bad and demoralising system of unrestrained intercourse between tried and untried prisoners which had previously existed. Now, he (Lord Nugent) meant no such thing. His object was to give to an untried prisoner the option of associating, for a certain number of hours in the day, with the rest of the untried prisoners. As to communication of that kind, there was undoubtedly a mixture of good and evil; but he wished to preserve the health of the mind as well as of the body of a person who had not been subjected to trial on the charge upon which he had been committed. Notwithstanding the extracts made by his right hon. Friend from the reports of prison inspectors, solitary confinement was clearly a most severe penalty, notwithstanding its highly reformatory tendencies. However, after the suggestion of his hon. Friend (Dr. Bowring), and the earnest request of the right hon. Baronet, he would not place himself in the disagreeable position of obtruding a measure upon the House against its will. He would leave himself entirely in the hands of the House.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  hoped it was unnecessary to assure the House that he would be the last person to rise for the purpose of placing any obstacle in the way of a sanitary measure. He had listened with the deepest attention to the speech of the noble Lord in introducing the present Bill; and he rose merely with the view of directing the noble Lord's attention to one omission which he had hoped, from the notice he (Viscount Duncan) had placed that night on the table, would not have occurred. The noble Lord had remarked that there had been a great deal said and little done with respect to sanitary measures. He fully concurred in that assertion. But the noble Lord had also been pleased to say, that he had observed great apathy respecting this measure out of doors. He begged to tell the noble Lord that there was no apathy about sanitary measures out of doors, and that the working classes were anxiously looking for the interference of the Legislature on the subject. The noble Lord stated the object of the measure was to check obvious abuses. Now, he had listened attentively to the noble Lord's list of obvious abuses. The noble Lord had mentioned defective sewerage and drainage; but he thought the noble Lord spoke rather under his breath when he came to the subject of ventilation, although he remembered that not many years ago the noble Lord was quite eloquent on that subject, as well as on the window-tax. But how did it come that—
 "His lips were now forbid to speak Those once familiar words?" 405 Report of the Committee of the Members of an Association who had met together to consider Lord Lincoln's Drainage and Sewerage. Gulliver's Travels, "They said that they had directed much attention to the subject of remedial measures necessary for the improvement of the sanitary condition of towns—that they had carefully considered Lord Lincoln's Bill page by page and clause by clause. Then Dr. Southwood Smith and the other members of the Committee declared it to be their opinion that no sanitary measure could be considered complete without that which they had observed had been altogether passed over in Lord Lincoln's Bill'—namely, the abolition of the window-tax; and that a wise Legislature would never think of stepping in between God's greatest gift and the population, by laying on a tax for the enjoyment of the light of heaven, without which life was scarcely bearable; the effect of which was to oblige the poor to pay quadruple that which was paid by the rich." 406 l. s
 The EARL of LINCOLN  had not the slightest intention, when the noble Lord included his speech, of addressing the House on the occasion, for, generally speaking, it was more desirable to wait for the second reading of a Bill when the Bill was before the House, and when a person was much better able to discuss its merits than at the present moment. He should have adhered to that resolution, had not each of the hon. Members who had addressed the House began with great laudation of the noble Lord's Bill, and wound up their speeches by referring to the omissions in it. He would not follow their example, but rose for the purpose of protesting against those observations, and stating his opinion, that so far from their being a ground of complaint against the noble Lord for omissions, he thought he had acted most wisely in not encumbering the measure with any provisions that would interfere with its progress. So far as he could judge from the noble Lord's statement, the details were quite comprehensive enough already; and if the noble Lord could pass the Bill, the provisions of which the noble Lord had announced that evening, he was of opinion that the noble Lord would have made a valuable commencement of sanitary reform. He submitted it would be better to pass a measure of this kind, than run the risk of losing it by adding to it the difficult and intricate question of interment in towns. It was
 411
 MR. HODGES  approved of the Bill, and thought the noble Lord had exercised a wise discretion in excluding the metropolis from its operations, and trusted he would make it the subject of separate legislation.
 MR. MOFFATT  thought the House and the country were deeply obliged to the hon. Member for Liverpool for having brought this subject under their consideration. The hon. Gentleman had laid the matter so well before the House that he was unwilling to add one word to what the hon. Member had said; but as he had some acquaintance with the trade, perhaps he might be excused for trespassing upon the attention of the House for a few moments. Before, however, touching upon the question, he must beg to make one or two remarks on what had just fallen from the noble Lord (Lord G. Bentinck). The noble Lord had said, that by adopting a free-trade system we had given our money to the growers of cotton. Now, the fact was, that the price of cotton had never been so low for the last ten years as it was in the autumn of 1846. The noble Lord asserted that we had sacrificed revenue by reducing the duty upon French brandy. The noble Lord would find, however, that since the reduction the increased consumption had been such as to go far towards remedying the loss of revenue. Again, the noble Lord referred triumphantly to the Post Office. When the postage duty was reduced to 1 d., ad valorem 445 l.
 MR. CARD WELL , in reply, congratulated the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the great amount of support he had received on the present occasion. He had never read or heard of an instance in which a Chancellor of the Exchequer had received so general and so gratuitous support from all sides of the House. First, came the noble Lord (Lord G. Bentinck) who contended that not a particle of the duty ought to come off tea; and afterwards the hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Hudson) laid his royal mandate upon the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and dared him to take the duty off tea, at the same time taking care to tell him that, in refusing to do so, he was turning his back on his own principles. Next, came the hon. Gentleman behind him (Alderman Sidney), who got up and gave the result of his great experience on this question. The hon. Gentleman wanted no alteration in
 452 s. s. s. d. s., 453 l. 454
 LORD G. BENTINCK : The hon. Gentleman the Member for Liverpool (Mr. Cardwell) appears anxious to extend the doctrine which has been set forth to-night—that the true mode of remedying deficiencies of income is to take off the burdens from the springs of industry. I think he has had some little experience of that mode of improving the revenue of the country. I recollect that a Committee of the House of Commons upon the Post office duties reported in 1838 that by lowering the postage to one penny per letter, in the course of three years the deficiency of the revenue would be entirely made up. Ten years have now elapsed, and that which in 1838 amounted to 1,800,000 l., l. 442 ad valorem  s. d. 443 1. l l l.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  was sure there would be but one feeling pervading the House of an earnest desire to remedy those evils which the noble Lord had so powerfully set before them. When the noble Lord brought forward a similar measure last Session, he could not acquiesce in it, not that he was less anxious than others for the welfare of his fellow-creatures, which he was sure the whole tenor of his life disproved; but his main reason for objecting to the measure was the reluctance which appeared to exist on the part of Her Majesty's Government to include the metropolis in the boon which was to be conferred on other towns. He thought that reluctance savoured of a wish to favour the constituency on account of the support which they had given to a leading Member of Her Majesty's Government. He confessed he did cheer when he thought that the noble Lord had introduced the metropolis into the present measure; but he had since found that he had been too hasty; for he had just learned, with some degree of disappointment, that the metropolis was still to be excluded from the Bill. The reason certainly could not be that the metropolis needed this measure less than other places. Let them look at St. Giles's and Billingsgate, and other parts of the metropolis, and let the noble Lord tell him what there was in those places which could induce the House to withhold from them the boon which was to be granted to other towns. They were told that a Commission had recently been appointed, and that the House must wait for its reports; but, he would ask, why were these reports not upon the table, and in possession of Members, before the noble Lord brought forward his Bill? The noble Lord had further told them that two paid Commissioners were to be appointed under this Bill; but the noble Lord had not told them what was to be their salary. He distrusted these measures of partial, and, therefore, of suspi-
 404
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  hoped that the Bill would have the success which his hon. Friend expected from it in preventing litigation. But he feared it would not. He felt by no means sure that new subjects of litigation would not arise out of a new Act, however carefully prepared.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am sure the House will agree with me when I state that we are deeply obliged to the hon. Gentleman opposite, for the able statement he has made in calling our attention to the report of the Committee which sat to inquire into our commercial relations with China. I think,
 439 l. l. l.; l. 440 ad valorem  ad valorem ad valorem  l. 441
 MR. CARDWELL : I rise to bring under the notice of the House the report of the Select Committee appointed in the year 1847 to take into consideration the present state of our commercial relations with China; and I hope, Sir, not with standing the lateness of the hour, that the House will allow me to bring forward the Motion of which I have given notice for this evening. And, in doing so, I must say that I regret it cannot be introduced to the House by my noble Friend (Lord Sandon), who, in the last Session of Parliament, presided over the inquiry, and who prepared this able report. I have also to apologise to the other Members of the Select Committee for taking or appearing to take the subject out of their hands. But, considering the early period of the Session at which the financial statement, as has been announced by the noble Lord opposite, will be made, and finding that no notice upon this subject has as yet been given, I thought it was one which should not be allowed to slumber, and that there should not be a consideration of the financial prospects of the year without any reference whatever being made to the evidence and report I hold in my hands. To the importance of the subject it cannot be necessary for me to call attention. It cannot be necessary for me to call the attention of the House to the expectations that were entertained with respect to the prospects that were to be opened to our traders and manufacturers by the establishment of free intercourse with the great empire of the East, for the House is fully conscious of the necessity of finding continually fresh and increasing outlets for the productions of our great manufacturing powers. And we are also, too, conscious that it will be necessary, if our large manufacturing population are to be kept in a condition of employment and increasing comfort at home, that we must go beyond the limits of Europe, and the supply of the demands of civilised nations, and seek still further outlets for British manufactures. In some respects the trade with China did appear to bear out the expectations that; had been formed of it. The export trade which, in the year 1827, amounted to 610,000 l., l., l. 426 l. l., 427 l. l. l. "Assuming that the American and the trade of other foreign nations leaves an excess of exports over imports of about a million sterling, the approximate balance of trade against China would be nearly two millions, constituting the sum annually drawn from this country in specie to pay for opium. How long the Chinese will be able to sustain this continual drain of the precious metals is impossible to determine; but the fact being now well established that the export of tea to England cannot be increased under the present system of duties, it is not difficult to foresee that unless a new opening be found for a larger consumption of China exports in our markets, a gradual reduction must take place either in the quantity or in the prices of our imports in China until they come to a proper level. On the other hand it is beyond calculation to what extent the Chinese would purchase our woollens and cottons, were we enabled to take their produce in return, especially after having obtained the legalisation of the opium trade." "It must be borne in mind that the import trade is regulated by, and depends wholly on, the export trade, and that therefore only an increase of exports can cause a corresponding increase in
 428 s. d. s. d. 429 "This year will be memorable in the annals of the cotton trade—it has been disastrous to all interests concerned in it. The decrease in the consumption has been without parallel; and as the case is wholly different in France and in America, the contrast affords matter for serious reflection." "The revenue derived from tea in the last year amounted to 5,110,897 l., l. l., l., 430 l. l.; l.; l.; l.; l. l. 431 s. s. s. l. l. l., l. l., l. 432 s. d. 433 434 435 l. l., 436 437 "That there be laid before this House, Copies or Extracts of any Documents relative to the state of our Commercial Relations with China, which may have been received from the Governor or fro many of Her Majesty's Consuls in that country since the 1st day of July, 1847."
 MR. HORSMAN  said, the noble Lord who had moved for leave to introduce the Bill, had manifested all the zeal of a philanthropist with the ability of a statesman. The measure was large and comprehensive, and if followed up with vigour it could not fail of success. He thought the noble Lord had come to a judicious decision in having two paid Commissioners, as one, he thought, as was proposed by the measure of last year, would not be sufficient for the duty. With regard to the salaries of these offi-
 407 l. 408
 MR. HUDSON  hoped that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not be induced by the specious arguments which were addressed to him to fall into the speculative projects recommended by the hon. Member for Liverpool and his Friends on the other side of the House. We might go on reducing duties; but we must not expect, from such reductions, an increase of consumption or of the revenue. To attempt to reduce the duty upon tea, in the present state of the finances of the country, would occasion great inconvenience, He was happy to see that the hon. Member for Salford had found out that a reduction of duty did not always lead to an increased consumption of the article. This question must be considered at some future day, when the revenue could better afford a reduction. The hon. Member for Salford was somewhat retreating from his free-trade principles. He must take that Gentleman's speech as an indication from that important district that those principles were not quite so popular there as they were sometime ago. Reductions of this kind had not always tended to the advantage of the conusmer,
 450 d. s. 451 l.; l.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, that no one expected an increase of consumption to take place amongst those to whom price was no object; but' they expected an increase of consumption to take place by those using tea who did not at present enjoy the article at all. It was a fact well ascertained, that but a small portion of the population of Ireland consumed tea; and he could not doubt that the increase of the consumption of tea consequent upon a reduction of the duty would materially diminish the consumption of spirits. He congratulated the House on the unanimity which prevailed on this occasion, and thought he was able to point out a way by which the Chancellor of the Exchequer might relieve the country without endangering the Exchequer. In 1846 the consumption of tea was 46,700,000 lbs.; in 1847 it fell to 45,500,000 lbs.; and no larger consumption could be reckoned on for the present year than 44,000,000 lbs. If there was one article more than another which had shown a tendency to decrease in price, it was tea. In 1831 the consumption of tea was 31,000,000 lbs.; the price per lb. being 10 d. pari passu, s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. l.; 449 s. d. s.; s. s. d. l.; l.; l.
 MR. WYLD  said, that the public had already had a specimen of what legislative interference would be in the proceedings of the Metropolitan Sewers Commission. The commissioners, at their first meeting, ordered that a block-plan of the metropolis should be prepared, and they calculated that the survey and plan would cost 61,000 l. 420
 DR. BOWRING  said, that if his hon. Friend who had just sat down had read the evidence given with respect to an  ad valorew ad valorem
 DR. BOWRING  had seconded the Motion of the noble Lord, because it appeared to him that the interests of humanity detained that some attention should be drawn to this subject. He certainly had thought that the noble Lord had made out a  primeâ facie
 DR. BOWRING  asked the right hon. Home Secretary whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring in any Bill for the reform of the County Courts, and especially with a view to diminish the expenses of proceedings in those courts?
 MR. MASTERMAN  rose to express his satisfaction that this matter had been brought forward, for it would at all events have the good effect of bringing it under the consideration of the House. He feared it would be very difficult to levy an  ad 446 valorem
 MR. JOHN REYNOLDS  approved of the measure so far as it went; but expressed his sorrow and deep regret that its provisions were not to be made applicable to all parts of the kingdom. He could not see why its provisions should not be extended to Ireland and Scotland. He looked upon this omission as a most serious error. He conceded to the Government every credit for their good intentions regarding the sister country, and he was far from thinking them amendable to the charge which had frequently been brought against preceding Administrations, that when they had a good measure to give they tried it first upon England, and that when they had a bad measure to dispose of they made the first experiment in Ireland. He said he was not disposed to agree with those who brought such charges against the Government. But still he could not help again expressing his regret that they were not about to give this good measure a trial in Ireland. It was not pretended that Ireland was less in need of sanitary improvement than this country. In point of fact, if there was one part of the United Kingdom more than another which especially stood in need of a new sanitary system, it was Ireland; and if there was one place more than another in Ireland requiring a thorough cleansing it was Dublin. He would read some portions of the evidence taken before Mr. Abraham Heywood, of Dublin, the Queen's Counsel, a gentleman well known to many hon. Members in the House. Mr. Heywood had been appointed to inquire into the merits of a Bill
 421
 MR. BROTHERTON  expressed his approbation of the Bill.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, that there could but be one opinion as to the importance of a reduction of the duty on tea; and he hoped that whatever reduction might be made, the public would have the benefit of it. It appeared, from the returns on the table, that in 1815, 19,000,000 lbs. of tea were imported, and that the cost in China was 3,500,000 l.; l., l. s. d. s. l.; l. 447 ad valorem
 MR. HUME  felt rejoiced at the prospect they now had of some progress being made in the work of sanitary improvement; but while he approved of a large portion of what the noble Lord proposed, he ventured to suggest that as this measure was to be carried out coercively in some instances, and permissively in others, it would be attended with a large local expenditure. In whatever way it was carried out, it must be attended with local taxation in a heavy degree; therefore it behoved Her Majesty's Government and the House, in taking this general and comprehensive proceeding, and in extending the benefit of those improvements to all parts of the country, with a view to have purity of water, better air, and the removal of effluvia, to consider whether they should leave out of the category the removal of the window-tax and the removal of the churchyards—for the one tended to prevent ventilation above, and the other to putrify the water below. They must look at the subject as a whole; and all they could do would be fruitless, unless light and air were freely admitted to the houses of the poor; it would be a defective measure unless the window-tax was repealed altogether. That House of Commons might properly be called upon
 410
 MR. BAINES  asked leave to bring in a Bill to amend the procedure in respect of orders for the removal of the Poor in England and Wales, and appeals there from. He said that the present system required alteration, in consequence of the appeals that were made by the removing parish on the one side, and the parish to which the poor were removed on the other, each of which declared to the other the grounds upon which they proceeded. The clause which enacted that provision was originally a good one, and well intended. But many legal questions had subsequently been raised upon it; and the consequence at length was, that questions respecting removals of the poor were now never tried upon their real merits, but upon mere legal technicalities. Such had been the state of things for the last ten or twelve years. It proceeded from there not being in the original Poor Law Act a provision relating to the grounds of removal, and providing for the appeal. The object of the Bill which he (Mr. Baines) now sought leave to introduce, was to do away with the consideration of mere technicalities, and to cause the questions of appeal to be tried solely upon their real merits. The order of removal itself might also be amended in certain points so as to meet the justice of each case. Another point in his Bill was this—that it would vest a sufficient power in the sessions to decide on the ground of appeal. That power would be vested absolutely in the magistrates, so as to prevent the parishes from being harassed by the expenses to which they had heretofore been subjected, and the magistrates from having  mandamuses
 MR. OSBORNE  begged to ask the noble Lord when the separate Bill for the metropolis would be brought in?
 MR. SLANEY  observed, that a great change had taken place in the population of the country within the last half century. By the population returns, it was shown that in 1790, and from that period down to 1800, the labourers who were employed in husbandry were as two to one to the dwellers of the towns. But those proportions were now exactly reversed; and he thought this showed that a great change had taken place in the social pursuits of the population, and any Government desirous of improving their condition was called upon to make corresponding changes in its measures. The average increase of the population of this kingdom, from 1801 to 1831, had been, in five of the largest towns, 98 per cent; and since that period the increase had been going on in a still
 412 413 414
 ALDERMAN SIDNEY  begged, as a member of the corporation of the city of London, and as a commissioner of sewers, to make a short statement on some of the topics adverted to by the hon. Member for Finsbury. That hon. Gentleman had spoken of the corporation of the city of London as a nasty and turtle-eating body. Now there might be some difference of opinion as to the applicability of the word nasty, but there could be none as to the turtle. The hon. Member, however, could not be aware of the extent to which the corporation had effected sanitary reform, otherwise he would not have spoken as he had. He believed that the city corporation were the first metropolitan body who attempted to grapple with the sanitary question. He believed that every main street, and almost every court and by-street, had been sewered at enormous cost; and it was only bare justice to the commissioners of sewers, who represented the corporation, to say that they were most solicitous to avail themselves of every known improvement; and his belief was that the city of London would not be found to interpose obstacles when the Government attempted to deal with the entire metropolis. The corporation knew that the city formed an integral portion of the metropolis; it knew that the sewers already laid down would require to be adjusted so as to suit the metropolitan sewers; but at the proper time it would be seen that the corporation would throw no obstacles in the way of a comprehensive measure. He might also speak of a part of the city with which he was connected,
 419
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, that there were some fallacies in the arguments as to the augmentation of the consumption of tea. He had looked carefully over the report of the Committee, and found from that report that in 1801 the consumption per head was 1 lb. 3 oz. In 1844 the price was not one-third of what it was in 1801, and still he found the consumption only augmented to 1 lb. 10 oz. There was no doubt that if the duty on tea was lowered, the consumption would increase, and the profits of the merchant would also materially increase. At present they had great cause to complain of the unfavourable state of the trade with China. The question, however, was one for the Chancellor of the Exchequer; and he asked him to pause before he expected the consumption of 24,000,000 lbs. of tea to augment to 46,000,000 lbs. To have such an increased consumption, the quantity per head must amount to 2 lb. 7 oz. He ventured to say, that we must live for another half century before we could prevail on the people of this country to consume such an enormous quantity of tea. He was practically engaged in that branch of business, and he begged to say, that he differed from the
 448
 MR. WAKLEY  had not had the good fortune to hear the opening statement of the noble Lord, and could not therefore follow him into details. The noble Lord the Member for Falkirk (Lord Lincoln), in telling them that the measure was a tolerably good measure, did not pay the House a very great compliment; for the noble Lord admitted that if it had been a very good measure, there would be no chance of its being carried. If the noble Lord had formed a just estimate of the House, he was quite sure that the House was no faithful reflection of public opinion. The people of England were straightforward—they liked bold and comprehensive measures. The measure introduced by the noble Lord might be considered very good by some persons; but he begged to tell Her Majesty's Government that it fell far short of public expectation. Instead of being hailed with public approval, it would be met by public disapprobation. The great and comprehensive measure which they had been last Session led to expect had not been brought forward. He had been given to understand that the metropolis was excluded. [Viscount MORPETH: It is reserved for a separate Bill.] Why should it be excluded from this Bill? And when was this separate Bill to come forth? The public had a right to expect that where the greatest nuisances existed, there the remedies should be first applied. And where was that? It was in London, in stinking London, in filthy London, that sanitary measures should begin. The Government left untouched the very centre of the disease, while the spots and blemishes on the more distant parts of the body were to be subjected to a Ministerial dressing. That omission would be viewed with great dissatisfaction. It was all very well when minor grievances were to be remedied: there was no difficulty then; but when a
 415 416 417 418
 MR. W. BROWN  rose to give in his adhesion to the opinions which had been expressed by the hon. Member for Liverpool. The hon. Gentleman was quite correct in asserting, that in the article of tea, as in all other articles, the reduction of duty would lead to an increased consumption. That had been invariably found to be the case; and the converse of the proposition was equally true, that an increase of duty would lead to a decreased consumption. It became then a mere question for the Chancellor of the Exchequer to consider how far he could reduce the duty upon tea, and yet maintain the revenue. He was glad to find that in a great measure his right hon. Friend coincided with the hon. Member for Liverpool, and he hoped that at no distant day he would have the courage to take the bull by the horns; and if he could not obtain sufficient revenue from tea, to procure it from some other sources. He thought there were plenty of other commodities which it would be quite as just to tax as tea. Why not, for example, extend the legacy and probate duty to estates? He hoped, however, that the whole subject of taxation would soon be taken up and revised, and put upon a more permanent footing than at present. Looking to it as affecting the moral welfare and condition of the people, he thought the proposition of the hon. Member for Liverpool was entitled to the best consideration of the Government.
 MR. EWART  seconded the Motion, and said that for many years he had taken a deep interest in this question, connected as it was with the vital interests of our commerce and manufactures. For a considerable time he had thought the period had arrived when an enlarged view should be taken of our general system of taxation; and on the questions of the tea, tobacco, and wine duties, he conceived it became a Minister who took a comprehensive view of the interests of the country to consider how far he could reduce our high customs duties, in order to encourage the importation of such articles in exchange for our manufactures; and how far the excise duties could be reduced to encourage our industry at home. Among the mercantile and manufacturing communities great anxiety was felt with regard to the changes about to be proposed; as a general supporter of a liberal Government, he looked, therefore, with considerable interest to the policy which was about to be pursued. He had been a Member of the Committee on our relations with China. He entirely concurred in the views of the hon. Member (Mr. Cardwell). To his able speech there was little to add. But there was one point on which he (Mr. Ewart) wished to dwell. It was the severe manner in which the tea duties pressed upon the poor of this country. Whilst we taxed the rich man's tea but 100 per cent, the duty on the poor man's tea was 300 per cent, and on some sorts 350 per cent. This was not the view taken by Mr. Pitt in 1796, when he altered the tea duties. In a speech which he made on that occasion, he said—
 "It was his intention that the tea duty should in no degree be allowed to bear hard on the poorer classes of the community. He, therefore, meant to exempt from this tax the whole of the coarser sorts of tea which was the beverage of the poorer classes." ad valorem 438 d. d. s. d.;
 MR. MONSELL  begged to ask the noble Lord whether it were intended to bring in a similar Bill for Ireland?
 SIR G. GREY : His noble Friend had rather mistaken the construction of the second Bill, which was dropped last year—the Bill which referred to prison discipline. Its object was to carry into effect a recommendation of the Commission which sat to inquire into the allegations which had been previously made in that House, with regard to the treatment of prisoners at Mil lbank.
 384
 SIR G. GREY  said, that giving his noble Friend, as he readily did, every credit for the motive which induced him to make the present Motion, he felt it his duty to offer his most decided opposition to it, because he thought the introduction of any such Bill would have a most mischievous effect, by inducing the country to believe that the Government were no longer convinced of the policy, the expediency, and the importance of maintaining that portion of the Act of the 2nd and 3rd Victoria, cap. 56, which his noble Friend proposed to repeal; that portion of the Act being, in his (Sir G. Grey's) opinion, one of the most valuable parts of our present system of prison discipline. He would state to the House what the provisions of that Act were. The Act was passed on the 17th of August, 1839, and was entitled "An Act for the better ordering of Prisons." By the 2nd Clause it was enacted—
 "That the persons authorised by law to make rules and regulations, to be submitted to one of Her Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, for the government of any prison in England or Wales, shall be empowered, if they shall think fit, to make rules for a different classification of prisoners of each sex in such prison, or for the individual separation of all or any of the prisoners confined therein, with due regard to their proper supervision, religious and moral instruction, and employment, and from time to time to alter or add to such rules; and the Secretary of State, if he shall think that the rules so made and submitted to him for a different classification of prisoners of each sex, or for the individual separation of prisoners, are fit to be enforced in that prison, shall subscribe a certificate or declaration that they are proper to be enforced; and the rules so made and certified, but not until they shall have been so certified, shall be enforced." "That, in order to prevent the contamination arising from the association of prisoners in any prison in which rules for the individual separation of prisoners shall be in force, any prisoner may be separately confined during the whole or any part of the period of his or her imprisonment, under the restrictions hereinafter provided." 377 378 "Efforts have of late years been made to remedy these evils by the classification of prisoners, but the result has been far from satisfactory. By the Gaol Act, 4 George IV., cap. 64, no provision is made for dividing prisoners before or after trial into more than two classes. The larger prisons, especially those in and near the metropolis, usually contain several hundred prisoners, whose periods of confinement before trial vary from a few days to several months. It is hardly necessary to remark, that any classification, with the inadequate means provided by the Gaol Act, must be inefficacious—that, in the case of untried, it must associate the most hardened offenders with those who may be guiltless of crime, and that even an innocent man sent for trial can hardly escape contamination. Your Committee are of opinion that
 379 "A prisoner thus received is generally either committed for trial at the sessions, or under a summary conviction. In the former case he has the option of passing his time with other prisoners similarly circumstanced (that is, in the workroom during hours of labour, and in the yard during meal-time); or of being placed in one of the new cells, and entirely separated from all association. Wherever any sentiment of self-respect remains—wherever sorrow or a sense of disgrace is weighing on the mind, the offer of separation is gladly embraced. On the other hand, the old offender, the thoughtless, the callous, prefer the work-room and the unrestrained conversation, during meal-hours, of the yard." "It was not until 1840 that separate confinement after trial was resorted to, and then under many disadvantages. The many evils of permitting the untried to associate still remained unremedied, and it became evident that, especially with regard to boys, no after discipline could stay the growth of the corruption which they had contracted even in a few days' exposure to that association. The necessity, then, for removing such
 380 "Should it be objected, that to separate the untried is to punish them, and that punishment must not be inflicted until guilt is proved; I would reply, that a prisoner committed for trial must by either guilty or innocent—an adept in crime or a novice. If the former, separation is no injustice to him, for he has no right to be placed among those whom he would contaminate; if, on the other hand, the newly committed prisoner should be innocent, or unused to crime, ha has a right to be protected from influences which would inflict upon him a horrible and irreparable injury." Rapport du Projet de Loi sur les Prisons "The writers who have hitherto treated of the subject of prison reform have differed as to the question of the discipline to which convicted prisoners should be subjected; but they have all concurred in the expediency of separating untried prisoners from each other, and of resolutely preventing any communication between them. They have thought that the inconveniences were very few and the advantages great in preventing all communication whatever between such prisoners." "To detain an accused person in prison until his innocence is proved is a measure of rigour; but, to compel him, while awaiting his trial, to live in the midst of a society of criminals, is equally impolitic and cruel." 381 "It is only in our own days that the separation of prisoners from each other has been considered as the basis of every penitentiary system. This separation is of special importance with regard to those who have not yet been convicted. Both in their case and in that of the convicted, the object is that the good shall not be corrupted by the bad, ' and that the bad shall not be made worse." "Separate or individual imprisonment ought to be applied to prisoners before trial, so as entirely to prevent all communications between them or with other prisoners, except in those; Cases in which the magistrates, in accordance with the request of the prisoners themselves, think fit to allow them some communication within limits prescribed by law." 382 "The system of separation between prisoner and prisoner is admirably adapted to the condition and circumstances of the untried, and fully secures the just rights and privileges of that class of prisoners. Their feelings and necessities are consulted; they are provided with a commodious, well-lighted, and well-ventilated cell, fitted with everything necessary to supply their real wants; they are supplied with a sufficiency of good food; they are protected from the sight and hearing of all their fellow-prisoners; they can at any time have the attendance of an officer of the prison or of the governor, chaplain, or surgeon. They can see their friends and legal advisers; they can, without impediment or interruption, calmly deliberate upon their defence, and take all proper means to meet the trial that awaits them. They may send or receive letters; they may read unobjectionable books; they may, if they desire it, by furnished with suitable employment; they have the privilege of attending public worship; can take daily exercise in the open air; may receive food other and beyond the prison diet; they are exempted from perplexing regulations; they are tempted to no violation of prison discipline; they are spared the infliction of prison penalties; there is no one to hurt their person, provoke their temper, or corrupt their morals. They can occupy themselves in useful work, in profitable reading, and in tranquil meditation, uninterrupted, save by the visits of those who come to minister to their physical, moral, or religious wants, or to aid them with comfort or professional advice. Would the relatives or friends of any prisoner, who have a proper regard for his best interests, hesitate to prefer such a mode of confinement to any other that has been practised or devised? Between the advantages of separation, and the degradation and depravity of association, on the one hand, or the restraint, exposure, and severity of the silent system, on the other, we feel convinced that no comparison can be sustained." 383
 Sir G. GREY  replied, that it was not
 368
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  expressed his gra-
 409
 Sir H. VERNEY  wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, whether the decree of the Cantonal Government of Vaud of the 24th of November, 1847, would affect British subjects in that canton; and whether the letter of remonstrance and advice addressed by Sir S. Canning to the Government of Switzerland, endeavouring to dissuade it from arbitrary and tyrannical proceedings towards those who differed from it in religious matters, had been attended with success?
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, that having paid much attention to the subject of sanitary improvement, the House would; excuse him for making a few remarks on statements which had fallen from some previous speakers. He intended to have followed the hon. Member for Finsbury; but he rejoiced that he had not done so, as it had afforded an opportunity to a member of the corporation which had been so hardly spoken of, to vindicate its procedure and intentions. As the hon. Member for Fins
 422 l, 
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  replied. He begged to express the gratitude which he felt towards hon. Members for the manner in which they had received the statement he had had the honour to make; and he hoped he might look upon it as ominous of future success. The only comment with which he was at all disposed to quarrel had been made by the only hon. Member who had not heard the statement. He was
 423
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  said, that as soon as the present measure could be matured, he hoped that the Secretary for Ireland would be able to supply a similar measure for Ireland.
 VISCOUNT MORPETH : A Bill for extending and consolidating the Commission of Sewers will be introduced immediately; and the Sanitary Bill for the metropolis will be brought forward as soon as the Sanitary Commissioners make such representations as the Government can properly act upon; which will be, I hope, in the course of a few days.
 VISCOUNT MORPETH : * * 386 387 
 "1. An unlimited supply of pure water to every house at a very small rate. "2. A general and effective system of sewerage and drainage in all houses, streets, and courts. "3. The removal of nuisances, as slaughterhouses, Ac, from crowded neighbourhoods. "4. The erection of more wholesome abodes for the working classes. "5. The ventilation of workshops, schools, and public buildings. "6. The establishment of baths, wash-houses, and bathing-places. "7. The formation of gymnasia and exercise grounds for all classes. "Your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray that you will be pleased to pass into a law the above named Act for improving the health of towns, by which they will be shielded from the great physical and moral evils to which they are now exposed, and from which, without legislative interference, they cannot hope to escape." "Neither do I  agree 388 "That all past experience, and the nature of the case, enforce the necessity of combining in any sanitary measure an efficient local admistration responsible to the ratepayers, with the superintendence of a Government department duly represented in Parliament." "Were these powers vigorously exercised, it is evident that many of the evils above described could not have existed. But, with the exception of a recent effort to induce manufacturers to use measures for the diminution of the smoke nuisance, the powers vested in the town-council by this Act have remained wholly inoperative. There is, however, no reason to believe that this remissness has arisen from any personal antipathy to sanitary improvements. On the contrary, many of the most active members of the corporation are zealous advocates for the physical and moral improvement of the working classes; and some have, at considerable expense, voluntarily introduced smoke-consuming contrivances, and otherwise ministered to the health and comfort of their fellow-townsmen. Nor can I describe the delay which has occurred in the execution of the Towns Improvement Act to any other cause than the disinclination to active exertion so often induced by a sense of divided responsibility." 389 390 391 392 393 British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review, "The conclusions to which our examination of sanitary tests and estimates has led us are the following:—1, That the advocates of sanitary reform are justified in assuming 2 per cent as the rate to which the mortality of all towns, and  à fortiori "The annual waste of life and sacrifice of health reduced to equivalents in pounds, shillings, and pence, under the heads of sickness, funerals, and labour lost, is represented by a grand total for England and Wales of 14,873,931 l., l. l., l. 394 l. "The calculations published in the tables of the Health of Towns Association embrace only three heads—funerals, sickness, and labour wasted. Orphanage and widowhood, which impose a perpetual burden on the poor-laws of about 50,000 women and children, and an annual burden, which, though not yet ascertained, cannot but be considerable, are not taken into the account. Then there is another enormous item of waste or misappropriation of money, not contained in these tables—namely, the sums squandered in the shape of defective and costly structural arrangement above and below ground." "What all these barbarisms have cost and are costing us it would be difficult to say; but that they amount to several millions a year no reasonable man can doubt. We refer our readers to the reports of the Health of Towns Commission, and the publications of the Health of Towns Association for particulars. If they appear exaggerated, let them halve or quarter every item, and there will still remain the most remarkable exposé ever yet made of municipal and national extravagance. One broad principle may be safely enunciated in respect of sanitary economics—that it costs more money to create disease than to prevent it; and that there is not a single structural arrangement chargeable with the production of disease which is not also in itself an extravagance." "The quarterly returns are obtained from 117 districts, subdivided into 582 sub-districts; 36 districts are in the metropolis, and the remaining 81 comprise, with some agricultural districts, the principal towns and cities of England. T he population was 6,612,800 in 1841. 57,925 deaths were registered in the last quarter. The average
 395 "About 16,000 a year, which multiplied by 10, the recoveries to each death, a calculation lower by 18, than Dr. Playf'air's, we have yearly in England above 160,000 attacks of this loathsome disease which may be prevented—a disease which does more to pauperise our population, to fill our workhouses with widows and orphans than any other, and for this reason—the typhus fever for the most part attacks men and women in the prime of life—from 20 to 40. This is the age at which the members of the working classes marry; and if the father of a family is cut off, the widow and her children are cast for support on the poor rates. This is a painful cause of pauperism, and it becomes more so from its permanence. A widow so left with children is seldom married a second time. From the books of the unions it appears to take place only in one case out of thirty No wonder then the poor-law unions have to support 40,000 widows and 100,000 orphans year after year." "The deaths of infants in Preston under one year were—in well-conditioned streets, 15 deaths to 100 births; middling-conditioned streets, 21deaths to 100 births; ill-conditioned streets, 38 deaths to 100 births; worst-conditioned streets, 44 deaths to 100 births. "We see then, and the remark holds good not only in Preston, but also in other towns, that the mortality is in proportion to the condition of the houses in which the children live, and
 396 "Take, for instance, the parish of St. Margaret, Leicester, the average age at death in 1840 was—well-drained streets, 23½ partially-drained streets, 17½ streets without drains, 13½." 
 
 Ward. Deaths to each 100. 
 Worst. Byrne's Ward … 1 in 32 
 St. Ann's Ward … 1 in 36 
 St. Mary's Ward … 1 in 38 
 Best. Castle Ward … 1 in 43 
 Sherwood Ward … 1 in 50 
 Park Ward … 1 in 50 Journal of Public Health, "A few short months ago, Bishop Riddell, the Rev. J. Standen, and Dr. Charlton, were in communication with the authorities of Newcastle, to represent to them the filthy, over-crowded, and infected condition of Sand gate and the neighbouring localities. The project was then entertained of removing fever-patients to a more open elevated part of the town, where, in some temporary or other building, their chance of recovery would be greater, while the spread of the infection among the inhabitants would be kept in check. A similar suggestion was made by Mr. Green how at the time of the cholera. Dr. Bowring, in the paper which he read in Newcastle, in 1838, at the meeting of the British Association, gave a remarkable illustration of the success of such a removal in the case of the plague; but the proposal of June last, in Newcastle, was not adopted; the sanitary condition of the infected district has since undergone little amendment, and the fever has extended its ravages. The rev. J. Standen is dead—the right rev. Dr. Riddell is dead; martyrs to their self-denying devotion to the cause of suffering humanity." 397 "A long investigation recently took place before Mr. Baker, at the Windmill, Rosemary-lane, on view of the body of Mary White, aged 2 years. The inquiry was instituted by the medical officer of the White chapel union, in consequence of the many deaths which have taken place from a similar cause. Anne Briant, a married woman, said she had lived in Hayes-court about a week. During that period there was scarcely a house in which some one was not ill of fever. The child, her mother said, had been labouring under a fever for two months. Witness for the last week assisted the mother to attend the child. It died on Tuesday. Witness had no doubt that its death was caused by the impure atmosphere of the court. Several of the jury observed that the witness seemed to be in a state of fever, and Mr. Webb, the summoning officer, said that the whole of the inhabitants of the court had the same appearance. Mr. John Liddle, surgeon of White chapel union, said that he was first called to see the deceased on the 20th of August, in compliance with an order. It was then suffering from fever and diarrhœa. The parent would not let him go into the room, alleging that it was offensive and dangerous, and the mother brought the child to him at the next house. He prescribed for it, but the medicines would not act as they would have done in a healthy atmosphere. Witness has now six patients in that court. The first witness stated that she knew two children in another house, one of whom was dying of the fever, another was very bad. Coroner (to the surgeon): Do you register this a natural death?—Mr. Liddle: No, a death from the poisonous effluvia of the atmosphere from the want of drainage. It has been proved that the gas, in its pure state, arising from the decomposition of animal matter, is fatal; and M. Thénard, a French chemist, has found that 1.800 of its volume will destroy a dog, and 1 volume in 250 is sufficient to destroy a horse. Some course ought to be adopted, as the whole neighbour hood is liable to be attacked with fever. The jury returned the following verdict—' That the deceased died from diarrhœa and fever, caused by noxious and poisonous effluvium in Hayes-court from want of drainage." Journal of Public, Health: "On the 28th of September, 1846, I was requested to visit a young man residing at Hard-
 398 "Fewson is here, his mother being dead; she was buried yesterday. She was a nice, clean, and working, respectable woman, and, what is very vexing about her death is, that a nasty filthy town drain that runs under their house has been the cause of it. I tell Fewson he should inform Lord Morpeth of it. Such deaths are really awful, and of very common occurrence. Fewson is my superintendent of drainage in the Phœnixpark. He writes me that he fears, his father will fall a sacrifice also to the same disease." "I find that within a space of 30 yards square there are 10 houses, wherein there have been 18 cases of fever, one of which, Mrs. Fewson, has died; and several others have had a very narrow escape. One medical gentleman, Mr. Boulton, a magistrate, who has attended 10 out of the 18 of the above named fever cases, is of the same opinion as myself, that those fever cases are brought on by the bad state of the drain, which is alongside of the 30 yards square; in fact, Fewson's house, I believe, is partly built upon it. The
 399 "I made inquiries of one of the most practical men in Beverley, who is well acquainted with the drainage of the neighbour hood, and is now professionally employed in the Barmston drainage, which runs from near Beverley to the sea, and he, while quite admitting how open the locality to which your Lordships' attention has been called is to complaint, yet assures me that there are many worse instances in the town, and that nothing but a general deepening of the drainage can effectually remedy the evil under which the town, in this respect, labours. This can only he accomplished through some such measure as your Lordship's Health of Towns Bill; and until that has been passed, and it is rendered compulsory on local authorities to deal with these evils, I feel assured your Lordship will not attain any satisfactory result by interference in an individual case like that which has been pointed out to you at Beverley." "Average annual deaths in Suffolk (from a calculation of seven years), 1 in 51; in Ipswich more than 1 in 42. If we assume the population during this period to have been 25,600, and the rate of mortality to have been the same as Beverley and Yarmouth, the number would have been 512 instead of 603, showing a loss of 728 lives in eight years. "Infantine mortality is considered one of the most important tests that can be applied to prove the sanitary condition of a town. In Whit by, 26 per cent; in Lancaster, 29; York, 31; Ipswich, 39 per cent die under 5 years of age. In Ipswich there are 103 streets and lanes, 15 of which are without any drainage, 19 with surface drains on one side only, extending only partly through them, and 42 streets and lanes not paved.…Where there is no drainage, dampness is a general complaint. Paper rots on the wall, water rises in the cellar, and things get mouldy in the cupboard. There are several cases where 10 or 12 houses have privies in common. The purity of the water which comes to the town has
 400 l. s. l. s. l. s., l.; l.; l.; "He was sorry to say that streets and suburbs were rising with the same disadvantages. Streets were built without sewers, the ground not even leveled, and the soil in the centre saturated with filth." "He and other members of the committee were appalled by the scenes they had witnessed. He had never conceived that a locality existed in so miserable a condition as Sand gate. There was not a privy in its whole length or breadth." "The annual value of the property was 25,000 l. l. "The statements of Mr. Currie and Mr. Gallen were not overcharged. The misery of Sandgate could not be conceived; it must be seen to be realised. In one single room in that locality he had seen thirteen cases of fever." "They were too well aware of the unusual prevalence of fever in Newcastle for some time past. During the whole of the time while the gaol was surrounded by fever, there had been even less disease than usual within its walls. To what was this to be attributed? Simply to the adoption within the prison of those sanitary regulations which it was their object to extend to the whole community." "In the assurance tables of this country, the mortality in Carlisle within the last twenty years
 401 "We wish we could find language sufficiently strong to impress upon the council the absolute necessity for immediate action. The case is desperate, and supine ness would be criminal. After the first few days' experience in our recent inspection, we were able, with an awful precision, not only to detect the unhealthy parts of the town, but the portions of streets, and the particular houses in streets and in courts, especially liable to febrile and other diseases. In hundreds of these we were able at once to describe to the sufferers all the symptoms of the disorders with which they were afflicted. The result of that inspection is a conviction which nothing can ever remove or weaken, that besides all the instances in which persons ultimately recover from long sickness and consequent distress, 1,000 at least are destroyed every year in this town by diseases which would have no existence under complete sanitary arrangements. To realise in the aggregate this unnecessary amount of mortality, and to appreciate the concomitant evils of domestic bereavement and pecuniary embarrassment, struggling poverty, and helpless pauperism following in its train, must appeall the mind of every member of the council, and lead to the most strenuous efforts in the application of remedial measures." "That the water supply, cleansing, and paving, are at present in the hands of three distinct bodies, under the authority of as many distinct Acts of Parliament. The sewerage, though much has been done during the last few years, is illegitimate. All these must be harmoniously worked together as parts of the same system; and we are firmly convinced that this can only be done by placing them and all other sanitary arrangements under the control of one public body. We believe that in Leeds, and several other large towns, the sectional boards, tenacious of life, oppose this transfer of their present limited powers; but common sense dictates that in Sheffield and all other incorporated towns, the municipal council is the only body to whom these important powers should be intrusted." 402 "The cesspools here are generally full, and the accumulation of refuse so great, that the house adjoining is seldom occupied, and scarcely tenantable. It is a remarkable fact, that scarcely any of the children born in this yard who were attempted to be brought up came to maturity, for out of the four houses which it contains (one generally empty) no less than thirty children have died within the last forty years." "Sixteen cases of fever and one of death have occurred in the adjoining houses within a few months; and four cases of fever and two deaths in houses whose windows are directly opposite to the point where drainage from this lane escapes into Edward-street. It is worthy of remark that no such cases have occurred in places further removed from this vicinity; the inference in this instance is irresistible." They add— "We would suggest the adoption of the following measures; namely, better constructed dwellings, both as regards light and ventilation, and a liberal supply of water; the substitution of water-closets for the present open privies, and as many as possible of them in relation to the number of houses; also more spacious and commodious yards, well paved and drained, with public washing-houses and baths in populous districts; and, above all, places for proper and rational recreation." 403
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : In reply to the first question of my hon. Friend, I have to state, that I am not aware that any British subjects have been affected by that decree; and it would be a matter for consideration to determine whether, supposing British subjects had been affected by the decree, that fact would give the British Government any right to interfere in regard to an internal law passed by the Government of that canton. It is true that representations have been made by Her Majesty's Charged' Affaires in Switzerland, unofficially, because his Government did not consider that they were entitled to make any authoritative representation. I am not, however, in a condition to state that those representations have been attended with the effect that could be wished.
 The HON. W. COWPER  thought the noble Lord had done the supporters of the Bill an injustice in ascribing their conduct to the influence of money. It was supported by them upon broad principles of civil and religious freedom. The present
 476 477 478 479 480 481
 LORD D. STUART  called the attention of the House to a statement made by the hon. Member for Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate), that Baron Lionel de Rothschild had paid money for the purpose of obtaining signatures to petitions for the removal of the Jewish disabilities. He gave the most positive denial to the statement, which he had no doubt the hon. Gentleman had made, believing it to be well founded; but the hon. Gentleman belonged to a school whose prejudices rendered them peculiarly liable to be misled. Though the signatures to petitions presented before the recess against the Bill amounted to 13,000, while those in favour of it amounted to 6,000 or 7,000, the signatures presented to petitions in favour of the Bill were estimated at 232,000 since the recess, while those against were only 35,000. The right hon. Gentleman (Sir R. Peel) had said with great truth that the Jews in Poland were oppressed. The Bill should receive his support, because it afforded the best means of dispelling error and diffusing truth.
 MR. COCKBURN  said: I trust, Sir, that I shall have the indulgence of the House, and that I may obtain for a short time a hearing, whilst I endeavour to explain the grounds upon which I am prepared to give my support to the measure now under consideration. It appears to me to be utterly impossible to deny, as a general proposition, the principle upon which this measure is submitted for our adoption. That every subject of this realm who is bound by the obligations incidental to that character—who owes and bears due allegiance to the Sovereign—who contributes to the burdens of the State—and who is bound in case of national danger to risk life and limb in the defence of the country—ought to be held to be entitled to participate in all the civil and political rights incidental to the condition of a subject, independently of his religious opinions, whatever they may be,
 500 501 502 503 "All these things I do plainly and sincerely promise and swear in the meaning and sense of the words, without any equivocation, mental reservation, or qualification whatsoever. And I make this oath not by compulsion, but voluntarily, and this I swear upon the true faith of a Christian." 504 505 Non olet: 506 507 508 509 510 511 512 513
 MR. C. BULLER  assured his hon. Friend that not only had the subject engaged his own attention, but it was one to which the attention of all the Commissioners had been frequently and most painfully directed. He was endeavouring to obtain the fullest possible information connected with it, as he had reason to know from the communica-
 460
 MR. NEWDEGATE  had been accused of stating what was not the fact. He had received two petitions to this House in favour of the Bill. They were brought to him by the agent of the committee for supporting Mr. Rothschild's return. They were directed to him (Mr. Newdegate) at Mr. Rothschild's committee-room, and were brought to his own. The circumstance appeared singular. It prompted him to inquire whether any organisation existed for procuring signatures. His former statement was substantially correct, though it might not be so in the terms reported. His statement was, that persons were employed to procure signatures in favour of the Bill for the removal of the Jewish disabilities on the part of Baron Lionel de Rothschild and his committee; and that the first contract was for 1 s. d. s. s. s.
 MR. C. PEARSON  could not pretend that he was altogether uninitiated in the practices of a deliberative assembly; but as it was some years since he appeared as a debater, and as he was labouring under the fashionable complaint, he hoped for a larger share than usual of the indulgence which the House invariably awarded to new Members. He lamented, in common with other hon. Members, that religious topics had been introduced into the debate—topics but little adapted to the heated atmosphere of a political assembly. He had hoped, that from the mild and moderate manner in which the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government had brought forward the question, it would have been discussed solely upon the broad principle of civil liberty. But many of those who had addressed the House, had,
 461 462 463 464 465 466 l. 467 v. 468 commune concilium, 469 470 471 472 473 "The wind quite a hurricane blew, But could not provoke Him to part with his cloak, Which around him the closer he drew." "'Tis thus that we find The great mass of mankind By mildness are easily won. Persecution compare To the boisterous air; Religion's the light of the sun."
 MR. HORSMAN  said, no one who had heard, either on this or on previous occasions, the speeches of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, would think it necessary that he should disclaim the charge of bigotry. Much as the House must be struck by the ability which characterised the hon. Gentleman's speeches, he must say they were still more characterised by that candour, moderation, and justice which added weight to everything that fell from him in the House. For himself he regretted deeply to find that he differed from many hon. Gentlemen whose sincerity and zeal he admired, and in whose general objects he cordially sympathised. But his comfort was that they differed only in the mode and the means of acting—there was no difference between them in their great ends. He agreed with them in repudiating the doctrine that religion had nothing to do with politics. It had been said by a high authority—already alluded to by a noble Lord on the other side—that religion had no more to do with making laws than with making shoes. From his heart he repudiated such a sentiment, which was equally opposed to all our notions of human accountability and of common sense. The one was a mere mechanical occupation, carrying with it no moral consequences, and so might be altogether disconnected from any moral code; but the functions of a legislator were of a different character; his acts affected not merely the social but the moral condition of society; he discharged a solemn trust under a solemn responsibility; and he could not conceive how any man could disconnect religion from public affairs without proclaiming its worthlessness in private life. He was glad to see that this was the view of the subject which was generally taken by the House; and notwithstanding one or two remarks to the contrary which fell from his hon. Friend who had just sat down, he was sure that he and the hon. Gentleman who had so ably begun the debate, must take comfort at seeing that the importance of religion had not been at all denied in its course, but on the contrary, the House had indicated a profound conviction that religion should be the centre of a man's public as well as of his private character; and whatever might be the differences of opinion with regard to the relations of Church and State amongst them, it must
 487 488 489 onus 490 491 492 493
 MR. BANKES  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down was disposed to attribute to those who agreed with him (Mr. Bankes) on this question a monopoly of the feeling of bigots and barbarians; and he was certainly a good deal surprised at the line of argument by which his hon. and learned Friend sought to establish his proposition. The hon. and learned Member had thought it necessary to occupy much of the time and attention of the House with that portion of his historic lore which could not by any possibility have any bearing upon the points at issue. But when he had taken so much pains to show that, up to a comparatively late period of our history, there was no legal provision to bar the Jew from entering the House of Legislature, it was a wonder that he did not also remember that, up to that late period, the Jews were non-naturalised subjects, and could not on that account have sat in that House. A considerable portion of the hon. and learned Gentleman's legal argument was, therefore, entirely beside the question. The hon. and learned Gentleman had asked where were the dangers of this measure? But before he proceeded to discuss those points, which had been touched far too
 514 515 "With respect to strictly ecclesiastical affairs, to matters which do not relate to religion, I admit there is an inconvenience in admitting any person, Christian or not, to have a share in the government of a Church of which he is not a member; and I take this opportunity of declaring my opinion upon this point to be, that the purely ecclesiastical concerns of the Church, as distinguished from secular, ought to be entrusted to the care of some persons, whether called commissioners or by any other name, expressly appointed for the purpose, and who should be members of the Church?" 516 517 "It will hare appeared from all I have said that I do not take the same view of the character and effects of this measure as Archdeacon Wilberforce." "I don't go the length of Archdeacon Wilberforce; but I perceive the difficulty, and though reluctant to meet it in such a mode as he suggests, yet I refer to his petition as illustrating a statement lately spread, and which may spread yet more widely. For myself, I cannot hesitate to say, from the general course of events and the changes now produced in the constitution of the Legislature, that a very great increase of delicacy applies to the Established Church." 518
 MR. LABOUCHERE  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to make further provision for the carriage of passengers by sea to North America. The House was aware of the dreadful abuses which prevailed last year in consequence of the crowded state of the vessels which conveyed the emigrants from Ireland to our North American colonies. There was a prospect of a large emigration taking place this year also from Ireland, and the Government wished the House to legislate against the recurrence of the evils complained of during the past year. Out of 106,000 emigrants, who during the last twelve months crossed the Atlantic for Canada and New Brunswick, 6,100 perished on the voyage, 4,100 on their arrival, 5,200 in the hospitals, and 1,900 in the towns to which they repaired. The total mortality was no less than 17 per cent upon the aggregate number emigrating, the number of emigrants being 106,000, and the number of deaths 17,300. The Bill proposed to establish a certain proportion between the tonnage and the number of passengers carried, so as to ensure sufficient space for their accommodation. It also provided that a sufficient quantity of diet should be secured on board the emigrant vessels. What had happened was this—that a number of people in a state of destitution were thrown into vessels, and were not sufficiently provided for during the voyage. It was desirable that the Bill should be passed as
 541
 MR. SEYMER  did not quite understand the hon. Member who had opened the debate that evening, when he talked of "the religious section of the House." He was more liberal than that hon. Member, for he believed that there were several religious sections in that House, according to their respective modes of worship. As a Member of that House, he was anxious to disclaim the imputation of bigotry and persecution, which was declared to attach to all who voted as he intended to vote on that occasion. There
 482 483 un fait accompli; 484 élite 485 486
 MR. SPOONER  approached the discussion of the question with a full appreciation of the difficulties by which it was surrounded, and with a deep feeling of his
 494 his his 495 Laughter. 496 497 498 499
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  inquired of the Secretary of the Admiralty if it was intended to make provision in the Estimates for completing the retired list of paymasters and pursers to the numbers recommended in the report of the Committee of Flag Officers in 1842; and also, if the Board of Admiralty had taken into consideration the several memorials of the commanders and lieutenants with regard to a retired list, and of the masters with respect to the rank they hold in the service?
 MR. WARD  said, that no provision had been made in the Navy Estimates for completing the retired list of paymasters and pursers; and that, whenever the discussion should come on, he should be prepared to show that those parties had already received a full equivalent for what they had given up. With regard to the memorials of the commanders and lieutenants, he could only say, that the Board of Admiralty did not feel themselves justified in making any further retired list of masters and commanders, and lieutenants.
 SIR R. PEEL : * * 519 520 onus onus 521 "For the Jews, I see no plea of justice whatever; they are voluntary strangers here, and have no claim to become citizens but by conforming to our moral law, which is the Gospel." "I would give the Jews the honorary citizenship which was so often given by the Romans, namely, the private rights  of citizens, juscommercii et jus connubii jus suffragii et jus honorum. jus commercii jus connubii onus post nati "It seemeth admirable unto me to consider with what a measured hand, and with how true proportions, our law doth impart and confer the several degrees of the benefits of naturalisation. The first degree is an alien enemy. The second is an alien friend. The third is a denizen. To this person the law giveth an ability and capacity abridged, not in matter but in time. The fourth and last degree is a natural-born subject—'he is complete and entire.' Other laws do admit more curious distinctions of this privilege, for the Romans had besides  jus civitatis 522 jus suffragii. jus petitionis jus honorum. l. l. l. 523 524 here the right hon. Baronet placed his hand upon a New Testament 525 526 de quibusdam rebus Ecclesiam Anglicanam concernentibus. 527 528 529 530 531 "By our laws they may be protected from any open violence or direct assault; but whilst the people are so highly and so generally exasperated against them as they everywhere appear to be at present, they will be exposed to daily insults and vexations which no law can provide against or punish, especially in this country, where no man, not even the King himself, is vested with absolute power, and where every magistrate is obliged to confine himself within the letter of the law. Therefore, whilst the people continue in their present humour, it will be impossible for any Jew, rich or poor, to live here with the same ease and security which he did before that law was passed." "I am convinced that the ill-humour of the people would before now have broken out, if it had not been for the hope that, as soon as Parliament met, the law would be repealed; and if they were to see two or three dozens of their countrymen hanged every session for mobbing or murdering the Jews, I believe it would not contribute towards restoring them to good humour, especially as many of them would find, at least imagine, that the Jews interfered with them in their trade or business." "When we recollect their massacre along the Rhine in 1096, and in England in the time of Richard I., and read of their repeated destructions in Germany; in 1221 at Erfurt; in 1263 at Fulda, when on an accusation of their killing Christian boys for their blood, the Emperor ordered an inquiry whether Christian blood was a necessary part of their Passover, to which the official answer was, that nothing certain was known on the subject. In 1240 at Frankfort, 'with fire and sword;' in 1282 at Mentz and other places; in 1298 at Nuremburgh and through all Franconia; that they were also exterminated from Bavaria; that in 1348, 1349, and 1350, they were killed 'like cattle,' and mercilessly burned in great numbers at Basle, Friburg, Spires, Wurms, Frankfort, Mentz, Alsace, Cologne, and in every part of Germany; when we recall to mind that these are only specimens of what they endured in other places, and were for several centuries in
 532 "Curvæ in terris animæ ac cœlestium inanes"— 533 534 535 536
 MR. W. MILES  wished to ask the President of the Poor Law Commission a question relating to vagrancy. Had the right hon. Gentleman turned his attention to the point; and if so, did he intend to propose any legislative enactment on the subject?
 VISCOUNT DRUMLANRIG  opposed this Bill, because by it we were called upon, for the first time, to unchristianise this assembly—to declare that the name of Christ, which had been up to this time their guide and test, should be no longer
 474 Morning Chronicle, 475
 The EARL of LINCOLN  said, assuming as he supposed he might, from the tone this discussion had taken, that on some future day the Motion would be made of which the hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford had given notice, namely, for the appointment of a Committee to examine into the whole of this subject—the charges which had been made,
 571 572 l 573 l l l l l l l l.; l l l l l l l l l l.; l 574 l l l l l l 575 l l l 576
 MR. A. B. HOPE  was of opinion that the House in which the British Commons assembled ought to be of a character a little more ornamental than the present erection, which had been aptly compared to a railway station. If the New Houses had been completed for 700,000 l
 Mr. HENRY DRUMMOND  was anxious to see some one man really responsible for such a large outlay. He was not content to see the responsibility bandied about, now with the Treasury, anon with the Woods and Forests, and by the by with a Committee of that House. Let the full responsibility rest with one man, and, in place of being, as now, a shadow, it would be real.
 The EARL of LINCOLN  said: Sir, if it had not been for the impossibility, upon the last occasion when this question was under consideration, of my entering upon that branch of this subject which I am most anxious to have clearly understood, I would not have troubled the House upon the present occasion. When this Bill was before the House previous to Christmas, as well as when it was proposed to go into Committee on Wednesday last, I took no part in the discussion which then arose. On those two occasions the discussion was almost entirely confined to the question of the waste lands in the colony of New Zealand, and the rights of the natives to these lands as affected by the Treaty of Waitangi, and subsequent despatches of the noble Lord Her Majesty's Secretary for the Colonies. How far this Bill was called for—how far it is necessary—are points upon which the Bill has undergone no discussion. I am not underrating the discussion which took place upon the two former occasions—I consider that discussion to have been very important, forming, as it does, a necessary part of the subject; though I cannot but regret that the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Labouchere) was unable to give a more satisfactory explanation with reference to the despatches of the noble Lord the Colonial Secretary. At the same time looking at the feelings expressed by the right hon. Gentleman who stands here as the representative of the Government in respect to this Bill—looking at the despatches of Governor Grey bearing on these points—looking at these despatches of the Governor, and taking into consideration the fact that the noble Lord the Colonial Secretary has not reprobated the opinions avowed by Governor Grey—I think the House should be satisfied with the explanations offered by the right hon. Gentleman. I will therefore leave this part of the question as it stands, and proceed to that portion of the Bill which affects the popular constitution of New Zealand. The right hon. Gentleman a few days ago expressed his extreme surprise that there should exist any desire for a debate on the Bill. When the Bill was first introduced—so said the right hon. Gentleman—there was such an unanimity of opinion on both sides of the House as to render discussion alto-
 582 583 "Parliament will bestow upon Her Majesty's subjects in New Zealand, without distinction of race, some such form of government as the chartered constitution which, from the time of Queen Elizabeth down to the year 1829, the supreme authority of this country conferred upon every body of its subjects, not being convicts, who emigrated to plant a colony." "In praying your hon. House to devise some means of bestowing representative government on New Zealand, your petitioners wish to express their opinion that, on account of the ignorance, both of the inferior order of the natives, and of the poorer immigrants who fly from pauperism in this country, it is desirable that the local constitution of the colony should be far from democratic, the grand point being that colonists, of whatever class, and not strangers—that is, persons having interests in common with the permanent inhabitants, and not persons coming from a distance merely to enjoy place and salary—should have a real voice in the management of the colony." 584 585 prestige 586 "We are the more impressed with the expediency of some such arrangement, because we are convinced that it is essential to secure in each settlement the services of the leading colonists as officers of its corporation, since those officers are to choose the members for the representative chamber of their provincial assembly. The colonists who are the most fit for this important trust might be unwilling to exercise it, if with its exercise were coupled the necessity of acting as common councilman or alderman of a borough, confined in its powers like those of England and Wales." "If the officers of the corporation are to perform duties such as those of an alderman or common councilman of an English town or borough, we object strongly to their having a voice in choosing members for the provincial house of representatives, because, as we before stated, the best colonists will not have consented to perform the ungenial duties in order to secure the vote. But if the 'municipal corporation' possess the 'township' powers which we have above recommended, its offices would confer sufficient dignity and importance to induce the best colonists to accept them; and they, being the  élite 587 "We are of opinion that, at any rate in the existing settlements, and for the present, it would be very dangerous to extend the franchise too much by making the qualification for a voter too low, trusting to a higher qualification for the person to be elected. This arrangement allows mischievous and intriguing individuals, who have no difficulty in providing themselves with the higher qualification, to obtain the suffrages of a low and comparatively ignorant class of voters through bribery or other corrupting means." "A. remarkable instance of this occurred at the election which took place at Wellington in October, 1842, for the officers of a corporation which possessed very limited powers. Every male adult, who chose to pay 1 l l 588 "It is also of importance to observe there is great difficulty in restricting a franchise once established and exercised, while there is comparatively none in extending it; so that a fault on the side of fixing too high a qualification will be easily remedied, but one in the opposite direction will be almost irretrievable." sine qua non 589 590 591 "I am not at present aware of any circumstance which need, then, prevent the immediate introduction of representative institutions into that colony, which would comprise the settlements in Cook's Straits and in the Middle Island. All questions of a vexatious nature between the Government and the settlers in that part of the colony have now been finally set at rest; and, with a considerable acquaintance with British settlements, I can have no hesitation in recording it as my opinion that there never was a body of settlers to whom the power of local self-government could be more wisely and judiciously entrusted than the inhabitants of the settlements to which I am alluding." 592 "With the insight which former despatches have given you into the views of Her Majesty's Government, and with your own knowledge of the requirements of the community under your charge, you will be able to carry into effect these general directions, so far as their execution depends upon yourself. For instance, if when you receive this despatch you should have already constituted the provincial assembly of New Munster, the powers of that body will be inevitably arrested for the present by the operation of the Suspending Act. In that case you may consider it advisable that the legislative council should exercise the powers conferred upon it, by keeping on foot the already constituted provincial assembly, and conferring on it those powers of legislation which would belong, according to the plan explained above, to the provincial legislative council. If, no the other hand, the provincial assembly of New
 593 "And whereas by the said first-mentioned instructions the said Governor-in-Chief was directed to divide certain parts of the said islands into municipal districts, and to constitute within such districts municipal corporations, consisting of a mayor, court of aldermen, and common council, and of burgesses possessing the qualification prescribed by the said first-mentioned instructions in that behalf; and whereas it is expedient that the said qualifications should be subject to regulation as hereinafter mentioned; be it therefore enacted, that it shall and may be lawful for the said Governor-in-Chief, from time to time, by and with the advice and consent of the said legislative coun-
 594 "That franchise is vested by the charter in every male person occupying a tenement within a borough. It is now proposed to confine it to tenements of such value as the legislative council may fix as qualifying to vote. The franchise is also by the charter made subject to the following restrictions: That it is not to be enjoyed ' by any person not able to read and write in the English language.'" "I have, upon the whole, thought it best to advise not that this charter should be altered by removing this restriction, but that you should have a discretionary power to dispense with it. You will therefore be empowered to grant to such persons as you may consider to deserve that privilege, certificates that, although they may not be able to read and to write the English language, they are good and faithful subjects of Her Majesty, possessing the intelligence necessary for qualifying them to take a part in the administration of local affairs; and the possession of such a certificate will entitle the occupier of a tenement of adequate value, though he may not be able to fulfil the condition of reading and writing the English language, to be placed on the register of the borough, and to exercise his franchise." 595 596
 MR. V. SMITH  did not rise to vindicate the constitution which had been proposed for New Zealand, but he must call the attention of the House to the course which Parliament had itself pursued on a former occasion with regard to it. In the year 1846 Parliament passed a Bill giving to the Secretary of State for the Colonies the most ample power to promulgate a constitution for New Zealand, without any check whatever. In accordance with that power the Secretary of State for the Colonies did prepare the constitution which had since been sent out; but though it was printed, and laid upon the table of the House during the whole of the Session of 1847, neither the noble Lord the Member for Falkirk (the Earl of Lincoln) nor the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) made the slightest objection to it, or discovered one of those defects against which they now remonstrated. The objection which he should make to the Bill was, that it did neither one thing nor the other—that it did not give absolute power to the Governor, but deprived him of powers the loss of which was calculated to cramp and confine his action. He would recommend the Government entirely to withdraw the 5th Clause of the Bill. The 4th Clause, which they were discussing, gave a discretionary power to the Governor; but the 5th Clause gave him
 610
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  said, that a question of this kind, as to whether they should repeal or suspend the constitution, was one of very great importance, and it was most desirable that with relation to such a subject we should come before the natives of New Zealand with clean hands. But this country had already acted falsely towards them. It commenced with the assumption that the whole country belonged to them, save what had been purchased from them, and eventually it turned round and said that the whole islands, unless what the New Zealanders absolutely cultivated, belonged to England. It appeared to him to be as great a piece of oppression as ever was practised even by the most arbitary Government.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  considered the absence of the noble Lord at the head of the Government a great misfortune, because he believed that if he were present and had listened to the arguments that had been urged by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, as well as by other hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the House, he would have seen the propriety of repealing the constitution, instead of allowing it to stand over for a term of five years. It was impossible to read the despatches of Governor Grey without seeing that he deprecated, as distinctly as any hon. Members in that House, the extended constitution at
 619
 Mr. SCOTT  hoped, for the general sake of the House and the country, that the Treaty of Waitangi should be respected and maintained in the spirit in which it was conceived, namely, that the forests and estates of all the chiefs and tribes should be guaranteed to them collectively and individually. He would not have alluded to this subject, were it not that a person holding high official position had given expression to doctrines completely at variance with the provisions of that treaty, and were it not that their promulgation had given rise to much anxiety in the colony. The doctrines to which he alluded were contained in Earl Grey's despatch of the 30th
 623
 LORD DUDLEY STUART : Sir, I wish very much that my hon. Friend (Mr. Urquhart) had not moved the adjournment of the House. I really would wish that the question relating to this Motion should be thoroughly gone into. I wish, Sir, that the Government, when this Motion came on the other night, had not resorted to the expedient of counting out the House, notwithstanding they have taken that course. But I do think that the object of my hon. and learned Friend
 625 626 627
 LORD J. RUSSELL : On Friday evening the hon. Member for Cockermouth gave notice of his intention to ask me this evening whether the Government would undertake to inform the person who may be appointed to the vacant see of Canterbury that he must accept it subject to any alteration which Parliament might make relative to the mode of fixing the income of the see. The hon. Member stated that a similar course had been followed in the case of the Bishop of Durham; and he might have referred to other instances in which a notice of that kind was given. I am of opinion that the present mode of fixing the income is not satisfactory; and I think that Parliament may make a better arrangement with respect both to the payment by the Commissioners to the Archbishops and Bishops, and to the payment of those right rev. Prelates back to the Commissioners; and, therefore, I think it perfectly right that any person who may be appointed Archbishop of Canterbury
 543 l
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the point raised by the right hon. Gentleman related to the warnings the Government had received; and the question was whether, after those warnings, they would pursue a course exactly the reverse to that which had previously been followed. In a manner the most remarkable the Government of the metropolis sent out a constitution to a colony; and he believed that constitution had never been put into practice. According to the account of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) a Government in this country was hastily formed, and it found a considerable demand for liberal institutions, and constitutional institutions in a very distant colony. Without much consideration, and in avowed haste, a constitution was drawn out; it was sent to that distant colony, but it had never, he believed—happily for this country and happily for the colony—been put into practice, through the prudence of an extremely judicious Governor. The Government at home recognised immediately, upon his representations, the extreme absurdity for which they were responsible; and what remedy had been proposed by the Government after the warning they had received? Why, the remedy was this: it was to pursue a course exactly the reverse of that which Governor Grey recommended, and to throw the entire responsibility upon the local government, and not upon the Government at home. Everybody in that House recognised the great ability of Governor Grey; but that was an additional reason why they should assist him in every possible manner by sharing the responsibility with him, and not laying the consequences of every step upon his shoulders. No doubt, in a colony circumstanced as New Zealand was, it would be of the greatest importance to Governor Grey, in gradually introducing and watching the development of constitutional institutions, that whilst he himself personally sought to concede much to the wants and wishes of the inhabitants, he should still have the power, upon many important points, of being able to acknowlege a limited authority, and to refer to the supreme authority of the metropolis. Of all this, however, he was deprived. Astonished at the absurdity they had committed—preci-
 606 début 607 608 609
 MR. SPEAKER : The question of adjournment is a separate question. The hon. Member is at liberty to speak upon both.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : With regard to the offer, I can only say this, that if the hon. and learned Member will put off his Motion till to-morrow fortnight I will do all I can for him, and the Government will take as much care as they can to keep a House for him. If he will now give way, he will
 631
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER obtained the annual vote for outstanding Exchequer-bills.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : If the hon. and learned Gentleman will take the advice which my noble Friend (Lord Dudley Stuart) gives him, the Government will do their best to keep a House for the hon. Gentleman on any Notice day on which he likes to bring forward his Motion. For my part, I admit that I was not in the House the other night. I came down after having gone to get a mouthful to eat, and I found that the House had been counted out. I was not cognisant of any attempt to count put the House. I believe the hon. and learned Gentleman will take the regular course, if he now allows the House to go into the question of Supply, and brings his Motion forward on a Motion night. He will do this, if he is desirous to further that which is matter of public interest. I only ask it for the public convenience.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  moved, that the House should go into Committee of Supply. This was merely a formal Motion in order to enable his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell), on Friday, to make his financial statement. Next week there would be another Supply night, when the Motion of the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. C. Anstey) would come before the House.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth had indulged in a good deal of wit at the expense of the provision of the measure which regulated the qualification for the franchise, and gave discretion to the Governor in giving certificates to persons of good character, although they could neither read nor write the English language; and the right hon. Baronet seemed to think that that would be placing the Governor in an exceedingly invidious position; but if the right hon. Baronet would again refer to the papers, he would see that this power of granting or refusing the certificate was given to the Governor at this own request, with a view to the advantage of the colony. In page 49, it would be seen by reference to the despatch of Earl Grey, that this discretionary power of the Governor as to the certificates was intended as an advantage, and calculated to extend the privileges of the franchise, for after alluding to the condition that none but those who could read and write English should enjoy that advantage, the despatch to Governor Grey goes on to say—
 "I have upon the whole, thought it best to advise, not that this charter should be altered by removing this restriction, but that you should have
 620
 MR. URQUHART : I believe, Sir, that when a question of Supply is to be discussed, it is the usage of this House to entertain one of grievances. If this is an hour not too late for Supply to be gone into, it is perhaps not too late also for grievances to be gone into; and if it is too late for grievances to be gone into, it may be also too late for Supply to be gone into. I will put it to the House whether
 624
 MR. URQUHART : Sir, after the explanation of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, I beg to withdraw my Motion.
 MR. BANKES  said, the House of Commons was responsible to the people in this matter; but the Commissioners were responsible to the House. He was surprised that the only remedy proposed by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth was the appointment of a Select Committee. He could look with no hope to such a remedy. He cordially thanked the hon. Member for Middlesex who had brought the matter forward in the House of Common; and he trusted that in the House of Commons he would keep it. When he heard so much respecting the responsibility of the House of Commons, he would remind hon. Gentlemen that the present was a New House of Commons, and the responsibility for the outlay already incurred did not attach to the House as at present constituted. The House by which the estimates were sanctioned was chosen under different circumstances. It was elected in a time of prosperity, when the
 579 580
 MR. GEORGE THOMPSON  felt anxious that the discussion should not close until the House had been brought back to the point from whence it started. His hon. Friend (Mr. Hume), in the observations he had made, had attacked neither the genius nor the integrity of the distinguished individual to whom the erection of the stately pile adjoining had been entrusted. His hon. Friend and himself viewed the present as a question of economy, concerning which the country had a right to know what was doing; and the House had a right to receive a distinct assurance from the Government that no other expenditure than
 577 l l 578
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he hoped no party feeling would be indulged on this occasion, but that hon. Members on both sides would do their best to promote the welfare of this colony. It seemed to be assumed that the constitution was the work of the House of Commons; but the constitution was not contained in any Bill. The history of the constitution, he believed, was the following. A Bill was brought in, at the very end of the Session, under pressure from all sides of the House, to give a free constitution to New Zealand, and it was left to the Colonial Department to carry out what was understood to be the wish of all parties. During the recess, the then Secretary of the Colonies did devote his attention to the subject, and produced the constitution in the shape in which it had been sent out. He waited upon the Secretary for the Colonies with a deputation, and they pointed out to him the objections which they entertained to the constitution. He thought at the time that it would not work; but he was not sure that it would not have been better to have allowed it to remain as it was, with all its defects and imperfections, than to interfere with it now to the great disappointment of the settlers. It was not improbable, that in the southern part of the island all the machinery had been prepared for carrying the constitution into effect; and even if it had not come into actual operation, still it would be a grievous disappointment and vexation to all parties in New Zealand to have lost a constitution which they thought was just within their reach, and which the colonists believed would have afforded them the means of setting themselves free from arbitrary power. The settlers had all gone from this country within the last seven or eight years; and they had gone out in
 612
 MR. LABOUCHERE  confessed that he was unconvinced of the practicability of the course suggested by the right hon. Gentleman. He begged the right hon. Gentleman to recollect the circumstances under which the colony was placed at this moment, and the state of things which might exist when the Bill arrived. Governor Grey might already have promulgated the new constitution in the southern division. Supposing that he should have carried those provisions into effect, and that they were working to the perfect satisfaction of all parties concerned, how inexpedient would it be to send out a Bill from this country to overturn all that had been erected, and to substitute something else to the dissatisfaction of the inhabitants? It was much better, therefore, under all circumstances, to throw the whole responsibility upon Governor Grey, than for the Government in this country to undertake themselves to lay down institutions which after all might be temporary. All agreed they were not prepared to legislate upon that ground; but as they were now dealing with merely temporary institutions, it was much more wise to allow them to be moulded by one who was upon the spot, who was enabled to judge of the circumstances, and who knew the feelings of the inhabitants to whom they were to be applied. On these grounds he thought the course suggested by the right hon. Gentleman inexpedient. Nor did he think there were any real grounds for the alarm which the right hon. Gentleman had expressed if the constitution was suspended for five years rather than repealed altogether. Undoubtedly upon the arrival of the constitution in New Zealand there was considerable alarm as to its effects on the native inhabitants; but by the efforts of Governor Grey that irritation had greatly subsided, and he doubted not that when they saw these temporary institutions es-
 605
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the subject which his right hon. Friend who had just sat down had brought under their consideration properly belonged to the 5th Clause. As the matter had been brought forward, however, he might state that though the present Bill was doubtless framed upon the principle of giving a large discretion to the Governor, assisted by his Council, yet at the same time the subject to which his right
 611
 MR. LABOUCHERE : I can assure the noble Lord that if I do not follow him at any length into the topics to which he has alluded in the address which he has just delivered to the House, it is from no
 597 "In my last I told you that I had had an interview with Governor Grey on the subject of the instructions lately sent out here by Earl Grey in reference to the waste lands of the natives; and that his Excellency had told me that he considered those instructions as referring only to such lands as have no claimants, and not in any way touching the Treaty of Waitangi." 598 this 599 600 "I think it right to mention that, even in the south of the island, I did not contemplate immediately so extensive a change in the constitution of the colony. I thought a Council, over which the Governor presided, composed of official and non-official members, the last elected by the inhabitants, would in the present circumstances of New Zealand have been the form of government best suited to the wants of the people." 601
 MR. LABOUCHERE  moved the Order of the Day for the House to resolve itself into Committee upon the New Zealand Government Bill.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  observed, that there would be very few who would not be able to read and write the English language, and who would be debarred from the franchise. Those to whom the question of certificates would apply were partly foreigners—chiefly Frenchmen, settled in some of these districts, very few in number—and partly aborigines. He thought that by giving his power to the Governor, the certificates would be given to every body of character. As to the more important question whether they ought to suspend the constitution, or at once to abrogate it, he still continued of opinion that it was more desirable they should suspend it. In the case of Newfoundland, where a very popular constitution had been given, and it was thought advisable afterwards to modify the constitution, the course which was taken was not to repeal the constitution, but to suspend it, and to enact a temporary constitution. In Canada, although Parliament determined to alter the constitution, yet in the first instance it was suspended. He thought the natives would have confidence in the Government of this country that they would do them justice after they had seen that the constitution had been withdrawn and suspended for the purpose of conciliating their feelings. It was scarcely to be expected that the House would refuse its assent to a Bill of this nature, having for its object the real good of the colony, and particularly when it was recollected how much the rights of the New Zealanders had been respected by this country. If the constitution were for a time suspended, the House might depend upon it that the Government would in the meantime adopt every measure necessary for securing the freedom and the prosperity of all Her Majesty's subjects in New Zealand.
 MR. SEYMER  brought up the report of the Select Committee appointed to inquire into the petition of F. H. Goldsmid and others, against the return of the hon. Arthur Lennox, commonly called Lord Arthur Lennox, and Octavius Edward Coope, Esq., for the borough of Great Yarmouth. The hon. Member said, he had to inform the House that the Committee had determined that Lord Arthur Lennox and Octavius Edward Coope, Esq., were not duly elected to sit in Parliament
 542
 MR. SEYMER  moved that the report be printed; and that the issue of a new writ for the borough of Great Yarmouth be suspended till the House had taken into consideration the recommendations contained in the report of the Committee.
 MR. HUME  entirely concurred in the last sentiment expressed by the hon. Baronet who had just resumed his seat. The plan proposed by the noble Lord at the head of the Woods and Forests department, instead of promoting economy, would be productive of considerable additional expense. Mr. Barry, circumstanced as he was, had no doubt an excellent opportunity for displaying his taste; but he ought to do so at his own expense, rather than at that of the country. The House had a right to have expected a more favourable state of things at that hour of the day than was afforded by the present condition of the New Palace. He was glad to see the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) in his place,
 561 l l l 562 l l l l 563 564
 MR. OSBORNE  said, that under ordinary circumstances he should have hesitated before venturing to move an Amendment on an Order of the Day; but he thought that the subject which he was about to bring under the attention of the House fully justified him in deviating from the usual course. After the ingenuous but extraordinary statement made on a former evening by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and the noble Lord at the head of the Woods and Forests—to the effect that they would not make themselves responsible for the expenditure of the architect—the House would betray its duty as guardian of the public purse if it refrained from coming to a distinct understanding on the subject with the Government. The course taken with respect to the new Houses furnished a remarkable illustration of the aphorism, "what is everybody's business is nobody's business." When he made some inquiries the other evening with the view of ascertaining what the Government were doing in the matter, the First Lord of the Treasury said in so many words that he was doing nothing; and the noble Lord at the head of the Woods and Forests declared that he was assisting his Colleague. The replies which he then received reminded him of the Joe Miller dialogue—"What are you doing, Jack?" "Nothing, Sir." "And what are you about, Tom?" "Helping of Jack, Sir." He thought, if the House took that very peculiar answer into consideration, they would be anxious to make inquiry into the subject. He was not about to make any attack upon or bring any charge against Mr. Barry. He was free to confess that he believed, from all the accounts he could hear of that gentleman, that he was a man of as strict honour and propriety as any Member of that House. Neither did he think that Mr. Barry was
 544 l 545 l l l s d l s d 546 "From the prices at which contracts have been taken for the works already in progress, there can be no doubt with care and attention that a considerable saving will take place on the original estimate that was sanctioned by the first Committee of both Houses." l s d l l l.; l l "That the practical effect of the differences between those gentlemen was a delay in the building of the House of Lords for nine months, and generally delayed the construction of the whole building. This occasioned great inconvenience and expense, especially as regarded the hiring of Committee-rooms." l 547 "That for nearly a twelvemonth he had no communication with Mr. Barry, except of a nature that was more likely to be productive of disagreement than to facilitate the progress of the work." l.; l s d.; "That such a residence may be provided for at an additional expense of not more than 2,600 l.; l l l.; l l 548 "If the buildings of the Houses of Parliament are meant for the fine arts, Mr. Barry may be correct in his observation; but I consider the Houses of Parliament built for no such object; that the fine arts ought to be called in to embellish, but that no necessary architectural arrangement should be sacrificed for their display These plans ought to have been settled years ago. It is nine years since we made our report; from that hour till lately I have never seen the plan." "Have the Woods and Forests ever called upon you for any plans?—Never. Can you tell what the estimate is likely to be for the whole building, when completed?—I am unable to guess even at what the ultimate cost of the building will be." 549 "That it appears from the evidence of C. Barry, Esq., that during the progress of the building of the Houses of Parliament certain departures have taken place from the original plans, approved by Committees of both Houses of Parliament, and ordered to be executed under direction of the Boards of Treasury and of Works, which alterations have been made by Mr. Barry without any authority from either of those boards; to which circumstance they think it right to call the particular attention of this House." "How long do you think it will take to complete the building?" and the answer given was, "I imagine about six years for the entire completion. It will be possible, however, to complete the houses and the committee-rooms long before that period, perhaps about two years after the foundations have been laid." 550 551 l l "I think Mr. Barry has no claim beyond 25,000 l "I make no doubt that the proposed amount, although far short of the customary remuneration which has hitherto been paid to architects for extensive public works, is considered by the Board to be liberal, and therefore, with this impression, I have no wish to do otherwise than bow to its decision."
 MR. M. MILNES  said, that as a Member of the Committee to which reference had been made, he might be excused for offering one or two words to the House. He deeply regretted that the works of art exhibited in the House of Lords had not produced that effect on the public mind which had been anticipated; he was greatly annoyed at finding how little those works were appreciated; and he derived no consolation from finding the cause in a fundamental error, which was traceable to the Commission itself. The great master of
 570
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  thought it was impossible that the hon. Member who had just sat down had devoted sufficient attention to the subject, or he would see that his idea as to the treatment which
 621 622
 MR. ANSTEY : Before I speak on the question of adjournment, Sir, I wish to know from you whether that will constitute an objection to my being heard by and by upon my Motion, because at present I wish to speak merely in reply to the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 MR. ANSTEY : Mr. Speaker, I believe that at present I have the opportunity, if I choose to use it, of giving notice for this day fortnight, or for Tuesday week. [Mr. SPEAKER informed the hon. Member that he had not, but must abide the ballot at four o'clock.] Then, Sir, I am in a difficulty. I know that every day is occupied until Tuesday week, and I may find, when I come down at four o'clock in the afternoon, for instance, that some hon. Member has given notice—that the hon. Member for Montrose has given notice for this day fortnight on that very Motion which stood for to-morrow, and which, to oblige Her Majesty's Ministers, he has withdrawn—I mean the case of the Rajah of Sattara. In that case I shall be again excluded. Nevertheless, as my first wish is not to press unduly upon the convenience of hon. Members, I will consent to incur even that risk; and I will trust to the promise of the right hon. Baronet. I trust that faith will be kept with me, not only to the letter, but in the spirit, and that no hon. Gentleman will give notice of a Motion for the mere purpose of obstructing or shutting me out. I rely upon the promise of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer with perfect and implicit confidence.
 MR. ANSTEY : Sir, in answer to the appeal which has been made to me by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, I have to say that, at an early period of the evening, I gave Her Majesty's Ministers an ample opportunity to afford me some security, that I should have all that I desired, a fair
 629 630
 MR. GLADSTONE  quite sympathised with the anxiety expressed by the right hon. Gentleman opposite that they should proceed with the Bill in Committee, and therefore he did not mean to trouble the House with any amendment upon the clause; but he wished to point out some things which appeared to him extremely defective in the framing of the Bill. In the first place, the Bill was defective with regard to the suspension of the constitution rather than its repeal. The right hon. Gentleman defended that arrangement, upon the ground that, having held out to the people of New Zealand the brilliant prospect of free institutions, they ought not to do anything that would tend to raise a doubt of the intention to carry that prospect into effect at the earliest possible moment. He could not say that he thought the passing of the Bill of 1846 had done much towards the carrying out of free institutions in the colony of New
 602 603 604
 MR. EWART  said, he was afraid the debate would be read with great dissatisfaction by the country. With his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, he, ten years ago, divided against the site chosen for the New Houses. He was then of opinion that the site was objectionable, and that the style of architecture was objectionable on account of its enormous expense. The remedy now pointed out was the appointment of a Select Committee. To that proposition he was decidedly opposed. Committees had been appointed—Committees had sat—and Committees had invariably added to the expense. It often happened that the Government was seized with a cold fit of economy; but Committees were more frequently visited by those warm excesses which had been alluded to by the right hon. Baronet. If a Committee should be appointed, he hoped it would have the desired result of cutting short the enormous expenditure.
 MR. W. S. O'BRIEN : Sir, I beg to second the Motion of the hon. Gentleman, and I will state to the House the grounds upon which I do so. I confess that I think a great injustice has been done to the hon. and learned Member who brought forward this Motion by the Government. They did not keep a House, whereas they might have done so if they had chosen. I have been in this House long enough to know the means that were taken to count it out on the former occasion. For my part, I have formed no opinion upon the subject of the charge against the noble Lord; at the same time, I am here as a juryman to listen to a charge. That charge, Sir, is the gravest that can possibly be made against a Minister of the Crown. If that charge can be substantiated, I say that the noble Lord is put upon his defence upon grounds that are worthy to be considered by this House; and I really was surprised to find that the Government should resort to a Parliamentary trick for the purpose of getting rid of a charge involving the character of the noble Lord. Under these circumstances, Sir, I beg to second the Motion of the hon. Member for Stafford.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  was not disposed
 558 l l l l 559 l.; 560
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  wished to know what right we had to sovereignty in the part of New Zealand included in the Treaty of Waitangi, if that treaty were not held sacred? Supremacy was obtained by first discovery, or by treaty: if they wished to rely on the former, why did they make a treaty? If they relied on the latter, what became of the claim on the ground of first discovery? He regarded such a treaty just as binding as the Treaty of Utrecht; and he should always continue to hold the rights of the brown man in New Zealand in as sacred a light as the rights of the white man in other parts of the world.
 SIR R. PEEL : The right hon. President of the Board of Trade earnestly recommended the House not to waste time in discussion, but at once to resolve itself into a Committee on the Bill; but it appears to me that the adoption of the right hon. Gentleman's advice has had the effect of involving us in some inconvenience; because those Members who were anxious to offer general observations upon the question, could better have done so in the House, than upon a particular clause in Committee. I wish myself to offer a few observations upon the general question raised by the introduction of this Bill. I must confess that the perusal of the papers which have been presented to the House, has left a painful impression on my mind as to the position of affairs in New Zealand. It appears that the native inhabitants of this colony have attained to a high point of intelligence; and that they possess warlike habits, courage, and military skill, which render it most advisable that scrupulous good faith should be observed with respect to all engagements entered into with them. I heard with the utmost satisfaction from the right hon. Gentleman,
 613 "I should also observe, that the position I understand to be adopted by the New Zealand Company's agent, that if tracts of land are not in actual occupation and cultivation by the natives, we have, therefore, aright to take possession of them, appears to me to require one important limitation. The natives do not support themselves solely by cultivation; but from fern-root, from fishing, from eel ponds, from taking ducks, from hunting wild pigs—for which they require extensive runs—and by such like pursuits. To deprive them of their wild lands, and to limit them to lands for the purpose of cultivation, is, in fact, to cut off from them some of their most important means of subsistence; and they cannot be readily and abruptly forced into becoming a solely agricultural people." "Such an attempt would be unjust; and it must, for the present, fail, because the natives would not submit to it; indeed they could not do so, for they are not yet, to a sufficient extent, provided even with the most simple agricultural implements; nor have they been instructed in the use of them. To attempt to force suddenly such a system upon them will plunge the country again into distress and war." 614 615 616 617 —"these settlers are said to be in general intelligent, as well as industrious and orderly, although they may not be able to read and write the English language; and, as a general rule, you will naturally grant certificates to all of this class who apply for them, unless for special reasons which appear to your mind sufficient to justify their being withheld." 618
 SIR R. PEEL : When the subject was last under the consideration of the House, I offered a humble suggestion, that the House should appoint a Committee to inquire into all the circumstances; for I felt that the investigations of such a Committee would, either as regarded the original estimate of the construction of the Houses of Parliament, or as regarded the deviations, throw light upon the whole matter much more effectually than anything which could be said in the course of a debate. I was anxious that a Committee should be appointed to inquire as to the original estimate, and all the works which it covered, that we might see to what extent the original estimate had been exceeded, and ascertain whether there were any other items besides the expense of embanking the Thames not included in it—what was the excess of expenditure—and what were the causes that had led to that excess. I am of the same opinion still. I still think it is very much to be desired that a Select Committee should be appointed for the purposes I state; for I am well aware that matters of detail, such as are involved in the present question, are disposed of much more satisfactorily by such deliberations than they can be by a debate. The hon. Member for Middlesex has a more accurate recollection than I have of what took place in a Committee, of which I was merely a private Member, not having been in office at the time. With respect, however, to, the remuneration of the architect, I remember distinctly that when that question was under discussion, I entirely concurred with those who said that it was better that Mr. Barry should have a stated sum as the total amount of his remuneration, than that, following what I believe is the gen-
 565 l l beau ideal l l 566 l.; 567 568 569
 Mr. HUTT  said, that the relation in which he stood to settlers and other inhabitants of New Zealand, was such as to render him disinclined to allow this discussion to close without making some observations upon the subject before the Committee. It was no light matter to suspend the constitution of New Zealand; but he hoped that the Government did not intend the suspension to continue for so long a period. Five years in the history of a colony was a period of greater length and importance than those who were unaccustomed to such subjects were apt to imagine. The intelligence of this suspension would be received by the colonists in New Zealand with suspicion and regret; and he did not think that this Bill would be held any consolation by them. He did trust that the Government would seriously consider, after the passing of the present Bill, the necessity of giving the British people of these islands a constitution such as they had a right to expect.
 MR. O'GORMAN MAHON : With a desire for fair play, I think I may express a hope that my hon. and learned Friend will withdraw his Motion for this evening. With reference to the allusions made to the counting out, I must remind the House that it had been expressly told him by the hon. Member for Montrose that if he did upon that occasion, when both sides of this House had assembled upon the question which presented itself for discussion before this House, not only interesting to this House, but to the community at large—to England, Ireland, and Scotland, and in which all our feelings were wrapped and wound up—the hon. and learned Member was solicited by both sides to withdraw his Motion with an express promise that if he did so, he would get a full and fair hearing, and he refused to do so. Having refused to listen to the advice expressed and conveyed to him by hon. Members on both sides of the House, I, for one, who would have heard him with patience, with
 628
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  must preface the few observations he had to offer to the House by stating that he really thought his hon. Friend had entirely mis-stated the answers given the other night from the Treasury benches, by the noble Lord at the head of the Treasury and himself. In the first place, he thought he might safely appeal to the House whether there was anything like a sneer in the answer which he gave. The answer given by his noble Friend could not be taken as indicating that the Commissioners of Woods and Forests or the Treasury would exercise no control over the expenditure that was annually incurred in the construction of the two Houses of Parliament; but when he was asked if he would guarantee that the sum to be spent upon the entire works when finished should not amount to more than 1,400,000 l 552 553 l l l l l l 554 555 556 557 l
 ADMIRAL DUNDAS  stated that the  Avenger
 MR. H. FITZROY  seconded the Motion. He hoped that one of the results of the labours of the proposed Committee would be the adoption of a measure for ensuring an examination of masters and mates before they were intrusted with the command of vessels. It appeared from evidence taken by the Committee on the Navigation Laws last Session, that the captains of our ships employed in long voyages were as capable of discharging their duties as the captains of American vessels, or of the vessels of any other people; while the captains of our vessels employed in short voyages and in our coasting trade were men of very inferior qualifications.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  did not think it necessary to go into any details at the present stage of the Bill. But he wished to express his concurrence with many of the sentiments expressed by his hon. Friend the Member for Limerick who had just sat down. He differed from the right hon. Gentleman who had introduced the mea-sure with regard to the distinction drawn between the larger and the smaller holdings, as to the prospective and retrospective rights. He thought it an untenable
 699 700
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  was quite sure that the circumstance which the noble Lord had mentioned, of Lord Minto having been directed to go to the Court of Naples, proceeded from no want of confidence in those who, in the ordinary course of things, it might have been supposed would have been the parties to be charged with the mission. He felt confident that the language in which the noble Lord had expressed himself would prove to France, and to those Gentlemen in the French Chambers who had commented upon the conduct of the noble Lord on various occasions, that the principles of the English Government were those of constitutional liberty, and that their object was to develop, as far as they could, without an injudicious interference, the principles of constitutional liberty in every country. Those Gentlemen who paid attention to the French debates would, he was sure, feel a proud gratification at the tone of the noble Lord, and the language held in that House, as compared, he was sorry to say, with some of the speeches delivered upon the other side of the channel.
 MR. FEARGUS O'CONNOR  thought some parts of the measure would give great satisfaction; but he regretted to find that the Government was not prepared to go to the root of the evil. In his opinion the hon. Member for Rochdale had been rather unfairly treated by the hon. Member for Kerry. His hon. Friend (Mr. S. Crawford) had been charged with the faults of others. The hon. Member for Kerry, in objecting to the transfer of land from the owner to the occupier, had illustrated his argument by asking what would be the feelings of the country if the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed to transfer the property of a private individual to the coffers of the Exchequer? Why, the Chancellor of the Exchequer was constantly doing that very thing. It was one of the right hon. Baronet's greatest privileges, and one which he used most extensively. The hon. Member for Kerry had drawn a deplorable picture of the state of the Ardfert commoners—he had described them as browsing like goats; but the hon. Gentleman did not tell the House what quantity of land was occupied by each of those commoners—whether it was sufficient to support them. The hon. Gentleman had given the strongest proof of the value of land in Ireland, by quoting the prices at which the tenant-right had been sold. What he complained of was, that the Bill did not go to the root of the evil. The Irish landlords naturally opposed the measure. But they must bear in mind the fact that free trade had been commenced, and free trade must be carried out. He had always told the people that when one channel was closed against the industrious artisan, another channel must be opened—and the only channel open to them was the land. The subject excited great attention in Ireland, but not more so than it did in England. In Ireland the agitation was for small farms—for tenant-right. In England the same cry would very shortly be raised. He congratulated the right hon. Gentleman on parts of the measure. The registration of votes, the taking away the power of distress in certain cases, the regulation of the law of ejectment, the giving an equitable as well as a legal jurisdiction
 695 l. l. l. l. 696 697
 Mr. H. A. HERBERT  wished to make a few remarks on what had just fallen from the hon. Gentleman the Member for Rochdale. He was anxious to express, as soon as possible, his opinion on the subject, representing as he did a very large county (Kerry) in the south of Ireland, where there had been some agitation on the subject. The hon. Member for Rochdale had proclaimed that this was a question which was very little understood; and he concurred
 686 687 "He saw parties get a good deal of money for the sale who should be liable to an action for depredation." 688 689
 MR. LABOUCHERE  did not rise for the purpose of offering any objection to the Motion. On the contrary, he thought that the greatest benefit would result from the labours of the Committee. He quite agreed with his hon. Friend that the subject was one very well worth the attention of the House. His hon. Friend was probably aware that there already existed a power given to the Board of Trade by Act of Parliament of inquiring into the circumstances of the shipwrecks of steam vessels, and collisions between steam vessels, or between steam vessels and sailing vessels. But at present the Government had no power of instituting an inquiry into the wrecks or collisions of any other than steam vessels. He could undertake to say that great advantage had hitherto resulted from the exercise of the power of inquiring into the circumstances attending the wrecks of steam vessels. The other day the Board of Trade had received a very valuable and elaborate report from the officer appointed to inquire into the case of the loss of the  Tribune 671 672 673
 DR. BOWRING  rose to move for copies or extracts of correspondence on the subject of the Commercial League of Italy, He could not refrain, in doing so, from taking a passin; glance at the state of political affairs in that country. It had been the unhappy destiny of Italy in modern times, notwithstanding all her former grandeur, her learning, her high position in the scale of nations, and the universality of her
 660 "Conquering or conquered, still to be a slave." divide et impera; 661 —"the right which belongs to the sovereign power in every State to make such reforms and internal improvements as may be judged by such sovereign power proper to be made, and conducive to the wellbeing of the people whom it governs." "That right it appears that some of the Sovereigns of Italy are now willing and prepared to exercise, and Her Majesty's Government would hope that the Government of Austria may think fit to employ that great political influence which Austria legitimately possesses in Italy with a view to encourage and support those Sovereigns in such laudable undertakings." "Her Majesty's Government have been convinced, by the information which has reached them from a great variety of quarters, that deep, widely-spread, and well-founded discontent exists in a large portion of Italy; and when it is considered how full of defects and how teeming with
 662 crying evils "This observation does not indeed apply with full force to the Roman States, because the present Pope has shown a desire to adopt many of those much-needed reforms and improvements which in 1832 Austria, in conjunction with Great Britain, France, Russia, and Prussia, urgently advised the late Pope to carry into execution; and it may be hoped that if the Pope be encouraged and assisted by Austria and the other four Powers, in removing the grievances of which his subjects have long complained, the discontent which those grievances have created will soon die away." "But there are other States in Italy, and more especially the kingdom of Naples, where reforms and improvements are required almost as much as in the Roman territory; and Her Majesty's Government would hope, that as no European Power is more interested than Austria in preserving the internal tranquillity of Italy, so will the great and well-known influence of Austria in Naples be beneficially exercised in encouraging those reforms and improvements which will tend to remove the discontent from which alone would spring any dangers by which that tranquillity is likely to be threatened." 663 664 665
 MR. HUME , in submitting the Motion of which he had given notice, said, it would not be necessary for him to urge its importance with a view to gain the attention of hon. Gentlemen to the subject. Three Committees of the House of Commons had already sat on the question of shipwrecks; one in 1836, another in 1841, and the third in 1842. The inquiry embraced a variety of topics, and the evidence was of a highly valuable character. The Committees recommended many important matters to the attention of the House; but the chief point on which they all concurred was, that whereas many cases of shipwreck had arisen from carelessness, ignorance, and a variety of other causes of that nature, they recommended that an inquiry should be instituted in all cases of shipwreck, with a view to collect information both for the Government and the public. The Committees had recommended that masters and mates of ships should be
 669 l. l. "The arrangement of a plan for the institution of courts of inquiry to examine into the circumstances of every shipwreck that occurs, as far as may be practicable, with power to pronounce a verdict of censure on the owners or commanders of all those vessels where the result of the inquiry should establish the fact of such wreck being occasioned by any fault or deficiency on the part of either, as well as to acquit honourably the owners or commanders of those ships against whom no fault could be proved, and to make the evidence and verdict in each case public in every port in the kingdom; with further power to suspend, for a given time, the licenses or certificates of such officers and seamen as should be proved guilty of gross incompetency or gross neglect of duty; and to reward, either by reimbursement of
 670 "A Select Committee to consider whether, in all cases of Shipwreck, and of Collisions of Merchant Vessels, attended with loss of life, an inquiry, as speedily after the accident, and as near as possible to the place, should be appointed, to examine into the attendant circumstances and causes of the Shipwreck, and to report to the House in what manner the inquiry should be conducted."
 MR. HUME  begged to ask Viscount Palmerston whether the engagements entered into by the Protocol of May, 1847, with the Governments of France and Spain, had been fulfilled, and whether we were free from them?
 MR. WILLIAM FAGAN  said, that on so complicated a question as the relations of landlord and tenant, it was not surprising that a great variety of opinions were entertained. The great question in Ireland was how the land was to be cultivated; how its resources could be more fully developed; how the land which was said to be capable of sustaining 17,000,000 inhabitants, but which at present did not sustain a population of only some 7,000,000 or 8,000,000, could be brought to that degree of fertility. He maintained that this could only be effected by encouraging improvement in the cultivation of the land; and therefore he felt himself compelled to agree in the opinion that had been expressed by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Rochdale, that mere occupation alone was not sufficient to constitute the title of tenant-right. He concurred in the opinion expressed by the hon. Gentleman, that the people of Ireland, not merely the people of Ulster, had been looking forward with much anxiety for this measure, and expected an effective Bill from Her Majesty's Government, in consequence of the professions that were put forward at the commencement of the Session. He agreed with the hon. Gentleman also in saying that this measure would be received in Ireland with disappointment and dismay. He was one of those who, upon the accession to power of Her Majesty's present advisers, resolved to give them a fair trial. In consequence of the crisis of last year, and the difficulties of their position, he had not thought it fair to expect that their measures would be immediately developed; but he confessed he had looked forward with anxiety, though at the same time with confidence, to find at the commencement of this new Parliament some measures of a decisive character brought forward to tranquillise the people of Ireland. He regretted to say that the measure now before the House would not have that effect. He remembered that the Bill which was introduced by the noble Lord the Member for Falkirk (the Earl of Lincoln), sneered at though it was, contained many provisions far superior to the measure now proposed by Her Majesty's Govern-
 690 691 l 692
 Mr. W. SMITH O'BRIEN  could not support the measure in its present shape; but he had no hesitation in saying, that if he were offered as an alternative the adoption of the measure, or the letting things remain as they were, he should vote for the Bill. A system of casual or uncertain tenure in Prussia had been converted into a holding in perpetuity, with the greatest benefit to all parties. He considered that it was not just, as between man and man, that when the incoming tenant handed over money to the outgoing tenant for his interest and improvements on the land, and that with the full cognisance and by consent of the landlord, that that incoming tenant should be liable to be ejected by the landlord on the very next day after his entry into possession, without being entitled to receive any compensation. It was his conviction that the Bill would utterly fail, it being merely a measure calculated to undermine the present tenant-right system of Ulster. Another point upon which he could not concur with his right hon. Friend was the principle on which he founded his limitations regarding the compensation to be allowed to the tenant. He did not think the principle a fair one which held that the possession of a farm for a certain number of years ought to be considered as an equivalent to the receipt of compensation for the improvements effected upon it. He did not think it signified whether a man's capital had been laid out twenty years ago, or only yesterday, if the landlord's estate had re-
 698
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  was most anxious to promote the success of any measure which would conciliate the different interests involved; but he feared that the Bill of the right hon. Baronet would spread great dismay amongst the tenantry of Ulster. Their tenant-right would be totally overthrown. The nature of that custom had been frequently described by writers, as well as in a petition which was presented to the House last year from the county of Londonderry. For two hundred years they had enjoyed the tenant-right, and had made great improvements in their holdings, in the confident expectation that it would not be disturbed; but the system of things proposed to be established under the new Bill was very different indeed from what the men of Ulster understood by tenant-right. What the people of Ulster claimed was, that if a landlord served a tenant with notice of ejectment, the tenant should be able to go before a legal tribunal, and, proving the value of the property created by his labour, claim to be compensated according to whatever might be the increase of value proved to have resulted from his labour. They further claimed compensation in damages when improperly dispossessed. Great improvements had been made in Ulster on the faith of that
 681 l.; l. l. l.; s. l. l l. l. 682 l. s. l. s. l. l. 683 684 685
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said: Sir, in rising to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Law of Landlord and Tenant in Ireland, I believe I shall best consult the convenience of the House if I proceed at once to state the nature of this measure, the principles upon which it is founded, and the machinery upon which it is intended to give effect to those principles. It would be easy for me at the commencement of my observations to dilate on the extreme difficulty and delicacy and the complicated nature of the subject which I have undertaken to bring under the attention of the House. But, Sir, it is the very complicated nature of the question which leads me to think that the best plan which I can now follow will be simply to state the nature of the measure to the House, because I feel that until we have the power of comparing its details and sifting its provisions, it will be difficult to form a correct opinion of its merits. The Bill which, with the permission of the House, I shall this night lay on the table, embraces two points. First of all, it will provide compensation for the improvements made by the tenants during their holding, if they are dispossessed previous to the expiration of a certain period; and secondly, it will, I hope, effect several not unimportant changes in the relations between landlord and tenant. The Bill proposes to encourage the outlay of capital by the tenant, by providing compensation for him should he be dispossessed of his holding within a period that would not afford him the full benefit of his outlay; and it endeavours to carry out this object without any disturbance of existing interests, and with as little interference with the rights of property as possible. I will not at this period of my statement urge on the attention of the House the necessity of conceding this principle. I believe, by the majority of this House, and by the majority of the public out of doors, that principle has already been conceded. Indeed it is no new principle, for I have met with publications relating to the state and condition of Ireland—of considerable antiquity, more than a century old—in which the principle is broadly laid down, that inasmuch as in Ireland it is not the
 674 675 676 l. l. l. l. 677 in ter-rorem 678 679 680
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  observed, that when in the last Session, this subject was before the House, he expressed his sorrow that great difficulty should be thrown in the way of its final and satisfactory settlement. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland had brought forward the Bill in a very praiseworthy and conciliatory spirit; no man could have more zealously and correctly explained the object of the Bill; and the provisions gave the best proof of careful cogitation; but he was very sorry that he could not agree with them. He would be the last man to say anything against the measure if he thought it an adequate one; but he was bound to state his conviction that, with respect to the north of Ireland—the province of Ulster—the measure, so far as he understood it, would not come up to the expectations of the people. The hon. Member for Rochdale had exhibited a great deal of kind and cordial feeling towards the people of Ireland; but he (Lord Castlereagh) was very much afraid that this kind and good feeling had been quite thrown away. The proposition of the hon. Gentleman was much too kindhearted to be practical. The hon. Gentleman had taken up the question and introduced his remedy, year after year, and every year he had found it more important and more difficult. He could not join in the views of the hon. Gentleman. The Government measure, in his opinion, was of too complicated a character—it was more complicated than the measure formerly introduced by the noble Lord the Member for Falkirk (Lord Lincoln). It was more complicated than many other measures which had been submitted to the House. The Government measure had also the fault of being entirely prospective. There was not one word in the Bill as to improvements already effected. He would merely allude to the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Kerry to show the difficulty of legislating for Ireland. If the House gave the tenant-right in Kerry, the hon. Gentle-
 693 "Do you think the obtainment of tenant-right would be dangerous to the peace of the country?" The answer was—"I am sure it could not safely be granted; you would have a Tipperary in Down." 694
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : My hon. Friend has no doubt called the attention of the House to some of the most remarkable and interesting events which have occurred in our times. It is impossible for any man to witness the progress which constitutional opinions and institutions are now making in Italy without feelings of the deepest and liveliest interest. Sir, Italy is not only at all times one of the most interesting countries from its peculiar position, but one may say, that its history has been the most remarkable of any country on the face of the earth; for it has gone through every change of political condition—from being the mistress of the known world to being reduced to a state almost of political extinction. I trust that a brighter day is now dawning upon that country, favoured as it is by nature in many respects—the birthplace of some of the greatest geniuses that have ever lived, though unhappily Italy has been for a long time unlucky in respect to its political condition. The confidence with which we may look to the future prospects of Italy is founded on the gifts which nature has bestowed upon the people who inhabit that land, for in the political vicissitudes to which the country has been subject, the natural vigour of the mind of the Italian people, the extent of their intellectual resources, and I
 666 667 668
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : My hon. Friend will recollect that the first two parts related to an amnesty for political offences, and the last two to the elections. Those elections have taken place, and the Cortes are now assembled. Therefore undoubtedly the state of circumstances to which the Protocol related is past, and I have informed the Portuguese Government that there are no longer any grounds on which this country can interfere in the present state of Portugal.
 MR. LAW  said, in rising to propose that the Bill be committed that day six months, it was not his intention to trespass at any length on the attention of the House. The measure had already undergone in previous debates considerable inquiry and investigation. It was generally agreed that the Bill should be divided into two portions— namely, the proposed repeal of obsolete statutes, and the penalties still to be enforced; and the reconsideration of the great measure of Roman Catholic Emancipation which was passed in 1829. He could not but regret that this Bill was presented to the House in such a shape as to catch the greatest number of votes for the purpose of going into Committee, without regard to the real merits of the Bill. Many hon. Members suggested, as a ground for further inquiry and for going into Committee, that there was something left on the Statute-book which pressed with great hardship on the Roman Catholics; whilst, on the other side, there were some who were bold enough to undertake the reopening of the question itself. He agreed with the hon. Member for Midhurst, that, virtually and in substance, all the penalties complained of were repealed by the several statutes to which that hon. Gentleman drew the attention of the House. Many were bold enough to combat the other arguments of the hon. Member for Midhurst; but there were none on the Ministerial benches, nor any of the legal profession, who attempted to deny that, virtually and in substance, all the penalties complained of, and which it was proposed to repeal, were not already repealed by an Act of the Legislature. He should be needlessly occupying the time of the House by going over the ground taken by the hon. and learned Member referred to; but there was one Act to which attention had been particularly drawn, and the passing of which in the present state of the law had been much debated—he alluded to the 1st of Elizabeth, or as much of that Act as regulated the penalties formerly enacted for impugning the supremacy of the Crown. That Act did not proceed, as was usual in the creation of a new offence, by saying, that whosoever did so and so would be liable to such and such penalties; but it assumed that those who impugned the supremacy of the Crown would
 702 prœmunire. 703
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  considered that the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Law), and his amendment to the present Bill, were made some twenty years too late. The principle of the constitution of that House once was the exclusion from its walls of all except members of the Church of England. He did what he could to prevent the alteration of that constitution. The Roman Catholic Gentlemen in that House and the Dissenters owed nothing to him, for he did everything in his power to exclude them. But it had seemed fitting to the wisdom of Parliament to alter that whole constitution; and the constitution now established went upon the principle that there should be no exclusion from any post or office for religious opinions. Without saying whether this were right or wrong, he must maintain that, unless those who thought as he thought twenty years ago would endeavour to per-
 704 705
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  questioned whether the hon. Member for West Surrey had read the Bill. Could that hon. Member find any one single, he would not say clause or provision, but line in the Bill, which made especial reference to place, office, or distinction of any kind whatever? And yet the hon. Member, with an authority which he did not deny was due to his talents, but which he denied was due to him in any other respect, pronounced, with that oracular tone and manner which so eminently distinguished him, that, whether it were wrung from their justice or their fears, neither the Roman Catholic nor the Dissenter ought to rest satisfied until he had obtained perfect religions equality with the Protestants of these realms. But this Bill did not seek in the slightest manner to confer any privilege upon the Dissenter—it merely sought to give more freedom to the Church of Rome in this country. He would sit down instantly to enable his hon. Friend to correct him if he were under a misapprehension; but he had given no sign of any such mistake on his part; and he (Sir R. H. Inglis) contended that, whether the speech of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge might or might not have been appropriately delivered against the Bill of 1829, it was a speech which also, and directly, applied to the Bill now before the House. The speech of his hon. Friend the Member for West Surrey had nothing whatever to do with the subject of the present discussion. That hon. Gentleman rose at a time when the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. Anstey) intended to address the House, as by the forms of the House he could not have answered the speech of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Midhurst on the day on which it was delivered. He knew that it was the inten-
 706 707 708 quasi 709 710 postulatum 711 viva voce Secreta Monita, 712 Exercitia Spiritualia "Denique ut ipsi eeclesiæ cunctæ Catholicæ omnino unanimes conformesque simus siquid quod oculis nostris apparet album nigrum illa esse deffinierit debemus quod nigrum sit pronunciare." 713 714 "Would to God that we were all united in one faith, and could devote all our time and all our energies to His service, and in His service to the benefit of His creatures our fellow-men, instead of taking part in endless disputations; and if we cannot be members of the same holy faith, would to God that we could concede full liberty to all, yielding in a generous spirit to the dictates of charity and justice, interpreting each other's feelings with brotherly love, seeking to put the best construction on each other's actions, and palliating each other's faults!"
 MR. ANSTEY  would not attempt to follow the hon. Baronet (Sir R. H. Inglis) in his observations with respect to the connexion between Church and State —first of all, because the object of this Bill was in nowise to destroy that connexion; and, secondly, because he thought the internal management of the Church of England, her doctrines or her discipline, were not the points under the consideration of the House. It was true that this measure did not profess to give Protestant Dissenters relief from such enactments as related equally to Roman Catholics and Dissenters; but in framing this Bill so as
 715 Ironical cheers. 716 717 Exercitia Spiritualia, 718 719 status 720 juris periti, ab initio. 721 In Cœna Domini, 722 prœmunire, prœmunire, 723 prœmunire. 724 725
 MR. NEWDEGATE  thought that every hon. Member who had listened to the enunciation of the objects contemplated by this Bill, could not fail to be impressed with the fact that the Bill was a measure which ought not to be entrusted to the hands of a private Member of that House, however able and however zealous he might be, and which ought to have been introduced by the Government, if introduced at all. He would pass over those which were, after all, disputed points among gentlemen of the legal profession—the hon. Member for York and the hon. Member for Midhurst taking different views of the matter: he alluded to the inoperative or operative character of the Acts which it was proposed to repeal. He would dismiss those points with the single remark, that if the Acts were inoperative, why should there exist, in certain quarters, such intense anxiety to repeal them? If, on the contrary, they were not inoperative, but declaratory of the common law, then should he like to know whether Her Majesty's Ministers were prepared to repeal them, with the avowed purpose of altering the common law? It would be absurd to pass the Bill then before the House, and not alter the common law. He wished particularly to draw the attention of the House to one thing. The hon. Gentleman the
 726 727 728 "It is well known that for some weeks past Lord Minto, who holds the office of Privy Seal, has been at Rome; but he is not there in any official capacity; he has no power and no instruction to negociate any convention whatever with the Court of Rome, to which court he is not in any way accredited. My hon. Friend will, therefore, see that the statement to which he alludes is entirely destitute of any foundation whatever. I need not say that so long as doubts can be entertained by any person as to the legality of diplomatic intercourse with the Court of Rome, Her Majesty's Government have too much respect for the law to do anything which could by possibility be considered as an infringement of it." "I believe it is known to those who have looked into the subject that the doubt arises chiefly upon the construction of the word 'communion,' the law being that the Crown is not allowed to hold any communion with the Court of Rome. A doubt exists whether that word 'communion,' should be strictly interpreted as applicable to religious communion, or whether it would apply to diplomatic intercourse. I am not called upon to go into that question of construction; in my own opinion it is pretty clear; but until Parliament shall settle that doubt, I can assure my hon. Friend and the House, that no step will be taken by Her Majesty's Government which can by possibility be impugned as contravening the law." 729 "On my way through Switzerland, although not then in possession of any credentials or instructions (which reached me afterwards), I was induced to make a circuit by Berne, where I might have an opportunity of communicating, though unofficially, with the President of the Diet; and Mr. Peel having obligingly made known to him my wish for an interview, I the next morning called upon M. Ochsenbein, by whom I was most cordially received. After referring to the great importance we attach to the independence and integrity of the Swiss Confederation, and the uneasiness with which we viewed the unhappy divisions now prevailing, and rapidly tending to a state of civil war and foreign intervention, I said I hoped it was not yet too late to find some means of accommodation. He professed his great desire to avoid all recourse to violence, so that the great objects for which they contended could be peaceably attained; and this, he assured me, should be his most earnest endeavour. But there were, he said, some points which admitted of no compromise; that the dissolution of the Sonderbund must be effected, even should force be required for that purpose; adding, however, that he believed that there was in several of the States of that unconstitutional league an indisposition to maintain it; and that it might probably fall to pieces, or be induced to dissolve itself. I asked
 730 "With reference to your Lordship's despatch of the 4th instant, reporting what passed between your Lordship and M. Ochsonbein on the affairs of Switzerland, I have to inform your Lordship that Her Majesty's Government entirely approve the judicious and discreet language held by you in your communication with that gentleman; and I have to instruct your Lordship, when at Rome, to endeavour to persuade the Roman Government to recall the Jesuits from Switzerland, or at least to take some decided step with regard to them which may be calculated to lay the ground for an avoidance of civil war in Switzerland. Your Lordship's own judgment—and the knowledge which, in your passage through Switzerland, you have acquired of the state of affairs in that country, and of the public feeling of the parties into which the Swiss nation is divided — will furnish you with better arguments on this subject than any which Her Majesty's Government can suggest; but, of course, your Lordship will not omit to press strongly upon the consideration of the Papal Government, that an ecclesiastical Power like that of Rome must above all things desire to prevent war, and to preserve peace among all mankind; and that in the present case the Pope has it in his power, by an exercise of his unquestionable authority, to remove at once a cause which threatens to involve a hitherto peaceful
 731 "I hare to acknowledge the receipt of your Lordship's despatch of the 22nd of October, approving of the language held by me to M. Ochsenbein in my passage through Switzerland, and directing me to urge the Papal Government to take steps for the removal of the Jesuits from that country. I have already had some conversation upon that subject with the Cardinal Secretary of State, whom I found not altogether averse, to a certain extent, to the interposition of the Papal authority, if by such means a conflict might be prevented in Switzerland. If the question rested entirely on the establishment of the Jesuits in Lucerne, I think that the assistance of the Pope might be obtained for their removal; but I have not been able to state that anything short of the expulsion of that society from every part of Switzerland would satisfy the demands of the Diet. This the Pope is not prepared to require, and he is unwilling to give gratuitous offence to the Catholic canton of Lucerne by a partial interference there, from which no benefit might accrue. His advice is all that he has yet given on that subject; and it has, I fear, been given to those who are unlikely to listen to anything short of a command. If it be not too late, and Switzerland be not already the scene of war, I shall continue to press for the interposition of the Pope's authority, at least with regard to Lucerne." 732 ad misericordiam "The question with respect to the admission of the Jesuits into the canton of Lucerne, as the authorised directors of the national education, came
 733 "The triumph of the Ultramontane party on this occasion is, with reason, generally considered as an important event for the Confederation, marking the steady growth of that powerful system of spiritual domination exercised by the Papal See, which but a few years ago the Swiss Radicals were treating with contempt, and thought to put down by abuse and violence. They have fallen into the same mistake with regard to the Roman population of Lucerne and the Valais, which the patrons of Strauss in Zurich made with respect to the Protestant population of that canton five years ago. They took no account of the religious feelings of the people; and the people in both cases resented the mistake by rising against them and driving them from power. That event was also accelerated by the issue of the late struggle in the Valais, which gave to the Ultramontane party there a decided preponderance, and with it proportionate encouragement to their associates in Lucerne to make the attempt which, according to present appearances, promises to be crowned with complete success. An act of the late Government of Lucerne furnished a convenient opportunity for taking the preliminary steps which led to the renewal of the negotiations with the Jesuits by the present rulers. Among other measures viewed as hostile to the interests of the Church, that Government had suppressed the Franciscan convent existing in the town of Lucerne. The present Government, strenuously as they have contended for the unconditional restoration of the Argovian convents to their original use, did not think it necessary to do so in respect to this convent in their own territory. They chose a middle course—they applied to Rome, representing the inconvenience and difficulty of re-establishing the Franciscan monks, and humbly proposed, if the Pope would sanction the suppression of their convent — now a deed
 734 735
 SIR GEORGE GREY : The present debate is so much in the nature of an adjourned debate on the second reading of the Bill, that, having troubled the House with a statement of my views upon it on the second reading two months ago, and having then explained how far I agreed in the principle of the Bill, I feel it to be quite unnecessary to detain the House on the present occasion with a repetition of what I then took the liberty of addressing to it. I will only say, that I think one of the arguments of the hon. Gentleman who has just addressed the House in opposition to the Bill, ought to be altogether disregarded. He says that the Bill ought not to pass, because Archbishop M'Hale has used violent and intemperate language, and has set up extravagant ecclesiastical pretensions; and that he is unwilling that the Protestants of England should be handed over to such parties, and that this is therefore not the time when additional privileges ought to be given to Roman Catholics. I say, if that argument is to be taken into account, let us take the letter of Lord Shrewsbury, and the letter of my noble Friend behind me (the Earl of Arundel and Surrey) into consideration on the other side. If the arguments to be drawn from Archbishop M'Hale's sentiments and speeches are to prevail in this House, I have an equal right to draw attention to the letters of Lord Shrewsbury, and of my noble Friend which almost every one has commended, as showing that this is a period when we may trust Roman Catholics with powers which they never before possessed. [ Cheers. 738 739 "I had a few days ago a good deal of conversation on Swiss affairs with M. Corboli Bussi, who, as Mr. Abercromby has already informed your Lordship, is here on a mission from Rome, and through whom I thought it might be useful that I should convey to the Pope our hope of his good offices towards the pacification of Switzerland, by the recall of the Jesuits from that country. I told him that the question of peace or war in the Confederation was probably in the hands of his Holiness, and that I therefore trusted he would not allow any light considerations to stand in the way of his intervention. That at Rome, as elsewhere, I was sure that it must be felt that this was not a moment in which any interruption of peace could be seen without uneasiness; and that civil war and foreign intervention in Switzerland, with all their consequences, might possibly extend their influence beyond the Alps." —"not to omit to press strongly upon the consideration of the Papal Government that an ecclesiastical power like that of Rome must above all things desire to prevent war, and to preserve peace among all mankind; and that in the present case the Pope has it in his power, by an exercise of his unquestionable authority, to remove at once a cause which threatens to involve a hitherto peaceful and happy nation in all the miseries and crimes of civil conflict. "I have already had some conversation upon that subject with the Cardinal Secretary of State, whom I found not altogether averse, to a certain extent, to the interposition of the Papal authority, if by such means a conflict might be prevented in Switzerland." 740 741
 COLONEL CONOLLY  should object to any disturbance of the arrangement which had been come to at the time of the passing of Catholic Emancipation, and which had then met the demands and views of the Roman Catholics themselves. He could not allow obsolete Acts of Parliament to be raked up into a grievance, for the purpose of removing securities that had been assented to by the Roman Catholics themselves at the time of Emancipation; and he also objected to the measure because it would tend to endanger the public peace, by disturbing the public mind at this moment. He should vote against the further progress of the Bill, not from animosity or antipathy towards his Roman Catholic fellow-subjects, but from a clear conviction of the necessity for preserving the safeguards of Protestant security.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I feel the force, upon general grounds, of those references which have been made to the aggressive and very active character of the Roman Catholic Church; but at the same time I feel still more the force of that sentiment which I think commends itself to our calm reflection, that if there be upon the Statute-book at this moment in legal, although not in practical existence, penal-
 742 743 744 745 primâ facie 746 747 748 "Any person, other than the person thereunto authorised by law, who shall assume the name, style, or title of archbishop of any province, bishop of any bishopric, or dean of any deanery in England or Ireland, shall, for every offence, forfeit 100 l. 749
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  said: Sir, I am anxious to state the grounds on which I feel myself compelled to give my decided opposition to this measure. With regard to the first part of the Bill, I think it has been generally admitted, by its advocates, that it is not so much upon the repeal of statutes that are admitted to be obsolete that they rest their case. I must be allowed to say that I do not think, if all those penalties are removed from our Roman Catholic fellow-subjects with regard to the Statutes we propose to repeal, that this in a Protestant country is any reason why the statutes themselves should be repealed. With regard to the second part of the question, whether or not we should retain the safeguards which accompanied the measure of 1829, I think it would be most unwise now to unsettle them. I agree with my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Midhurst (Mr. Walpole), that, unless some great and practical grievance can be shown for the re-opening of this great question, that the House will not sanction any such disturbance of the settlement of 1829. Sir, I have heard no practical grievance stated in the course of this debate. It is true that the hon. and
 750 751
 MR. SHEIL : Although I might reasonably contend that the old opponents of Catholic Emancipation (the hon. Baronet the Member for Oxford, for example, who with such bland intolerance resisted that great enactment as he has during his life resisted improvement in every form) are not entitled to insist upon any contract to which they were no parties; yet I will not only not deny, but, upon the contrary, I will most frankly and fully acknowledge, that inasmuch as concession to the Catholic was accompanied by security to the Protestant, both security to the one, and concession to the other, ought to remain undisturbed. I will argue the case upon that admission, and acknowledge that any clause in the Act of Emancipation which can be reason-ably regarded as affording the slightest safeguard to the Protestant religion, or to the Protestant Church, ought to remain inviolate. But, if there are other clauses in that Act which are galling to the Catholic, and are of no sort of use to the Protestant, those clauses ought to be submitted to the consideration of the Committee on this Bill, with a view to their modification, or to their repeal. Of this character are the clauses which make an initiation into the mysteries of Jesuitism, or of any other religious order, a transportable offence. The clauses to which I am referring ought not to be regarded as the bulwarks of the Protestant religion. Where there is no danger no
 752 753 754
 MR. HENLEY  thought the most important and most objectionable portion of the Bill was that which sanctioned the introduction of Roman Catholic religious orders into this country. He had heard a great deal of indignation expressed at the possibility of transporting a "Christian Brother;" but he denied that a "Christian Brother" was liable to be transported for simply exercising his calling in England. It was true that a penalty was imposed; and if any one refused to pay the penalty he was subject to banishment, and if he did not submit to banishment he was liable to be transported. That, however, was a very different thing from transporting him because he was a "Christian Brother;" he was transported because he would not obey the law of the land; and it seemed to him to be but part and parcel of the same Jesuitism to put any other interpretation upon the Act. He should support the Amendment of his hon. and learned Friend, because he believed that no real grievance had been shown, and that the passing of the Bill would only tend to what he believed to be a most dangerous thing— the introduction of the Jesuits into this country.
 The EARL of ARUNDEL AND SURREY  said, the hon. Member who had just sat down, and who was so well known in that House for his sagacity and ability upon most occasions, had made a misstatement in the present instance. The hon. Member stated that Christian Brothers and Jesuits were not subject to transportation if they registered their names in compliance with the Act of 1829. [Mr. HENLEY: Not if they obeyed the order of banishment.] He thought the hon. Gentleman was using a Jesuitical argument. He perfectly saw the distinction which his right hon. Friend the Member for Oxford drew between the Jesuits and other orders; but his principle was, that the members of every order had a right to remain in this country. We were told that it was to secure the Protestants of this country that we wished to keep out these orders, and we were told that these orders were dangerous to civil obedience. The right hon. Gentleman said he thought the constitution of the Jesuits hardly consistent
 755 "Hating Popery as I do, yet I am a great admirer of the Jesuits as a body of men to whom literature is much beholden, in fact all mankind. The lowest and most beggarly of them hare done more as a body than any of our universities." Northern Star, "The Infidel Text Book," "Discussion on the Authenticity of the Bible," "Discussion on the Existence of God," "Volney's Works," "Paine's Works," "The Bible of Reasons," "The New  Ecce Homo,
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  was anxious to be allowed to state to the House the reasons why he was unable to arrive at the conclusions which had just been expressed by the noble Lord and by the right hon. Member for Dungarvon, and the reasons why he was unable to give a vote in support of the Committee on this Bill. He had always avowed his anxiety to relieve his Roman Catholic fellow-subjects from every disability which could possibly hurt them, and to extend to them every concession consistent with a fair and just support of Protestantism. On the same principle he had been willing to give a vote for the repeal of obsolete penal statutes, and to re-
 756 757
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that, as during the discussion he had been twice appealed to by the hon. Member for the University of Oxford, and the Member for Oxford, to state his opinion as to the first provisions of this Bill, the House would excuse a few observations. If he were to answer every question, it would open a door to legal discussion which would weary the House rather than convince them, or satisfactorily occupy their time. The first question might very properly be deferred to the time when he should have an opportunity of correcting any erroneous impression which might have existed. He apprehended that it was unnecessary in this stage to enter into an inquiry of this sort. It was certainly unnecessary to satisfy the right hon. Gentleman who first put the question to him, because whatever was the answer to the question in the first branch of the Bill, he was prepared to vote on the portion comprehended in the second division. It was quite unnecessary to make any answer to those who objected to all further exclusions, for be the answer one way or the other, they were prepared to vote in the affirmative; but there might be some Members who, thinking the settle-meat of 1829 final, might be prepared to go into Committee on the first branch of the subject. If he could show that there was any Act in the first branch which was not repealed, and which ought to be repealed, he should have stated sufficient ground for going into Committee. Now he believed that the Act of 13 Eliz., cap. 2, was not repealed; and if it ought to be repealed, it required an Act of Parliament for that purpose. He therefore trusted that the House would have no difficulty in going into Committee on the Bill.
 MR. M'GREGOR  said, that he presented himself to the consideration of the House under circumstances of great disadvantage, and would willingly have abstained from doing so, but that he felt it his duty to state his opinions briefly to the House, representing as he did a great commercial community. It was his opinion at the time, and his opinions had not changed, that the Bank Charter Act of 1844, was not at all suited to the wants of a great commercial country like this. It was not an Act suited to the commercial wants of an empire situated in every respect as the British empire was. By the Act of 1845, the provisions of that Act were extended to Scotland and Ireland; but, unfortunately, the operation of that law was not at all adapted to those kingdoms. He believed that it was as impossible for Parliament to regulate the prices of money as to regulate the contraction and expansion of the mercury in the barometer. In fact, a law of this kind was not at all adapted to any kingdom or country whose resources were expansive. He did not know any country in Europe to which a law of this kind was applicable, unless to some village in Holland, where the population had not
 847 848 l.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  having for thirty-seven years been something like an amateur student on this question, thought he might be considered as having an average right to give his opinion upon it on the present occasion. He understood it had been settled that there should not he any attempt to get up a currency debate, and that there was no idea of mooting the question of an inconvertible currency. Neither of these points, therefore, would he attempt to touch. The question, as he understood it, then, was, whether the Government was or was not bound to keep an office for utter-
 855 Gazette, s. 856 l. l l.
 MR. HASTIE  seconded the Motion, with a feeling of the strongest conviction
 818 819 l. l. l. l.
 ALDERMAN THOMPSON  said, that, if he correctly understood the argument of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he rested his opposition to this Motion upon three points, namely, that the present condition of the Bank of England, as compared with its condition in October last, was so improved, and there being no appearance of pressure, there could be no danger of any difficulty in that quarter; his second objection to this Motion was, that Parliament was sitting; and thirdly, that a Committee of the House had been appointed to inquire into the cause of the commercial distress which prevailed in the country. With regard to the first statement, namely, the improved condition of the Bank, he had the satisfaction of entirely agreeing with the right hon. Gentleman; but he begged to be permitted to remind the right hon. Gentleman what the condition of the Bank of England was about this time last year. He would remind the right hon. Gentleman that the bullion in the Bank of England in January, 1847, was within a mere trifle of 15,000,000 l. l. l., l. 828 l. l. l. 829 830 l. l. l. l., l. 831 s.; s. 832 New York Herald 833 l. 1. s. d. 834
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The right hon. Gentleman at the outset of his speech stated truly, that although it might be somewhat inconvenient to listen to two speeches from him, yet the two portions of his Motion were nevertheless perfectly distinct in their nature, and had not necessarily any connexion with each other. Certainly no person reading his resolutions could entertain any doubt on this subject. One of his propositions is an expression of approval of the course which the Government took in October last; and the other pledges the House to an opinion that the Act of 1844 and the Act of 1845, for regulating the issue of bank notes in the United Kingdom, should forthwith be suspended. No doubt it is perfectly possible that we may have been right in suspending
 820 Quis vituperavit? 821 l. l.; 822 l. Gazette l. Gazette l. 823 l. 824 825 l. l. 826 l. l. l. l., l. l. 827
 MR. HUDSON  was not going to trouble the House with many observations; but he could not help commenting upon some of the observations made by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. That right hon. Gentleman had complained that the question had been forced upon the House after a sufficient opportunity had been given, upon a previous occasion, for the full discussion of it; and he had added, that the former debate had terminated in consequence of there being no hon. Member left who was prepared to take a part in it, or offer any further arguments upon the question. Now that was not so. The right hon. Gentleman had forgotten the facts and circumstances of the case. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth rose upon that occasion at a very late hour of the night, and did not conclude his speech until about one o'clock. The hon. Member for Newark moved an adjournment of the de-
 842 843 l. 844 845 846
 MR. MUNTZ  said, that he, like the hon. and gallant Member who had just sat down, (Colonel Thompson) was quite at a loss to understand what was meant by a free trade in banking; but he had now some hopes of his hon. Friend below, the Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume); he evidently had become wiser from experience, for he had stated that this country was subject to frequent crises of distress and panic; and he had truly said, that this was owing to our unsound and improper currency laws. The right hon. Gentleman in the chair might possibly recollect, as well as many hon. Members of that House, that in 1844, when the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth introduced the Bill now complained of with all that pomp of circumstance which he so well knew how to assume, even when doubtful of the soundness of his proposals, he (Mr. Muntz) had then told him that he was confident he could
 857 858 in toto; 859 860 861
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the right hon. Gentleman who had brought the subject before the House had urged them, with great earnestness, not to allow themselves to be drawn from it into a general discussion of the currency question, and had entreated them to confine their attention to the definite and distinct propositions he laid before them. The course the debate had taken had, no doubt, convinced the right hon. Gentleman that there was a great deal of danger in his plan of proceeding; and the speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down must more especially have shown him how difficult it was to keep within the exact question at issue, and not to wander into a wide field of inquiry into which the right hon. Gentleman had no intention of entering. In the few words he should address to the House he should confine himself strictly to the proposal immediately submitted to the House, and would seek to offer some reasons why they should not assent to the course proposed for their adoption. It had been admitted universally by every hon. Member who spoke on the question, that it would be unwise to make a reversal of the decision of the House to appoint a Committee. ["No, no!"] Hon. Gentleman denied this; but almost everyone who had addressed the House in support of the Motion had
 862 863 864
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that he, perhaps, could best answer the hon. Member's question by stating what had actually occurred in the colony. An election took place in August, the result of which was that the Liberal party, which had previously been in a minority in the House of Assembly, obtained a majority there. The House of Assembly met on the 22nd of January, and the first thing it did was to pass a
 803
 MR. HERRIES  rose to move the following Resolution:—
 "That, looking to the state of distress which has for some time prevailed among the commercial classes, and to the general feeling of distrust and alarm, by which the embarrassments of Trade have been aggravated, it is the opinion of this House that Her Majesty's Ministers were justified, during the Recess of Parliament, in recommending to the Bank of England, for the purpose of restoring confidence, a course of proceeding at variance with the restrictions imposed by the Act of the 7th and 8th of Victoria, c. 32. That this House will resolve itself into a Committee upon the said Act." "That it is expedient that the limitations imposed by the Act 7 and 8 Victoria, c. 32, upon the Bank of England, and the Act 8 and 9 Victoria, c, 36 and 37, in relation to the issue of notes payable on demand, be suspended, subject to such conditions as may be provided by any Act to be passed for that purpose." 804 l., l. 805 806 l. l.; l.; l.; l., l. l. l. 807 l.; l. 808 809 dictum: dictum 810 l. l., l. l. l., l. l. 811 l. l., 812 l., l., l., l., 813 l.; 814 815 816 l. l. 817
 MR. HERRIES  had only a few words to say in reply. The discussion had been almost exclusively upon one side of the House; but he believed the result would
 865
 MR. MASTERMAN  felt desirous to
 849
 MR. HUME  said, it was a matter worthy of inquiry how it happened that those crises and those panics which they had so recently witnessed, occurred so often in this country, and in this particular department—banking. When the Motion was made for the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the commercial distress, he (Mr. Hume) foresaw what would be the result, and he endeavoured to persuade the House not to consent to the appointment of that Committee. He foretold, that when they sought to probe and discuss this question, they would be told by the right hon. Gentleman that they should have patience until the Committee should have inquired into the subject, and should have made its report, It appeared, however, that the right hon. Gentleman and his Col-
 850 l. 851 l. l. 852 853 l. l. l. l.; l. 854
 MR. HUME  wished to put a question relating to the colony of Nova Scotia. A general election had taken place there, and he wished to ask whether it was the intention of the Government that in that colony responsible government should be carried out, as declared in Lord John Russell's letter.
 MR. W. BROWN : I never rose to address the House with more anxiety, considering the great importance of the subject, and how much the prosperity of the nation depends on having our monetary affairs well managed. I am, however, encouraged to offer my opinion from the nature of my pursuits in life, for the last forty-seven years having been more or less connected with business and money transactions, which have naturally turned my attention to those subjects. Although I am not so presumptuous as to think that the views I entertain must necessarily be right, and those of Gentlemen who differ with me wrong, still I feel a deep interest in our monetary affairs being well managed, as anything and everything that prevents disturbance in them is not only a benefit to the merchants, but to every individual in the country. It is therefore most important, as far as it is practicable, to prevent those extreme fluctuations, and to mitigate the intensity of those panics, which too frequently occur; but I do not believe that in any active, enterprising, commercial country it is possible to prevent them altogether. The famine was certainly the primary cause of our distress: it was one of those dispensations of Providence which no human foresight or prudence could control, and which has drawn from us 33,000,000 l. 835 Hansard 836 l. l. l. 837 l. l. l. s. d. l. s. d. 838 l. l. l. 839 l. l. l. l. l. l. 840 841 l. l.,
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  thought few of those hon. Gentlemen who supported the measures of 1842 and 1846 could have expected such a free-trade budget as the present. He was aware that the noble Lord had accounted for the deficiency in the revenue of nearly 3,000,000 l. 936 l. l.; 937
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, I feel my strength so unequal to discharge adequately the important task which I have undertaken, that I believe I shall best perform my duty by laying before the House an outline of the financial policy of the Government, leaving to future discussion the greater part of the arguments which may be required to enforce that policy and to recommend the propositions which I shall submit for the adoption of the Committee. I shall therefore, Sir, proceed at once by reminding the House that the year which has passed over our heads, or I should perhaps say, the period of the last eighteen months, has been one which, excepting cases of foreign war or domestic insurrection, is without a parallel, I think, in the history of this country. The changes and vicissitudes of prices—the difficulties of commerce—the panic which more than
 901 s. s. s. d. s. d., l. l. l. 902 "This was the situation of the country, particularly since the failure of the last harvest. His only surprise indeed was, that the revenue had not fallen-off more. A falling-off of 10 per cent on a revenue of 50 millions was not so wonderful when a scarcity of provisions happened take place, and when there was a want of full employment for our population. He repeated, that he was surprised the deficiency had not been much greater." l., 903 l. l l l l. l. l. l., l. 904 l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 905 l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l., l. 906 l. l. l., l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l., l. l. 907 l. l. l., l. l. l. l., l. 908 909 910 911 l. l. 912 l. l. l. l. l. l. 913 914 l. l. 915 l., l. l. 916 
 
 Portsmouth 101,210 l. 
 Plymouth and Devonport 57,077 l. 
 Pembroke 33,633 l. 
 Sheerness and the Thames 70,876 l. 
 Total 262,796 l. l. l. l. 917 l. l. 918 l., l., l., l., l. 919 l. 
 
 £ £ 
 Funded Debt 27,778,000 
 Unfunded Debt 752,600 
 28,530,600 
 Consolidated Fund charges 2,750,000 
 Caffre war 1,100,000 
 Naval excess for the past year 245,500 
 1,345,500 
 Navy 7,726,610 
 Army 7,162,996 
 Ordnance 2,924,835 
 Miscellaneous 4,006,000 
 21,820,441 
 54,446,541 
 Militia 150,000 
 £54,596,541 920 l. l. 921 d. s. Laughter, and cries of 922 923 
 
 Salt, 1823 and 1825 £1,490,007 
 Candles, 1832 482,413 
 Coals, coastwise, 1831 958,299 
 Leather, 1822 and 1830 600,282 
 Beer and cider, 1830 3,080,468 
 Glass, 1845 647,674 
 Sugar, 1845 2,309,857 
 Butter and cheese, 1846 112,416 
 Grain and meal, average of five years, 1842–1846 862,256 
 £10,543,672 l. l. 
 
 Total of taxes taken off from January, 1816, to January, 1848 Taxes reduced and repealed £52,820,755 
 Less taxes imposed and increased (exclusive of income-tax, 1842) £7,736,577 
 £45,084,178 
 Income-tax imposed— 
 1843 £5,387,455 Yearly average 5,378,837 
 1844 5,329,600 
 1845 5,182,649 
 1846 5,543,682 
 1847 5,450,800 
 £39,705,341 l., 924 l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., 925 l. l. 926 pro formâ, Resolved l.
 MR. DISRAELI : Although the right hon. Gentleman tells us he has proceeded rather further than he intended, I am sure I, for one, feel that he did not proceed further than I wished. A wiser speech—a more practical speech—one more justifying—coming, too, from a very high authority—the observations that have been made by Gentlemen on this side of the House upon a question of great economical interest—I have never listened to. I ought perhaps to apologise to the House for adding to what is only a desultory discussion; but I could not deny myself the gratification of congratulating my Friends around me, that the right hon. Gentleman, not only a great authority, but one who has had great practical experience in the finances of the country, should have felt it his duty to draw a moral from the present state of our finances, and upon this night—not a night of elaborate debate—should have favoured, and, I think I may say instructed, the country upon that important subject. Where are we now? In 1841 there was a deficit in round numbers of 3,000,000 l. 947 l. l., l. l. l. 948 l. s. 949 950 Journal des Débats, 951 952 953 naïveté 954 955 l. l. 956 957 958 "The moon takes up the wondrous tale;" 959 960 the benches on the Ministerial side below the gangway pointing to the Ministerial benches
 MR. NEWDEGATE  thought the Ministry had really much reason to complain of the manner in which they were treated by their own friends on this occasion; but with regard to this increase of taxation, he must concur with many of them in opinion. He regarded the income-tax as vicious in principle, and as injurious to the capital
 979
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  was not surprised, however much pain he might feel, at the proposition of the noble Lord the Member for London. For the last twenty years he had never been surprised at any hypocrisy, duplicity, or tergiversation from the Treasury Bench, especially on the part of those who were considered leaders. After repeated expressions of attachment to the Church and constitution, he had found those very persons who made the loudest professions were the first to suggest measures subversive of both. The very men who, when out of office, were distinguished for their advocacy of certain measures of financial policy, when in the possession of place and power would turn their backs on these same measures. What was the language of the noble Lord respecting an income-tax in 1842? The noble Lord on that occasion, when the income-tax was proposed by his predecessor in office, declared that if imposed at all it ought to be imposed equally on the whole country; and yet the noble Lord himself now proposed to continue the exemption of Ireland. The noble Lord also said, on the same occasion, that it was a tax which should only be had recourse to in cases of great emergency, and when no other taxes could be called into operation; and yet the noble Lord had himself proposed this tax to-night without either of these grounds of
 942 Cries of
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I think it would have been better to have postponed any discussion on the topics introduced in the speech of my noble Friend until Monday week, for we have been led into a debate upon this occasion which has been truly described as being of a very desultory character. It appears to me that the speech of the hon. Member who has just addressed the House, as well as that of the hon. Member for Montrose, must have been prepared under the idea that the Government intended to propose this evening an enormous increase in the amount of our establishments. The phrases "war taxes" and "war budget" must have been devised in the belief that my noble Friend was about to propose an addition of 10,000 men to the Army, 20,000 to the Navy, and God knows what to the Ordnance. Yet what is the fact? The addition to the force is somewhere about 3,000 men, and the increase of charge about 300,000 l. 969 970 l., l., l.; l. l.; l. 971 972
 MR. BANKES  would deal as fairly by the noble Lord as the noble Lord said he had dealt by the House, and would tell him at once he did not think the country was prepared for the propositions the noble Lord had laid down. The noble Lord wisely put the most popular estimates forward—first, the Navy estimates; for he agreed with the hon. Member for Montrose, that the country naturally turned to the Navy for their defence. There was never any disposition to cavil at those estimates; but, in the present case, he must say that he thought the Navy was employed in a way which caused an unnecessary increase in the expenditure for that branch of the service. He alluded to the squadron employed on the coast of Africa, which while it caused great destruction of life, failed to effect the beneficial object for which it was intended; if that squadron was ordered home a considerable expense would be saved. Then he might allude to the squadron in the Tagus, which conferred no national benefit, but only served to keep up contention and hostility. [Lord J. RUSSELL: They are ordered home.] Then the very circumstance of their being ordered home would afford the Government facility for increasing the national defences without increasing the estimates; and, if they were ordered home, he thought the Government would have some explanation to give why they had been allowed to remain in Portugal so long, to that detriment of the ships and crews which the noble Lord had ascribed to remaining so long in port. [Lord J. RUSSELL: They are cruising about.] He had been informed of one ship not having weighed anchor for ton
 930 931 932 "They were not aware of the amount of the burdens from which the population had been relieved; and what would they think of the condition of England if the people suffered, after many years of peace, the imposition of a tax, which was always considered a war tax, and which they would not endure even one year after peace had been concluded? Would it not inevitably produce in their minds the conviction that we had no other resource? It would have to them the appearance as if we were making a severe struggle for our actual existence, and that, therefore, this country would be unprepared for war." 933
 MR. MUNTZ , seeing the President of the Board of Trade, begged to know what power the Government possessed of interference with steamboats on rivers and at sea; and if that was not thought sufficient, whether it was intended to apply to Parliament for additional powers?
 MR. ROBINSON  considered the noble Lord's statement as amounting to an acknowledgment that there was no hope whatever of any reduction in future of the national expenditure, and that the country must be prepared to bear additional taxation for the purpose of making up the deficiency. It was impossible to conceive a more humiliating or unsatisfactory state of things after thirty years of peace. It was true, indeed, as stated by the noble Lord, that there had been a large remission of taxes during that time; but had not the condition of the people retrograded? Those reductions had done nothing for the people; their employment had been taken away, and their wages had been diminished. Their condition, taking them in the mass, was worse now than it had ever been known to be. The noble Lord very adroitly said, in the beginning of his speech, that he did not think it necessary to go into the causes which had produced the present state of things. But the House did not want to know from the noble Lord that there was a deficiency of 2,500,000 l. 939 l. l. l., 940 l. l. l. 941
 MR. LABOUCHERE  replied, that the Board of Trade possessed, with regard to steamboats carrying passengers, the power to order an inspection twice a year; and returns, founded on that inspection, were regularly made to the Board. But some doubts were entertained whether the powers given by the Act of Parliament to the Board of Trade applied to all steamers; and it would probably be necessary to apply to Parliament for further powers during the present Session.
 MR. BRIGHT  said: Even at this late hour I must ask the attention of the House for a short time, partly because I feel strongly on the question before the House, and partly because I represent the population amongst whom the most formidable demonstration against increasing the military expenditure has been made. From the Notice paper, I had concluded that tonight we were to hear a financial statement somewhat of the character of those to which for some years past we have been accustomed—a statement bearing chiefly upon the commercial position of the country; but instead of that, we have had a long speech, for the most part devoted to military topics—a speech that should have come from the noble Lord at the head of Foreign Affairs, or from some one connected with the military department. The hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford has taken a curious course on this occasion, and has displayed a want of faith which one would hardly look for in the representative of the Church. He has given us several cases from English history in which, by the care of Providence this country has been preserved from invasion. I should have thought these instances would have given confidence to the hon. Baronet; but now
 976 977 l. l. 978 La Trappe,
 MR. HUME  must say that he had never listened to a budget with more pain than to that of the noble Lord. The noble Lord and his Colleagues evidently saw the state of the country in a
 927 l. 928 l. l. l. 929
 MR. OSBORNE  considered that of all the financial statements which it had been the duty of any Minister of the Crown to submit to the House, none ever exhibited greater candour than that which they had just heard; but, at the same time, he thought few statements had been made calculated to fill the country with so great alarm and consternation as that which had been so ably made by the noble Lord. He must confess he thought that had there been a regularly organised Opposition in that House, such a statement would never have been made; for any Minister of the Crown who ventured to come forward and call for an increase of taxation in the way done by the noble Lord, would in that case have signed the death-warrant of his Administration. He was much mistaken if, when that statement went forth to the country, the noble Lord's Ministry would not be regarded as the most unpopular and unfortunate that ever held power within the walls of that House. He had some time ago stated that it was his intention to call the attention of the House to the state of the national defences. He was glad, however, that the noble Lord had taken the subject out of his hands, for he was at issue with the noble Lord as to the most advisable means of improving the defences in question. For his own part, he believed that we could have increased naval and military efficiency with our present expenditure, and that, in fact, any Government calling itself a reforming and liberal Government might be able to cut down the expenditure in a way that would not prevent our being as efficiently served as now, instead of applying for an increase of
 934 l., Laughter. l. 935
 MR. COBDEN  then rose and said: I shall be obliged to descend from those regions of imagination into which the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire has soared; and although he has apparently paid me the high compliment of following me with some attention from France to England,
 961 962 963 964 l. l., l. l. l., 965 l., 966 s. en masse l. s. d. l. l. 967 s., 968
 MR. M. MILNES  could not permit the present discussion to close or the evening to pass without expressing his profound regret that the speech of the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government, and so much of the subsequent debate, should have been taken up rather upon a subject introduced by accidental circumstances as a matter of discussion with the public, than upon one necessarily connected with the actual condition of the country. He profoundly regretted that the possibility of an invasion of this country by France should ever have come before the House of Commons as a subject of discussion; or that any such monstrous position should have occurred to the mind of any sensible man. He was certain, whatever might be the feelings of the Members of that House on the subject, that that, and that alone, was the sentiment of all the intelligent people of England. From all he knew, and all he had heard, of the feelings of the people of France, he believed that so far from any hostile sentiment having entered the mind of a single statesman of that country towards England, even under the influence of any accidental acerbity that might have been excited, all the eminent men of France were inclined to look upon the agitation of the subject in this country rather as a speculation, or, they knew not what, among certain individuals, than as a matter gravely contemplated by the Ministers of the Queen, or seriously entertained by the people. He thought there prevailed a great misapprehension as to the nature and tendency of the speech of the noble Lord at the head of the Treasury. He heard it whispered by hon. Members about him that the speech of the noble Lord was a war speech—that it was a speech of menace to France. Upon him the speech did not make that impression, nor did he think it would have made that impression on others had not their minds been by previous disquisitions rendered more than usually susceptible to any allusions upon that topic. He could quite understand why the noble Lord should think it necessary to make allusions to the forces of other countries when summing up our own; but he believed the noble Lord did so rather as comparing what other nations thought necessary for their defence, with
 975
 SIR B. HALL  entirely agreed with the noble Lord who had just sat down in what he had said with respect to the noble Lord's (Lord J. Russell's) observation, that he was prepared to maintain the independence of the country. He agreed with him most entirely in that sentiment; but he thought, looking at the position in which they now stood, that they could well afford to let matters remain as they were. He did not see that there was anything to apprehend from foreign invasion, nor did he hear any threats of invasion. He thought when they looked at the condition of the people, and the amount of pauperism which existed, not in the metropolis only, but all throughout the kingdom, that this was not the time for enlarging the expenditure of the country and increasing taxation. The noble Lord did not offer to reduce one single tax, except a miserable one on copper ore, which few persons cared about—a tax that might affect a few individuals, but not the large portion of the people, and, therefore, one that ought to have been the last to be repealed. But one of the worst features of the noble Lord's proposition was, the increase of the income-tax for two years, at the end of which period an opportunity would no doubt be given for the Government to come down and propose another increase. Indeed, it would be better if the noble Lord would at once state fairly that this increase was to last, not for two years, but for the whole five. The noble Lord voted against the proposal of the income-tax on every division that took place; and he was certainly surprised when he heard the noble Lord propose an increase of that tax. But what surprised him still more was, that the income-tax was to continue in precisely the same state as it was now. One great cause of the unpopularity of the tax was the unfair way in which it was levied; and, therefore, the proposal to continue it on the same footing as at present would cause the greatest dissatisfaction. If the noble Lord found it necessary to continue the income-tax, why did he not bring forward an equitable measure by which the tax should have been
 938
 SIR B. HALL  inquired of the noble Lord the Chief Commissioner of Woods and Forests, whether his Sanitary Bill would include the metropolis, and if not, whether it was his intention to introduce a Bill for that purpose? Also, what other Bills upon that subject he proposed to introduce, and what their provisions were?
 MR. F. T. BARING  would not have risen to address the House, but would willingly have postponed any remarks he had to make to a future occasion; but that the reference made to him by the noble Lord in the course of his speech, made it necessary for him to say a very few words. He had heard, as he believed every hon. Gen-
 943 944 l. 945 946
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  had tried on several occasions to catch the Chairman's eye, as he wished to introduce something like novelty into the debate. There was not, with the exception of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, any Member who had addressed the Committee who had given even a qualified assent to the proposition of the noble Lord; and upon that ground he wished, as an independent Member, to state in a very few words the view which he took of the subject under consideration. Passing by the able and effective speech of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, he would advert to the speech delivered by the right hon. Member for Portsmouth, who was willing to continue an income-tax of three per cent, though a war tax, but whose prejudices rose strong against it, and compelled him to vote against his friends and successors, when, under pressing necessities, they were obliged to raise it two per cent. But surely, if it was objectionable in point of principle to impose an income-tax in a time of profound peace, an income-tax of five per cent was not more objectionable, as far as principle was concerned, than an income-tax of three per cent. He did not understand, therefore, the distinction made by the right hon. Gentleman the former Chancellor of the Exchequer. Now came the great question of all—Did we want the money? No man had a morbid love for paying the taxes, or anything else, though, perhaps, an honest man might like to pay his butcher's bill; and not even the ingenuity of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, or of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, or of any former Chancellor of the Exchequer, could produce money without corresponding taxation. That must be either in the shape of an increased property-tax, or of a tax that had never appeared before. Did any of the Liberals propose to revise old taxes—such as the house-tax? It should be borne in mind, that we had been spared for a longer period in the history of Europe than had ever before occurred, from any approach to war between any of the great European Powers. What right had we to expect that another interval of half that
 973 Deus afflavit, et dissipantur." Morning Chronicle l. 974
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  was understood to say, that he had already stated he did not consider the Bill to apply to the metro-
 982
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I do not wish to enter into subjects which have been repeatedly discussed. But I should wish to say one word or two, especially on the speeches made by my hon. Friends on this side of the House. It is very natural for young Members, unused to Parliamentary tactics, and who do not feel entirely easy when they come to this House, to let fly speeches which they may have prepared beforehand, though the occasion they expected should not exactly occur. But certainly I did not expect that hon. Gentlemen so accustomed to Parliamentary debate as the hon. Members to whom I allude, should have fallen into that mistake. We are told that my noble Friend has been proposing vast armaments, that he has been making speeches full of warlike sentiments, and that he has been holding language calculated to excite jealousy, and even enmity, on the part of France. As to armaments there are none. If my noble Friend had said that he intended to propose an addition of 20,000 men to the Army, and of 10,000 men to the Navy, I could have understood the language of those who spoke as if they had come down to protest against such a proposition. But to the Army there is no increase. There is a different disposition, a different distribution, of the existing Army. There is no addition whatever to the regular Army. There is none to the Navy. There is a small increase to the marines and to the artillery; but there has been no augmentation such as the House might have imagined, from the sort of denunciations they have heard. I trust, when my hon. Friends reflect, and when they find how very small is the increase contemplated, the alarm they have expressed will subside. I should
 980 981
 SIR F. LEWIS  thought that those who wished reduction of expenditure should hail with pleasure the appointment of such a Committee as the Government proposed to appoint. He hoped it would be made, not a Secret but a Select Committee. Unless the rules had been changed since he was formerly a Member of the
 1009
 MR. VERNON SMITH  was in favour of consolidating the different Acts, but believed a measure of that nature would not pass if it were delayed till the end of the Session. Neither did he think this Bill calculated to check or stint the emigration now going on from Ireland; and he hoped that shipowners, however stringent the regulations might be, would consider that the loss of one ship was much more calculated to deter emigration than those regulations. With regard to the superintendence, if the superintendent was not a surgeon he could not see how he would be available. How could the superintendent be invested with power, if he were not a surgeon? Unless he were a man with authority his office would have no value, and the captain would have him under his control the whole voyage. If his right
 1032
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  was unable to understand why this Bill should be hung up in Committee, except Select Committees were so much in fashion that Her Majesty's Ministers could do nothing without them. The value of the measure consisted in its being carried rapidly, because the season for emigration had already begun. Indeed there had been a winter emigration, for since November last 4,000 persons had emigrated to Canada. He was glad the Emigration Commissioners and the Board of Trade were attending to this matter; but unless the owners of emigrant ships could be bound not to oppose it, as he believed they would, the Bill would have to be discussed in the House, as well as in Committee. Indeed, unless Her Majesty's Ministers were not satisfied with their own measure, he could not understand what object would be gained by sending it to a Select Committee upstairs. The cases quoted by the right hon. Gentleman proved the necessity of strong regulations; and he hoped that no mongrel notions of free trade would stop the progress of the Bill. He hoped there would be no free trade in pestilence, for many emigrant vessels, underlet as they had been, conveyed double
 1031
 COLONEL CONOLLY  thought the provisions of the Bill were as perfect as they could be under the circumstances of the case; and on the part of his constituents he felt bound to thank the right hon. Gentleman for the enactments of the Bill, and for the pains which he had taken to see those enactments carried out. He also begged to thank the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Northampton (Mr. V. Smith) for his suggestion relative to the independence of the superintendent, which he thought well worthy the consideration of the Government. He trusted the Bill would be cordially received by the poor of the country, for whose benefit he was sure it was intended.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  could not allow the House to go into Committee without protesting even at that stage against the proposition to appoint a Secret and Select Committee on the Navy, Army, and Ordnance expenditure. He thought that they were bound to proceed in this matter in the usual manner; and he must say it appeared to him very much as if there had been a compromise between the Government and the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Hume). He would venture to say, that if it had not been for the Motion of which that hon. Gentleman gave notice on Friday, they would not have heard of the appointment of any Committee that night. Why should the questions arising out of the expenditure of the Army and Navy not be brought before the whole House? When the right hon. Gentleman (Sir R. Peel) brought in the income-tax, the estimates were laid before the House in the usual manner; and why should not the same course be taken by the Govern-
 999
 MR. F. MAULE  moved for a part of the sum which would be necessary for the land forces. The total sum required was 3,836,000 l. l. l.
 MR. F. MAULE  said that the Govern-
 1022
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  did not rise for the purpose of offering any opposition to the second reading of this Bill; on the contrary, he was convinced that some measure for promoting the public health and providing for those objects which the Bill contemplated was imperatively requisite. The subject, however, was too important to be discussed in so thin a House; and it was his opinion, that if it had not been for what fell from the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, who was understood to say that the Bill should not be considered that evening, although it stood in the list of Orders of the Day, the House would have been in a very different condition. He was quite
 1024
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, it was evident the Government must have felt that their financial statement was highly objectionable; that it had excited dislike and reprobation on all sides of the House; and that it was absolutely necessary to do something to conciliate the opposition. And what had they done? The Chancellor of the Exchequer had come down to the House and proposed a Secret Committee. He (Lord Dudley Stuart) did not believe that the appointment of a Committee would afford any satisfaction whatsoever to the
 1013 1014 l.
 LORD G. BENTINCK : His hon. Friend had asked whether the noble Lord had given the nation credit in his financial statement for this 424,000 l.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  was by no means satisfied either with the explanation of the noble Lord or the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He conceived it to be entirely unconstitutional to propose a Secret Committee to inquire into the state of Her Majesty's Navy. His right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had attempted to draw an analogy between a Secret Committee to inquire into the defences of the country, and a Secret Committee to inquire into a Bank Bill, or into the general credit of the country. He apprehended there was a most essential difference between an inquiry which concerned the credit and commerce of the country, and an inquiry that concerned the national defences; and unless the noble Lord was prepared to say that there were grave reasons of State for such a course, and evident peril surrounding the country, he, for one, would not consent that that House should delegate its powers to a Secret Committee. What was to take place in that Committee? What inquiries were to be made? Were they not to know the nature of the inquiry, or who and what were the witnesses to be called before it? Were they not to know whether it was to inquire into the diplomatic relations of this country, or how near or how distant was the danger of an invasion from Prance? Were they to go blindfold into the appointment of a Secret Committee without being told anything of the objects of the inquiry? Was it that perhaps the country was in imminent danger of foreign invasion, and that it was proposed to go into a Committee to inquire what were to be the defences and fortifications, and what the number of steamers or ships that were to be added to the Navy? He confessed, for one, that if it could be shown to him that there was imminent peril—that some expedition was projected, and that it was not safe for the
 1003
 LORD H. VANE  believed that a Select Committee had the power within itself to exclude the public from its sittings, as occasion might require; and that course was agreed to be taken by a Committee of which he was a Member last year. That Committee thought it expedient to come to a resolution on the subject; but he apprehended that it was at all times in the power of a Committee to exclude the public, and to prevent the publication of any part of the evidence taken before it. He quite agreed with the noble Lord in thinking that it would be inexpedient if there was to be no publication at all; and, therefore, if this Committee were appointed, reports of its proceedings should be published, leaving with the Committee, however, the liberty of excluding any portion of those proceedings which they might think it inexpedient to give to the world. He would ask the noble Lord whether his understanding of the Secret Committee was such as he had described it; or whether he intended that no publication whatever should take place of the proceedings?
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The question has been put, why a Select and Secret Committee is to be appointed? I shall, however, not enter into the reasons why such Committee should be appointed, but rather confine myself to the apprehensions which have been expressed with respect to the consequences of such a course. The noble Lord (Lord G. Bentinck) says, the appointment of a Secret and Select Committee is unconstitutional; but, in 1788, in 1797, 1807, 1817, and 1828, and under various Ministers—such as Mr. Pitt, Lord Grenville, Lord Liverpool, and the Duke of Wellington, this House appointed Committees of Inquiry into the whole expenditure of the Army, Navy, and Ordnance. Those Committees were all not only Select but Secret Committees; that is to say, not only were the public in general excluded,
 1004
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I don't think the hon. Gentleman has properly understood the statement I made to the House the other night. What I stated was, that supposing the expenses of the country to remain the same as last year, there was an excess of expenditure already incurred which must be paid for—that, supposing we made no increase in the estimates, there would still be a deficiency of between 2,000,000 l. l. l. 1011 l.;
 The LORD ADVOCATE  would not on the present occasion say anything as to the manner in which the lights on the coasts of this country ought to be managed; neither did he intend to offer any opposition to the production of the accounts asked for by the hon. Gentleman. He was quite sure that the Board of Northern Lights would stand the test of any inquiry which the House might think proper to institute. They had just finished a lighthouse on the highway between England and America, at an expense of nearly 100,000 l.
 MR. ANDERSON  called the attention of the House to the numerous shipwrecks, with the extensive loss of life, which occasionally occurred off the Shetland Islands, and to the great deficiency of coast lights on those islands. By an extract from Lloyd's books it appeared that no less than fourteen shipwrecks occurred from between the end of December to the 12th of February on those islands, the crews of seven or eight of which perished altogether. There was only one light on the islands; at least two other lights were required. Why were they not erected? It could not be for want of funds, for the Board of Northern Lights in Scotland levied a heavy charge on the shipping of the country for the purpose of maintaining lights on the coast, and they had a balance of upwards of 39,000 l. 1036
 MR. DISRAELI  was afraid that, in their efforts to prevent an increase in the taxation of the country, they need not hope for much assistance from hon. Gentlemen below the gangway opposite, whose silence on the present occasion must be very agreeable to the Government. But he rose merely for the purpose of saying, that when the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed the Committee, he should be extremely obliged to him if the right hon. Gentleman would furnish the House with the precedents for the step which he recommended. He certainly could not find any precedent in the report which had been referred to by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Tamworth (Sir R. Peel). That right hon. Gentleman had appointed the Committee of 1828, which he said was a Select Committee, to examine the military estimates of the country. Such, however, was not the title of the Committee. The title of the Committee, as was well known, was a Committee to inquire into the state of the public income and expenditure. Now, that was a great difference. The object of that Committee was to see whether it were possible or not for the House of Commons, consistently with the public safety, to diminish the public expenditure; but the military estimates for the current year were not brought before the Committee. It afforded no precedent, therefore, for the present proposal; and he had every reason to suspect that the previous precedents that had been referred to would be found as little germane to the present
 1012
 MR. NEWDEGATE  considered the only distinction between a Select and a Secret Committee was, that in the former Members of the House might attend, in the latter they might not. But the Select Committee had power to exclude when it chose; and therefore it appeared to him to be as much a Secret Committee as if it were appointed so. After what had passed on the subject of Supply, the proposal to refer those estimates to some such Committee appeared to be nothing else than putting the powers of the Government into commission. But the suddenness of the resolution of Government was the most remarkable part of the whole. The precedents of 1797 and 1817 had been quoted; but he doubted if such a precipitancy had been exhibited on those occasions as there was at present in vesting their Committees with powers, except, perhaps, in 1797; for that was the year in which cash payments were suspended. Perhaps the Chancellor of the Exchequer had some such intention on the present occasion. If he had, it would astonish some of his friends. But without some such emergency he certainly thought it was an unusual and undignified course to make an announcement on Friday, and then run away from it on Monday. His principal object in rising, however, was to ask the noble Lord whether it was his intention to ask the consent of the Committee to-night for some round sum for the current expenses which he might deem necessary, or to some specific vote? The former course he was quite sure would not be objected to by hon. Members on that (the Opposition) side of the House, though several might object to the latter.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  would vote with the hon. Member for Middlesex, if they went out alone. The House was asked to vote money before they knew where it was to come from. The Government asked for money on account, and the House was weak enough to grant it; and then when once the votes had been passed, should any explanation be required, it would be asked for in vain. He wondered that the House should submit to such treatment. He protested against the proceeding as a dangerous precedent, and it proved to him that the Government were ashamed or afraid to give the account they were bound to do before coming to the House for the votes.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  was completely opposed to this Secret Committee, which was no doubt to be proposed by the Government to suit their own particular purposes. The evidence taken before it, whatever it might be, was to be kept entirely from the public; and they would know nothing about the matter till perhaps a garbled and unsatisfactory statement was laid by somebody or other before the House. This he thought a very
 1002
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that it would be highly improper to take any whole vote on the present occa-
 1000
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, this was a vote on which a correspondence, such as he had alluded to, had taken place. The hon. Gentleman was aware that, in old times, the balance of former votes was handed over to the particular departments in which they oc-
 1001
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : In rising to move the Order of the Day for the House resolving itself into a Committee of Supply, I think it advisable to state the course which Her Majesty's Ministers consider it fit to pursue with regard to some of the estimates which have been already laid on the table of the House. I find on the Notice-paper a notice given by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) of a Motion for postponing altogether a Committee of Supply on the Navy and Army Estimates, until the House shall have decided on the proposal made by my noble Friend the First Lord of the Treasury on Friday night. To that Motion of the hon. Member it is impossible that Her Majesty's Ministers can accede, for it reverses entirely the constitutional mode of proceeding, which always requires that a Vote of Supply should precede a Committee of Ways and Means. If I were to propose in a Committee of Ways and Means any vote not warranted by a previous vote in a Committee of Supply, you Sir, according to the principle and practice of Parliamentary proceedings, would at once stop the vote. The invariable course of proceeding, first by a vote in Committee of Supply, and afterwards by a vote in Committee of Ways and Means, is fully justified by reason and common sense; because it is the duty of the House in the first place to determine what expenditure is required for the purpose of maintaining all those establishments which are indispen-
 988 989 l 990 991 992 993
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : With regard to the China money, credit would be given for it in the income of the present year, ending April, 1849. He expected to have received it early in the summer, and if it had arrived it would have appeared in the accounts ending the 5th of January, Credit had been taken in the estimate of 19,750,000 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that if it was contrary to the understanding of the House that he should take a specific vote to-night, he was ready to withdraw it. The proposed vote was one which it was essential to take on an early day; but if it was the wish of the House, he would withdraw it for the present, and ask nothing but a vote to account.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  could, without much trouble, satisfy the House at once on the point referred to; but to do so would be only adding to the inconvenience which had been already felt in discussing a subject not then before them. To-morrow, however, he should be prepared to lay before the House the grounds and the precedents for the proposal which he would then submit to them.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the 420,000 l. l. l.
 MR. URQUHART  said, he would not oppose the second reading of the Bill; but he thought it tended to increase that mode of foreign government which was known by the name of "centralization." He reserved to himself full power of objecting, in Committee, to all clauses which seemed to him to have such a tendency.
 MR. HORSMAN  appealed to his hon. Friend the Member for Middlesex to withdraw his Motion after the distinct statement of the Secretary at War.
 MR. BANKES  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer if he would state whether this was or was not a vote with relation to which there had been a controversy between the Treasury and the Admiralty; the Treasury finding fault with the Admiralty for the way in which the amount had been incurred, alleging that it had been done in an irregular manner? If such was the case, the sooner an explanation was given the better; for it sounded rather unpleasant to hear that two departments of the State were at variance the one with the other. With regard to the vote, he hardly knew what effect it might have upon the public mind; for it was already fonnd that the House of Commons was no sufficient check between the Minister and the public, as the amount which they voted was frequently not the whole amount expended, as the excess of expenditure showed. He thought the vote ought not to pass without a very full explanation, as a question not only between the two departments who had come into collision, but also as a question between them and the public and the Government. As to the question of a Secret Committee, would the Chancellor of the Exchequer allow him also to ask in what respect there was a difference between a Select and a Secret Committee? Were the Members of the House not selected to sit on that Committee to know how persons voted who sat upon it? With regard to other Committees, it was well known that the way in which parties voted was made public; was the same course to be adopted with reference to this Committee? and, if so, would it be got immediately, so as to enable the House to give its judgment upon any decision they might arrive at?
 MR. ROBINSON  said that he, for one, would not consent to vote a single shilling, either on a specific estimate or to account, nor would he agree to the appointment of a Secret Committee, until an opportunity had been given to the public to express its opinion upon the budget of last week. In saying this he disclaimed any wish to offer any factious opposition to Government, or to obstruct the public business.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he had listened with great satisfaction to his hon. Friend, and he entirely agreed with him that it was the bounden duty of that House and of the Government to apply themselves most earnestly to prevent if possible a recurrence of the dreadful calamities which the system of emigration to North America, especially from Ireland, was accompanied by during the last year, both to the emigrants themselves and the colonists. He thought the colonists would have every reason to complain if this
 1026 1027 1028 l. s. l. 1029 "No moral restraint is attempted; the voice of prayer is never heard; drunkenness, with its consequent train of ruffianly debasement, is not discouraged, because it is profitable to the captain, who traffics in grog. In the ship which brought me out from London last April, the passengers were found in provisions by the owners, according to a contract, and a furnished scale of dietary. The meat was of the worst quality. The supply of water shipped on board was abundant; but the quantity served out to the passengers was so scanty that they were frequently obliged to throw overboard their salt provisions, and rice (a most important article of their food), because they had not water enough both for the necessary cooking and the satisfying of their raging thirst afterwards. They could only afford water for washing by withdrawing it from all the cooking of their food. I have known persons to remain for four days together in their dark close berths because they suffered less from hunger, though compelled at the same time by want of water to heave overboard their salt provisions and rice. No cleanliness was enforced, the beds never aired, the master during the whole voyage never entered the steerage, and would listen to no complaints; the dietary contracted for was, with some exceptions, nominally supplied, though at irregular periods, but false measures were used (in which the water and several articles of dry food were served), the gallon measure containing but three quarts, which fact I proved in Quebec, and had the captain fined for. Once or twice a week ardent spirits were sold indiscriminately to the passengers, producing scenes of unchecked
 1030
 MR. LABOUCHERE  moved the Second Reading of the Passengers' Bill.
 MR. HERRIES  said he had heard from the Government the assurance that it was necessary for the public service some advance should be made, and he knew that the sum now proposed fell very far short of what must be voted. Under these circumstances he could not concur in any step calculated to impede the public service.
 MR. HERRIES  observed, that they were now discussing what was to be the nature of a Committee which had not yet been proposed. If the proper course had
 1005 ad interim?
 MR. HERRIES  did not think it was understood that any votes that might be proposed were to be taken without discussion in Committee of Supply, merely because another Committee was to be appointed. He held that whatever vote they were called upon to pass in the extremely disastrous circumstances of the country at the present moment, the House was hound to consider most seriously; and that House would be abandoning the most important of its duties if it passed one vote without bestowing upon it the utmost attention that it was capable of giving. He must say that the word "secret," in reference to the Committee to be appointed, had rather indisposed him to meet the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The use of the word "select" alone would have been much better than those employed, namely, "secret and select;" and he could not help saying that he had a great repugnance to such a Committee. If their object was to withdraw from public notice all those votes that formed part of the naval and military estimates of this year, they might be sure that that course would not lessen the difficulties staring them in the face; and he hoped the Members of that House would pause before they gave their consent to such a Committee. He had heard nothing to reconcile him to the proposition made of referring these votes to a Secret and Select Committee, though no doubt that subject would more properly fall to be discussed when the proposal was formally before the House.
 MR. BROTHERTON  considered that all that could be done ought to be done to promote the comfort of emigrants; but there was one simple remedy for many of the evils that had been alluded to, which did not seem to have occurred to any hon. Member. He saw no great hardship in prohibiting all spirituous liquors from being taken on board emigrant ships. If the passengers were kept sober he would answer for it their health would be improved. The hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley) was always recommending the employment of medical men of great talent; but his (Mr. Brotherton's) opinion was, that the best physicians they could employ were Doctor Diet, Doctor Quiet, and Doctor Merriment.
 MR. HENLEY  was glad that steps had at last been taken to ensure good sanitary legislation; but he was afraid that this Bill was not a hopeful one, and that it would not get on well. The clause relating to powers of appeal would, he anticipated, occasion the noble Lord some difficulty when it came to be discussed in Committee. There was no use in concealing the fact that some dissatisfaction had arisen on finding that the country districts would be dragged in to pay the expenses of the towns with which they had nothing to do. This would be pointed out as a serious objection to the measure, and he trusted that the noble Lord would reconsider the matter. There was no doubt that the Bill would be productive of a large amount of public good, but it would require some amendments.
 MR. HENLEY  thought they were getting very fast into a very curious position. The Government had brought forward a proposition for taxing the country. They had also expressed their formal judgment, as a Government, in regard to the expenditure which they considered necessary for the country during the coming year. Part of that estimate was printed and before hon. Gentlemen; but they could not look at the printed figures, and take into account what had been stated by the noble Lord the other night, without seeing an expenditure stated running hard upon 60,000,000 l. 1006 l. l. l. 1007 l.
 MR. HUME  considered it absolutely imperative on the House to adopt some such measure as this for the prevention, in future, of the sufferings to which emigrants to Canada and other countries had hitherto been exposed in the crowded and badly-arranged emigrant ships. He found that during the last emigration season to the Canadas, the mortality on the whole number of emigrants had amounted to between 17 and 18 per cent—death in most cases being attributable to fever brought on while on board ship; and it was a well-
 1025
 MR. HUME  did not wonder the hon. Member should have thought it his duty to bring the subject before the House. It was one which deserved the attention of the Government. The construction of the Board at Trinity-house, and of the Commissioners of Northern Lights in Scotland, was most objectionable. The members were tradesmen, lawyers, or civilians of some other description, with hardly a sailor amongst them. But the whole system of lighting on our coasts, and of light dues levied on English and foreign ships, was objectionable. The United States never made any charge on account of lights, while we levied a charge on the ships of all nations. He hoped soon to see the mercantile navy of this country placed upon as respectable a footing as the navy of America or any other country. There ought to be a national board in England as in every other country, and one uniform system of lights established in England, Scotland, and Ireland.
 MR. HUME  could only say that he had had no communication by writing, word, or letter on the subject with any one person connected with the Government; and it was not fair on the part of the hon. Gentleman to throw out insinuations of the kind just uttered by him, unless he had good grounds for doing so.
 MR. HUME  felt bound to state to the House, in a few words, the grounds upon which he had expressed his dissatisfaction with the proposal of the noble Lord. He had expressed himself warmly, because he felt warmly, having been much disappointed; and he would explain to the House why he did so, and in what way he differed from the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down with regard to the course which the House and the country ought to adopt. The right hon. Gentleman said that it was the duty of the House to look to the estimate first, without any regard to the means of providing for it. He had always contested that point, on the ground that the Government ought to act upon the same principle that actuated the head of a family in entering upon any new expenditure. Every one would admit that it was the duty of a man, before he set up a carriage or a new house, to see that he had the means of supporting it; and no one would sympathise with him, if, instead of following that rule, he started his carriage and then found he had not the means of maintaining it. Upon the same principle he felt it to be his duty to object to the House going into these estimates till they had considered whether the means could
 994 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l l. l. l. l. 995 996 l. l. 997
 MR. HUME  understood no very important vote was to be taken, and he saw no reason to object to the sum that had been proposed.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  did not wish to persist against the general impression of the House, and if the right hon. Gentleman said it was positively necessary for the public service that 1,800,000 l.
 MR. OSBORNE  objected to so large a vote being taken, and would move that only 500,000 l. l. l.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, he did not remember what had passed last year when the Naval Estimates were before them; but the House was very neglectful of its duty as far as passing the estimates was concerned. He did not profess to be conversant with naval affairs, but he was prepared to say that a reduction of 500,000 l.
 MR. R. C. HILDYARD  was at a loss to understand the conduct of Government on the present occasion. If they intended, as they said, to refer the estimates to a Committee, why call upon the House in the mean time for an increase of the property and income-tax? They first told the House that they had found it necessary to propose an increase of the income-tax, in order to meet the increased estimates which they were prepared to submit; and then they stated that it was their intention to submit these estimates to a Secret Committee: was that with a view of throwing upon the Committee the responsibility of the estimates, or were the Committee to be at liberty to reduce them if they should find it to be desirable? Supposing this to be the result, then, according to the course proposed by Ministers, the country would be saddled with an increased property and income-tax, which they might afterwards find they did not want. He must say, he thought that this was trifling with the country. It seemed to him, like another Committee that had been appointed, a mere farce; an expedient adopted for the simple purpose of taking from the shoulders of Government that responsibility which properly belonged to them. He would ask the noble Lord whether on Monday next he intended to call upon the House to vote an increased incometax?
 MR. C. ANSTEY  begged to express his thanks to the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) for the pains he had taken in the preparation of this Bill; but he certainly considered that the measure would not be altogether effectual in promoting the objects the right hon. Gentleman had in view; and he thought, therefore, it was most advisable that its provisions should be discussed in a Committee upstairs. There were one or two respects in which
 1035
 MR. WAKLEY  thought the present system of emigration was highly discreditable to the Government and to the Legislature. It had been officially stated by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) that deaths had occurred in emigrant ships to the extent of seventeen per cent. The Emigration Commissioners might be justified, by the evidence they had received, in making the report they had made to the House with regard to the difficulty of providing surgeons for emigrant ships; but this subject had been under the consideration of the House last year; and he then said, that if surgeons were adequately paid, there would be no difficulty in obtaining their services. The Emigration Commissioners, however, had derived their information from some of the most eminent men in the profession, who unfortunately knew nothing of the subject. He believed that no persons could be more efficient as superintendents of emigrant ships than medical practitioners, who were men of good education, who were fully aware of the necessity of preserving discipline, and who were well acquainted with the requisites for ensuring the comfort and health of the passengers. But was it likely that legally qualified members of the medical profession could be obtained as surgeons to emigrant ships for 20 l. l. l. l. 1033 l. s. 1034
 MR. WAKLEY  said, the noble Lord was aware that medical men had made great exertions with respect to sanitary measures—that they had applied unremitting industry, great ability, and incessant labour to this important subject. And how were they rewarded? As usual, the lawyers who drew this Bill had excluded from it everything relating to medical officers. Now the lawyers never missed an opportunity of getting their own body into places; but it would scarcely be credited that in this Bill relating to the public health there was not a single provision for the introduction of medical officers. He had no doubt there were lawyer candidates twenty feet deep, for all places that could be filled by lawyers; but, from the way in
 1023
 MR. WAKLEY  said, the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire had expressed his astonishment at the silence of hon. Gentlemen below the gangway, and said he thought that silence must be extremely gratifying to Her Majesty's Ministers. He was very sorry that that gratification would be of very short duration. But the hon. Gentleman could not be surprised that they should be reluctant to speak upon a painful subject. He thought it was one of extreme pain. Nevertheless, as he knew it to be his duty to intimate to the Government what he had ascertained to be the opinion of great numbers of his constituents—a repugnance to the proposal that the noble Lord had submitted to
 1015 1016 1017 1018 "Sir—Will you allow me to say a few words to you, as one of the representatives of the borough of which I am an inhabitant as well as one of your constituents, on the subject of the income-tax, as bearing so heavily on persons in my situation, and which, from Lord J. Russell's speech last night, it is sought to augment to a fearful degree, as affecting persons so situated as myself; and to request your strenuous opposition to the re-enacting of so obnoxious a tax, particularly in its proposed altered form? I am one of a class of persons who have succeeded, after many years of exertion, in obtaining an income exceeding by a few pounds the sum which makes me liable to the payment of this impost. Its operation in my case may be taken as an illustration of hundreds of others. I have a wife and children. I have to maintain my wife and self in decent respectability, and to supply the wants of both the bodies and minds of my children; this I do, and as long as health is given me, I may hope to continue to do so. But my income is dependent entirely upon the continuance of my health; and should I die (except a small sum, to secure which I have annually further to reduce my heavily-taxed income), my wife and children would be left entirely destitute; and yet I am called upon to pay from this precarious source as much as the man who has 5,000 l. l. l. l. 1019 l. l. 1. s.
 MR. W. BROWN  observed, that the hon. Member for Kerry had stated that the only objection he anticipated to this Bill was from the shipowners. Now, he must plead guilty to being a shipowner; but no one could hail with more satisfaction than himself the introduction of this Bill, for no one could more strongly reprobate the practice which was generally adopted with regard to emigrant ships. He was only afraid that the clauses of the Bill would not be sufficiently stringent to prevent the awful sacrifice of human life which took place for want of arrangements which might easily be carried out in emigrant ships. He considered, however, that other matters connected with this subject deserved attention; for it was well known to every shipowner that the greater part of the ships employed in the Quebec trade in carrying out emigrants would never return with the weight of cargo they brought from Quebec, if it were not that the cargo carried the ship instead of the ship carrying the cargo. He thought, therefore, it was most advisable that emigrant ships should be subjected to proper inspection before they sailed.
 MR. EWART  was convinced of the necessity of sooner or later taking into consideration the whole question of the taxation of the country. His hon. Friend had truly stated that, in consequence of the reductions made by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, the cost of collecting the Excise had diminished 50,000 l. l. 998
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  expressed his astonishment that the proposal made on Friday night should proceed from a Government professing to act on the principles of retrenchment, economy, and reform. He had hoped that the noble Lord would not have set an example of extravagance. He had expected that our expenditure would have been reduced, as he did not think that we were ever in a condition when there was less necessity to take warlike precautions. He should feel it his duty to give every opposition in his power to the proposition now made for incressing our expenditure and taxation.
 SIR G. GREY  admitted the importance of the Bill passing as rapidly as possible; but its consideration by a Select Committee would involve no delay. The object of the Select Committee would not be to take evidence, and two days would be sufficient time for them to consider the measure. It was undesirable, however, to pledge the Government to meet the views of the hon. Member for Montrose, as to the consolidation of the several Bills on this subject. It would be wiser first to pass this measure, and then direct attention to consolidation. Any other course would create delay, and cause matters to remain as they were.
 MR. WARD  moved the sum of 800,0002. for the wages of seamen for the ensuing year. Having heard so many animadversions made on the estimates proposed, he would state that nothing could be more gratifying to the Admiralty than to have the opportunity of submitting those estimates to the closest investigation, and every item of them to calm discussion; and, if any saving could be suggested, they would have no hesitation in adopting it. There was an addition to the estimates this year for the marines; but it arose from taking the vote for twelve months, whilst last year it was taken only for six. Every First Lord of the Admiralty for the
 1020 l.
 MR. WARD  moved a vote of 245,410 l. s. d.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  wished to know whether the 420,0002. China ransom-money detained at the Cape was to be deducted from the l,300,000 l.
 SIR R. PEEL : It was my duty to move the appointment of the last Committee on public expenditure. I made that Motion in 1820, as the representative in the House of Commons of the Government of that day. In the year 1828, shortly after the Duke of Wellington was called to the Government, and in fulfilment of engagements given the preceding year by Mr. Canning, I moved the appointment of a Committee to consider the military expenditure. Ten years had then elapsed since the appointment of a Committee on finance. A Committee had been appointed at the instance of Mr. Pitt in 1786; the next was appointed in 1797; the next under the Administration of Grey and Grenville, in 1807. After an interval of ten years, another was appointed in 1817; and after the lapse of other ten years I proposed in 1828 the appointment of a Committee to consider the military expenditure of the country. I agree with the noble Lord in thinking that this is not the moment to determine whether the appointment of a Committee is fitting or not. But, in reference to the question, so far as it has been raised, as to the Committee being a secret one, I apprehend that if the precedents of former periods are to be followed, the Committee should be a Select Committee. But it will have full power to withhold from the House all information the discovery of which would be injurious to the public service; it will, therefore, be secret. This Committee, which is nominally a Select Committee, has, I apprehend, the power of conducting inquiries in secret, and of excluding from the public knowledge any evidence which it might be important to abstain from disclosing. If you turn to the report made
 1008 l. "The documents which relate to the subject will be found in the appendix. The Committee regret that they are prevented by important prudential considerations from annexing all the evidence given to them respecting these."
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  said, he was glad of the opportunity of explaining a misapprehension which he believed prevailed; he had heard the same objection which now came authoritatively from the hon. Member. He could not admit that the medical profession were slighted; for, in the first place, the Bill gave power to the Treasury of appointing such a number of superintending inspectors as might be thought fit; and from the nature of the thing a considerable number of them ought to consist of medical men or engineers, as circumstances might require. Then the Bill gave power to the local boards to appoint officers to carry out the provisions of the Bill, who might be medical men. With respect to the two members of the general board in London, it was the determination of the Government, if called upon, to exercise a choice, to select the two fittest men they could find, and he could not bind himself by any more stringent declaration as to who they might be.
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  moved the Second Reading of the Public Health Bill; he hoped that the House would consent to the second reading now, on the understanding that a fair interval should be given for the consideration of the clauses.
 ADMIRAL DUNDAS  begged to contradict one point of the hon. Member's speech. It was not the fact that there was not one steamer in the Canton river. A steamer was always there, and at the time of the late melancholy occurrence, a man-of-war steamer was in the roads.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  expressed his hope that the appointment of this Committee would not be taken as a precedent sanctioning the same course in future, and said that the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth had cast ridicule on the panic that existed on the subject of foreign invasion. Perhaps in some degree it was deserving of it; at the same time the feeling that gave rise to it was not
 1086 Cries of and laughter.
 LORD C. HAMILTON  was surprised to hear any one who had paid attention to the subject for such a length of time as the hon. Member, attribute all the evils he had enumerated to the operation of the Act of 1845, when he did not once allude to that of 1846. The omission appeared very remarkable; but as the hon. and gallant Member had referred to the former Act in this spirit, he might be excused if he turned to the report of the Commissioners at the Havannah in 1846, wherein they stated that no vessel had arrived there from any slave port during the month previous to their despatch, and that nothing had transpired to occasion any belief that slaves bad been imported. The Commissioners of Loango, in the same year, informed the Government that the slave trade there was quite destroyed. The House would observe, that these statements were made in 1846, so that the Act of 1845, which had then been in operation for a year, could not have had the effect ascribed to it by the hon. and gallant Member. How then could he, or any one, attribute to the treaty with the French, in 1845, any of those difficulties with which the emanci-
 1129
 LORD GEORGE BENTINCK : If my hon. Friend calls the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs as a witness, he will come to a different conclusion from that which he has already arrived at from the statement which my hon. Friend has made to-night, because I think if my hon. Friend examines my noble Friend opposite, he may tell him that on an average of the last two years, about 20,000 slaves have been imported into the island of Cuba; and he will be obliged to tell him that whilst we have had squadrons on the coast of Africa, they have only succeeded, upon the average, in capturing from 2,800 to 3,000 slaves a year, for the last six years, and that in the year just past no less than 60,000 slaves were imported into Brazil. Now I think that when the House perceives that with an expenditure of 700,000 l. 1127 l. l.,
 LORD GEORGE BENTINCK : I am relieved in a great measure from the necessity of continuing the opposition which I gave last night to Her Majesty's Ministers, because Her Majesty's Ministers have abandoned altogether the declaration which they then made. The great objection I made to the Committee was that it was to be a "Select and Secret" Committee; and considering that that announce-
 1064 l., l., l.; l. 1065
 LORD HOTHAM  could not but express the gratification he felt at finding that however the House might be disposed to condemn the system itself, or to hold contending opinions on the merits of our legislation, there was no hon. Gentleman who found fault with the mode in which it was carried out, or attempted to find fault with the officers and men employed on the service. He had been fearful, considering how much had been said, more particularly by one hon. Member opposite, of the idleness of Her Majesty's ships, that it might be supposed by the House that the officers and men of the ships on the west coast of Africa were liable to the same imputation; but as no one, notwithstanding this language, seemed to be of this opinion, he would not take up the time of the House by giving any explanation of the numerous and arduous duties which fell to the officers and men on that station. Indeed, no one could be well aware how arduous, difficult, and responsible they were. As regarded the task which devolved upon his relative who had the honour to fill a high trust on that station, it would be difficult to give any idea of its harassing nature to both body and mind; but he could not sit down without stating that his labour and responsibility, great as they were, had been and were mitigated by the
 1130
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I think it right to correct a misapprehension into which the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire fell in the course of his speech. The hon. Gentleman stated that the appointment of a Select Committee on this subject was equivalent to an abandonment by the House of its privilege of voting on the Estimates, and that Members were making a sacrifice thereby of their power to vote on such occasions. Now, the fact is, that nothing could be more mistaken than the views of the hon. Gentleman in this respect; because the appointment of the Select Committee, although it may put the House in possession of information which may perhaps be useful for its guidance, does not deprive the House of any of its powers whatever. The hon. Member charges my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer with not having brought forward any precedents for the appointment of this Committee. Though, perhaps, the precedents of former years have not been cited which bear immediately upon the present cases, yet good authorities have been shown for the course the Government is now taking; and, considering the last occasion of the appointment of a Committee of this kind, I think it fair to say, when the income of the country was less than it is at present, and
 1080 1081 1082 1083
 MR. DISRAELI : After the observations of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, I thought it might be considered that I shrunk from the challenge which he has accepted so gallantly, if I did not notice his observations. I expressed an opinion last night that no precedents could be produced in favour of the measure of the Government; but I did not mean for a
 1066 1067 "Her Majesty has given directions that the Estimates for the next year shall he prepared for the purpose of being laid before you." "Those Estimates will be framed with a careful regard to the exigencies of the Public Service." inter alia, 1068 "We are commanded by His Majesty to recommend the early attention of the House of Commons to an inquiry into the revenue and expenditure of the country." 1069 "I do not propose this Committee with the object insinuated—of deluding and deceiving the people of this kingdom, or of procuring from it a recommendation for increased taxation, or founding on its recommendation a proposition for increased taxation." 1070 dignus nodus.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  wished to know whether he was to understand the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer as intimating that the Committee were to inquire with closed doors into the distribution and disposition of Her Majesty's forces?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  wished to know whether the inquiry would refer to the distribution of the forces?
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  protested against the Select Committee. He augured no good from it. Everything would be wrapped up in mystery; and not only would the House not get the whole truth, but they would get no truth at all. If it must be appointed, however, he hoped it would take into its serious consideration the salaries of the public departments, which were far beyond what they ought to be. He had no confidence in the present Government. Where to get a better he did not know—for nobody would take office after them—but worse they could not get.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that if anything was fresh in the recollection of the House, it was that the agricultural interests were to be ruined if the corn laws were repealed, and that the country gentlemen were to leave the country. He could happily congratulate the hon. Member on being as much disappointed in all his prophecies, predictions, and anticipations as the hon. Member could possibly say of those who sat on that side of the House as to the success of free trade. One of the principles which hon. Gentlemen opposite held most tenaciously was, that the prosperity of the country depended upon the high price of corn, and that the revenue of the country depended thereupon. "How will you collect the revenue," it was said, "if you repeal the corn laws?" Now, what had been the price of corn last year? The price had been higher than for twenty years before, and provisions of all kinds had been dearer. What had been the result of this very high price of corn? Why, that had been the very cause of the depression of trade. One of his anticipations as to the result of free trade was, that they would not have high prices in future. It was impossible to do away at once with all the injuries that the corn laws had inflicted, and it would take some years of free trade to do that. There was only one congratulation
 1091
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I shall, perhaps, best answer the hon. Gentleman by reading two resolutions adopted by the Committee, which sat in 1834, on the military and colonial expenditure. They express their opinion, first, that the Government ought "not to reduce the number of the garrison of Gibraltar;" and, secondly, that in certain contingencies "the force in the Ionian Islands may be diminished." That, I apprehend, applies both to the distribution of the forces, and to their amount.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I never said, the Committee was to sit with closed doors. I was under a misapprehension when I stated that Committees of this kind were secret. What I did at the time intend to say, and what I now say is, that the Committee ought to have the power of suppressing any part of the evidence, or any of the documents laid before it, the publication of which might be injurious to the public service. I think it proper that they should have the power to exercise if they find it needful; but otherwise I do not propose that they should be invested with that power.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, in the first place I have to express my thanks to the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Sharman Crawford) who had a Motion on the Paper for leave to bring in a Bill to extend the powers for hiring land for the use of poorhouses in Ireland, and who had given way, not only on my own
 1057 l. l. 1058 l. l. l. l. l.; 1059 1060 l. 1061 "The Select Committee have proceeded to investigate the principal establishments of the country, beginning with the Army. In this department, the first object that presents itself is the numerical amount of force. Your Committee are deeply sensible of the extreme difficulty of ascertaining the precise point at which our military establishments should be fixed, on account of political considerations, and others of a still more delicate nature, which must necessarily involve themselves in the question." 1062 "The Committee thought it proper to commence their proceedings with the examination of the estimates of the Army, Navy, and Ordnance, because they expected, by taking this course, to be able to report their opinion on each of those branches of expenditure before the period would arrive when the public service of the country would render it necessary that they should be brought under the consideration of the House." 1063 "For the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the Expenditure on account of the Navy, Army, and Ordnance, and to report their Observations thereupon to the House; and also the appointment of another Select Committee to inquire into the Expenditure for Miscellaneous Services, and to report to the House whether any Reductions can, in their opinion, be effected, or any Improvement made in the Mode of submitting this Branch of the Public Expenditure to the consideration of Parliament."
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that it was impossible not to concur with the spirit of many of the observations which had fallen from the hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. Inglis). He believed, that although the people of this country might feel that the system now in operation on the western coast of Africa was interfering with the natural trade of this country with that coast—was subjecting the country to very great expense in the matter of the Navy—and was sacrificing the lives of many excellent officers and men; and although they might feel, in addition, that it was exposing this country to many difficulties of a political and commercial nature, by creating uneasy relations between Great Britain and other nations with whom it was most important that we should maintain relations of amity and commerce, yet that with these feelings they might, from motives of humanity, be induced to overlook such weighty considerations. But if they happened to agree with the hon. Member for the University of Oxford, that by our exertions we had only aggravated the mischiefs we were attempting to prevent, then he was at a loss to conceive on what ground there could be any objection to go into the Committee which had been moved for. Surely, if there was one thing more clear than another, it was this—that on no possible ground—neither on the ground of treaties, nor on the ground of trade, nor on the ground of naval expenditure, nor on the ground of just consideration for their officers and men, nor on the great ground of humanity, which had led them to engage in this unsuccessful enterprise, was the  status quo 1114 1115 primâ facie primâ facie Lady Sale primâ facie Lady Sale Alert, Cygnet, Prometheus, Lady Sale Constituçao "I went to examine the said brig, and they told me she was called the  Lady Sale. 1116 "The commander regrets to add, that the English brig  Lady Sale Lady Sale primâ facie Lady Sale 1117 Lady Sale "The number of planks is not greater than this vessel ought to have carried upon the voyage in which she was engaged. They are not fitted for being laid down as a second or move-able deck, or slave deck, being in a rough state, of different sizes, and would appear altogether only sufficient to cover a very small portion of the surface of the hold, if they could be appropriated to such a purpose."…. "The rough spars of the different dimensions specified in the report of the survey are such as merchant vessels engaged in licit commerce are generally supplied with, as ship stores, when proceeding on a distant voyage." "The  Lady Sale "It appears, then, to be demonstrated, and I think abundantly, both by the documentary and oral evidence in this case, that the end Messrs. Horsfall and Son had in view by preparing and despatching this ship on a voyage to the Congo, was to endeavour to open legitimate commerce with the natives in that river—a laudable undertaking, which it is to be lamented has signally failed in the inception, since it is by extending and promoting British commerce, and the penetration of British mercantile enterprise into these remote regions, that we can alone hope and expect effectually to supplant the odious and accursed traffic in slaves, which, from the earliest periods of its existence down to the present day, has been so notoriously and infamously carried on by the subjects of other States, despite the well-known laws and treaties of their countries, which the British nation has for so many years, and at such an unlimited expense, so ardently and humanely endeavoured to carry into effective execution." 1118 Lady Sale Lady Sale, Lady Sale l. l. Lady Sale 1119
 Mr. BANKES  said, the noble Lord had presented to the House the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Buckingamshire in a much wider sense than his hon. Friend himself had intended. His hon. Friend by no means meant to say or had said that the appointment of this Committe would entirely take the subject out of the hands of the House; but he was right in saying that the appointment of the Committee and the report of such a Committee might have a very different effect upon individual Members of that House when they came to give their attention to the subject of these estimates; for it would very often happen that an hon. Member, who would be very scrupulous as to the vote he was to give on his individual responsibility, when he found that a Committee had sat upon the subject, would justify his vote to himself, and, as he thought, to the public, by relying on the report of the Committee. He thought, therefore, his hon. Friend was perfectly
 1084 1085 l.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that the panic referred to by the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down, had been created by a belief that an attempt was to be made, as in former years, to increase the military expenses, and therefore unnecessarily to in-
 1077 l. 1078 l. 1079
 MR. HUME  wished the Committee to be properly constituted, so that it might do its duty fairly. If a large proportion of those who were on the Committee were Members accustomed to support large estimates, the Committee would not be properly constituted. But he hoped Her Majesty's Government would take care that the larger proportion of the Committee should not consist of those who had been hardened—if he might use the expression—into callousness when dealing with estimates. Unless the Committee were so selected, it would not be satisfactory to the public. An hon. Gentleman had read some passages of a Speech from the Throne; it was to be regretted that Ministers had not made a similar recommendation on the present occasion. He (Mr. Hume) had not contemplated additional taxation; but when called on to renew the former taxation, they ought to consider the general state of the revenue. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth had made a most important change in taxation, having introduced a principle which, being sound, ought to be extended to the taxation of the country in general. A Committee ought to be appointed to consider how so many
 1072
 MR. HUME  came down to the House prepared to support the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Gateshead. It was pleasing to him that he had given way to the hon. Member for Newcastle-under-Lyme (Mr. Jackson), because he might confidently say that within his recollection a more effective speech had never been made upon the subject in that House; and if that effect was given by a bare recital of facts it was all the more pertinent to the object they had in view. His hon. Friend, in bringing forward this Motion, had done great service to the whole community. His hon. Friend had been blamed for having again painted the horrors of the slave trade; but how was it possible to remove the prejudices of the people, and, unhappily, of Members in that House, on the subject, unless the real truth as to the dreadful nature of the traffic still carried on were made known? He could assure his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford that no man looked back with more satisfaction than he did to the labours of Mr. Wilberforce. The exertions of that eminent man were supported by the country, and the cause of humanity was promoted. But the question before the House was quite of another character. The question was, whether, by maintaining an armed force on the coast of Africa, this country could prevent other nations from carrying on the slave trade? Did not the hon. Member (Sir R. Inglis) recollect that Mr. Pitt declared war against France because France threw impediments in the way of British commerce? Suppose, when the slave trade was sanctioned by the law of this country, France had declared that the merchants of England should not purchase slaves, or cultivate their estates in the West Indies by slave labour, what would have been the course adopted by England? There could be no difficulty in answering that question. Well, then, were they, the English nation, at liberty to say to other countries—"Inasmuch as we have abolished the slave trade and slavery, we insist upon your abolishing
 1112 l. s. 1113
 MR. BUCK  was reminded of some of the predictions of the hon. Member for the West Riding as to the prosperity that would result from a repeal of the corn laws, and the failure of these predictions. There was not one interest that was not suffering at the present moment.
 MR. COBDEN : I am bound to say, that, for my own part, I cannot concur in the reasons put forward for objecting to the appointment of the Committee proposed. It is assumed that if this Committee is appointed, and the Army, Navy, and Ordnance Estimates are referred to twelve or fifteen Gentlemen upstairs, the discretion of objecting to the estimates, or proposing a reduction in them, will be taken away from this House. Now, I do not understand that to be the case. As I understand it, you are appointing a Committee not only to examine and determine what should be the expenditure of your Army, Navy, and Ordnance, but they will also have to superintend and inquire into the mode of taking contracts and similar things. Now, I do not consent to refer it to them to say whether a certain amount of expenditure is necessary. It is said in this House and out of doors, that there will be some mysterious revelations made before this Secret Committee; that an illustrious and noble Duke will be called before them, and other parties, able to impart many important secrets connected with the defence of the country. Now, I believe there are no such secrets. The newspapers now-a-days give us the secrets of every foreign Government sooner than our diplomatists. I believe also that there are no plots formed in these days. Everything is a matter of discussion among our neighbours across the Channel; they cannot dispose of a five-franc piece without having a discussion upon it in the French Chambers, and making it the subject of a party Motion. This Committee, then, will take from me no discretion in opposing any part of the sum demanded for the estimates that I may think extravagant. I stipulate for this as one condition for assenting to its appointment,
 1088 1089 1090
 MR. SLANEY  begged merely to offer one suggestion to the Committee about to be appointed, which he thought was worthy their consideration. It might be well for them to take into account the fact that money produced now a greater quantity of money's worth than it did fifteen or twenty years ago: that, by the diminution of prices of commodities, money now went further than it did then. And the Committee might see whether such a diminution of the sums paid to various persons might not be effected in consideration of the greater length to which their monies would now go, than when their payments were originally fixed. If that could be done, then without giving less salaries than were given fifteen or twenty years ago, and without employing fewer persons, or diminishing the value of their services, a considerable saving to the public might be effected. And if he were right, he was sure the noble Lord at the head of the Government would be the first to acknowledge the possibility of lowering the estimates, and the last to refuse to make such a diminution, if convinced of its practicability. He would only add, that he hoped the Committee would be fairly appointed, and that the Gentlemen comprising it would go to the performance of their duty with a determination to attend to the good of the country.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that, as the noble Lord had stated that the number of slaves imported into Cuba for the last two years did not exceed 2,000 annually, he wished to ask him to what period his reports reached; and, if it were from the latest accounts he derived his information?
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  had heard no satisfactory reason given to induce him to change his mind. He thought that the public mind ought to be allowed to act
 1087
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  said, that the obstacles and difficulties which had been thrown in the way of the noble Lord had been innumerable. It was only within a few years that the cruisers on the coast of Africa had been in a position to carry out the wishes of that House. When he recollected that in 1838 it was proposed to send out more cruisers, he was surprised that no one had risen on this occasion to support
 1128
 MR. WARD  hoped the House would allow him to corroborate the statement of the noble Lord opposite (Lord Hotham) as to the sense entertained by the Government of the distinguished services of his gallant relative (Sir C. Hotham), in carrying out the responsible duty confided to his charge. In everything connected with the discipline of the squadron, which had been before his arrival in rather a lax state, he had introduced changes of the most valuable and wholesome character; and in consequence of his sanitary regulations the health of the men had been fully restored during the last two years, so that the squadron was comparatively free of those fevers which had been so fatal before we served our apprenticeship in the service of the coast. In fact there never was a squadron which had been brought to a higher state of discipline, or the health of which had suffered less from the viccissitudes of climate. The statements which had been given forth as to the fevers and ill health necessarily consequent on long service on
 1131
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  was not sorry he had given the hon. Member an opportunity of explaining his meaning; but he had certainly understood that the West India planter was to pay 8 l. s. l. 1109 1110 1111
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  was sure that the speech which they had just heard had been listened to with the attention which it well deserved. It was certainly one of the most remarkably successful first efforts which he had witnessed for many Sessions. Yet he could not, in thus alluding to it, refrain from asking himself whether there were not some misconception on his own part, or some misstatement on the part of the hon. Gentleman, in one of his main propositions with regard to ridding Africa of its present native race for the benefit of the West Indies? The hon. Member seemed to state that the panacea for the wrongs of Africa on the one hand, and the present distress of the West Indies on the other, was the removal of a certain number of natives from Africa to the West Indies, who were to be purchased for 4 l. l. s. 1108 l. s. l. l. s.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  must express the objection he felt, and which had so often been made before, to any Government delegating its duties and responsibilities to others and governing England by a Committee of that House. His only consolation in this instance was derived from the phrase in the beginning of the address of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that if their estimates were not agreed to, they were prepared to abdicate; and from the statement of his noble Friend, that if the Committee should not approve of the estimates which, upon the responsibility of office, he had laid before that House, he would abdicate the functions of which in that case the House would consider him unworthy. In doing so the noble Lord's conduct would be worthy of his high position. If the noble Lord were prepared to adopt estimates framed on a different principle or a different distribution of them from that which he himself had proposed, he would be utterly unworthy of receiving the confidence of that House. It was because he believed that his noble Friend would act up to his high position, and would maintain the propositions he had submitted to the House, that he consented to the Committee. It was upon that ground alone that he could consent to the appointment of a Committee to consider that which he believed the Minister, on his own responsibility, and for the last twenty years, had taken upon himself.
 SIR R. PEEL : The hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) has referred to some remarks which I made on the subject of this Committee; but he certainly misapprehended me if he thought my observations went to show that the course Her Majesty's Government proposed to pursue was sanctioned by the precedents which were alleged. I intimated an opinion that there was a difference between the precedents and the course they proposed to pursue. My chief object yesterday was to consider whether precedent would sanction the appointment of a Secret Committee to inquire into the expenditure of the country. My recollection was at variance with that of the noble (Lord J. Russell) and of the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer). Though former Committees had exercised a discretion, and most properly so, in withholding information most material for them to receive, possibly most material for the public interest to conceal, yet my impression was that those Committees were "Select" Committees, not "Secret" Committees. The right hon. Gentleman may have been misled by the course which Mr. Pitt followed in appointing Committees by ballot. In 1817, when
 1073 1074 1075 1076
 MR. HUTT  rose to move—
 "For the Appointment of a Select Committee to consider the best Means which Great Britain can adopt for providing for the final Extinction of the Slave Trade." l. 1092 "A conscientious man," said Mr. Burke, "will be cautious how he deals in blood. He will feel some apprehension at being called to a tremendous account for engaging in so deep a game." 1093 l. l. "It is much to be feared, that with such inducements and temptations as these, the slave trade will still be carried on in this part of Africa; at all events it will be obvious that nothing short of the most decided and strenuous measures on the part of Her Majesty's Government, by guarding the whole of this coast with an ample and efficient naval force, can hold out any prospects of complete success in the humane object which Great Britain has so long and so beneficently exerted herself to obtain. In proportion to the number of slave vessels captured and destroyed the value of slaves will increase in Brazil; and the same measures thus calculated to enhance the value of the slaves in the New World by preventing their exportation from Africa, leaves the market there overstocked, and produces a proportionate reduction in their first cost; thus the profits become so enormous as to induce unprincipled speculators to run any risk in the traffic; and I believe I may with truth assert, that at the present day, one successful trip out of six is attended with a fair return of capital to slave dealers." 1094 l. 1095 Agnes, 1096 1097 "We regret to learn that the traders resident in the Brazils have not relaxed in their undertakings; no less than twenty-five vessels, three of which were steam vessels, being reported as out on this nefarious pursuit from the port of Rio de Janeiro alone. These vessels, it appears, have been despatched in sets of five or six; and before the person through whom this statement reached us left Rio de Janeiro, three of them had returned and landed their slaves; and as only two have been brought in here for adjudication, it is to be feared that by far the larger number will ere this have been equally successful. "We regret to state that we have no reason to alter the opinion we have already had the honour to lay before Her Majesty's Government that the slave trade continues to be carried on between the east coast of Africa and the Brazils to an extent which defies the exertions made for its suppression by the small number of cruisers at present employed on this station." Times "Notwithstanding these captures, and others sent in Sierra Leone, we learn by the latest advices that the slave trade was very brisk to the northward." 1098 Actœon, "The mode in which the African slave trade was formerly conducted in this port, has now assumed a new feature. Instead of the larger classes of vessels, varying from 150 to 300 tons burden each, a smaller kind is now employed, of from 45 to 60 tons, namely, the  Maria Maraquinhas, Deliberacao, Diligencias, San Domingos, 1099 Eden Raven Curlew 1100 Eclair, l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1101 primâ facie
 MR. HUTT  replied: He did not think as the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) appeared to imagine, 600,000 l. l.
 MR. JACKSON  said, in rising for the first time to address the House, he should not be doing his duty if he did not state the practical knowledge which he had acquired during a period of sixteen years' traffic with almost every portion of the western coast of Africa, from the river at Sierra Leone down to the Cape of Good Hope. He should support the proposition of the hon. Member, because he had brought a grave though indirect charge against those British merchants who were engaged in the trade between this country and the coast of Africa. The hon. Gentleman seemed to lead the House to the inference that those British merchants had, to a certain extent, a guilty knowledge—that, directly or indirectly, they were engaged in the slave trade. Now, he on his own account, and in conjunction with his partners, had, as he had just intimated, carried on for sixteen years a trade between Liverpool and the western coast of Africa; he and they had had commercial transactions with every river along that extensive coast—he might say almost with every creek—from Sierra Leone, the River Bonny, the Galinas, the Gold Coast, the Bight of Benin, the Cameroons, and so on, down to the Cape of Good Hope; and, on their behalf and his own, he could assure the House they had never been parties to any transaction connected with slavery or the slave-
 1102 1103 l. s. 1. 1. s. 1. l. s. l. 1104 l. l. s. 1105 l., 1106 l. l., 1107 l. Laughter.
 MR. JACKSON : What he said was, that in his own experience he had always found an abundance of free labour offered; for as soon as vessels appeared off the coast of Africa, and backed their foretop-sail, twenty or thirty canoes would put off, maimed each by twenty or thirty men, who were most anxious to be engaged at the pay of a dollar a month, and who were willing to be fed upon rice and such refuse as the seamen would not eat. He also said, that the time they were to be employed was no consideration with them, whether for one or for three moons was immaterial; their great desire was to be under the protection of the British flag. Those men he had always found faithful, industrious, willing to serve under all circumstances-faithful even to death; and if it were necessary to bring them to England, in consequence of desertion or death amongst the original crew, they never hesitated to come; all their desire was, after a certain service, to be planted again upon their own coast. What he meant to say was this, that he would, with the consent of the Government, undertake to plant on the West India islands, free of all other charges, at the rate of 4 l. s.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I have already, before this discussion began, informed the hon. Member for Gateshead that it is not my intention to oppose the appointment of the Committee for which he has moved. I quite agree with what seems to be the general opinion of the House, that it is fitting that an inquiry should take place into the system which is now pursued for the purpose of effecting the abolition of the slave trade. If there prevails among any portion of the public, or of this House, an opinion that the measures hitherto adopted have not succeeded in accomplishing the object, that, of itself, is a sufficient ground on which the House may be fairly and justly called on to institute an inquiry for the purpose of ascertaining what are the causes which prevent the success of the measures adopted, if success has not been attained; and what other measures are more likely to attain the object proposed. Therefore I entirely concur in the Motion of my hon. Friend. I cannot, however, say that I equally concur in the statements and arguments on which he has founded his Motion; for, with all deference to him, I must be allowed to say, that there appears to me to be great exaggeration in his statements and great fallacy in his arguments. It is said that we have not succeeded in putting down the slave
 1120 1121 1122 1123 1124 1125 1126
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON , in reply, said that the accounts to which he referred were from the end of the year 1845 to the end of 1847, and that only 2,000 slaves were known to have been imported in 1846. He did not recollect the precise date of the latest accounts in 1847; but they came down to a later period of the year, and it was supposed that the same number of slaves had been imported into Cuba as in the preceding year.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. and learned Gentleman cannot, on a Motion like this, make use of language such as he has just now used, without irregularity. He cannot make charges upon the occasion of a simple preliminary Motion for the production of papers. To entitle himself to make them, he must give notice of a Motion of a much graver character against the noble Lord; and then he will be justified in using those expressions.
 MR. SPEAKER : I understand the hon. and learned Member to withdraw his observation.
 MR. SPEAKER , interrupting the noble Lord, said, "This debate stands as an
 1242
 MR. URQUHART : Sir, I will not pursue the right hon. Gentleman in his general and personal observations, which have very little to do with the case before the House. On that case, I shall make but few observations, because until something like a reply is given to the elaborate and extraordinary statement of the hon. and learned Member for Youghal, I do not conceive that the debate will have arrived at that point when it is necessary to furnish fresh evidence. As regards myself I conceive that the voluminous productions which the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Sheil) has satirised—and my long efforts to bring before the attention of this country the conclusions which I have formed regarding the conduct of its public affairs by the noble Lord (Lord Palmerston), discharge me from the necessity of re-stating anew in this House, or of re-asserting in this place the proofs upon which these imputations rest. If what we assert is true, events will come to open your ears, and to soften your hearts. If we are wrong, nothing can be easier than to show that we are so. I take my stand against the present opinion of this House upon
 1231 1232 1233 1234 Cries of  1235 primâ facie ex parte 1236 l. l. 1237
 MR. SHEIL : Dungarvon is so near to Youghal, that in virtue of my Parliamentary vicinage to the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just sat down, and in
 1227 "Mr. Urquhart—Address, praying Her Majesty to exercise Her Majesty's undoubted prerogative of summoning, within Her Majesty's realm of Ireland, the Peers spiritual and temporal of that realm, and the knights, citizens, and burgesses thereof, in order that Her Majesty may take counsel with the same in regard to the great and manifold derangements and sufferings of that kingdom. [Monday, Dec. 6."] 1228 1229 1230
 MR. ANSTEY : Certainly; I meant to do that when I submitted myself to the Chair. 1207 1208
 MR. ANSTEY : The reason, Sir, why I have commenced with a mere Motion for papers is this—I was apprehensive of being overthrown on a point of form. I therefore consulted precedents; and I have invariably found that a Member, who rises in his place to make a charge without calling for papers, is obliged to lay his charges in writing upon the table of the House, and then, and not till then, the House will consider the question whether those papers shall be granted or not. I found that it was impossible to do so in many of these cases, without seeing the papers themselves. On the other hand, I have been able to make a statement sufficiently general to justify me in calling for papers. I have found that there are precedents in favour of the course I have taken. If I am wrong, I am very sorry, and I shall take care not again to merit the censure of the Chair.
 MR. ANSTEY : The noble Lord says that the Treaty of June, 1841, applies to both Straits; to the Bosphorus as well as to the Dardanelles. The fallacy of his position is so transparent, that I scarcely require to point it out. The noble Lord cannot contradict so notorious a fact as that which I am about to state. Indeed it has been stated by himself in his own publication, the "Portfolio." According to a very elaborate and accurate paper there, to which I refer the House, the strength of the Bosphorus is nothing,—for the purpose of repelling an invasion on the side of the Black Sea. But the strength of the Dardanelles,—in resisting an invasion from the Mediterranean side,—is everything. Yet, with the knowledge of these facts before him, and under the pretence of reciprocity—a pretence which, I think, will not find much favour in this House,—the noble Lord now says,—"The allies of the Sultan are to be excluded from the Dardanelles, because the enemy of the Sultan undertakes to be excluded from the Bosphorus; in either case, however, only until war is actually raging!" Why, Sir, in time of war as in time of peace the passage of the Dardanelles is impracticable! In time of war, as in time of peace, the passage of the Bosphorus is always practicable, with or without the consent of the Sultan. Moreover, in the meantime,—and before the question of war or peace is openly raised on either side,—you have the Russians present at Constantinople, and now made, by your policy ascendant there. You have them coercing the Porte to pursue the measures which they dictate, and which come direct from St. Petersburgh. You have left yourselves nothing whatever there, that can assure or encourage the Porte, that, in giving her refusal to the adoption of those measures, she may rely on finding at the proper hour the protection of England, against the consequences. That was, indeed, the very object of the treaty. It was designed to paralyse the Porte. It was framed for the purpose of making it indispensable for the Sultan to accept whatever policy the Russian Czar might choose to impose upon
 1201 1202 1203 1204 1205 1206
 MR. ANSTEY : I did not pretend to read that passage. I gave it as my own. I stated my own interpretation of the passage I had been reading, and was then about to resume the perusal of the document. But there were words which I pre-
 1145 "That Her Majesty's Government was of opinion, that the stipulations and engagements of the Treaty of Vienna ought to be adhered to in Italy as well as in all other parts of Europe to which they applied." 1146 1147 1148 "Whatever reports might have reached the British Government as to late transactions and recent diplomatic communications in Cracow, they were persuaded that those Governments could not contemplate or have authorised any proceedings at variance with the principles of international law, or any aggression whatever upon the territories or rights of other States;"—that "it would be impossible for Great Britain to view the occurrence of such events with indifference,"—if they did occur—and that "no such invasion could take place without leading to consequences of great gravity and importance?" 1149 1150 1151
 MR. ANSTEY : It has never been contradicted yet.
 MR. ANSTEY : Then I can only say, Sir, that this is the first time it has been contradicted. Perhaps the noble Lord will ask my noble Friend the Member for Marylebone whether he also contradicts it. I have seen it stated in print.
 MR. ANSTEY : I have seen it stated in print; I know it not of my own knowledge. I know that my noble Friend has never contradicted it. However, if he
 1152 1153 1154 1155 1156 1157 1158 1159 1160 1161 1162 quasi 1163 1164 ad valorem ad valorem, 1165 1166 1167 Vixen, 1168 1169 1170 Age; 1171 congé, 1172 "He knew nothing of Mr. Urquhart person ally, but that he would say, that he conceived the publication of the letter to be quite a natural course for a man of honour and a gentleman to pursue, when he heard a Secretary of State say, that he would not produce a letter written by that gentleman, on the ground of its not being official, but at the same time charged it with being, from first to last, full of the grossest misrepresentations. He could see no proper course to pursue but that which Mr. Urquhart had taken; which was to publish the whole letter, that its contents might be made known to the world; and, in order to judge this matter at issue between him and the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, demand a Committee of the House of Commons. He (Lord Stanley) felt not the slightest reluctance to use the evidence contained in this letter," &c. "It was perfectly clear that in point of argument the case was satisfactorily settled; and that there was a strong case for inquiry." "The six years' concealment of the Russian blockade of Circassia by the noble Lord at the head of Foreign Affairs," &c. "When he considered the circumstances under which that letter was published—when he remembered the circumstances under which he moved for the papers in question, and the reason given by the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston), he was satisfied that he would be more than justified in
 1173 "My dear Urquhart—On the 15th I received, by Vienna post, the "Portfolio, No. 12," inclusive. I had before seen three numbers, I think, or four. I cannot sufficiently express my admiration of the work; though I differ from you in some things. "The despatches from Pozzo di Borgo are in estimable. I, above all men, must prize them; for they confirm everything I have said for years past, and justify the whole of the policy I have recommended, and, in as far as it rested with me to do, acted upon also. I am happy that Prince Metternich will learn how he is esteemed by the Russians. I am a great admirer of Metternich, and the sworn friend of Austria; believing that England and Austria ought to be intimately allied for their common benefit. "I do not fear Russia one bit at present, nor have I any dread of her future power; provided we have either wise heads or stout hearts left in England, to direct and take the commonest means for our own security and interest. I know that Russia is of the Titan breed; but her gigantic limbs are unformed and unwieldy, like an over-
 1174 "I trust you are not about to leave London. You are invaluable there, and not necessary here. I hope you will at least be in London when my next despatches reach it. You have, I presume, seen the last secret one I sent? What could you do for yourself hero, or for the cause, that would elevate you, or assist it, the hundredth part so much as you have done, and must continue to do, at home? There is nothing for you to do here at present; though the time will come, ere long, when this place will furnish you full room and scope enough for all your energies and talents. "I read in the  Morning Chronicle "I see Mr. Poulett Thomson holds you and the Portfolio' in equal contempt. I thought he had been too clever a man for that. But I know little or nothing about him, excepting that he was a Russian merchant, and might naturally have feelings for the country from which he drew his pro fits. There are several others who have, or have had, similar connections with Russia, and who may have prejudices in her favour. This should be looked to." "Many months ago I told you I considered the game to be won here. I think when you really know what I have done, you will be pleased with me. I refer you to Hudson;—he knows. "I had been led to believe you had changed your mind respecting Circassia. No! I did not believe it; but I heard it. I am delighted with the manner in which you have treated that subject: it is admirable. I hope you have approved of what I have done in my despatches respecting it."— "I considered it, from the beginning, to be next in importance to the possession of Constantinople itself; but it is only lately (comparatively speaking) that I have known the facts of the total freedom of that country from every legitimate
 1175
 MR. ANSTEY : Sir, I do not regret the time which has elapsed since I last brought this subject before the House, be cause it has afforded the House the opportunity of hearing from the mouths of Her Majesty's Ministers a financial statement which I am sure has justified all the apprehensions and confirmed all the judgments which I expressed on that occasion. The House must feel that the position of this country is dangerous indeed. We are told that it now depends no longer upon opinion abroad, but upon our own armaments, whether or not that greatest of all evils, foreign invasion, and war at home, shall be averted. 1133 Ironical cheers. 1134 "Where are the limits to such inquiries? Shall I inquire as to the policy of the Syrian war; as to the effect of our bombardment of St. Jean d'Acre; and as to the effect our con duct on that occasion had upon our relations with France? [Mr. HUME: You ought.] Yes, the hon. Member for Montrose says truly enough that if I grant one Committee, I ought to grant another. Because, observe, if on every point of questionable policy this House is to have a Commission of Inquiry, another Member will come down and say, that the arrangements under the American Treaty are prejudicial to our interests, and that we must have a Committee of Inquiry on that subject. Having granted the first two Committees, I could not refuse the third; and of consequence I must hand over the Executive Government to the Committee of the House of Commons." * * 1135 1136 1137 habeas corpus  habeas corpus 1138 1139 1140 1141 Lord Palmerston laughed. 1142 1143 "The ancient alliance and long-established confidence which united the Governments of Great Britian and of Austria, would at all events render it the duty of Her Majesty's Government to explain frankly and without reserve to the Austrian Government the views and sentiments of the Government of Great Britain, upon events which are either happening or likely to happen, and which by their bearing and importance must necessarily be of great European interest." 1144 "It will be impossible for Great Britain to view with indifference the events to which such divergence of policy must lead, and to remind Austria that where Great Britain and the country threatened have long been bound together by the ties of faithful and intimate alliance, Great Britain can never forget or repudiate claims founded upon such honourable grounds." "That the integrity of the Roman State (the matter under discussion), may be considered as an essential element of the political independence of the Italian Peninsula, and that no invasion of the territory of that State could take place, without leading to consequences of great gravity and importance."
 MR. ANSTEY : I have read the noble Lord's own words. If the noble Lord will point out to me where he conceives me to have misquoted, I will read the passage again.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : You have not used my words, but your own. You have used the words "prescriptions of the Treaty of Vienna." I used no such words.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Read the exact words; you are not quoting accurately.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : That applies to both Straits.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : There is many a falsehood in print.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I now contradict it.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I beg your pardon; it is not true.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I trust that in what I may have to say, I shall exercise so much control over my temper that I shall not forget the respect which I owe to this House; and I shall avoid the use of language which I think is only disgraceful to those who employ it—language at variance with the rules of this House, with the courtesies of society, and with the practice of gentlemen. In such language, Sir, I at least
 1238 1239 1240 1241
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN * * 1255 1256 s. s. s. d. d. s. ad valorem 1257
 MR. M'GREGOR  said, it was his intention to vote for the Motion of the noble Lord the Member for Bath. But he would do so conditionally, and the condition was, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer should not be crippled in the means of maintaining the national integrity. He denied that it was the intention of the present, or that it had been of the late, Government to arrive at a system of direct taxation. Whilst they derived a revenue of 45,000,000 l. 1284
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  replied, and remarked, that of five speeches delivered against his Motion two only really opposed it—those of the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), and that of his Colleague the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He had observed that the noble Lord and the right hon. Gentleman invariably acted the part of the Siamese twins; they mutually supported each other; and when they happened to be at a loss, whatever the one said the other was ready to swear to. He regretted that he was not to count upon the support of his noble Friend and Colleague (Lord Ashley). He thanked him, however, for his speech, in which he had borne out the statement that he (Lord Duncan) had made, for no man knew better than his noble Friend how unequally and unjustly that tax pressed upon the poorer classes. He stood there not the advocate of national bankruptcy, but the advocate of economy. He wished to see each man paying taxes in proportion to his means—he wished to see taxes made certain, but not arbitrary—and he wished to see them collected in such a way as to be least obnoxious to the country at large. He also thanked the noble Lord opposite, who took such a prominent part in sanitary reforms (Lord R. Grosvenor), for his speech, and rejoiced that he might reckon upon his vote.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  would certainly object to any proposal for the repeal of the game laws which deprived the owners or occupiers of property of protection against trespass; but if the hon. Member for Manchester, in proposing the repeal of the game laws, would afford some remedy to the owners of property against lawless trespassers, he would most gladly give the hon. Gentleman his aid. If, however, the hon. Gentleman intended to repeal the game laws, and thereby to expose the landed property of the country to the ravages of an armed and lawless mob, he would oppose him to the utmost of his power.
 MR. F. MAULE  observed, that some years ago he had, in two successive Sessions, brought forward measures on this subject. One of those Bills, which passed the second reading, was intended to protect tenants from the very evils of which the hon. Member for South Derbyshire (Mr. Colvile) complained. The House, however, did not think fit to adopt the proposition he made, which was simply to give the tenant a right to obtain, from those who preserved game, particularly hares, compensation for any injury they might occasion to his crops. He had been told by a farmer that, upon a field of young grass in his occupation, 200 hares daily depastured, and that he reckoned that ten hares eat as much as one sheep. The House would see, therefore, that it was absolutely necessary, especially where hares were preserved, that some compensation should be given to farmers for the destruction they occasioned. He was most anxious to see a good feeling existing between landlords and tenants on this subject; and he was satisfied that the fair sport of a country gentleman, which might induce him to reside on his estate, would not cause any dissatisfaction on the part of his tenantry. He would support this measure, because he thought it would provide for the protection of the tenant, without disturbing the good understanding which ought to exist between the tenant and his landlord; but if the hon. Member for Manchester proposed the entire repeal of the game laws, without protecting the country gentleman by some law of trespass which would prevent persons from intruding upon his property and destroying his crops, he must say that he thought such a measure
 1304
 LORD ASHLEY  said, that perhaps the House would allow him to say a few words on the subject before them. He should have been much better pleased to remain silent on the occasion; but the relation in which he stood towards the city of Bath, where the grievance was most seriously felt, and his position with regard to his noble Colleague, rendered some explanation necessary on the vote which he intended to give on this question. He concurred in a very great deal of what had fallen from his noble Friend, and from the hon. Member for Finsbury, and from all those who had spoken of this tax as being injurious and oppressive in the extreme. He felt that it pressed with great inequality on all classes, but particularly on the working classes, on the occupiers of small dwellings, and of the weekly tenements. He felt that in a sanitary point of view, it was impossible to exaggerate the mischief which it occasioned; and he did not hesitate to say that without a total repeal of the window-tax no sanitary measure would place the people of this country in that physical condition which acted so directly and so tremendously on their moral welfare. These were no new opinions of his, because long before he had become connected with the city of Bath he had entertained them; and in fact he was the party who prepared the first report on this subject, showing the injurious effect of these duties on the moral and physical condition of the people. He had the honour, the other day, of attending a meeting of his constituents, at which this subject was taken into consideration. He then told them, that this was, perhaps, the very first tax the Government ought to repeal; and that if they were about to pro-
 1289 l. l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said: My hon. Friend the Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Aglionby), in the very manly speech he made to the House, said that it would have a very bad effect with the public if it should appear that all the argument was in favour of the one side, and yet that when we came to the division, the vote of the House should be in the opposite direction. Why, Sir, this I imagine must be the case, if we are to discuss any tax simply upon its merits. I never heard any Gentleman get up and say, "I should like to have a tax upon a particular article as a positive good in itself." Every one must agree that every tax is in itself an
 1293 l. l. l. 1294
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  entirely concurred with the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) that the House was bound to make good its public engagements and to maintain those services which were necessary for the protection of our honour and our commerce. He regretted to find, from what his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said, there was no prospect of the window-tax being abolished; but believing its existence was most prejudicial to the population of England, he was compelled, however reluctantly, to vote in favour of the Motion of his noble Friend opposite.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the law of entail in Scotland. Notwithstanding the late hour of the evening (half-past 11 o'clock), he thought it necessary to say a few words in explanation of the measure which he was about to ask leave to introduce; but he would endeavour, in doing so, to trespass upon the time and attention of the House as shortly as possible. If he were addressing the Members from Scotland only, he could not imagine its being considered at all necessary that he
 1308 1309 1310 1311 1312 l. l. 1313
 MR. STAFFORD  complained of the conduct of the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), who, having in 1845 and 1846 taken upon himself the task of legislating upon the subject of the game laws, had since suffered the matter wholly to rest. He (Mr. Stafford) had been requested by his constituents to bring forward a measure on the subject; but he told them that the question was in the hands of the hon. Member for Manchester, and that he should not like to poach upon the hon. Member's manor. That hon. Member had, however, suffered the report of his own Committee to pass by without any notice whatever; and so little did he appear to be interested in the question, that he even permitted the hon. Member for South Derbyshire (Mr. Colvile) to bring forward a Motion on the subject without thinking it necessary to be present. Let it be observed, therefore, that this measure for mitigating the rigour of the game laws did not emanate from a free-trader, but from an hon. Gentleman who belonged to the agricultural class.
 MR. STAFFORD  was anxious that the House should see the exact position in which the hon. Member for Plymouth stood in relation to his constituency. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Roundell Palmer) had stated that the tax was one of much inconvenience and injustice, and admitted that there were many arguments against it; but he said that, considering the time at which the present Motion was brought
 1282 pro con 1283
 MR. B. CABBELL  said, he should vote for the Motion, on the ground that the window-tax imposed a restriction upon the light and air of heaven.
 MR. COLVILE  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to enable all occupiers of land, having a right to kill hares on that land, to do so by themselves, or persons authorised by them, without being required to take out a game certificate. It was well known that many persons occupied small plots of land lying contiguous to the game preserves of great men, and that before such persons were at liberty to protect their property, by killing the animals that were constantly coming upon their land and destroying the crops, they were obliged to pay a heavy tax by taking out a certificate. He had so prepared the Bill he wished to introduce that he believed the revenue would by no means suffer from it; he therefore hoped the Government would not oppose its being brought in.
 MR. COLVILE  said, it was well known that the right of game was with the occupier; but in many cases the landlord reserved to himself that right, and the occupier could then only kill game by permission. What he proposed was, that when the landlord gave his tenants permission to kill hares, they might do so without a certificate.
 MR. COLVILE  replied in the affirmative. His object was to place the law with regard to hares precisely on the same footing with the law respecting rabbits.
 MR. COWAN  requested the indulgence of the House on addressing it for the first time. He stood there as the representative of the chief city of the northern kingdom, which, he was afraid, was now looked upon merely as a province, and he had the honour to enjoy the confidence of a constituency which used to be distinguished for intelligence, but which, he apprehended, had lost something of that character in his neighbourhood. He had been engaged for some years in an attempt to reduce, in one particular direction, for the relief of a certain class of manufacturers, of whom he was one, the burdens of the Excise. He had again and again, as a member of different deputations, remonstrated against the injustice of the impost; and the invariable answer had been, "We cannot afford to part with it." Such an argument as that would not, in his opinion, warrant a fixed injustice. Unless they could use something like a moral compulsion on the Government, there was no chance of their obtaining justice in such matters. He looked upon the tax upon windows as unjust in its nature, and injurious in its consequences. There was an intimate connexion between suffering and sin, and they ought to do all in their power to avert the one by preventing the other. The window-tax was a direct hindrance to cleanliness among the people, and, as having that effect, ought to be repealed. He believed they would be enabled to meet all the requirements of the State if they endeavoured to do their duty in a spirit of justice. Their whole system of taxation was at present full of the most discreditable anomalies; and un-
 1291
 MR. NEWDEGATE  was glad to hear that the hon. Member for Manchester did not intend to oppose the introduction of the present Bill. With reference to the wider subject which the hon. Member had mentioned—namely, a total repeal of the game laws—he trusted the hon. Gentleman would fully consider this fact, that if he were to repeal the game laws many large districts in this country would remain unprotected. The game laws assisted very materially the rural police; and his conviction was, that if the game laws were repealed, large woodland districts especially would be left so unprotected as to make it absolutely necessary to enact a law on the subject of trespass infinitely more vexatious and onerous to the people of this country than the game laws. He thanked
 1303
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  had sincere gratification in supporting the Motion of the noble Lord, and he cordially thanked him for the manly course he had taken in opposition to the Ministry. He fully agreed with the noble Lord, that if they were to institute a searching inquiry into the abuses of their expenditure, retrenchments might be effected to an extent that would enable them to get rid of this and many other taxes. But this would be attended with considerable trouble and inconvenience, and the Government would of course resist it. There was a total indifference on the part of Government as to what became of the people, so long as they filled their own pockets and enjoyed their own comfort. With respect to the window-tax, if it was to be maintained, it ought not to be put upon the dwellings of the poor, but upon the mansions of the rich. The Govern-
 1270
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I don't know that the office which I have the honour—however unworthily—to fill, is at any time remarkably agreeable. It is certainly, however, as disagreeable an office as any one can possibly occupy when the country is suffering distress, and when it is my painful duty—however reluctantly—to increase taxation. On the present occasion I have another painful duty to discharge in resisting the remission of a tax which has been described to-night in no very measured terms as odious and vexatious. I confess that I think that the proposition to repeal the window-tax, or, indeed, any tax at present, was sufficiently answered by the speech of my noble Friend (Lord John Russell) the other night. When my noble Friend
 1272 l. l. l. nil. 1273 l. s. d. s. s. d. s. s. l. l. l. l. l. 1274 1275 l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought they could not do better than follow the advice which had been given not to discuss a Bill which was not before the House. He certainly did not understand that the hon. proposer of the present Bill contemplated any interference with the rights of property.
 MR. FEARGUS O'CONNOR  said, the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down would, in his mind, excuse the hon. Member from voting against the Committee proposed by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer; and it also bore out to the fullest the feeling which prevailed out of doors against the speech of the noble Lord, which the hon. Gentleman had properly described as not altogether intelligible. In advocating the extension of the window-tax to Ireland, if it were to be continued in this country, the hon. Gentleman seemed to forget that the smallest amount of duty might often prove an entire prohibition. He seemed to forget the fact that an Engligh window and an Irish window were very different things. In England, the window was intended to let the light in; but in Ireland the use of a window was to let the smoke out. The hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Stafford), in dwelling on the comparatively small number of houses subject to the window-tax, seemed to overlook one consideration altogether. If there were 3,000,000 of houses not subject to the window duties, while only 500,000 paid the duty, the result which he (Mr. O'Connor) drew from this was, that a great number of these 3,000,000 of houses were shut up in darkness, and
 1285 l. l. l. l. 1286
 MR. MOWATT  said, that however small might be the body which should follow the noble Lord (Viscount Duncan) into the lobby on this question, he should have great pleasure in making myself one of his adherents on the occasion, for he considered this tax was most unequal, and therefore unjust, besides being in the highest degree alike injurious to the comfort and morals of the people. It was nothing less, in short, than a blundering circuitous species of income-tax. And the country expected of them that they would now bring it to a close. Even those hon. Gentlemen who opposed its removal at the present time, all concurred in the character which he had taken upon himself to give it, and in its pernicious effects on the great mass of the people. It was a most unequal tax, for it had been proved that it took a greater amount of money from the inhabitants of Plymouth than it did from those of Leeds, although the wealth of the latter town was ten times greater than that of the former. But the suffering that the tax produced, and its demoralising effects, had been already so strongly shown from
 1292
 MR. HUDSON  thought it was perfectly fair that an individual occupying a small farm adjoining the estate of a gentleman who preserved game, should have the privilege of destroying the game if it became a nuisance to him. He did not, however, concur in the free-trade principles of the hon. Member for Manchester, who, as he understood, contended that any person should have a right to go upon any estate he pleased, and shoot what game he thought proper. Why, he (Mr. Hudson) might just as well enter the warehouse of
 1306
 MR. AGLIONBY  considered that the Bill of the hon. Member for South Derbyshire would operate beneficially, and he hoped it would be sanctioned by the House. The hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) had said that when he brought forward his measure for the total repeal of the game laws, he expected to receive the general support of hon. Gentlemen on that (the Ministerial) side of the House, founded upon the evidence adduced before the Committee which had been appointed to inquire into the subject in the last Parliament. He doubted very much whether the hon. Gentleman would find a strong feeling in his favour; but he was prepared to say that when the hon. Gentleman introduced his Bill he would give it his most attentive consideration, with a view to place the relations of landlord and tenant on a more satisfactory footing, and to remove some of those temptations which caused many of the poorer classes to become inmates of gaols. The hon. Member for Manchester had said that he thought there ought to be no game laws in so densely populated a country as this. He trusted the hon. Gentleman was not averse to maintaining the rights of property, and that he was not prepared to assert that persons ought to be authorised to trespass upon the land of their neighbours without restriction.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, it was strange that hon. Members who spoke strongest against the tax should be found voting with the Government in favour of its continuance. He agreed fully in all that the noble Lord who just sat down had said against the tax; and he would be as unwilling as the noble Lord expressed himself to be, to give any vote that would impede the machinery of Government, or destroy the credit of the country; and it was because he had satisfied himself that the repeal of the window-tax need do neither, that he was prepared to vote for the present Motion. He quite agreed with the noble Lord (Lord Ashley), that no hon. Member ought to vote against his own conscience; but he thought it would have been much more consistent for the noble Lord to tell his constituents that he would no longer seek to remain their representative when they could have a man in his place who could represent their wishes, and be prepared to vote in accordance with their views. For his own part, he would vote for the repeal of this tax, and in doing so, he knew that his views were in accordance with those of his constituents; and he had no doubt but that the deficiency in the revenue could be
 1290
 DR. BOWRING  believed that every one must sympathise with the noble Lord in his difficulties; it was very difficult to maintain the taxation which now pressed upon the people, and still more difficult to augment it. But surely diminution of expenditure rather than augmentation of taxation was now the paramount duty of the Government. The burdens of the people had been augmented from year to year: since 1835 the charge for the armaments of the country had risen from less than 12,000,000 l. l.; l.; l. l.
 MR. BRIGHT  had nothing to say in opposition to the present Bill. It was impossible a majority of the House, after all that had been stated and was known in connexion with the practice of the game laws, could consider such a measure sufficient to cure the evils that attended the existing system. However, the hon. Member for South Derbyshire knew extremely little of the practical working of those laws if he supposed that placing hares in the same category with rabbits would have any serious effect in putting a stop to the thousands of convictions that every year occurred in consequence of the infractions of the game law. It was, therefore, fully his intention, notwithstanding any measure of this limited nature, as soon as possible to introduce a Bill for the purpose of repealing the game laws altogether. He had, however, had his time occupied by other matters, particularly by the subject of the growth of cotton in the East Indies. But so soon as the Committee on that subject should close its labours, which he hoped would be within one month, he should then ask leave to bring in a Bill to repeal the laws concerning game. He should endeavour to establish this principle—that the law should not give any sanction or encouragement to the practice of preserving game in this country. Although there had been great delay since the report of the Committee on this subject, yet he did not believe the question had lost anything by that circumstance. The attention, both of the House and the country, had been more fully called to it, and it would now come forward for discussion with a much greater chance of success than if it had been brought forward in the last or preceding Session.
 MR. HUME  seconded the Motion. It was a rule laid down by all political economists, that that tax which was subject to the greatest amount of exceptions was the worst that could be imposed. The right hon. Gentleman (Sir R. Peel), two Sessions ago, proposed the abolition of the auction duties; mentioning as a specimen of the law, that the amount received was the exception to the amount collected. Only 20 l. l. 1269
 MR. P. SCROPE  then moved for leave to bring in a Bill to exempt small tenements from local taxation. He hoped that, notwithstanding the proposals already made that evening for the reduction of taxation, he should not be considered as trespassing on the domain of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, if he brought forward a humble proposal, not for the purpose of reducing taxation to any great extent, but of doing away with an inconvenient mode of taxa-
 1307 l. l.; l.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, it was absolutely impossible in the present state of the revenue of the country, and after the alarming statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that he could vote in favour of the Motion of the noble Lord; but at the same time he had no hesitation in saying that if the Motion of the noble Lord had assumed a different form, and a resolution had been submitted to the House, that it was desirable in the opinion of the House that this tax should be repealed at the earliest opportunity, he should have felt it his duty to vote for that proposition. He wished also to express the feeling that he very strongly entertained, in common-with many of those with whom he had communicated on this subject, that notwithstanding what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exche-
 1276 ad valorem quasi ad valorem ad valorem l. l. 1277
 MR. WAKLEY : The hon. and learned Gentleman has made a very excellent speech against the window-tax; and how that hon. and learned Gentleman can have the firmness to resist the influence of his own arguments, and vote against the Motion of the noble Lord, I am at a loss to understand. The hon. and learned Gentleman stated a special case. Many Members of this House are influenced by the general principle involved in the question; but the hon. and learned Gentleman finds, from a return laid on the table of the House, that his town pays 12,000 l. l. 1278 1279 1280 l. l. 1281 l. l.
 MR. EWART  contended that the window duties were a practical burden upon commerce which the Government ought not to continue, seeing that our indirect taxation was greater than that of any other country in Europe. The doctrine of direct taxation was in accordance with the views of Adam Smith, Mr. Pitt, and Mr. Huskisson, who, in almost the last speech
 1295
 MR. EWART  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to establish a power of appeal in criminal cases. Experience had shown the necessity for granting such appeal. Within the last two months, even, criminal cases to the number of ten, at least, had occurred, which, in the circumstances attending them, proved the necessity for the introduction of the power of appeal. The Bill which he desired to introduce would give a power to grant appeals generally as regarded points of law and matters of fact. One species of crime was necessarily excluded from the operation of the measure—that of treason and misprision of treason. Those crimes were already provided for by the Statutes of Anne, William, and Mary, George III., and Queen Victoria. With that exception, the Bill was intended to apply to all criminal cases. The Bill would confer upon a criminal court the power of granting appeal in three ways: first, by a new trial; secondly, by arrest of judgment; and, thirdly, by entering a verdict for the prisoner. The judge before whom the appeal should come to be heard, would have power to assign counsel and attorney to the prisoner; and the judge on the original trial would be empowered to order that the prisoner should be fur-
 1300
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  wished to say a very few words in support of the present Motion, for he felt it was unnecessary to do more after the able speeches made by the noble Lord on this subject, not only then but on former occasions; and more especially as the unjust and oppressive nature of the tax was so self-evident. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had not yet risen; but he (Sir De Lacy Evans) had listened to his predecessors on former occasions, and he had never heard from them anything approaching to vindication of the justice of this tax. He knew very well that it was often alleged, in a vague and general way, that there was no tax whatsoever but some particular grievance or objection might be brought against it. But he took leave to say that this did not apply to the present case—for whether they looked at it individually or generally, it was absolutely indefensible. The humbler classes were made to pay at the rate of 20 or 30 per cent, while the opulent classes paid only 1, 1½, 2½, or 3 per cent. Could such a tax as that be defended? He agreed with the noble Lord regarding the Royal forests. The country derived no sort of advantage from them whatsoever. Some 800 or 500 years ago they were a luxury to the Monarch; but for hundreds of years they had been merely deserts, as the noble Lord had said, except in regard to furnishing some snug berths for members of the aristocracy and the humbler supporters of the Governments which had succeeded each other from time to time in this country. Among the items of expenditure brought forward by the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) to show the necessity of increased taxation, were the expenses of the Caffre war; but it ought to be remembered
 1271
 SIR G. GREY  said, that it was not his intention to offer any opposition to the introduction of the Bill; but he wished it to be distinctly understood that he did not pledge himself to approve of all the provisions which might be embodied in the measure. It was far from his intention to intimate that the subject was not of great importance, and deserving of the serious consideration of Parliament; but when the Bill should be printed he would be better able to discuss its provisions, which, at present, he was not certain that he distinctly understood from the hon. Member's statement. Great difficulty would be experienced in carrying into effect the details of any measure on the subject; and it was apparent, from the hon. Member's remarks, that he was aware of some of the difficulties which he would have to encounter. He begged the hon. Member would not
 1301
 SIR G. GREY  thought the proposal which the hon. Gentleman made a very reasonable one, and he saw no ground for opposing the introduction of the Bill.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  begged to remind the hon. Member for Northamptonshire that in 1835, now thirteen years ago, this very question had been before the House, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer of that day told them, in very much the same language as had been used by the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer this evening, to be patient until they saw what would turn up in the next Session of Parliament. On that occasion the hon. Member for Marylebone (Sir S. Whalley) was asked to withdraw his Motion, and the whole of the Liberal party joined in endeavouring to persuade him to do so; but he was forced to a division by the hon. Member for Dover, and he walked into the lobby with only sixteen Members to support him. On that occasion, as well as whenever the question had come before the House subsequently, he (Captain Pechell) had advocated the removal of these duties, not only on the ground of their injustice, but because he regarded them as most injurious to the public health. He also felt interested in the subject because his constituency were large contributors to the tax. He had to complain that neither the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, nor any of the other advocates of the tax, attempted to deny its injustice. His noble Friend had gone into some of the injurious effects of this tax; but if the public had the means of knowing how these assessed taxes, of which the window tax formed so considerable a portion, were levied, there would, he believed, be a much stronger feeling against their continuance. Between 1830 and 1847, there were 620 cases of assessed taxes returned before the judges on appeals, and of these 268 were for window tax; and it should be recollected that one case decided before a judge generally ruled twenty or thirty others. In Scotland, the extent to which this tax was felt to be a grievance was quite extraordinary; and how a Member from the northern part of the kingdom could vote for its continuance was to him most strange. In 1840 there were in Scotland no less than 115 cases of appeal from the assessed taxes, and of these 68 were on account of window-tax. He was surprised, too, that those who called themselves the farmer's friends in that House, did not look to the operation of the window-tax upon the agriculturists, for the blue books abounded in instances of its partial and unjust operation in farmhouses. In 1791 a Roman Catholic priest was as-
 1288
 Sir R. PEEL : I intend to make the shortest speech in this debate. I intend to take my share of the unpopularity of declaring that, in my opinion, it is not consistent with the duty of Her Majesty's Government, in the present state of the revenue and the expenditure of the country, to consent to a remission of this tax. I heard with satisfaction from the right hon. Gentleman that he has had under his consideration the means of removing some of the anomalies of this tax, and the possibility of providing a substitute for it in some other way. I hope the right hon. Gentleman will not be deterred from consideration by the fact of a metropolitan deputation making objections to finding a substitute. I am sure, if the right hon. Gentleman puts it in this way—" Will you consent that some other tax should be imposed in the place of this? "—the certain answer will be "No. What we want is the repeal of this tax, and we will be no parties to the substitution of another." I therefore venture to advise the light hon. Gentleman to throw over-hoard altogether the opinions of the metropolitan deputation, and of every other deputation which gives a similar answer to a similar question; and to address himself fairly and freely to the consideration of a substitute less open to objection. I have had an opportunity of conferring with the noble Lord near me (Lord Duncan), and I will do him the justice of acknowledging the zeal and the very great ability with which he has brought the subject before us. I think, however, if upon Monday next the noble Lord opposite had intimated he had some reduction of taxation to propose, it would then have been perfectly competent for the noble Lord (Lord Duncan) to put in a claim for the remission of the window-tax. But even in that case I should not pledge myself to vote for him, for I wish to reserve the comparative demerits—for there are demerits—of all taxes for consideration. And as to whether there is to be an increase of taxation, I think it is only natural that the noble Lord should wait to see what is the manner in which the increase is received before he adds to the difficulty by removing this tax. I beg the House to bear in mind that, however objectionable a particular tax may be, there are others equally objectionable. One tax may be in principle preferable to another, if you had to deal with it from the beginning; but when a tax has been long endured, it does
 1297
 SIR R. PEEL  observed, that the owner of 1,000 acres of land might farm his own property, and would then be the occupier. Would he have the right to kill hares without a certificate?
 SIR R. PEEL  believed that the most effectual remedy for the evils attending the game laws would be a strong impression on the part of the landed proprietors that hares and rabbits in excessive quantities were very injurious to the produce of the soil, and a disposition to consent to some arrangement which would tend to diminish the excessive quantity of this description of game. He considered that such voluntary arrangements, made by the proprietors themselves, would lead to the preservation of other descriptions of game, with regard to which the same objections were not entertained. The true sportsman must feel that hares could give very little real amusement, and that they were chiefly kept for the amusement of metropolitan sportsmen, who found it difficult to kill anything else. With respect to the winged kinds of game, he apprehended the damage they did to the crops was very slight. He certainly thought the hon. Member for Manchester would find it a difficult matter to deal with the game laws, if he contemplated any infringe-
 1305
 MR. FAGAN  said, he could not admit that the Irish representatives were not interested in the question under discussion. He could not forget that the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, when he first introduced the income-tax, also imposed a stamp duty on Ireland, as an equivalent to her proportion of such tax. The right hon. Baronet stated that Ireland's capability of bearing the tax was in the ratio of one to nine to that of England, and the stamp duty being in that ratio to the income-tax, it was, in point of fact, a permanent income-tax on Ireland. He could not forget that the right hon. Baronet on another occasion stated, that if the income-tax became permanent in England, it would become a question whether it should not be introduced into Ireland. The income-tax was now to be a permanent one; and he felt persuaded that nothing but the distressed condition of Ireland now saved her from the imposition of that odious, because inquisitorial tax. That country would ultimately be visited with it, unless the expenditure was kept down to something like a peace condition. Therefore was it that, independently of the principle "of doing unto others as we would be done by," the Irish representatives, were deeply interested in the vote of that evening. Besides, there was, without necessity, an army of 27,000 men in Ireland, costing over a million a year, and proclaiming to
 1372 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHE-
 1377  apprehended that every Governor had a right to repel aggression. However serious the consequences might be, he apprehended that Sir Peregrine Maitland would have been deeply responsible if he had not repelled the aggressions of the natives upon those whom it was the Governor's duty to protect. The cause of the war was pretty clearly explained by Sir Peregrine Maitland, at page 116 of the despatches. He said in his despatch, April 24, 1846—
 "If the war were unnecessary to the preservation of this portion of the colony, and had been wantonly entered on for the acquisition of territory or cattle, and if I had not been unwillingly compelled to begin it by the obligation under which I hold my office, to provide for the safety and welfare of Her Majesty's subjects entrusted to my government, I should shrink from the task of laying before your Lordships the statements of this despatch. But I can conscientiously declare, and your Lordship will allow, that my series of despatches on frontier affairs bears out the assertion that I have done everything within my ability to avert hostilities and to preserve peace on both sides of the border, for the common welfare of the colonists and our uncivilised neighbours. I am now convinced that war with the colony has been for some time intended and diligently prepared for by them. The struggle was inevitable, and the time of commencement only a matter of policy with them, who as they grew prepared multiplied their daring outrages, and at the same time calculated on our long-tried forbearance still to afford them time to complete their preparations."
 MR. V. SMITH  agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, that there could not be a fitter subject for investigation by a Committee than this; for in the present distressed state of the country he was convinced that the people did not care one sixpence about this Caffre squabble. He would venture to say that one-tenth of the money that had been expended would have sufficed to have kept off all the Caffre aggressions that had been ever made. The state of our colonies required the attention of the country.
 MR. ELLICE  wished to press on the House the serious importance of not allowing these colonial affairs to be treated lightly any longer. If it were necessary to protect the subjects of this country settling in distant and wild countries, let it be
 1381
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I cannot, I confess, Sir, say that I think there is any great meaning in the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose, or any unanimity of views on the part of those hon. Gentlemen who have supported it. The hon. Member for Montrose thinks it a great matter of reproach to the Government that they did not adopt some time ago his suggestion that a Select Committee should be appointed to consider how the expenditure could be so decreased as to enable a reduction to be effected in the taxation. The hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. Osborne), on the other hand, thinks it a great reproach to us that we should have submitted to the appointment of such a Committee at all, and is of opinion that it is an abdication of the functions of the Government to appoint such Committees, though they had been previously appointed in the years 1786, 1797, and 1817. Then comes the hon. Gentleman the Member for Limerick, and he, in supporting this Motion for retrenchment, says he is prepared
 1359  sang froid. 1360 1361 1362 s., s., s. 1363 l. l. l., l. 1364
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  could not give a precise answer in figures to the questions of the hon. Gentleman; but he thought he could give an answer which would probably be satisfactory to him and to the House upon the first point. The amount of eight millions, or rather the net amount produced, was, according to the provisions of the Act of Parliament, carried to the credit of the Consolidated Fund; the practice of late years having been not to keep open several different accounts, but to place the whole sum received under one head. He stated about this time last year that the amount required in one way or another for the relief service, and for the improvement of Ireland, was ten millions. He stated then that about two millions had been advanced, and he proposed to take a loan of eight millions for the purpose of future advances. That sum was to be applicable to the relief fund in the course of last summer, and for
 1334 l. l.,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  hoped to be more successful in calling the attention of the House to the real subject before them than the hon. Member for Finsbury. At any rate he would not follow the example of the hon. Member, by diverging into the numerous topics upon which the hon. Member had touched. Although the hon. Member had paid a panegyric, in many respects well deserved, to the hon. Member for Montrose, who undoubtedly had long been a most energetic advocate for economy, he trusted the hon. Member for Montrose would not be induced to persist in his Motion, because it was really necessary for the public service that the House should go into Supply. Many hon. Gentleman had argued as if the proposal to be made in Committee would entail great future expenditure; but the fact was, they were votes for past expenditure, which it had been necessary to incur, as he would explain in Committee. He intended to show, if he were allowed, under what circumstances the Caffre war had been commenced, and that no blame could attach to anybody for this vote not having been submitted at an earlier period. He repeated, that it was absolutely necessary these votes should be passed, in order to enable the Paymaster General to discharge the current expenses of the Army and Navy. He assured the House he admitted the desirableness of reducing the expenditure of the country, and that he would not be a party to any estimates which were not, in his Opinion, absolutely required for the public service. Surely, too, when at the suggestion of the hon. Member for Montrose a Committee was to be appointed to inquire into the Estimates, it was rather extraordinary that he should by his present Amendment endeavour to prejudge its inquiries.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  moved—
 "That a sum not exceeding 1,100,000 l.
 MR. O'CONNOR  said, that not one single sentence of the noble Lord's speech had been directed to the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose. The noble Lord should recollect that the hon. Member for Manchester had told him that the present was a middle-class Government. If he reduced the expenditure to meet the income, instead of increasing the income to meet the expenditure, he would have the support of the middle classes and the working classes with him. But by inflicting the tax he was about to levy, and the weight of which would fall upon the middle classes chiefly, and injure the working classes thereby, he would cause the middle and the working classes to unite for the first time, and their union would be against him. He objected to the manner in which Ireland was made use of by Irish Members in that House. He objected to the hon. Member for Limerick telling the Government, that if a certain policy were adopted, they had only to whistle, in order to get 200,000 Irishmen to fight the battles of this country. That was the manner in which the Irish mind had been always debased and destroyed; and for his part, he could see no chance of regeneration in England until Ireland was regenerated in the first instance. He felt grateful for the aid which was extended last year by this country to Ireland; but what would be said if the Irish had to apply for further aid to the people of England next year? Would they not be told, "You have since taken another tax out of our pockets, and we are no longer able to afford you relief?" The noble Lord told them that he had not made a warlike speech; but neither he nor the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had made a retrenchment speech. At a time when the industrial classes of this country were selling everything they had, in order that they might keep out of the workhouse, was it right to tell them that this was the very moment to increase the pay of the soldiers, and the rations of the sailors? He would tell them that there were events passing around them that neither the noble Lord nor he could shut their eyes to. The noble Lord must be aware that the present state of France was one which would not warrant an increase of the expenditure of this country.
 1365 1366
 MR. BANKES : The question was not whether the vote should be granted or not, but whether it should be granted at the present moment. He was decidedly of
 1378 1379
 MR. ROBINSON  denied the right of hon. Gentlemen opposite to arrogate to themselves the exclusive advocacy of economy. He was himself most anxious for economy in the public expenditure; but at the same time he felt that he could not vote in favour of the Motion of the hon. Member. He thought that Motion extremely vague. It was—
 "That it is expedient that the expenditure of
 1371 l.
 MR. GEORGE THOMPSON  thought the House had good ground of complaint against Government, for calling on them to vote this money without giving any information respecting the origin, progress, policy, or character of this war. Both former and later wars might have been prevented had just regard been paid to the rights of the aborigines.
 MR. HUME  said, that if England chose madly to rush into war, she ought to pay the expenses of it. He should like, however, to know how the war commenced. It was not enough to say that Sir Peregrine Maitland had made a mistake; what he wanted, without saying that this money should not be paid, was a copy of all the despatches on the subject from the first to the last. He understood that this war had commenced in 1845. Why then were they now, in 1848, without information upon the subject? If ever there was a case that required to be sifted in a Committee, this was that case; and therefore it was that he should move, "That the Chairman report progress, and obtain leave to sit again." He should like to know the cause of this war, and whether Governors were allowed to make war at their own pleasure.
 MR. HUME  was very sorry that he felt himself called upon by an imperative sense of duty to interfere in any way with the proceedings of Her Majesty's Government, in obtaining those supplies which they thought requisite to carry on the services of the country; but he appealed to the House whether, when they agreed to advance 3,200,000 l. 1335 l. l. sang froid, 1336 1337 Times 1338 "The people were in the presence of an army of 100,000 of the finest troops in the world, with artillery and stores unlimited in number and amount, and who were congregated in barracks, forts, citadels, nearly impregnable, with the king's name to support them. Those unarmed men defied and withstood charges of cavalry in the largest square of Europe throughout an entire day, and formed barricades, and committed what, but for the object, would merit the name of outrage, with a coolness and audacity perfectly marvellous, and in the very presence of troops four times more numerous than themselves." l. 1339 l. 1340 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1341 l. l. 1342 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1343 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1344 l. 1345 "That it is expedient that the Expenditure of the Country should be reduced, not only to render an increase of Taxation in this Session unnecessary, but that the Expenditure should be further reduced as speedily as possible to admit of a reduction of the present large amount of Taxation."
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  hoped the House would not be led away by the eloquence of the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Admiralty, and consent to vote the Naval Estimates, until the Select Committee had made their report. The speech of the hon. Gentleman, in his opinion, would rather have the tendency to prejudge the judgment of that Committee. He should like to know, if the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) was so well satisfied with the estimates, why his Lordship had referred those estimates to a Select Committee. No other Minister would have adopted such a course. The noble Lord could find no precedent for the appointment of such a Committee. And when
 1351 l. en masse. 1352 terra firma. 1353 l. 1354 l. ignis fatuus. 1355
 MR. WAKLEY  said, the question was whether the Speaker should leave the chair preparatory to the House going into a Committee of Supply? to which his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose moved an Amendment, to the effect that the expenditure of the country should be reduced; and his hon. Friend intimated that not only should there be no increase in the expenditure, but that such reduction should be made as speedily as possible. The Amendment was, he thought, one of the most rational and consistent that could possibly be made, for if the House was disposed to go on with regard to the expenditure as it had latterly proceeded, the country must be involved in ruin. He would beg of hon. Members, especially of those who were in the House for the first time, to recollect what the language of the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Admiralty had been. For his own part, he must confess that he felt the force of the lecture the hon. Member had read to them. The lesson was pregnant with instruction, and he was determined that it should not be lost upon him. He had received most excellent practical advice with regard to his future conduct from the lecture of the hon. Gentleman that evening. The hon. Gentleman spoke with considerable eloquence and ability. As usual, when expenditure was concerned, he obtained not only the hearing, but the sanction of the House, in a very short time. The hon. Gentleman had the records in his hands, and he asked them "What have you been doing for the last ten years? In that time there has been increase after increase, and yet there has been no resistance on the part of this House to such a course. During that period, there has not
 1367 l. l. 1368 Laughter. 1369 1370
 MR. GLADSTONE  had the honour to hold the Seals of the Colonial Department when Sir Peregrine Maitland was Governor of the Cape, and he wished to bear a brief but emphatic testimony to the character of that gallant officer. He ventured to say, without the smallest fear of contradiction from any quarter, that they never had, in charge of any colony of this country, at any period, either a more gallant soldier, or a more humane and conscientious man,
 1380
 MR. W. S. O'BRIEN  said, that as he intended to oppose the Motion of the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone (Sir B. Hall) for the imposition of the income-tax on Ireland, he felt bound to inquire how far it was necessary for England. Admitting, as he did to the fullest extent, the absolute necessity of making provision for meeting all the public expenses which were required for the defence and maintenance of the country, he confessed he had not yet heard anything to justify the proposal of increased taxation; on the contrary, he thought that the proper remedy was a reduction of expenditure. There was a squadron on the coast of Africa, which ought either to be withdrawn or placed on a more efficient footing. He considered, also, that there was great justice in the complaint of the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. Osborne) respecting the awful expenditure on the New Houses of Parliament. Then there was a large sum for the Caffre war; and here he would ask the Government what apology had they to offer for asking the House to vote 1,100,000 l. 1356 1357 1358
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  expressed his intention to vote for the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montrose, on the ground that it was unconstitutional to vote any part of the national expenditure before the House had decided how the means to meet it were to be provided. Because Members of that House had omitted the full discharge of their duty in not being watchful over the Estimates, that was no reason why they should now be wasteful of the public money. Their former negligence was not owing so much to their apathy as to the sense of their hopelessness of success against the power and influence of the Government. With regard to the starvation in Ireland, alluded to by the noble Lord, there was no doubt it had been truly stated in its main features; but the noble Lord had not informed the House of the cause of the unfortunate man being in a state of starvation. The cause of it was the carrying into effect the quarter-acre clause of the Poor Law Act. He acknowledged the liberality of the people of England towards the starving people of Ireland; but whilst making this admission, he must state that every one of the measures introduced by the Government for the benefit of that
 1373
 MR. WARD : As my hon. Friend the Member for Montrose has, in the comments which he has just made on the recent expenditure of the country, thrown a large portion of the blame of the excess that has occurred upon the Navy Estimates, and as I have not had any opportunity of making any statement to the House on the part of the Naval Department, perhaps I could not take a more appropriate one than that now afforded me by the speech of the hon. Member, to call attention to some few circumstances strictly bearing on the case, and tending, I think, to place it in a fairer and more favourable light than that in which it is now presented. I admit that a great addition to the Estimates has occurred, in the course of the last ten years; but I affirm that it has been progressive, and gradual, and has been assented to by all parties and all Governments. I will prove this. In the course of the last ten years, not one single division has taken place on any one increase of expenditure proposed. Not one! My hon. Friend the Member for Montrose himself was in his place last year, as he was reminded the other night, when the intention was announced on the part of the Government to make an addition of 3,000 men to the Marines. I stated the grounds of this increase—the perfect concurrence that had prevailed respecting it amongst the four last First Lords of the Admiralty—Lord Minto, Lord Haddington, Lord Ellenborough, and Lord Auckland. The first 1,500 men were voted without a dissentient voice, without a division, and without
 1346 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1347 l. l. l. l. l. 1348 1349 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1350 l.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, "the loan of eight millions of stock having produced in 1847 the sum of 7,963,674 l., l. l.
 MR. W. MILES  thought that the question was, whether or not we were to pay our debts, and if we were, he saw no reason for a postponement, especially when they were told by the Chancellor of the Exchequer that it was necessary for the public service that the vote should be granted without delay.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, in answer to Mr. Hindley: The latest intelligence which I have received from Paris is dated half-past six o'clock on the evening before last. These despatches inform me of the retirement of M. Guizot, and that M. Mole had been appointed to form a new Government; later than that I have no official information.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNEL , disclaimed being actuated by personal feelings.
 The CHANCELLOR or THE EXCHE-QUER : I have compared the ordinary in-come with the ordinary expenditure of a year, one year with another; but I admit it is quite true that that sum to which the right hon. Gentleman has referred may be receivable in the next year, even if the tax be not renewed. We thought it to be our duty to look beyond the single year, and, comparing the ordinary income with the ordinary expenditure, to adopt some means of providing for the further expenditure that has become necessary. It was likewise our duty to look to the course of financial policy adopted for the last few years. We have reflected upon the course which has been adopted, and we have looked to the manner in which it was received, acquiesced in, and approved of by the House. Without going further back than the year 1842, we remember that in that year, there being a deficiency, the right hon. Gentleman opposite proposed the imposition of an income-tax, not only for the purpose partly of meeting that deficiency, but also for the purpose of reducing indirect taxation, which pressed heavily upon the necessaries of life, and the raw materials for our manufactures; thus diminish-
 1407 1408 l. 1409 1410 1411 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1412 l. l. 1413 1414 l. 1415
 MR. SEELEY  expressed his regret at the addition made to the national debt. For the last two years the deficiency was between 6,000,000?. and 7,000,000 l. l.
 LORD D. STUART  said, his constituency and the country at large had a settled determination not to pay a tax so unequal and unjust as the income-tax. It was true that the concession just made would have the effect of mitigating the dislike of the people against that impost; but he was certain that it would not give satisfaction. The objection which he (Lord D. Stuart) felt to the tax did not arise from its amount so much, as from the fact that it was unequal in its operation, and inquisitorial in its nature. When the tax was first imposed, it was promised that it would only last for three years; and he trusted the non-fulfilment of that promise would serve as a caution to hon. Members not to rely hereafter on Ministerial appeals. The noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government observed that those who disliked the tax should find a substitute. He
 1448 l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Cardwell) asked that this debate should be adjourned, and that we should not proceed with it this evening. My right hon. Friend immediately acceded to that proposition; but I must say it would be only fair of the House to do one of two things—either to adjourn the consideration of the proposition, and not debate it, or to debate it, and allow the Government to come to some conclusion. I do not think it is quite fair to spend the whole evening in attacking the measure of the Government, and then say, "We do not mean to have it debated, but that it should be adjourned." I hope that hon. Gentlemen who oppose our proposition will agree with what I have said. I can hardly say a word more, having said what I thought was quite sufficient in the early part of the evening in answer to my hon. Friend the Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume). With regard to what has been said by the hon. Gentleman the Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire. The hon. Gentleman, after what I declared upon the part of the Government, admiting, as he must admit, that his prophecy was not a very successful one, is yet trying to excite suspicion by inducing those in this House, and perhaps those out of doors, to think that I was not sincere in the declaration that I made, and that when I declared that we did not mean to interfere with any disposal of their own institutions which France might choose to make, I still meant that we were to be induced by some coteries and clubs to go to war with France because she adopted some
 1431
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I have no objection whatever to answer the question of the hon. Member. We have of course received the intelligence generally so well known to the public, of the changes which have taken place in France; and I can assure the House (indeed I should hardly have thought it necessary to make the declaration), that we have no intention whatever to interfere with the form of government which the French nation may choose to adopt, or in any way to meddle with the internal affairs of that country.
 MR. DISRAELI : I should be the last person in this House who would wish for one moment to interfere with the rule laid down for this debate by the noble Lord, namely, that we should keep any observations that we have to make upon the measures of Government until they are fairly before the House. I think, under all the circumstances, a guerilla war, although it may give opportunities for display of the agility or courage of individuals, has, after all, but little effect upon the fortunes and fate of the campaign. Certainly upon the present occasion, when the fate of the budget, and what is much more important, of the great principles upon which the commercial and financial system of this country are the cause—and that is the real question—when they are the cause, I can conceive nothing more inconvenient than that upon an occasion like the present one, when the Government have postponed the vindication of their main measure, we should enter into any petty criticism, or that desultory attack which may be annoying and even injurious in a certain sense to Ministers for a moment, but which, after all, I feel, can bring no permanent credit to an Opposition. Therefore, Sir, it is not for that reason that I venture to rise for one moment; but at the same time it is the duty of every Gentleman who sits on this side of the House not to pass over without any observation the remarkable incidents of this evening. Sir, we live in an age of revolution. I read to-day of an eminent individual in another country who upon the same morning had contrived to give in his ad-
 1432 1433 l. l. l. 1434 1435 1436 l. 1437 1438 a laugh 1439
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  rejoiced that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had thought it wise to abandon that part of the budget which had been hastily proposed by the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell). He recommended both to take care how they again put to sea without a compass to guide them, and without a crew to carry them through dangers. It had been said that
 1446 de absentibus de mortuis nil nisi bonum; bonum malam litera scripta manet
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained that the sums to which the right hon. Gentleman referred were not in the shape of balances. The advances for the Caffre war had been made partly by grants from the Treasury, and partly by grants from the commissariat chest, and the balance of 8,400,000 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in answer to the hon. Gentleman, the force of whose appeal he fully felt, was perfectly willing to postpone the further consideration of the subject for some days. He thought that there were circumstances which quite justified the hon. Gentleman in making the appeal; but he trusted the House would agree to an early period for further considering the proposition.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The first question of the right hon. Gentleman refers, I think, to the 1,500,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1422 
 
 1839 £497,000 
 1840 1,000,000 
 1841 864,000 
 1842 857,000 
 1843 957,000 
 1844 2,200,000 
 1845 6,200,000 
 1846 6,500,000 
 1847 5,400,000 l. l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said: I rise, Sir, to move the Order of the Day for going into Committee of Ways and Means; and I think it is desirable that in doing so I should avail myself of this opportunity of stating more fully than it was practicable for my noble Friend (Lord John Russell) to do in his speech a few evenings since, the state of the finances of this country, and the course which it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to pursue. Some hon. Members have complained that they did not fully understand some portions of my noble
 1393 l. l. l. l. l. 1394 l l. l. l. l. l. l. 1395 l. l. l. l. 1396 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1397 l. l. 1398 l. l. l. 1399 l. 1400 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1401 1402 1403 1404 l. l. 1405 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1406 l. l.
 MR. CARDWELL  hoped the right hon. Baronet opposite would not think it necessary to call upon the House for an actual statement of opinion on this occasion. The right hon. Baronet would recollect that when the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown made his statement ten days ago, the proposal of the Government was that the House and the country should have a reasonable period to consider it; and it was after the lapse of that reasonable period that they were assembled there this night. Now, the statement made by the right hon. Gentleman differed in so many important respects from the statement made by the noble Lord ten days ago, that it was as important the House should have
 1420
 MR. O'CONNOR , as proprietor of the newspaper alluded to, had always suffered in his own person anything that was to be undergone. This was the first time that the printer had ever been called on. He admitted that he had written with warmth, but denied that in speaking of the new regulations which governed the constitution of Election Committees he had gone as far as many hon. Members in that House. He had not gone as far as the hon. Member for Kerry himself, who had characterised the present mode of selecting Committees by the precise phrase which he (Mr. O'Connor) had used, namely, as "a farce." He spoke from experience; for, on one occasion, when he served on one of those Committees, and gave his vote for the Tory candidate, he was denounced for acting according to the dictates of his conscience. It could not be
 1392 l. l.
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  did not know what influence had operated on the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but he was happy to hear from hon. Gentlemen on the Ministerial side that it was public opinion. Yet, in reference to all this shifting and changing, he had only to observe, that the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) and his Colleagues had split on their old rock, an empty exchequer. The Whigs, when they got into office with a full exchequer, indulged in such lavish expenditure that before long they were obliged to look to the country for more money. Many of the charges to which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had referred were merely incidental and casual, and the country should know that the Chancellor of the Exchequer was looking to permanent taxation for incidental expenditure. He (Mr. O'Connor) objected to this tampering with thousands and hundreds of thousands of pounds, while the country was in the present depressed state. With reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Manchester, he would observe, that the whole derangement of the monetary system was attributable to the system of free trade. That hon. Member had, in the course of his argument, made use of a fallacy. He had said, that America had purchased manufactured goods from this country three times as much as formerly; but he (Mr. O'Connor) wanted to know how much less wages the working manufacturers of Yorkshire and Lancashire had received for their labour. That was the vital question. The hon. Member inquired what would have been done if free trade had not been carried? He would tell the hon. Member, that if free trade had not been passed, wheat would never have reached 80s. the quarter, for the dealers in corn, who had speculated on long bills, would then have been afraid to do so, because of the existence of the sliding-scale. He did not concur in what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth on a former occasion, to the effect that it was not the desire of any Government to augment the revenue. One fact was worth a thousand arguments, and the fact was, that Governments had never resisted propositions for that purpose, but had easily been seduced into compliance when asked to augment the revenue. Precedents had been referred to; but let them not draw precedents from the dead, or they might as well meet in a graveyard, and sit upon tombstones. These were not the authorities upon which men in the present
 1445
 MR. BANKES  would feel obliged to the hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester if, when he ventured to repeat the prophecies of Gentlemen opposite, he would have the goodness to repeat them correctly. He begged to remind the hon. Gentleman that the prophecies to which he alluded were to this effect, "that the first to complain of these changes would be the operatives and the manufacturers themselves." Had that prophecy been falsified? The hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester had stated that the Member for Buckinghamshire had made use of arguments and observations which no weaver in Lancashire or Yorkshire would assent to; but he begged to ask, whether the weavers out of work were those of whom he spoke? The hon. Gentleman taunted the agricultural interest with their prosperity; but if he looked at the opposition which Ministers were threatened without of doors, it was not quite so clear that the prosperity which was attributed to the agricultural classes could be entirely acknowledged by them. The present opposition to the Government proposition was not confined to the towns and cities, for throughout every county in the United Kingdom the same feelings prevailed, and the same language was held to the effect that they could not pay the tax. He was therefore afraid that the prophecy made by the agricultural interests that they would suffer, but not the first, would be fulfilled. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester had alluded to the anticipations of gold being taken out of the country as not realised; but he must take leave to remind him of the great distress
 1443 l.
 MR. MUNTZ  had never witnessed so decided a feeling in the country as that which prevailed against the proposition which the Government had that evening withdrawn. Had the Government persisted in the attempt to carry that proposition into effect they must have been driven from power, and he was by no means sure that they were safe now. The country objected to the tax altogether, because of its unequal operation and inquisitorial character. Like other Members he was perfectly astonished when he heard the Chancellor of the Exchequer declare that the tax had met with no opposition in 1845. Upon that occasion the hon. Member for Middlesex moved that the Income-tax Bill should be read six months from the day on which it was then proposed to be read a second time; and he (Mr. Muntz) seconded the Motion. The Chancellor of the Exchequer anticipated an improvement in the revenue; but he differed from the right hon. Gentleman upon that point. The experience of every day showed that we were losing our
 1447
 MR. GOULBURN : I think the right hon. Gentleman has made a mistake. The right hon. Gentleman seems to forget that in the course of this year two millions and a half, due on the original income-tax, may be received and applied.
 MR. BRIGHT  felt bound to offer his acknowledgments to the Government for the change which they had announced in their financial policy. He thought it a very wholesome thing that the Government should not set itself in opposition to so strong an expression of public opinion as had been evinced upon this subject since Friday week. There was one matter, however, to which the Government had not yet attended—the Government had not announced that discriminating principle with regard to the income-tax which the country expected; but he trusted that on Friday next they would be prepared to make some such change in the principle of the tax as the country required. He believed that there was the greatest possible disposition on the part of the people of this country to submit to the system of direct taxation; but it was not enough that taxation should be direct—it must be equal and just, which had not hitherto been the case with the income-tax. The hon. Member for Bucks had amused himself and the House with a speech of some length. He said "amused," because it must be amusing to see the Member for a county of such classic fame as that which the hon. Gentleman represented, boldly and firmly reiterate sophisms with regard to taxation which any weaver in Lancashire or Yorkshire would be ashamed to utter. What was it that the hon. Gentleman now wanted? The hon. Gentleman's party might some time ago have occupied the Treasury benches if they had pleased; but though he was cheered by his Protectionist friends in his attacks upon the free-trade policy, he should like to know what would the hon. Gentleman himself have done during the last two years? Would he have suspended the corn law or not? Would he have imposed it again? Would his policy have been one of everlasting restriction, or was it to be relaxed at intervals? The noble Lord the Member for Lynn stated at the time that we had not suspended the corn laws soon enough; that he would have suspended them sooner; and he blamed the Government for not sending to foreign countries to purchase large stores of grain. Why, he could tell the hon.
 1441 1442
 MR. MACGREGOR  thought the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer had been received very ungraciously by the House; but he was confident that the country would receive it in a far different spirit. He should make no reply to the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, further than to say that he must be labouring under a mistake with regard to his evidence before the Import Committee in 1840, and that there was no part of that evidence which he wished to blot out. He denied that he was in any way the counsellor of the Government or of any Cabinet Minister with regard to the new tariff. He simply worked as an humble journeyman doing his duty, as he was bound to do; and he declared unhesitatingly that the full merit of that measure was due to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for
 1440
 MR. HUME : The speech of the right hon. Gentleman was a mere restatement of what had previously been said by the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), with the exception of the withdrawal of the additional two per cent, and limiting the duration of the tax to three years. If the right hon. Gentleman supposed that he had made a communication to the House which would in any way alter the opinion which had been formed upon the whole scheme by him and others, within the House and out of it, he would find himself very much mistaken. The right hon. Gentleman admitted the injustice and inequality of the in-
 1416 l. l. l. 1417 1418 l.
 MR. HUME  wished to ask a question of Her Majesty's Ministers, with reference to the recent transactions in France, where the Government that had heretofore ruled no longer existed, and a new Government was established. The question he desired to have a reply to was, whether it were the intention of the Ministers that this country should abstain altogether from any interference with the people of France, and that the people should be left to choose for themselves, and settle what Government they pleased, so as to afford no ground for the complaint that we had meddled officiously with their affairs, or had constituted ourselves a party to any of their disputes? This was a question to which, if no objection could be urged, he was most anxious to have a reply.
 MR. MORGAN J. O'CONNELL  was most unwilling to divert the attention of the House from the important question that was about to be submitted to its consideration; but he hoped for pardon if he ventured to trepass on their attention for a few moments to complain of a breach of privilege, and an invasion on the freedom of the Election Committees. The breach of privilege in question was to be found in a leading article published in the  Northern Star 1390
 MR. MORGAN J. O'CONNELL  believed, that, at least as a matter of form, it would be his duty to follow up the reading of that extract by a Motion; but before doing so he would take occasion to observe that he had brought the matter forward, not through any persuasion that the Mem-
 1391
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  wished to offer one word in reference to the statement of the right hon. Gentleman. As far as his experience and knowledge went of the feelings of a very considerable constituency, he did not think that they would be inclined to receive the statement made that night with the great gratification which the House evinced on hearing it. He believed that it was not so much the additional two per cent to the income-tax that the industrial classes of this country objected to, as to the principle of the income-tax which the right hon. Baronet now brought forward. The right hon. Baronet told the House and the country that he was satisfied in his own mind, and that he was borne out in his opinion by the late Chancellor of the Exchequer, that it was almost impossible to make an equitable arrangement with regard to such a tax. He would maintain that it was the duty of the Government at least to adjust the tax in such a way as it would be found to be least unjust. It was to prevent the tax from being iniquitous, odious, and unjust that the people were anxious; and he would say that it was miserable policy on the part of any Chancellor of the Exchequer to continue that principle after the House had been entrapped by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth to lay on an income-tax for three years, under the pretext that the burden of the tax would be counterbalanced by the expense taken off in the tariff. The right hon. Baronet proposed the tax under some-
 1419
 MR. COBDEN : Although I am very glad Her Majesty's Ministers have withdrawn the proposal for an increase to the income-tax, still I am bound in my duty to a large constituency, with whom I have had a very active correspondence lately, to say I do not think it will be possible for the Government to maintain an income-tax of 3 per cent, or any other percentage or rate of tax upon precarious income. I believe the present proposition has rendered that utterly impossible for the future. The proposition of Her Majesty's Government has had the effect of raising this question throughout the country, and of causing it to be discussed in a way that it has never been before. It has turned the public mind essentially upon the subject of taxation, with the view of devising means of adopting a more equitable system; and I believe the agitation will end not only in an income-tax being altered in its rate of taxation, but in a complete change in our fiscal system. I hear from my hon. Friend the Member for South Lancashire (Mr. W. Brown), who has shown me the prospectus
 1428 l. "True, France passed through a social revolution in 1793; she cannot repeat that social revolution; she has no privileged classes, no Established Church; and the great masses of landed
 1429 1430
 MR. MITCHELL  entirely concurred in the opinions expressed by the hon. Member for Birmingham, for he was persuaded that there was not the slightest chance of the trade of the country recovering from its present depression. It was highly probable that recent events in France would exercise an unfavourable influence on the Customs; and that, generally speaking, trade would be still further depressed. Whatever deficiency the Exchequer might exhibit, it ought to be supplied by direct taxation; and he called upon the Government not to pursue the course of bankruptcy which in 1841 brought disgrace upon the country. It was the duty of the Government to explain its views upon this point before calling for a vote of the House upon the question of the renewal of the income-tax.
 MR. WAKLEY  said, the course taken by the right hon. Gentleman appeared to be a kind one, but he doubted whether it was a wise course. In his opinion, the best course for the right hon. Gentleman to have taken would have been, to ask leave to withdraw the resolutions altogether. The resolutions were founded on the noble Lord's budget. That budget was a bubble. It was burst—it was exploded—it was gone; and if there had been any substance in it, it was annihilated. What was the proposal of the noble Lord? First, the expenditure was to be maintained; secondly, there was to be an increase to it; thirdly, the income-tax was to be continued for five years; and fourthly, it was to amount to 5 per cent for two years out of the five. Now, what did they find? The right hon. Gentleman had been shuf-
 1423 1424
 MR. GLADSTONE  rejoiced very much that the right hon. Baronet had acceded to the step suggested by his hon. Friend, and was willing to take no further discussion on the subject until Friday. There was, however, a difficulty still remaining with him, which perhaps was also shared by other hon. Members. He must confess that he did not clearly understand the whole of the right hon. Gentleman's proposal. They had before them now the budget for the year. He understood the right hon. Gentleman to say that the sum of l,500,000 l. l. l. 1421
 MR. BLACKSTONE  understood that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said, that no hon. Member on the Opposition benches had opposed this tax when it was first proposed by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth. Now he (Mr. Blackstone) begged to say that he was almost the only person on the Opposition benches who opposed the right hon. Gentleman when he originally introduced the tax; and he did so on the ground that the right hon. Gentleman was only making it an engine with a view of enabling him to repeal the corn laws. He also opposed its reimposition, on the ground that it was unjust to apply it to England and Scotland and not to Ireland.
 MR. F. T. BARING  said, be could not but think that the conduct of the Government would be looked on in a very different point of view by the country from what it had been regarded by the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley). He was sure the country would feel extremely grateful for the decision to which the Government had come. In his opinion Her Majesty's Government had exercised a wise discretion, and that the country had a right to have its opinion considered; and he certainly thought it did not come well from hon. Members who pretended to be great advocates of public opinion, to be the first to taunt the Government for yielding to it. Perhaps his right hon. Friend would allow him to ask a question with regard to his balances. He took the question of the Navy excess. He thought it was perfectly fair that that which was not in the expenditure of this year, but was the expenditure of former years when they had large surpluses, should be paid out of the balances accruing in those years. In that very year when the Navy excess took place, we added to the balances in the Exchequer two millions and a half; and he thought it seemed to be very unreasonable, after having placed 2,500,600 l. 1426 l. 1427
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  also felt delighted at the intimation given by the noble Lord; but the question remained as to the extent to which this country was involved by the treaties to which she was a party. He denied that the Committee upstairs would do no good, as the hon. Gen-
 1425
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  observed, that the noble Lord the Member for Marylebone had said that 26,000,000 l. l. l. 1449 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1450
 MR. H. DRUMMOND  believed that there was no more effectual mode of dealing with the poverty of Ireland than carrying out  bonâ fide l s l s 27 28
 CAPTAIN JONES  said, that it was his misfortune to differ from most of his countrymen in that House upon the question which had been introduced to its notice. The reasons which the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department had given for resisting the Motion were quite satisfactory to his (Captain Jones's) mind. The only construction which he could put upon the speech of the hon. Member for Roscommon (Mr. French) was that he was opposed to a poor-law for Ireland altogether. Upon that point he could not agree with the hon. Member, for, in his opinion, the regeneration of Ireland depended entirely upon the carrying out of the poor-law. The hon. Member's figures proved too much. The size of the unions in Ireland was certainly objectionable; and he hoped that the Commission which the Government intended to appoint would suggest a remedy for that; but as regarded the Committee now asked for, he believed that by granting it the House would raise expectations which could not be realised.
 MR. FAGAN  having had much experience as a poor-law guardian in Ireland, was of opinion that it was necessary to institute an inquiry with respect to the mode of appointing guardians, collecting the rates, and other points. It might be found more convenient to make the landlord liable for the rates in the first instance, as he was with respect to the tithe rent-charge. The authorities in Ireland ought to be invested with the power of sending English paupers to their own country. In the Cork union there were several English paupers.
 The MARQUESS of KILDARE  thought that great inconvenience would be occasioned if this Committee were granted, by withdrawing from Ireland many persons who were employed there at present; and as he had heard it stated by the Secretary of State for the Home Department that it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to inquire into the matter, he should give his support to the course recommended by the right hon. Gentleman.
 The EARL of LINCOLN  had most reluctantly come to the conclusion that it was his duty to vote with Government,
 55 56
 The EARL of LINCOLN  said, that he had visited, within the last twelve months, the Cork union workhouse; and he wished any poor man out of the workhouse was able to get food half as good as the poor in it. He could pledge his word of honour
 58
 COLONEL CONOLLY  supported the Motion, and complained that there was a spirit of domination with the Poor Law Commissioners, which, if it were indulged in, would be fatal to the proper working of the law. Amongst the Irish Members
 38
 MR. CLEMENTS  expressed his regret at the speech of the right hon. Secretary for Ireland, and said he had hoped that the resolution which had been unanimously adopted by seventy-five Irish Members, of whom he was one, praying the Government to reconsider the subject of rating, would have led to the adoption of some steps for the revision of the present system. The unions and electoral divisions of Ireland were three times the size of the unions and parishes of this country, and, from the small and disproportionate number of relieving officers, it was impossible to get through the business efficiently. He considered that the first object of Her Majesty's Government ought to be to make some arrangement which would enable them to dismiss the paid guardians as soon as possible, and to revert to the system of elected boards. He believed that, with the exception of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department, and the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland, every Member who had addressed the House that night had been favourable to the appointment of the Committee. He hoped that the House would show its regard for the interests of Ireland in this matter, by agreeing to the Motion for a Committee proposed by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Portarlington.
 MR. MAXWELL  said, that as the representative of a constituency in the west of Ireland, he was desirous of declaring that he was not individually opposed to the present Irish poor-law, but he wished to see it better regulated; and he hoped the Government would yield to the appeal that was now made to them. He did not ask them for eleemosynary aid, but merely for a better regulated system.
 MAJOR BLACKALL  wished to guard himself against being supposed to expect any assistance from England for the support of the poor of Ireland. He fully recognised the principle that Ireland should support her own poor; and it was for that reason that he would strongly urge the Government to concede this Committee. He had, as far as it was possible, assisted in carrying out the Irish Poor Law; but he objected to the principle of that law, because it did not encourage the employment of the people, which, at the present moment, was so essentially necessary for their very existence. They had just gone through an unparalleled year of distress; and notwithstanding the enormous outlay of money, drawn from the Exchequer, yet the employment of the people at the end of that year had not been stimulated, but was even less than at the commencement. Both on the ground of justice and of equity, then, he appealed to the Government to grant this inquiry. It was but yesterday evening that Her Majesty's Ministers had given way to a pressure from without, on a matter which affected the people to the extent of a charge of some
 44 45
 MR. O'FLAHERTY : The Irish poor-law had been shown to be quite inadequate for the relief of destitution in that country, though it might in some cases have somewhat mitigated the pressure of the distress. In certain parts of the country the people were dying by hundreds; and he found by statements given in a local paper that in Connemara distress prevailed to a dreadful extent, and that the poor-law had there proved a complete failure. This state of things extended all over the western parts of the county of Galway. The proprietors I of Ireland were anxious to carry out the poor-law in all its integrity; but experience had shown that it was not adequate for the purpose for which it had been framed. He complained that boards of guardians had been insulted by the Poor Law Commissioners, who, after dismissing them, appointed paid officers to discharge their duties. He thought a Committee was loudly called for on this subject; and, if such Committee were given, they would
 26
 MR. STAFFORD  thought the right hon. Gentleman had given an erroneous—he did not say unfair—representation of the intentions with which the hon. and gallant Gentleman had brought forward the Motion. The hon. and gallant Gentleman took special care to guard himself against being supposed to apply to England for money. His desire was to make the property of Ireland support the poverty of Ireland. In that desire he entirely sympathised. In 26 out of 130 unions the management was not in the hands of guardians representing the people; and in local as well as general taxation its connexion with representation was recognised. But how long was this principle to be set at defiance? The hon. Member for West Surrey had not been felicitous in his illustrations. The right hon. Gentleman (Sir G. Grey) had resorted to the old official artifice in taking refuge, when any one asked for a diminution of the area of taxation, at once in townlands. There were 2,049 electoral divisions, each containing on the average 10,150 acres, which was too large an area
 34 35 primâ facie s d Times "The following appears in the  Tipperary Free Press l 36 s Times "As the tax upon each district does not rise with the rise of the rent, the Sovereign does not share in the profits of the landlord's improvements. Those improvements sometimes contribute, indeed, to the discharge of the other landlords of the district. But the aggravation of the tax, which this may sometimes occasion upon a particular estate, is always so very small, that it never can discourage those improvements, nor keep down the produce of the land below what it would otherwise rise to." "The principal attention of the Sovereign ought to be to encourage, by every means in his power, the attention both of the landlord and of the farmer; by allowing both to pursue their own interest in their own way, and according to their own judgment; by giving to both the most perfect security that they shall enjoy the full recompense of their own industry." 37
 MR. C. BULLER  did not at first think it would be necessary for him to trouble the House with any observations whatever; and he should now merely advert to what fell from the hon. Member for Finsbury for the purpose of showing his inaccuracy with regard to the Irish poor-law, when he sought to compare it with the English poor-law, in the character and operation of both. The hon. Member for Finsbury contended it was an intolerable abuse that the paupers in Ireland were put upon a much worse diet, and dealt out much coarser food than was given to the poor in England. He ventured to hope that every English Gentleman in the House must know the worth of that illustration. It never had been the policy of those who were entrusted with the administration of the poor-law in this country to deter the poor from entering into the workhouses by putting them on bad food, or even on worse food than they had been previously accustomed to. He had the pleasure of reading more dietary tables than perhaps any other Member of that House; and with a full knowledge of the general character of those dietaries he and those with whom he had the honour to co-operate were standing out for four meat dinners in the week. When he heard the hon. Member for Fins-bury address the House, he could not but admire the quickness of imagination and ready power of acquiring information which he manifested when hon. Members near that Gentleman supplied him with facts and arguments on the question now before the House. The hon. Member spoke as he was prompted, because he seemed scarcely to have had time to read his brief.
 59 60 61
 MR. NEWDEGATE  moved for a Select Committee—
 "To inquire into the law and custom of different parts of the United Kingdom between outgoing and incoming tenants, and also between landlord and tenant, in reference to unexhausted improvements or deteriorations of land or premises occupied for agricultural purposes."
 MR. F. FRENCH  stated that he had come down to the House for the purpose of seconding the Motion of the hon. Member for Stroud, respecting the waste lands of Ireland, which he understood was to have been the question for consideration, and had not, until he heard the speech of his right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Home Department, any intention of interfering in the present debate; but he could not remain silent when he heard it asserted from authority that the present poor-law was sufficient to meet the distress now prevailing throughout Ireland—that there was no want of funds for the relief of the people—that to the maladministration of boards of guardians were the evils complained of mainly to be attributed. This statement he was prepared, from documents furnished by the Commissioners themselves, to show was utterly an erroneous one, and that the law, as a measure of relief for the poor, was a total and complete failure. The hon. Member for Surrey had stated, the Irish Members had nothing to complain of. Was it nothing that an alien Commissioner, ignorant of the interests and feelings of Ireland, should be vested with despotic power in carrying out this law? Why had not this gentleman been sent to Scotland to carry out the views of Government? He differed from the Scottish Commissioners; but, zealous as he was to enforce the Government plans, they did place him on their board. He had been employed there to report on a poor-law for that country, because no Government would venture to insult the Scottish people by placing a stranger at their head. Was it nothing that in the administration of the Irish poor-law, the principle of representation should be superseded by the fiat of an English official; and that the boards of guardians, who were, to the best of their ability, endeavouring to carry this law into
 39 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l d l l 40 l l
 COLONEL DUNNE  rose to move—
 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the working and efficiency of the Poor Law in Ireland." 24 l s d 25
 COLONEL DUNNE , in reply, remarked, that he felt indebted, not only to those who had spoken in favour of his Motion, but to those who had spoken against it; for he thought that a more complete case had not been made out by the former than by the latter, who had argued, not against what he had said, but what they had expected he would have said. The hon. Member for Surrey had quite misapprehended him when he thought that he had found fault with the English Poor Law.
 62
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that being one of the English Members referred to by the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had just sat down, he would venture to prefer his application to Her Majesty's Ministers not to refuse this Committee. He made this
 46
 MR. LABOUCHERE  would not pretend to affirm that the poor-law in Ireland had not had a sufficient trial to enable them to judge of its operation; nor did he say that it might not be made a fitting subject of inquiry by a Committee of that House at the proper time; but at present such a proceeding could not but be injurious to the working of the measure. They had been assured by the Secretary for Ireland that the law had not yet come fairly into operation in some parts of that country; and he had no hesitation in saying that the appointment of the Committee now proposed would have the effect of paralysing
 54
 MR. WALTER  assured the House that he did not rise for the purpose of detaining hon. Members by any observations on the Irish Poor Law, with which he was imperfectly acquainted; but he could not resist that opportunity of congratulating the Government upon the fortunate appointment they had made in selecting as the President of the Poor Law Commission a Gentleman who had had the extraordinary boldness to assert, that it "never was the object of the New Poor Law to offer to the poor in the workhouses of this country a worse diet than they would obtain out of them." He would say nothing of that famous document exhibited in the House some few years ago, which was drawn up as a sort feeler, with a view of ascertaining to what degree, short of starvation, it would be possible to reduce the diet of the poor of this country; but he would ask the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Liskeard whether he had forgetten to what circumstances he owed the situation which he now filled? Had that right hon. Gentleman forgotten that it was to the disclosures that Mere made before the Andover union Committee, in which it was proved that the poor of that union were reduced to such an intolerable diet, that they were compelled to gnaw raw bones; and could the right hon. Gentleman have the assurance, after that, to say, that it never was the object of the poor-law to give to the poor a worse diet in the workhouse than they would obtain out of it? He was rejoiced to hear the right hon. Gentleman announce that he
 63
 MR. HUME  disapproved of the remarks of the preceding speaker, because they seemed to be directed against the system of poor-laws altogether, rather than its defects. It appeared from the representations of the Irish Members that the machinery of the existing law was defective, and, therefore, the House was bound to grant a Committee of Inquiry. The speech of the Secretary for the Home Department urged no valid reason against the appointment of a Committee. The case of the Cavan union told rather in favour of than against inquiry; for what could be more desirable than to ascertain the means by which the machinery of that union, which was formerly inefficient, had been made to work well? Under these circumstances, it would become the Government to save any further waste of the time of the House by at once acceding to the Motion. It was delightful
 41
 MR. R. W. FOX  said, that he had a notice on the Paper for leave to bring in a Bill not to provide for the support of the whole poor by a townland rating, but to provide in that way merely for the support of the ablebodied poor. Numerous cases could be cited to show the necessity of such an arrangement. He had received a letter from a gentleman who was personally unknown to him; though he believed he was a person of the highest character, showing the necessity of some change in the law in this respect, and suggesting that there should be two rates struck on all occasions—one a union rate for the maintenance of the poorhouse, and the support of the aged and infirm poor, and the other a townland rate for the support of the ablebodied poor belonging to the respective townlands. [The hon. Member read a letter from a Protestant clergyman of high character, but likewise personally unknown to him, stating several cases within his knowledge of non-resident landlords who derived large sums from their estates, but who neglected the poor who were located thereon.] As there appeared to be little chance of carrying the Motion of which he had given notice, it was not his intention to press it; but he hoped the House would agree to this Motion for a Committee to inquire into the present working of the poor-law in Ireland.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES : I am desirous, Sir, to know whether the Provisional Government established at Paris has made any formal communication of its existence to the Foreign Powers of Europe?
 MR. WAKLEY  continued: It was not the Cork union that was mentioned, but the circumstance was mentioned by the hon. Member for Cork. ["Oh!"] Hon. Members seemed to be offended at his allusion to the low diet in the union work-houses in Ireland; but suppose he was to tell them that an ablebodied man might be in an Irish workhouse for a week, or for weeks, without being allowed one ounce of animal food, would they say that that was treatment for human beings? He thought the whole subject of such importance, that, in his opinion, the Committee ought to be granted, and the inquiry, instead of being narrowed, should be made as extensive as possible.
 MR. WAKLEY  thought that if there was a case in reference to which the House ought to grant a Committee, it was that
 57
 MR. W. SMITH O'BRIEN  called the attention of Irish Members to the fact that the Government had announced their determination to resist the nearly unanimous desire of the representatives from Ireland. The Irish nation spoke through its representatives; but the opinion of that nation was to be superseded by an English majority. The Irish Members were willing to go into the Committee, fairly, and not with a view to defeat the poor-law. They found a very great number of the poor alleged to be dying of actual starvation; what stronger motive could they have for inquiry? He considered that the House ought to endeavour to ascertain whether it was not possible to enact some law to enforce the right of relief, which Parliament had declared to belong to the destitute poor of Ireland. His opinion with regard to the area of taxation had been modified, to a certain extent, since the law which prevented outdoor relief from being afforded had been repealed. He considered that, as relief was now extended to the ablebodied poor, some stimulus ought to be given to the possessors of property to afford employment to those who were in need of it, and that persons who would not give such employment should be subjected to the penalty of increased taxation. It was, in his opinion, most advisable that they should, as nearly as possible, maintain an uniform proportion between pauperism and property. There was one important
 52 53
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  had been uniformly favourable to the poor-law in Ireland; at the same time he agreed with the Irish Members who had spoken, that an inquiry was necessary. Accounts had been received that starvation was going on in Ireland to an immense extent, especially in the north and south of Ireland, and that the poor-law was not sufficient to prevent it. Even the allegation of such a fact was sufficient cause to justify an inquiry why, having a poor-law in existence, such a state of things should be. It was stated that the poor-rates were not paid either by the landlords or the tenants. Now, it was right that it should be inquired into as to who was in fault that the rates were not paid. It was also alleged that new rates were put on without the old ones having been collected. Was that true? The truth ought to be known. It was well known that ejectments were going on just now, and that the tenants were not protected from starvation by the poor-law; that also was a subject proper for inquiry, in order to ascertain whether the poor-law could not be made more effectual. There were, likewise, undoubted proofs that those who were attached to the people,
 43
 MR. GROGAN  hoped the House would not be led astray by the talents and ability which the right hon. Gentleman had displayed in the speech just delivered to the House. The right hon. Gentleman had made an able defence, and had given a happy turn to the remarks of the hon. Member for Finsbury; but, had he been in the House during the debate—had he heard the expression of the views of the Irish Members who had joined in the requisition to Government, praying for an investigation into the whole subject—and had he been present when the Government proposal of issuing a Commission was explained to the House—he doubted if they would have been favoured with the right hon. Gentleman's remarks at all. This was primarily and essentially an Irish question. With the exception of two Members, who dissented from their brethren, the Irish Members had all called for a Committee of Inquiry; and he felt confident that the feeling was as strong and general and unanimous in Ireland in favour of the inquiry as among their representatives. But, though it was primarily and essentially an Irish question, they relied upon the support of English Members for enabling them to carry the Motion; for England was interested in it as well as Ireland. That country was getting poorer and poorer; and, if they did not apply a remedy to the existing state of things, the whole of Ireland would soon be pauperised, and then it would fall to England to consider what should be done with it. To avoid this state of things, the Irish Members asked for an investigation into the subject, and he considered it of vital importance to both countries that it should be granted.
 SIR G. GREY  observed, that inquiry had been made as to the objects of the Commission. Not long ago several Irish Members had requested an interview with him in order to state their desire for inquiry into the limits of unions with reference to the principle of reducing the areas of taxation. He replied that the Lord Lieutenant had suggested a Commission, but that it seemed better to postpone any interview till the Lord Lieutenant had communicated his views as to the form in which the inquiry should be made. He had afterwards stated to the hon. Member for Clare and others what course it was intended to take; but the Government did object to insert in the terms of the Commission that the Commissioners should proceed on the principle of area taxation. The Commission would be appointed to inquire and report what alterations ought to be made in the boundaries of unions and electoral divisions, regard being had as important elements to the extent, population, and valuation of the unions.
 SIR G. GREY : Although I am very far from affirming that the existing poor-law in Ireland may not have some defects, and still further from affirming that there may not be faults in its local administration; yet I agree with the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down in thinking that the appointment of the Committee moved for by my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Portarlington would at the present time only have a mischievous effect, and tend to aggravate the difficulties which now exist in bringing the poor-law into beneficial operation in that I country. I think it would retard the exertions which are now being made with great success with a view to that object. It would bring away from Ireland to give evidence before that Committee those men whose daily and hourly exertions are devoted to that important subject; and I therefore hope the House will agree with us in opinion, that it is desirable that this Motion should not be acceded to. Having given the utmost attention to the speech of my hon. and gallant Friend the Mover of the resolution, and likewise to the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Seconder of the resolution, I cannot see any precise object which they propose to be effected by it. My hon. and gallant Friend who proposed the resolution has said that the poor-law has been tried in Ireland and has failed; and the hon. Gentleman the Member for Galway asserts, in precise terms, that no system of poor-laws in Ireland can be adequate for the relief of the people—that the poor-law is a total failure—and that the law as administered in the west of Ireland has not
 29 30 l l l 31 l l l l l l l 32 33
 SIR J. WALSH  said, it was a mistake to suppose that the Irish Poor Law was similar to that of England. The machinery was totally different. All hon. Members who were connected with Ireland, with one solitary exception, declared that they were not actuated by any hostile feeling to the principle of the law; but, on the contrary, were favourable to its principle;
 42
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  was the last man in the House to complain of the Motion which his hon. and gallant Friend had thought proper to bring forward. There was no Motion more deserving of consideration, no Motion more affecting the interests of Ireland, and therefore no Motion which more deeply affected the interests of the United Kingdom, than a Motion which proposed inquiry into the working of the Irish poor-law. He would further say that there was no Gentleman in the House who had a greater right to recommend that Motion to its consideration, because he believed that there was no man in the House who had bestowed more attention upon the wants of the poor, or who had shown greater anxiety to alleviate them. He was one of those who were charged by the wisdom of Parliament—not by the act of the Government under whom he had the honour to serve—with the onerous duty of carrying out the provisions of this law; and therefore, before he alluded to the Motion of his hon. and gallant Friend, and to the reasons for which he thought it would not be expedient to accede to the Motion, he hoped he might be permitted te make some observations in reply to those which had been levelled against the parties on whom had been left the weighty charge of administering the provisions of this measure. His hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Donegal (Colonel Conolly) had assailed both the Commissioners and the law. His hon. and gallant Friend complained, first of all, that the Commissioners had insisted on the appointment of relieving officers; and, secondly, that they had prevented the guardians of the poor from carrying out the provisions of the law in so economical a manner as they thought their duty required. Now, with regard to the appointment of relieving officers, he did not think that the Commissioners had any choice whatever. His belief was that
 47 l l l l l l l l l l l 48 49 50 51
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I have received this morning from Lord Norman by a copy of a communication which was made by M. de Lamartine, who is Minister for Foreign Affairs in the Provisional Government—a copy of a communication made by him, I think, to all the foreign Ambassadors at Paris, announcing the formation of the present Provisional Government, and declaring at the same time that the new forms and institutions which have been adopted by France will make no alteration in the position of France in Europe; and that the French Government will display the same loyal and sincere desire of maintaining the most amicable relations with all Powers who may, like France, determine to respect the independence and rights of nations.
 MR. SPEAKER said : It is not competent for the noble Lord to divide.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, that he should divide the House.—But as the minute-hand of the clock now pointed exactly to Six,
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  presented himself to the House, amidst loud cries of "Divide!" and said, that as he rose for the purpose of doing what was equivalent to adjourning the debate, perhaps the best course he could take was to move it. ["No, no!"]
 MR. SPEAKER  having put the question amidst cries of "No!" and "Divide!"
 MR. ANSTEY : Sir, what I said upon that subject was this. When Mr. Urquhart was sent to Turkey to take measures for effecting the adoption of a treaty of commerce between this country and Turkey, Russian influence was paramount there, and had secured the absolute prohibition of certain articles of export, which, if exported, would have competed successfully with articles of Russian export in the English markets; and that Mr. Urquhart was charged, among other things, to use his influence—that is to say, British influence—at the Porte, to obtain the revocation of this prohibition; and that was one of the clauses in the treaty which he had drawn up, which was approved of by the Board of Trade and the Foreign Office, and which was afterwards sacrificed.
 MR. ANSTEY : I said that France, not seeing the snare which was laid for her, instead of insisting on the faith of treaties—instead of vindicating her high position at the Court of Constantinople, and making those proper and suitable representations at this Court which would have placed the Cabinet of the day under the necessity of repudiating the acts of the noble Lord, and of dismissing him from office—determined to put into play against the innocent States forming the Germanic Confederation those very maxims, in derogation of international law, on which the noble Lord and Russia were acting in another part of the world with respect to France and Turkey,
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : However, fortunately the peace of Europe was not broken, and France maintained her amicable relations not only with this country, but with all the other countries of Europe. A proof that she did maintain those amicable relations, and that what had passed had not engendered those sentiments of hostility which the hon. Member imputed to the French Government, occurred in 1841, when arose the question of concluding the treaty commonly called the Treaty of the Dardanelles. I assure the House that at that time the French representative at this Court came from day to day and expressed his anxiety that that Treaty of the Dardanelles, to which France was to be a party, might be concluded. France bad declined to be a party to the Treaty of 1840; but the Treaty of the Dardanelles was a sort of act of reconciliation between France and the other Powers. That treaty was very short. The preamble recorded the principle that the independence of Turkey was an object of European interest; and the main consideration was, that in time of peace no ships of war of any foreign country should pass the Straits of the Bosphorus and the Dardanelles without the consent of the Turkish Government. The hon. Gentleman says that that was a base abandonment of Turkey—that it was a delivering up of Turkey to Russia. Perhaps the hon. Gentleman is not aware, that as far as England is concerned, that article was agreed to in 1809, and that the Treaty of the Dardanelles merely repeated the Treaty of 1809, in which England said that whereas it was an ancient law of the Turkish empire, that in time of peace no foreign ships should pass the Straits of
 83 84 85 86 87 Vixen 88 89 90 "The blockades of the coasts of Mexico and Buenos Ayres by the forces of France in 1837 and 1838, and the measures (if any) taken by the British Government to give effect to such blockades." "The several treaties contracted between the Crown of these realms and the Emperor of Brazil, and all subsequent conventions (if any) between
 91 "The treaties signed between His late Majesty King George IV. and the King of Portugal for the repression of the slave trade, and the measures (if any) taken by the British Government in consequence or under pretext thereof." 92 93 "Complaints made by or on the part of the French Government in respect of the capture and condemnation of French vessels and their cargoes, under pretext or in consequence of their being engaged in the slave trade." 94 95 96 97 98 99 "That we had no more reason to fear the machinations of Russia against this country at the Court of Teheran than in any other quarter. He was sure the noble Lord would be glad to hear that which would remove the fears that disturbed his repose. At no period were the relations between Great Britain and Russia more intimate and amicable, and there was no Court in the world in which the diplomatic agents of both countries acted with more cordiality and union than at Teheran. Not only had our amicable relations with Russia been mainly assisted by the Russian Government"— 100 —"not only had our amicable relations with Persia been mainly assisted by Russia, but from the commencement of our communications with the Court of Teheran the most uninterrupted harmony had prevailed between the Russian and British Governments; and he trusted that that harmony would continue to prevail, thereby giving an assurance of the union of those two great empires, which was as necessary to the preservation of peace in the East, as an alliance and good understanding between them was essential to effect and maintain the peace of the world." "The treaty signed at Lahore, the 26th June, 1838, between Lord Auckland, Runjit Singh, and Shah Shoojah, and the causes of or reasons for such treaty; the declaration published by Lord Auckland at Senilah, on the 1st October, 1838, and the causes of or reasons for the same; and the military and other operations and transactions adopted or prosecuted with regard to the Affghans, in consequence of such declaration; and the measures (if any) taken by the British Government with reference to the Czar of Russia, and his relations to the Affghan people." 101 102 Hansard 103 "The assertion of ecclesiastical and temporal jurisdiction advanced by or on the part of the Crown of Portugal, or the Viceroy of the said Crown, in Goa, over the persons and properties of Roman Catholics, being natural-born British subjects, within British India; and the measures (if any) taken by the British Government to repress or maintain the assertion of such jurisdiction; and the charges (if any) preferred against the said Viceroy, of being engaged in collusion or conspiracy with the deposed Rajah of Sattara, to the prejudice of the Crown of Great Britain and its sovereignty within India; and the measures (if any) taken by the British Government generally thereupon, and particularly with reference to the said Crown of Portugal, and its responsibility for the same." 104 "The mission of the late Lord Napier to China in 1834, and the failure thereof, and the causes and consequences of such failure; and the measures (if any) adopted by the British Government by reason thereof; also, the seizure and confiscation of British property, and imprisonment of British subjects, in China by the Chinese Government in 1838 and 1839, by reason or on pretext of breaches of revenue laws, and the measures (if any) taken by the British Government, in consequence of such seizure, confiscation, and imprisonment; also the military and naval operations prosecuted by the British Government in 1839, 1840, and 1841, in China, or upon the coasts thereof; also, the treaty signed at Nankin on the 29th day of August, 1842, and the measures (if any) taken by the British Government under the same, and the results and actual operation of the said treaty." 105 106 —"the publication, in 1836 and 1837, of a periodical called the "Portfolio," and also the accounts of the cost of printing and publishing the same; also, all applications made to the Treasury or other departments by any person on the subject of the said periodical or accounts; and also the measures (if any) taken by Her Majesty's Government thereupon; and also copies of all affidavits filed and proceedings had in 1837 and 1838 in the matter of a criminal information against one Walker for a libel on the late Secretary of Legation at Constantinople, and of the measures (if any) taken by the British Government, or by the British Ambassador at Constantinople, in consequence thereof; also, copies of all documents relating to the appointment of Lieutenant-Colonel Du Plat to be the British Consul at Warsaw, and of Mr. Fonblanque to be the British Consul at Belgrade, and of all correspondence with the Commander-in-Chief of the Forces in 1839 on the subject of the military promotion of Lieutenant-Colonel Du Plat." 107 108 Edinburgh Quarterly Review 109 "I have said that I have nothing to retract in the substance of the statements which I made from memory in my letter of the 2nd of August, with regard to the publication called the 'Portfolio;' and I again assert, that I steadily refused, throughout the whole of our verbal communication, to assume any of the authority, or to accept any of the responsibility, which you so pertinaciously prove in that conversation to force upon me. That such was really the issue of our conversation would indeed be manifest even from the step which you took immediately after it was ended, as may be collected from the nature and contents of the first of the two letters which you have produced, dated the 1st of January. You have found it impossible to obtain from me the offical sanction which you professed to require; and, having failed in that attempt, and time pressing, you were driven to make trial of another course—that of referring the matter to Lord Palmerston; and, accordingly, on the evening of the 31st of December, you transmitted to me, from your private residence, a packet purporting to contain that reference, which I was to forward to his Lordship, who was then out of town. Can more conclusive evidence be required than was afforded by this step, that you had failed to obtain from me the official sanction and authority which you had evinced so much anxiety to obtain with the least possible loss of time? But your packet for Lord Palmerston was sent to me at too late an hour to be forwarded to his Lordship the same night and, accordingly, on the following morning I returned it to you in my letter of the 1st January, with an explanation of the cause of its not having been forwarded. After this we had no further verbal communication daring the progress of this affair. All the subsequent communications respecting it were in writing. And by your reply to my letter of the 1st of January, in which you sent back to me your papers a second time, and in which you represented the amount of the pecuniary loss which you would individually sustain by the least further delay in the forthcoming number of the "Portfolio"—and, further, by my hasty rejoinder of the same evening, finally re-turning the papers to you, the whole proceeding was closed. These written communications from
 110 "Copies or despatches of the Treaty of Commerce signed between the Crown of Great Britain and the Free City of Frankfort on the 13th May, 1882; and of all correspondence from the year 1833, inclusive, relating to the said treaty, or to the surrender or relinquishment by the British Government of British rights under the said treaty, or to the facilitation of the accession of the said Free City to the Prussian Customs' Union." 111 "Of all correspondence on the subject of the appointment of the right hon. Sir Stratford Canning to be the British Ambassador at the Court of St. Petersburgh, and the causes of the said appointment being rescinded, and of the late Earl of Durham being appointed to the same post in his stead." 112 113 "Of all correspondence from the year 1830, inclusive, relating to the violation by the Czar of Russia of commercial or other rights in Poland previously enjoyed by Great Britain." 114 115 116 117 118 119 120 121 122 123
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : That statement amounts to very much what I said. But I meet the hon. Gentleman there. With regard to the footing upon which British subjects and their trade are placed, if the hon. Member will only look at the treaty itself, he will see that the first Article states—
 "All former rights and privileges are confirmed, and all rights, privileges, and immunities, which the Sublime Porte now grants, or may hereafter grant, to the ships and subjects of any other foreign Power, or which it may suffer [not merely grant] the ships and subjects of any other foreign Power to enjoy, shall equally be granted, exercised, and enjoyed by the subjects and the ships of Great Britain." 75 76 77 in transitu; in transitu 78 79 80 "We do not ask for it; we are aware that your position requires you should be well looked after; but we do not wish to exclude France in any degree whatever from the general concert which we desire to see established for the maintenance of the independence of Turkey. All we wish is, that you should fully and perfectly understand that our policy, as much as yours, is the maintenance of Turkey as it is. We are anxious to co-operate with you, and that you should co-operate with us, in maintaining Turkey such as she is, and in preventing the dismemberment of her empire by means of the establishment of a new kingdom in Syria " 81 82
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Although I shall be a little out of order, I trust that I may be allowed to answer a question that has not been put, but the purport of which has been conveyed to me by my hon. Friend who has just resumed his seat (Mr. Wakley). He wished to ask whether any information had reached Her Majesty's Government of any personal violence having been offered to any British subject in Paris during the late disturbances. I am happy to inform my hon. Friend and the House, that I have no reason to believe that any such occurrence has taken place. I believe that the British subjects at Paris have acted with that prudence and discretion which becomes strangers in a country where disturbance is going on, and that they have abstained from taking any part in the recent occurrences, and have not foolishly and wantonly mixed themselves up in them. Now, in proceeding to continue the statement which I was interrupted by the necessary adjournment of the House in making the other day, I really feel that I have some apology to make to the House for detaining them with transactions that occurred twenty years ago, at a moment when the public attention is engrossed by matters of the most overpowering importance, and of the most overwhelming interest, succeeding each other with unexampled rapidity, and which, for the moment at least, must throw into the shade all the interest of those long gone by and frequently discus-
 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74
 MR. SHAFTO ADAIR  inquired whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to make any alteration in the law with respect to the relief of the casual poor?
 The EARL of LINCOLN  said, when this subject was last before the House, he had ventured to trouble them with several details of figures to prove that a very erroneous impression had been created with reference to the sum already expended, and the probable expenditure in future; and he thought it unnecessary, upon the present occasion, to trouble the House with a single observation upon that point, or to involve the discussion with the question of the responsibility of Mr. Barry. He must also deprecate the practice of that House resolving itself into a dilettanti society, with the view of discussing matters of taste, of considering how far those frescoes were in consonance with rules of art, and other details of that nature. If they did so he thought that in all probability they would arrive at no proper or satisfactory conclusion upon those points, neither indeed did he think that it formed one of the functions of that House. But there was one function which peculiarly belonged to that House, and that was to
 146 147
 MR. R. YORKE  said, the idea of appointing a Committee had been ridiculed by almost every speaker, and he had much rather the house should agree to the Amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for Middlesex, than to the appointment of any Committee.
 MR. B. COCHRANE  thought he might fairly venture to entertain the hope that when the House had done him the honour of hearing the case which he should submit to its consideration, they would think him justified in claiming their attention for a short period, even at a time of so great general interest and excitement as the present. He did not think that any time could be more apposite; because at a moment when every nation was awakening from its long slumber, and asserting those principles of freedom which are so greatly advantageous when they do not overleap the bounds of moderation, he thought that the representatives of a country which had so long enjoyed the blessings of which other nations had been deprived, would not hesitate upon the present occasion to cast their protection around the weak, and to express their indignation at wanton cruelties and acts of hideous oppression practised on an unoffending people, whose interests we were solemnly bound to protect. He said it advisedly, "whose interests we were solemnly bound to protect;" and as some hon. Members might not have turned their attention to this subject, he would in a few words explain the position in which we stood towards that country. In 1827, a treaty was signed between England, France, and Russia, for the pacification, or rather for the liberation, of Greece; it was called the Treaty of London, and became the foundation of all our subsequent policy. This treaty, as the House might know, was followed by the battle of Navarino. In 1830, the crown of Greece was offered by the Three Powers, and under the assent of the Greek people, to Prince
 128 l l "Sir—Her Majesty's Government have learnt with the greatest satisfaction, by your despatches of the 30th ult, the termination of the labours of the constituent assembly, and the final and solemn acceptance by the King of the ratification of the constitution. They have viewed with no less satisfaction the admirable temper which appears to have generally prevailed in the constituent assembly, throughout the whole of their deliberations on the deeply interesting and important act on which they have been engaged. Such self-command in a popular assembly, convoked under very exciting and critical circumstances, is highly creditable to the Greek nation. Nor is the result of their labours, as a whole, less entitled to credit for the general soundness of the constitutional principles therein established." 129 l l 130 "I cannot conceal from you any longer the truth; the robbery of the public treasury has surpassed all measure, and is carried on with an insane imprudence; but is this the fault of the Minister? If each  employé "The Minister will permit me to remark that, having been informed of the wretched condition of the public revenue, and of the more strange and unaccountable conduct of the Minister of Finance, in matters of the greatest moment, it was his duty to have directed an examination into the conduct of the officer, and at least to have paid some attention to the strong expressions of public opinion, That opinion denounces the present Administration, and the facts support the accusation that they have allowed their  employés "Abuses had always existed, and the only difference between abuses past and present, was, that formerly they were the monopoly of a few privileged persons, but that now they afforded some hundreds the means of subsistence; that the mismanagement of the loan, and the extravagance of the Regency, was the cause of this financial embarrassment; if there existed great disorder in the administration, it had always been the same." 131 "On the 4th of November last, Trino was at a village called Rerasova, with a body of armed men, nearly 300 in number, at which place they took up their quarters; he summoned all the principal inhabitants, and those of the neighbouring villages, and, binding them with cords, as if they were robbers and assassins, he thrust them, by way of imprisoning them, into vile, filthy stables; this was on the plea that he wished to discover some brigands who were concealed. Trino then caught a wild cat, and put it into the trousers of the wife of one of the principal inhabitants. He himself beat the cat, that it might jump about, tearing the unhappy woman to pieces; and he only set her at liberty, when, from extreme torture, she made a false confession, stating everything that Trino prompted her to say. On the strength of this confession he took the men out of prison, first bound their hands and feet tightly, and then tied their hands down to their feet, thus making a sort of bow of their bodies, and he kept them in that position several hours. The next day Trino took two of the men to a lake in the neighbourhood; he caused two blocks to be lashed to the tops of two of the highest trees, and with a running cord hoisted them up and let them down several times into the water, and when they had quite lost their senses he had them dragged on shore. After some time he said, 'Poor fellows! I am afraid they are cold, we must warm them a little.' This he accomplished by flogging them most unmercifully, when they were afterwards taken back to prison. After these feats he stalked about the town, exclaiming 'You wanted a constitution, my fine fellows! You are nice fellows for a constitution. Well, now you have got it. I hope you will like it, for you have seen some of the blessings of it!' This illustrious officer on one occasion sent a present of two heads in a basket to the Monarch of Acarnania and Etolia." "The members of the family Dimeoi arrested by the Mirarque (the Government officer) were subjected to the torture for three days, and all their effects sold. Demetri Nicalocopulo, accused of an insignificant robbery three years ago, was put to the torture, and expired soon after." 132 "Sire, fifty citizens, dragged without excuse, from the bosom of their families, and thrown into a damp and loathsome dungeon, deploring their loss of liberty, that last worldly blessing, cast themselves on your mercy. Sire, the tortures we have undergone, are unheard of and horrible; some of us suspended by the feet, others with their legs and arms bound, are laid upon the ground and blocks of stone placed on their chests, their flesh torn and limbs mutilated. A robbery had been committed in our village in the month of October; on the 22nd of November, D. Saulis, lieutenant des garde frontières, at the head of a detachment of soldiers, and without any instructions from the magistrates, desired them to seize eighty of us, and throw us into the cellar of a house of a priest named Papajanopulos. Not obtaining any information, notwithstanding all the violence, some were released, and the others conducted to their respective houses, where the most horrible tortures were inflicted upon us during the nights of the 22nd and 23rd; then, not having succeeded in making us admit ourselves guilty we were taken to a lonely spot, named Divari, thrown down, bound, and gagged, with enormous stones heaped upon us; when we lay at the point of death, the stones were removed and we were set at liberty. These horrors, Sire, had a far different object to the discovery of a theft; for some time past the garde frontières have endeavoured to push us to acts of despair. But we, Sire, throw ourselves upon your Majesty's protection, imploring, in tears and affliction, the punishment of those persons who have so outraged humanity. We supplicate your Majesty to condescend to take efficacious measures to put a termination to those miseries which oppress your people, by excluding from the public service those persons, who, instead of executing the laws, only substitute fearful tortures; and all these crimes are committed in the name of your Majesty." 133 "I, the undersigned, certify upon my conscience, that the bearer of this note served under my orders in all the acts of brigandage which I committed, and that he always distinguished himself by his zeal." "Sire, a long experience has afforded us the most satisfactory conviction that the strict observance of the laws, and the energetic defence of the rights of the nation, have been, and always will be, your Majesty's anxiety; but the facts fully prove that this princely intention has been misunderstood, and that these same rights have not been respected during the elections, which have been followed by very pernicious results. The Senate prays that your Majesty's paternal wisdom and tendencies will afford them relief. The adjustment of our finances is a work on which the honour and the credit of the country depend;
 134 "His Majesty having understood that the address voted by the Senate interferes with those rights which exclusively belong to the other legislative body, has charged me to announce to you, that protecting the constitution, and jealous of the maintenance of the rights of the nation, and anxious to maintain the good intelligence between the two legislative bodies, he does not intend to receive such an address." "Not to tell his Majesty that the Government is vile, that the constitution is in danger, that the finances are in disorder, that anarchy reigns in the country, would be to betray our oaths, and to expose ourselves to the just reprobation of the country." "Do you think, Sir, that I do not know as well as you do to what a deplorable state the country is reduced? I told his Majesty all this; but he assured me that if you did not give up the Address, he would create new senators. I see that you will insist upon telling the King the truth; but the truth is bitter, and not to be told at all times." Spitfire 135 "It will, of course, be of high importance that the three guaranteeing Powers, who have hitherto acted in such perfect unison in their proceedings with regard to Greece, should continue to preserve the same unanimity of counsel and action in the changed circumstances that have arisen. You will constantly exert yourself to maintain that union which has hitherto so happily prevailed between your colleagues and yourself; and you will especially impress upon them the necessity of persevering in the honourable and correct principle which ought to guide the Three Powers in their relations towards Greece, and by which Great Britain, at least, is fully resolved that her conduct shall be invariably governed; that is, to set aside all views of separate or individual interest, to discourage all party distinctions, and to look to the national welfare and prosperity of Greece alone, as the object of our united care." "In the whole of your proceedings at this important crisis, you will constantly bear in mind that the good of Greece alone is the principle which guides and animates Her Majesty's Government. We wish to see Greece independent, and under the auspices of a sound and well-regulated constitutional system of government, in which each power in the State shall have its due weight and influence, growing daily in strength, in credit, and in prosperity. The exercise of any extraneous and exclusive influence over her counsels can but retard that growth. Instead of leaning upon foreign support, we desire to see the Greeks rely on their own moral and physical resources for establishing their affairs on a footing most conformable to their wants and social position." 136 137
 MR. C. BULLER  was glad that his hon. Friend had put the question. The subject was one which had frequently been brought under his notice by complaints from all parts of the country. Where a union workhouse was situated in one parish, and the relieving officer resided in another, all casual persons applying to that relieving
 125
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  observed, that reference had been made to the share which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had in proposing the expenditure. He wished the House distinctly to understand how far he considered himself responsible, and that was to the extent of determining what sum of money in each year should be voted. How the expenditure should be carried on, and whether it should be carried on according to the recommendation of the Committee, it was not for him to say. He had not time to devote to the purpose; and he could not pretend to say whether the building was in conformity with the plan. With respect to Westminster-bridge, he had the honour as well as the Speaker to be one of the Commissioners for the management of Westminster-bridge; and it was, he was afraid, too true that Westminster-bridge was in a state which sooner or later would require considerable expenditure, whether it were determined to adapt it to the architecture of the House or not. The Commissioners had been obliged to stop up the navigation of two arches, and remove some of the superincumbent weight, to render it safe for the passage of carriages. That the danger was obviated by the precautions which they had taken, he believed. He believed the bridge at present to be in a state of perfect safety; but at the same time it was only in a temporary state, and it was impossible that the bridge could permanently be allowed to remain in the state in which it was, with two of the arches blocked up, and the navigation of the river materially impeded. He did not, however, think that it was necessary to mix it up with the present question as to the two Houses of Parliament. He trusted that the debate of that evening might lead to a practical result. He thought that the appointment of a Commission, in the words of the hon. and gallant Gentleman, if it should be a  dilettanti 152
 DR. BOWRING , who appeared to be suffering from indisposition, and was very imperfectly heard in the gallery, called the attention of the House to the grievances suffered by the inhabitants of the Isle of Man. The cardinal grievance of which the Manx people complained was the constitution of their legislative assembly, which was self-elected and irresponsible. Their system of laws mixed together the legislative and judicial functions. The men who made the laws also administered them; and the consequence was, a growing and necessary feeling of discontent amongst the population. The House of Keys was the court of appeal from the subordinate tribunals, and many members of the House of Keys practised as advocates in the court below. In the Deemster's courts there was no code of reference and no statute-books. The Deemster acted on the  lex non scripta 126
 MR. HUME  considered the appointment of a Committee on this subject would lead to great inconvenience and expense. He was convinced that two millions would not finish the building; but, even supposing that estimate to be exaggerated, the works would cost double the sum originally contemplated. He submitted that it would be far better not to make any further alterations, but to appoint competent persons, whose duty it should be to see that the works were finished in the most expeditious and least expensive manner. He could not see what the Committee, if appointed, would have to do with Westminster-bridge. For his own part, he did not approve of the proposition to substitute a bridge in the Chinese style for the old bridge at Westminster, in order that it might correspond with the florid façade of the New Houses of Parliament. He was satisfied that the Committee, if granted, would only lead to mischief, so he would oppose its appointment.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE , in opposing the Motion, remarked that it was not enough to say that Mr. Barry was one of the greatest artists that ever lived. What he wanted to know, and what the country desired to be assured of, was this—who was to be responsible for the expenditure? He referred to the report of the House of Lords in 1844, to show that the complaints he now made were not put forth for the first time. In truth, since 1836, there had been no control over Mr. Barry; and one reason why he should press the Amendment of which he had given notice was, that he never knew of a Committee being appointed, which did not add to the expense of the building. And now what was that building? An Italian composition, with a Gothic dress—a thing that was so frittered away in details, that in the course of a few years it would be nothing more than a metropolitan asylum for birds' nests and soot. There was then 90,000 l 140 141 l l l "The Committee regret that so important a plan should hare been undertaken on an estimate which has proved so defective, and they cannot refrain from remarking how desirable it is that Parliament should never be called upon to vote money for any public undertaking, by any department, without the most perfect estimate that could possibly be procured." "Has it ever occurred to the Commissioners, whether it would be desirable to make some arrangement with respect to the execution and construction of these buildings?—Yes. "Would it not be much better to appoint some person permanently to superintend it, rather than leave it to any particular department of the Government?—I should say so. The Commissioners have given this opinion in their report. I believe the expenses of public buildings have recently been much increased, in consequence of the inefficient control of the Executive over them." 142 "Address praying Her Majesty to appoint Commissioners to superintend the expenditure of the amount voted by this House for the New Houses of Parliament, with a view to make such arrangements as shall complete the building at the earliest period."
 MR. BERNAL  never recollected an instance in which any advantage had arisen from discussing matters of taste in that House. He would ask his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford what it was he sought to obtain by this Committee. His Motion was for a "Select Committee on the present state of the New Palace at Westminster, with a view to the reception and accommodation of this House therein, and the probable expense of its completion; and also to inquire into the present state of Westminster-bridge." Now these objects, which were thus placed
 149
 SIR B. HALL  seconded the Amendment.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, the question was, whether an efficient control should be established over the expenditure upon the New Houses, seeing that it had more than doubled the original estimate. No Committee, and certainly none constituted as proposed by the hon. Baronet (Sir R. Inglis), could possibly effect that object; and the Government would screen themselves behind the decision of that Committee because it had been arranged with their concurrence. Objecting then to the Committee, he objected still more to its
 145
 SIR G. GREY  was not prepared to deny that there were many matters connected with the present state of affairs in the Isle of Man which ought to be inquired into, and he was quite willing that inquiry should be instituted. That, he believed, was the main object of the Motion, and he had already done something to further it. He had instituted a correspondence with the Governor and other authorities of the island, and had stated his view, which was, that a complete remedy for the evils complained of was to be found, not in a separate legislature for a small island within a few hours' sail of the British coast, but, on the contrary, in the complete incorporation of the Isle of Man with the United Kingdom. Such of the inhabitants, however, as had memorialised that House, were in favour of separate legislative functions, which would, no doubt, produce great abuses. He thought it very reasonable, however, that there should be a representative body in the island, to regulate the repairs of highways and other local matters of that description. In conclusion, he begged to express a hope that the hon. Gentleman would not press his Motion.
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  confessed he could not understand what the duties of the Committee were to be. It seemed the Committee was to inquire into the expenditure and condition of the New Palace at Westminster, and also to inquire into the present state of Westminster-bridge. It was not clear to him why Westminster-bridge and the New Houses of Parliament were to be placed in juxtaposition. The Committee might as well inquire into the navigation of the river Thames, or into the present state of Blackfriars-bridge, which, it appeared, required repairs. It was said that the Houses of Parliament

 148 l
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, he took only a financial view of the question, and he feared it would turn out a similar business to the Kaffir war.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  moved—
 "That a Select Committee be appointed on the present state of the New Palace at Westminster, with a view to the reception and accommodation of this House therein, and the probable expense of its completion; and also to inquire into the present state of Westminster Bridge." l 139
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  had included Westminster-bridge amongst the objects to be inquired into by the Committee, because it formed one of the approaches to the New Houses, and had been affected by their erection. The hon. Member for Marylebone had said that there seemed a suspicion that this Committee had been arranged between the Government and the Member who moved for it. No Committee was ever appointed without a direct communication between the individual who moved for it and Her Majesty's Government; and he was, he apprehended, justified in the course he had taken by having received the direct sanction of Government, not only to the appointment of the Committee, but of every individual name included in the Motion. He would not go into the discussion of the great constitutional principle involved in the name, but he had authorities for it. When the two Houses of Parliament were consumed by fire, and when it was necessary to provide further accommodation, his late Majesty was advised, in the Speech from the Throne, to use the phrase—
 "The ancient Palace of Westminster, which has long been appropriated to the use of the two Houses of Parliament." Gazette: "The chambers in the Palace of Westminster which have been usually appropriated to the meeting of the Houses having been partially destroyed by fire, His Majesty," &c. "Return of the aggregate amount already paid, or agreed to be paid, to contractors and other persons, for the purchase of land and buildings for the erection of the 'Palace of Westminster.'" 151
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that if he was at liberty to conclude that his noble Friend the First Commissioner of the Woods and Forests was prepared to concur in the adoption of the suggestion thus thrown out by his right hon. Colleague—if he would state that he was prepared to pledge himself that the Commission should issue—he (Sir R. Inglis) would, with the leave of the House, withdraw his Motion.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  hoped that those hon. Gentleman who called themselves the real friends of the Isle of Man would take warning by the allusion in the earlier part of the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department with respect to its annexation to England. It might be annexed to Lan-
 127
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  had been anxious to accept the discharge of the duties which he understood appertained to the office he held. When he thought it the wish of the House that the Committee should be appointed, he was willing that the whole proceedings and transactions should be remitted to the investigation of such Committee; but if it was the general feeling of the House that some means of closer and better control should be applied, he should be quite willing if the hon. Members would withdraw their proposition, to consider what advice could be given to Her Majesty respecting the appointment of such a Com-
 153
 VISCOUNT MORPETH : I merely wish to say, with regard to the central tower, that Mr. Barry thinks, both with reference to appearance and economy, that that tower may be made lower than was calculated in his original design. At the same time I know that Dr. Reid has presented a petition to the House stating, that if the original design be departed from in that particular, it will interfere materially with the application of his invention.
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  assured his hon. Friend that he did not found his opposition to the Amendment upon any feeling of jealousy with regard to the Board of Woods and Forests as to the construction of the New Houses of Parliament. That department had faithfully endeavoured to discharge all the duties devolved upon it either by Parliament or by the Treasury; and it had not affected to do more. It seemed to be assumed sometimes that the Commissioners of Woods and Forests were expected to fulfil all the duties of what our neighbours called "the Minister of Works;' and he should certainly feel that he required to enter into training for the qualifications necessary for such an office. Indeed, already, he had sometimes to give an opinion upon matters which required the education and acquirements of a land steward, of a practical farmer, of a builder, of an architect, of an inspector of mines, a valuer of timber, and of a practical engineer; and in addition to his own radical deficiencies in these respects, he felt that the department had not a sufficiently organised staff to discharge the duties required from a regularly constituted office of works. At the same time neither the department over which he had the honour to preside, nor the Government, were disposed to shrink from any responsibility which fairly devolved upon them; and when his hon. Friend asked who was responsible for the amount of expenditure annually-proposed to Parliament, he replied that nobody could be responsible but the Go-
 143 "I have examined the Houses of Parliament inside and out; time and money could not have been better employed. I think Mr. Barry's genius is beyond the age he lives in; and depend upon it he will be immortal." 144
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I am not aware that I have any objection to make to the Motion of the hon. Gentleman, but of course he will specify the extracts of which he desires to have copies. I am sorry to say that I must bear my testimony to the accuracy of the description which the hon. Gentleman has given of the present state of Greece, whether that testimony be given with reference to the mode in which the financial affairs of the country are regulated, or whether it be offered with respect to the manner in which the constitution has been worked, or whether it be even with regard to the way in which the Executive Powers deal with the people of the country. At present there is no absolute necessity of speaking harshly in this House with regard to the administration of the affairs of other countries; but, as the hon. Gentleman has stated, this country stands with respect to Greece in a position totally different from that in which she stands towards other countries. We have not only rights, but obligations and duties, in respect to Greece, which do not apply to countries in regard to which our position is altogether indifferent. England was one of the Three Powers which by their interposition between Turkey and Greece finally accomplished the independence of the Greek nation, and the erection of Greece into a separate kingdom. England also was one of the Powers to whom was given the choice of choosing a sovereign to reign over Greece; and England was one of the Three Powers by whose representatives was drawn up the proclamation announcing to the Greeks the selection of their Sovereign, and giving a pledge that
 138
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY : The hon. Member who had just sat down had represented the present question to be in what manner the deficiency of three millions
 201 l l l l 202 203 l l l 204 l l l 205 s d "You aim, then, by a corn law at independence of foreign supply, accompanied and produced by such an encouragement to your home grower as shall guarantee him up to a certain point against foreign competition, and shall beyond that point protect the consumer against exorbitant and extravagantly high prices—protecting all parties against that which is most injurious to all, rapid and sudden fluctuations. Now, I say, that, beyond any law which has ever been in force in this or any other country, this law of 1842 has accomplished these its great and main objects. Since this passed, the fluctuation of price, which has taken place between 1844 and 1846, is only from 58 s d s d 206 Economist "When there is a scarcity of any commodity, the greatest misfortune which can happen to those interested in its abundance is, that, from any accidental or artificial cause, the price should be kept low. By such means scarcity can only he aggravated; while by a rise of price alone can it be eventually and more rapidly cured. During the autumn of last year the stock of cotton was extremely small, and the interests of those concerned pointed to the necessity of larger importations. The extreme pressure of that period, however, caused a further reduction of price, when the relative state of the supply and demand would otherwise have led to a considerable rise. The manufacturers in Lancashire, at the time, seemed to imagine that they had an interest in nothing being done to alleviate the pressure, because the first effect would have been to raise the price of cotton. But a rise of price in Liverpool was the first and only condition on which such an increased supply could be obtained as would secure a continuance of a moderate price in future. As it was, the price of cotton in Liverpool was forced lower for a time than in any other European market. The first effect was a considerable export to the Continent, so as further to reduce our stocks; the next effect has been a decreased import from America, which has aggravated and perpetuated the scarcity. This has acted in two ways. First, there is reason to believe that the low prices have induced the growers of cotton, in some of the States at least, to hold back a portion of the crop, so that the entire shipments are nearly 100,000 bales less than last year, while the crop is admitted to be larger; and next, it has led to a smaller portion of those shipments being sent to this market, and a larger portion direct to the Continent. By these two causes, not only now are the cotton dealers and brokers of Liverpool deprived of the intermediate trade of supplying the Continent to the same extent as last year, but the Lancashire spinners have a smaller stock from which to supply their wants; and Liverpool, which was the cheapest market three months ago, is becoming the dearest in Europe." 207
 MR. ELLICE  felt himself so peculiarly circumstanced with respect to the question before the House, that he took the oppor-
 176 Ironical cheers 177 178 179 180 l l l l l l 181
 LORD J. RUSSELL : After the courteous manner in which the hon. Gentleman who spoke last has addressed the House and the Government, I think it incumbent on me to give some answer to his proposition, which is similar to one made by the hon. Member for Montrose. The hon. Member for Montrose, in noticing the diversity of opinions in this House, gave no very complimentary reason for our great variety of opinion. He told us that he had been in company with a dozen gentlemen who were political economists—that they differed extremely on the subject of taxation—and that if those gentlemen, who were accustomed to reason so much, differed so greatly on this subject, it was no wonder that we should differ. But, adverting to the proposal made by the hon. Member for Montrose, and which is now supported by the hon. Gentleman who last spoke, I do not think it is one to which the Government can give its concurrence. I beg for a few moments the attention of the House, while I state what I conceive to be our position and that of Parliament on this subject. In 1842 Parliament agreed to impose the income-tax; in the first place, to supply the deficiency of the revenue, and, in the next, to enable the experiment to be tried of diminishing or abolishing certain duties from articles of consumption, with a view to improve the revenue by giving a spring to industry and commerce. Opposed as I was to the income-tax, I must say that both objects were fulfilled. The deficiency in the revenue was supplied, and the revenue itself increased very greatly, in consequence partly of the spring given by the remission of taxation, and partly in consequence of the prosperous state of the country. The Government again proposed the continuance of the tax for three years, taking off another large portion of taxation on articles of consumption. I believe that the remissions altogether in those two years, and in the other years in the interval between them, amounted to not less than 7,000,000 l 223 l 224 l 225 l d d d d d s l d 226 d d d 227 228
 MR. NEWDEGATE  was sure that the hon. Gentlemen who sat on the opposite side of the House were much indebted to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Coventry for thus endeavouring to heal those difficulties which had prevailed among them., on the Government side of the House the hon. Gentlemen professing free-trade opinions were all discontented and dissatisfied. Why? They had had the commercial and financial measures of late years all their own way. They were discontented with the result, and so fell foul of the Government, whose only fault was, that they attempted to carry out the principles professed by the free-traders themselves, who now assailed them. But he could not agree with the hon. Member for Cockermouth, who seemed absolutely so enamoured of an income-tax, that he took it to his bosom and cherished it, in the hope that he should be able to remove its anomalies. His view of this question was, that this tax was proposed as a temporary tax—that it was one most obnoxious in character—and that nothing they could do with it could render it a just tax; and though he was willing to submit to its imposition for three years more, because he thought the circumstances of the country required it, yet he would do nothing whatever that should tend to give it the character of permanency. Now, with respect to the circumstances which had rendered the renewal of this tax necessary, he considered the country ought to know, that it was the new commercial system they had had of late years established that had now made its imposition a matter of necessity. When it was first imposed by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, it was introduced as a temporary tax; and he would be bound that the far greater portion of those who then followed
 182 
 
 The revenue of 1847 was £51,362,000 
 Deduct income and property-tax 5,450,000 
 Revenue from ordinary sources £45,912,000 
 Revenue from ordinary sources, for the year 1841, before the income-tax was imposed £47,917,000 
 Ditto, 1847 45,912,000 
 Minus £2,005,000 
 Customs, Excise, and Taxes repealed or reduced between the years 1841 and 1848 £8,100,000 
 Income and property-tax, 1846–7 5,450,000 
 Minus £2,650,000 
 Actual deficiency of income below expenditure £2,955,683 
 Difference between Customs and Taxes repealed in six years compared against Income-tax 2,650,000 
 £305,683 183 l l l 184 s d s d 
 
 Articles. 1846. 1847. 
 Cotton twist and yarn 12,110,118 lbs. 9,314,845 duty unalt. 
 Thread for sewing 16,493 7,309 duty unalt. 
 Plain calicoes 819,594 yds 741,327 
 Printed calicoes 192,131 84,267 
 Cambrics, muslins, lawns, and lenos 22,056 14,213 

 Heavy wools 2,148 847 185 ad valorem 
 
 Ad valorem. 
 Cut glass 40 per cent. 
 Carpets 30 per cent. 
 Clocks 30 per cent. 
 Clothing, made up 30 per cent. 
 Iron—Bar, bolt, pig, rod, &c. 30 per cent. 
 Jewellery 30 per cent. 
 Manufactures, viz.— 
 Leather 30 per cent. 
 Wool 30 per cent. 
 Paper 30 per cent. 
 Wool unmanufactured 30 per cent. 
 Cotton manufactures 25 per cent. 
 Silk 25 per cent. 
 Worsted 25 per cent. 
 Yarn—Woollen and worsted 25 per cent. 
 Blankets 20 per cent. 
 Leather tanned, sole and upper 20 per cent. 
 Linen of all kinds 20 per cent. 
 Flax 20 per cent. 
 Paper hangings 20 per cent. 
 Steel unenumerated 20 per cent. 
 Velvet cotton 20 per cent. 
 Wheat 20 per cent. 
 —Flour 20 per cent. 
 Woollen listings 20 per cent. 
 Chronometers 10 per cent. s d s s d s 
 
 SPIRITS (DUTY REDUCED ON THE 18th MARCH, 1846, FROM 22 s d s 
 Entered for Home Consumption. 
 1846. Gallons. Duty Paid. Loss of Revenue. 
 Brandy 1,514,893 £ 1,165,478 £568,085 
 Geneva 39,910 30,409 14,966 
 1847. 
 Brandy 1,537,762 1,153,164 576,660 
 Geneva 28,880 30,409 10,812 
 £1,170,523 186 
 
 AVERAGE PRICE OF BRANDYT IN BOND. 
 Per Gal. Per Gal. Per Gal. 
 1845, 4 s 3 d 1846 5 s 8½ d 1847, 5 s 11 d 187 "The objects for which the above restrictions and taxes are imposed are all of a public nature, and interest alike the possessor of personal property and the landowner, who derives his whole income from realty. The prohibition to grow tobacco, and the restriction on the use of malt for agricultural purposes, are imposed for the protection of the revenue raised for the general purposes of the State. The stamp duties levied in connexion with real property are applied to the same objects; and the direct charges, which constitute the heaviest burdens on real property, supply the funds applicable to the internal purposes of the State.  * * * l l * * * l l l l l 188 l l l l 189 "The cotton district has, throughout the whole of the past year, experienced more or less of depression; it cannot, however, be characterised as one of disaster, for, whilst we have had an absence of the excessive profits of 1843, 1844, and 1845, the aggregate has yielded a fair remuneration to both spinner and manufacturer; and our operatives have enjoyed, until the past few weeks, uninterrupted employment, and at very full wages. The change produced in the past year did not arise from any falling-off in the home demand, or requirements of the foreign market; and, although in a measure induced by the disturbing causes before mentioned, is mainly owing to over-production, consequent on the great increase of mills and machinery called into existence by the prosperous course of manufacturing in the three years antecedent. During those years the supply was inadequate to the demand, but it has now become evident that such is no longer the
 190 d l l "The enclosed table may interest you in many ways. There is nothing in it to alarm the farmer, but much to terrify the spinner. However, he has to thank his own cupidity. In September, 1845, best second mule twist, No. 40, was selling at 11½d. to 12 d d d d 191 s 192
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I think, Sir, I shall best consult the wishes of the House by not attempting to follow some of those Gentlemen who have preceded me, into the various topics they have introduced into this debate, which not only have had no connexion with the resolutions which I shall have to submit to the Committee, but not even with the Motion of the hon. Member for Cockermouth. I shall decline too, and I hope the noble Lord will not accuse me of discourtesy to him—I shall decline following the noble Lord in a discussion upon cotton; and I shall not enter with the hon. Member for Montrose into the question of our establishments, which have existed for the last ten or fifteen years, or on the reductions which were effected after 1830. I must, however, before I approach the immediate subject of debate, express some little astonishment at the objections which my hon. Friend the Member for Cocker-mouth and the noble Lord have raised with respect to the manner of levying the income-tax. My hon. Friend seemed to impute to me that I had always advocated a change in the mode of imposing the income-tax. Sir, I never did anything of the kind. I opposed the income-tax on its first introduction, because I thought it unjust and inquisitorial; but I said, as distinctly as possible, and that ground I have ever held, that the tax, if we were to submit to it, must be imposed in the shape in which it now stands. I have always contended that if the tax was
 208 "If the House were prepared to authorise the policy then recommended to them by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Tamworth, they would find it impossible at the expiration of the three years to take off the income-tax." 209 210 l 211 l l 212
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  having moved the Order of the Day for going into Committee on Ways and Means,
 MR. HORSMAN , pursuant to notice, rose to move as an Amendment—
 "That, if the income-tax be continued, it is expedient to amend the Act, and not to impose the same charge on incomes arising from professional and precarious sources as on those derived from realised property." 163 l l 164 l l 165 l l l l l 5,0001 l 5,0001 l l l l l l 166 167 168 "This inequality of its operation is not denied by any one, and indeed it would be impossible to deny it. It is obvious that if you take three or four persons having each 300 l "I have always been of opinion that inequality, vexation, and fraud were inherent in such a tax. It is impossible to deny its inequality, for no man can say that it is equal; for a person who has an income derived from a landed estate, or from the funds, which he could leave to his children entire, is not in the same position as a person in a profession—a surgeon or an artist—whose bread depends upon his health and the vigour of his constitution, and who, by the loss of a limb or a defect of eyesight, may at any moment be deprived of the means of earning any income at all. No man can say that these two persons were
 169 170 171 l l l l l l l l l.; l l l 172 l l l l l l l l s l d l s d l d d d d l l 173 l l d l l d l d l d l d l l l 174 d d d d d l s d l l l d l l d l l l d d l l d d d l l l 175 d d d d d d d
 MR. HORSMAN  explained that the case of the Irish proprietors had not escaped his attention. His only reason for not alluding to it in his speech was, that he thought the present was not the time for entering into minute details.
 MR. MUNTZ  was exceedingly delighted at hearing the speech of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He had done great kindness to the House and the country. On the last occasion on which he had addressed the House on this subject, he had recommended the Government to consider whether they could not make the tax more palatable to the country. He was now satisfied that the argument of the right hon. Gentleman was founded in truth, and that even if Her Majesty's Government carried the measure, it would not be well received by the country. The Government might be able to bear up for a time against the unpopularity which would arise from this tax; but they would eventually experience all the discredit which they deserved for having proposed it in its present shape. It was imposssible that the Government could be aware of the extent to which the tax forced many persons to injure themselves. There were thousands in this country who were led to make returns beyond their incomes, on account of appearances; and he knew instances in which parties, after making such returns, had been surchanged, and had submitted in order to avoid an examination into the state of their affairs. They need not go into the country to find
 217
 MR. ROBINSON  was understood to suggest that at any rate the proposed renewal of the income-tax should only he taken for one year; and he assured the noble Lord and the Government that if they persevered in demanding the tax as it stood for three years, they would be jeopardizing the popularity of a considerable number of the Members of that House,
 222
 MR. GOULBURN  had to apologise for rising at so early a period; but being most anxious to give his support to the proposition for the continuance of the income-tax for a limited period, deeming it essential to the maintenance of the, public credit and the best interests of the whole community, he wished to state the grounds upon which he came to that conclusion. In doing so, he should confine himself strictly to the proposition made by the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Horsman); and he was sure his hon. Friend (Mr. Newdegate) would excuse him if he forbore entering upon the wide field which his hon. Friend had taken, seeing that the topics he had discussed applied rather to general questions of finance, than to the particular subject now under discussion. The arguments of the hon. and learned Gentleman mainly referred to the inequality with which, he alleged, the income-tax bore upon different classes. He did not mean to deny that the tax pressed unequally upon different classes to which it applied. Its operation in this respect had been admitted at the time it was introduced, and again when it was renewed. Indeed, if an income or property-tax was to be effective as a measure of revenue, he feared it would be found unequal in whatever shape it might be imposed. It was not, however, a just objection to this or to any other tax, to say that its pressure was unequal; and it was taking an extremely narrow view to apply to one particular tax an objection that equally applied to all taxes. Human ingenuity had never yet devised a tax that could press with equal severity upon all classes; and the only rational mode of dealing with taxation was to view the whole system together, to correct the inequalities of one tax by the countervailing inequalities of another; so that the balance of the whole system of taxation should press equally and justly upon all classes. Take the land-tax. If that tax stood alone, and they were discussing its merits, he should think no person could fail to point out how it was oppressive upon one class, as contradistinguished from another. Take the assessed taxes. Did they not press unequally, even in the hon. and learned Gentleman's favourite case of the physician as compared with
 193 l l l l l 194 d d d d d l 195 d d d d 196 l l 197
 MR. GOULBURN  observed, that the hon. Member who had just sat down, had said that he had stated that the salaries of the Ministers of the Crown ought not to be reduced. Now, what he had said was, that if the proposition of the hon. Member for Cockermouth were adopted, a Minister would come down to the House to propose a tax of 4 d d
 MR. WALTER  rose at great disadvantage after three right hon. Gentlemen who had been Chancellors of the Exchequer. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Portsmouth (Mr. P. Baring) who had taken a common-sense view of the question, which, after all, was the true one, had asserted a principle to which he gave his cordial assent. In the few observations he was about to address to the House, he should not enter on that wide field of discussion on which other hon. Gentlemen had expatiated on a former occasion, as well as on that evening. The question before the House was certainly not whether the repeal of the corn laws was the cause of the famine in the country, and of the
 218 219 faux pas "Vice is a monster of so hideous mien As to be hated needs but to be seen; But seen too oft, familiar with its face, We first endure, then pity, then embrace;"— 220 221
 MR. HUME  was very sorry the debate had taken the turn it had done. They were wandering from the subject. He would not enter upon the subject of free trade; but he could assure the hon. Member for Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) that he was altogether mistaken as to the effect of the reduction of taxes by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Tamworth. For ten years previous to 1842, the average revenue of the country was 51,000,00 l l l l 198 l l "I think (said the noble Lord) that the working classes will find, that if you diminish the means of employment, the means by which they live and earn good wages, you do as greatly injure those classes as if you imposed a direct tax upon them." 199 l l 200 l l
 MR. F. T. BARING  did not agree with the hon. Member for Montrose, in considering the proposal of the hon. Member for Cockermouth a waste of time. He considered that it was necessary that, in some shape or other, they must have a vote for the five millions and a half; and he did not believe that they could under present circumstances, provide for it without an in-
 213 d d 214 215 216
 SIR. R. PEEL : I beg pardon of the hon. Gentleman, but I took it for granted that the hon. Gentleman was asking a question, not of me, but of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He asks me whether or not I recollect such a proposition being brought
 237
 CAPTAIN TOWNSHEND  said: Sir, I can assure the House that it is far from my intention upon the first occasion that offers of intruding upon its attention, to involve myself in the labyrinth of a currency question. If, however, in the course of the observations I am about to make, I shall be fortunate enough to say a few sterling words, I trust the House will grant me the indulgence which much, as a new and inexperienced Member, I stand in need of. It gave me much satisfaction to learn that Her Majesty's Government had relinquished that part of the budget which went to impose an additional two per cent on income. It would have given me more satisfaction had such a proposition never emanated from Her Majesty's Government at all; for of all taxes that have ever been imposed, I think this to be the most odious and the least palatable to the people of
 259 260 261 en masse "It so happens I have picked up a few secrets abroad, having travelled by water as well as by land; and I venture to say, there is not more idleness or demoralisation in any part of the world than in our ships of war. Occasionally
 262 263
 LORD G. BENTINCK : The question
 297 s s s s 298 Cheers "The fox barks not when he would steal the lamb," 299 l 300 l l l 301 s 302 d s d s d l s d s s s d s d s l s d s d 303 s d s l l l Times Morning Chronicle Hansard s 304 s s s d s l s 305 l s l l 306 l ad valorem 307 l l s l 308 l l l 309 310 "An honest man may take a knave's advice, But only idiots are cozened twice; Once warned is well bewared."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am quite ready to answer the question of the hon. Gentleman; and if he had only done me the favour to attend to what I said on a previous night, he would not now find it necessary to question me on the subject, for I then stated the course which it was the intention of the Government to take. I said the Government did not propose to diminish the amount of the force they would require for the year—that is, the number of men—but I said we were anxious, if possible, to reduce the expenditure upon all the services; and with the view of satisfying the House whether we could do it, and of enabling them to inquire into the expenses, I made a proposal for the appointment of two Committees—one to inquire into the Naval, Military, and Ordnance Estimates; the other to inquire into the Miscellaneous Estimates; and the House has, as hon. Gentlemen are aware, acceded to that proposal. So far with regard to any reduction of expenses. I said that we had resolved to abandon the additional per centage of income-tax, and proposed, out of the balances in the Exchequer, to provide for the deficiency. On all former occasions it has been the practice to charge on the supplies of the en-suing year any excess of expenditure in
 238 l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said: From some of the observations which the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose has made, in spite of his opposition to the proposal of the Government, I have certainly received some comfort. I allude to those in which he stated that he was as anxious as any hon. Member of this House to maintain the national credit and the public character. It is for the support of the public credit, and for the maintenance of the character of this House, that I come down and call upon the Members of it, and upon the hon. Member for Montrose amongst the rest, to vote the continuance of this income-tax for a limited period—and by the words "a limited period," I mean the term of three years—and to reject the proposition of my hon. Friend to limit that period to one year. The words of the resolution mention only "a limited period;" but, the question really before us is whether this tax is to be continued for one year or for three years. I think that is the fairest way to put it. And I do call upon the House, as hon. Members regard the public credit and the character of the House, not to accede to the proposition of my hon. Friend. I have already stated, that when we had to consider the nature of the financial proposals to be made to the House, we thought ourselves bound, in conformity with the practice of all previous Governments, to make such a proposal as would render the income of the country equal to its expenditure. I do not mean that it should equal the expenditure actually within the coming year, but that the taxation should be raised to such an amount as would make the yearly income equal to the yearly expenditure within a reasonable period. We accordingly proposed to continue the income-tax for a limited time at the same per centage as the present; and for a
 243 244 l l l l l 245 246 "It is not merely the deficiency with which we have to deal; it is my intention to apply a great portion of the surplus to the remission of other taxes which press heavily upon the country, as well as to the removal of the duties upon other articles which interfere with the productive industry of the nation. I consider, in proposing the income-tax that I give a great boon to the country—to the productive industry of the country—to the manufacturing, commercial, and trading interests of this nation." l "I have a surplus of 5,000,000 l 247 "I feel that if you are to have a tax at all on property, it ought to be upon income, and not upon accumulated property. I think nothing could be more mischievous in every way than a tax upon accumulated profits; nothing I think, could be a more dangerous precedent." 248 249 250
 MR. URQUHART  said, that on Wednesday last the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston) had attributed to him corrupt motives in making the statement he did respecting the noble Lord's conduct in the Foreign Office. The corrupt motive attributed was, that his (Mr. Urquhart's) being removed from office, was the reason why he had made those charges, and continued to make them. Any such imputation would disqualify him, if true, for having the honour of a seat in that House; and he was sure that if false, he should be equally disqualified if he did not rebut it. A charge of such a nature was not to be bandied about: it was incumbent on the noble Lord to bring forward the grounds on which he made it. But without waiting for those grounds, he would show that the allegation was groundless. Two facts contradicted the insinuation of the noble Lord. The first was, that the charges he had
 233 Lord Palmerston made a gesture of denegation 234 TO Mr. J. BACKHOUSE. July 20, 1838. "That my letter is founded on any such assumption, is wholly groundless. It was as positively put by me, and as clearly understood by Lord Palmerston, as any proposition could be, that I made no complaint or objection whatever to my recall from Constantinople; but that I claimed—that I demanded—justice and redress for injury inflicted on me by the withholding of charges made by the Ambassador—by the false statements made at the interview itself—by the dissemination of calumny from official sources—and by the official sanction given to the insertion of paid libels in the public press."
 MR. ROBINSON  believed there was every disposition on the part of the House to keep faith with the national creditor, as well as to enable the Government to carry on the business of the country in a satisfactory manner; but they naturally required that clear evidence should be laid before them that the estimates did not exceed the exigencies of the public service. They also required that the pressure of taxation should be equalised as much as possible. He adopted in this respect the axiom of Adam Smith, so frequently used in another Sense—namely, that every person living under the protection of a State should contribute to the support of the
 270
 MR. G. J. TURNER  had no objection to the general proposition of an income-tax; on the contrary, if equitably imposed, it would receive his cordial support. But the masses of the community had heavy burdens imposed on them which they paid in the shape of excise duties; and he considered that in the payment of those duties they bore their fair share of the taxation of the country, and that the extra burden ought to fall upon those classes which received from the State the greater amount of protection. The working classes received from the State the protection of their persons—the wealthier, of their persons and their property. He felt the more anxious that the House should maintain the principle of an income-tax when he remembered that its Members held their seats by virtue of a property qualification, and, sitting there by means of such a qualification, those who sent them to the House expected that if additional burdens became necessary, they should see that they were justly and equitably thrown upon the shoulders that were able to bear them. He heartily concurred in the principle of the income-tax, and would have given his vote in favour of the proposition of the Government, if he could have brought his mind to think that the income-tax, as at present proposed, was justly and properly assessed. It had been said, that the estimates were large, but they were not larger than the exigencies of the country required; on this subject he was inclined to trust the Government. Who could he so well informed as to the relations of this country, with foreign Powers, and the relations of foreign Powers among themselves, as the Government? When the budget was originally proposed, he felt that the noble Lord might be acquainted with circumstances
 264 265 l l 266 267
 MR. LABOUCHERE  would confine himself as closely as possible to the question, and would not wander, like some hon. Gentlemen, into various topics, which at best had but a remote connexion with the immediate subject under discussion. The questions which the House had to decide by their vote were—first, whether they would sanction, under the present circumstances of the country, the renewal of the income-tax; and, next, the question raised by the hon. Member for Montrose, whether the renewal of the tax should be for the term of three years as proposed by Government, or one year, as proposed by the hon. Member. As to the question of the renewal of the income-tax at all, he would not go into that question, for he had seen on the present as well as on other occa-
 271 272 273 l 274 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 275
 MR. HERRIES  said, the answer given by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer appeared to him unsatisfactory as applying to the question put by the hon. Gentleman the Member for
 239 ad interim 240
 MR. HUME  could not but express his deep regret at the course persisted in by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. That right hon. Gentleman was just in the position of a trustee who had certain trust money for a particular purpose in his hands. Let them then suppose the case that the Chancellor of the Exchequer were a trustee over another individual's property, and that he had a certain balance of funds belonging to the trust estate which were not immediately required; would he be justified in taking a certain sum out of that balance which was already appropriated, although not immediately wanted, for the purpose of applying it to stop a gap elsewhere, in the hope of being able to make it up again before it would be wanted? How many individual men had done similarly before now, and had failed in finally being able to replace the money so appropriated. But, to be sure, public men might be able to do that which private individuals could not. But the House ought not to be satisfied with such an attempt to "bridge over" (that was the phrase)
 241 l l l l l l 242
 MR. HUME  was sorry that the right hon. Gentleman opposite had taken the trouble of answering him as he did. Two things were important, seeing there was a deficiency even if they agreed to this tax: he wanted to know whether the Government intended to abandon the increased establishments which occasion the increased expense for the coming year; or, having abandoned the additional 2 per cent, in what way they proposed to make up the deficiency? Those were two points which he hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would answer.
 MR. HUME , before the Speaker left the chair, begged to call attention to the fact, that on former occasions, when any
 236 l l l l
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, that the right hon. Gentleman, in the speech which he had just made in favour of the renewal of the income-tax, had quoted from a paper before him, and stated the quantity of taxation which was levied under Schedule E in 1814, when the income-tax extended to all incomes of 50 l l l "I have never met with any statesman, or any one experienced in political affairs, who did not declare that the imposition of such a tax was most objectionable, and, above all, should be avoided in time of peace." "Before I could be prevailed upon to adopt an income-tax, alien as it is to the feelings of the country, I must hazard every other scheme." 276 277 "Considering the various moans which exist of supplying the present deficiency, it is the opinion of this House that the renewal of a tax, unconstitutional in its character and unequal in its pressure, and which has always been considered exclusively as a financial reserve for the nation in time of war, is not called for by public necessity, and is not, therefore desirable." l l l 278 l 279 "You cannot add embarrassment to individuals without adding embarrassment to the nation collectively." "No one could fail to see that the effect of this income-tax would be to drive capital from this country, and, therefore, the argument of those who contended that the tax would not affect the working classes could not be maintained. For those reasons he felt it his duty to give this odious tax his most determined opposition." "Let me warn the right hon. Baronet that this income-tax, if passed now, will produce a reaction which will be injurious not merely to the Government, but to the stability and peace of this country." 280 l l l "There is a proposition based upon sounder arguments, a tax which seems to be fairer, better, more just than an income-tax—I mean a tax upon the succession of property. If, on the ground of necessity, you must have an additional tax, I cannot see the reason why such a tax should not be adopted in preference to an income-tax."' 281 "I shall not be considered as trespassing on the time of the House if I enter into debate on a matter so exclusively confined to England. I raise my humble voice, and will give my decided vote in favour of justice to England. I have arrived at the conclusion that in bringing forward an income-tax you are proposing what is unjust to the people of England; therefore I am bound to give to such a proposal all the opposition in my power." "Of all the Imposts which it is possible for perverse ingenuity to devise, an income-tax is the most prejudicial to the interests, offensive to the feelings, abhorrent to the religious sentiments, and revolting to the moral sense of the English people. "
 MR. SPOONER  was understood to say that he was fully as anxious as the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to do everything that was necessary to support the credit and maintain the establishments for the defence of the country; and it was on that very ground that he should feel it to be his duty to give his vote in favour of the proposition of the hon. Member for Montrose, for he considered that nothing could possibly be more dangerous than that they should base their taxation on a system so unpopular as an income-tax, and particularly while the manner in which it was carried out by the commissioners in some parts of the country was calculated to render it more unpopular still. How unjust was it that the man who had 500 l 251 252 253 254 255 l 256 257 258
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, I think it is impossible, in considering the question whe-
 282 l l 283 l l l l l l l 284 l l l l l l l 285 s s s s s s s d s d.; s d s d s d s d l l l 286 "This is your condition; if you adhere to the estimates and make no increase in them, you will have an available surplus at the end of the current year of not less than 2,600,000 l l l l l l l l l 287 "The property-tax was intended not merely to supply a deficit in the revenue, as compared with the public expenditure, but to lay the foundation for a juster principle of taxation; to afford the means for repealing duties on the raw materials of important manufactures; for exempting great branches of domestic industry (the manufacture of glass, for example) from vexatious regulations of excise; and for remitting or reducing taxation on several articles imported from abroad, which are essential to the comfort and enjoyment of the industrious classes of the community." l 288 "I propose this as a measure which involves the fate of the Government. I do propose it—I speak not of minor details, but of the measure itself—as the basis of the financial and commercial policy of the country, and as a measure which I never could have consented to propose if I did not manifest my conviction of its necessity by risking my fate as a Minister upon it." l 289 l l l 290 291 292 l 293 294 l 295 l 296
 SIR W. CLAY  said, the speech of his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose would have been better made on the Friday. He concurred in much that the hon. Member had stated, and he agreed with him that there was a great inequality in the income-tax; but the House had declared against both their views on the subject. The question was now, whether the tax should be voted for one year or for three years; and to that he should confine himself. The expenditure for the ensuing
 268 l l l l l l l l l l l 269
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I own I
 235
 MR. TRELAWNY  declared that he was opposed to the introduction of the Bill, and would, if necessary, divide the House on it.
 MR. HUME  had always found that any attempt to interfere between masters and men had been productive of greater injury to the men than to the masters. He considered that any individual who held out hopes that they could divide the land between the possessors and the tenants, held out hopes that would do injury. Though he would desire to see improvements effected, with the sanction of the proprietors, he would not wish to see compulsory means adopted.
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  considered that a subject of more importance could not come before Parliament. Many years had passed of promises to and expectations on the part of the people of Ireland. Commission
 312
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  begged to be permitted to ask a question of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department respecting the collision between the people and the police which had taken place on the preceding day, in Trafalgar Square. There had been a meeting held in Trafalgar Square. It had been called by an individual—a certain individual. That meeting had been allowed to take place, and it had gone off perfectly decently and orderly till after a great number of speakers had been heard with decorum and tranquillity on the part of the people. After the meeting had ceased, and when the people were about to disperse, a collision took place between them, which had resulted in grave consequences. He, therefore, wished to be informed what directions had been given to the police with respect to the meeting; and he asked the question because he believed that, on the one side, the freest discussion by the people was the best security for the public peace in this country; and on the other, he also believed that the police forces of the metropolis were willing to their duty in the best manner.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to secure the rights of the outgoing tenants in Ireland. It was his intention to propose to secure those rights by confirming and extending the custom of tenant-right as it exists in the province of Ulster. His object was to bring before the House, in the form of a distinct proposition, what that tenant-right was, and what provisions would be necessary to make it law. His Bill would be confined to that particular object, the explanation of tenant-right, and those provisions that would be necessary to enforce it. As the proposition for leave to bring in the Bill was not, he understood, to be opposed by the Government, he would postpone his statement of details until the second reading, and now merely move for leave to bring in the Bill.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that it was not his intention to offer any opposition to the introduction of the Bill.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : The meeting was convened by a Mr. Cochrane. An advertisement convening it had been cir-
 313
 The CHAIRMAN  then read the Clause.
 An HON. MEMBER  wished to inquire, if the offence were an offence at common law, what the offence was?
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, to deny the pre-eminence of the Crown would be, he apprehended, treason at common law.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he did not intend to state that the denial of the spiritual pre-eminence of the Crown was an offence at common law: he meant of course the temporal pre-eminence. According to very learned opinions the Act of the 1st Elizabeth created no offence at all, but merely imposed penalties for an offence already created. But the penalties being repealed, the Act containing no prohibition created no offence. That being so, the law would remain just the same whether that statute were repealed or not. His reason for voting for the retention of the words in the clause, was, that the Act which they sought to repeal created a doubt whether parties could proceed under the Act or not, and in fact contained a provision which could not be acted upon.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, that the right hon. Gentleman who had recently addressed the House had exhibited a glorious independence as regarded supremacy.  Dieu et mon droit 323
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY  said, that the speech of the right hon. Baronet had afforded him great satisfaction. An hon. Member opposite (Mr. Drummond) had said, that if the Catholics laboured under any grievances, he had no objection to their removal. The Bill before them proposed to repeal the penalties against any one who believed that there existed any authority, spiritual or temporal, within the realm other than the Crown. Every Catholic bishop believed that such spiritual authority did exist; and he (the Earl of Arundel and Surrey) would therefore claim the vote of the hon. Gentleman, as he had stated that he would vote for the removal of any grievance from the Catholics.
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY  remarked, he had listened to all the hon. Baronet had said, and attributed to him no intentional misrepresentation; but he certainly understood the hon. Baronet to accuse his right hon. Friend of wilfully misrepresenting that which he quoted.
 The CHAIRMAN  reported progress, and obtained leave to sit again.
 MR. LAW  moved, that the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 MR. LAW  wished to know whether a person could be indicted at common law for the offence detailed in the terms of the 1st of Elizabeth?
 MR. LAW  seconded the Amendment of the hon. Member for Oxfordshire. There could be no doubt, he thought, as had been admitted by Lord Lyndhurst in another place upon the passing of the 9th and 10th Victoria, that to impugn the pre-eminence of the Crown was an offence at common law. He did not see that any
 318
 MR. COLVILE  moved the Second Reading of the Game Certificates Bill.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  had no wish to oppose the second reading, but he should reserve to himself the full right to object to the Bill, indeed he might say almost
 331
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  moved that Mr. Bernal leave the chair.
 MR. GOULBURN  opposed the Amendment. If the offence still remained an offence at common law, he saw no reason for retaining the Act of Elizabeth.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the Attorney General had given no answer to the question, whether or no it was an offence at common law to deny the supremacy of the Crown. He, therefore, thought that the hon. Member for the University of Cambridge ought to reconsider the judgment he had come to, when the law officer of the Crown would not take on himself to
 319
 MR. HENLEY  moved the omission of that part of the clause which repealed the penalties of the Act of Elizabeth, beginning at the 17th line, down to the word "mainprise."
 MR. SHEIL : I am sure the House will feel I had reason to complain of what passed. I yielded at once to the sense of the House, and in the interval I procured the exact words used by Mr. Justice Coleridge. This I say, if I were guilty of any misrepresentation, it was not wilful.
 MR. SHEIL  said, that while the hon. Member for Oxford expressed his commendable indignation at any allusion to the words of an absent man, he might have abstained from attributing sinister motives to others. He had no antipathy against the learned Judge—he had no individual motive in alluding to the statement of Mr. Justice Coleridge; on the contrary, he had quoted his  dictum 324
 MR. SHEIL  said: Sir, I regret to be obliged to recall the attention of the Committee to a matter personal to myself. The hon. Baronet the Member for Oxford has stated in language unlike the usual character of his expressions, and with a manner characterised by anything but that gentlemanly deportment—I was going to add, which is his wont—the hon. Baronet has stated that I was guilty of misrepretation, and that, not from any defect of memory. He has stated this in language which, were it employed by any other person, I should have considered as justifying me in a demand for explanation. He has, in fact, without a shadow of provocation on my part, imputed to me wilful falsehood. Upon that charge having been made, I intimated in the most good-humoured way to the hon. Baronet that I should leave the House for the purpose of extracting the exact words used by Mr. Justice Coleridge. Now the words used were, that "the Pope was the rightful head of the Christian Church," without the words which I stated as having been added by myself. It will be in the recollection of hon. Gentlemen opposite that I used the words "at all events before the Reformation." ["No, no!"] I appeal to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone), whom I see in his place, if I did not do so? [Mr. GLADSTONE: Yes, certainly.] The right hon. Gentleman says I did. Now these are the exact words used by Mr. Justice Coleridge—" If the Pope bad been content with his power of patriarch, he might have retained his appellate jurisdiction, which rightly belonged to him as the universal head of the whole Christian Church." If different inferences and interpretations may be drawn from these words, which may be the expression of a state of facts before the Reformation, I appeal to the hon. Baronet (Sir R. Inglis) himself, if, under these circumstances, he thinks himself justified in imputing to me that which amounts to a great moral offence?
 MR. SHEIL : If you repeal this Act, do you affect the common law? No. Therefore, are we not involving ourselves in a super-subtle discussion of what the common
 320 de facto
 MR. SLANEY  was sorry that there was not a more definite expression of the intentions of Government with respect to the Bill. He could not consent to give his vote for the whole of this Bill as it now stood. He had voted for the second reading after considerable hesitation, contrary to the opinion of a large body of his constituency; but he did so solely on the ground that when they came into Committee the objectionable portions of the Bill should be omitted, and if they were not he must vote against the Bill. Though he did not mean to say anything disrespectful of them, he thought that anything which would give facilities for the introduction of monastic orders into the country would prove injurious, as it would tend to create differences, and in many instances disturbances, which he should very much regret to see. In his mind the result of such a measure would be, that those parties, en-
 315
 MR ANSTEY  explained that the reason why the Bill did not contain any allusion to the Acts in question was, that pursuant to a suggestion which fell from some Irish Members in the course of former debates, it was thought the more expedient course to leave to Irish lawyers the task of drawing up a Bill for the relief of Irish Catholics.
 MR. ANSTEY  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had not done justice to the Attorney General. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Cambridge, who put his question, omitted to state in what sense he understood the word "supremacy," because no one would deny that the Sovereign had some supremacy at common law. The question only was as to the amount and nature of the supremacy. [ Laughter sub modo
 SIR G. GREY  said he understood the hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxford to be of opinion that one of the Acts should be repealed; for he proposed to leave out the words "shall be repealed," which would render nugatory the whole of the Bill. If he could get a majority of the Committee to agree with him, it would be tantamount to an expression of opinion that the Bill, so far as this clause went, ought to be rejected. If he understood his hon. Friend rightly, he wished to raise the question whether these Acts should be repealed, and the House would decide that on argument; but the hon. Gentleman could not confine the discussion on these words to one of those Acts.
 SIR G. GREY  would he prepared, as the Committee proceeded, to state in detail his views on the different provisions of the Bill. To the general opinion which he expressed some days ago on the measure, he still adhered. He did not think that it would remove any great practical grievances, for all such grievances had already been repealed by positive enactment, or were virtually abrogated. He admitted, however, that there were some obsolete penal enactments which it would be as well to remove at once from the Statute-book; and he might here observe that of this class there were two Irish Acts which he believed would not be touched by the Bill of the hon. and learned Member for Youghal. Perhaps it was an oversight, for no doubt it was not the hon. Member's intention that any favour should be extended to English Catholics in which Irish should not also participate.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : I am extremely unwilling to obtrude at all on the attention of the Committee on such a subject; but an appeal has been made to me by the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, which renders it impossible for me to give a silent vote. The hon. Gentleman says that under the Bequests Act precedence was given to Roman Catholic archbishops and bishops. I must dispute the precedences; but the recognition of those prelates by Act of Parliament con-not be denied. In reference to the point more immediately under consideration, I
 321 322
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  was of opinion, that it was wrong to put words into any man's mouth when that individual was absent, and of course could not defend himself. A friend of his, a Judge, had been misquoted, and he hoped he was wrong in saying that the misquotation was not altogether from a defect of memory. Justice Coleridge had been described as having said that the supremacy of the Pope before the Reformation was of effect as of to-day. He (Sir R. H. Inglis) could not pay so bad a compliment to the right hon. Gentleman who had so spoken, as to say that he did not understand what he was stating; and if he had done any injustice to him, he apologised for having done so.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS : I do not know whether the right hon. Gentleman has dealt wisely or unwisely in reviving the discussion upon this subject. I made no charge of falsehood against the right hon. Gentleman. But if I did, I hope that, without the terror with which the right hon. Gentleman's speech is charged, I, as a gentleman, and I hope as a Christian
 327 Reports bon mots Times, Chronicle, Herald Post Adolphus and Ellis 328 bonâ fide
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  thought it would be better to postpone the words "hereinafter specified," which had reference to the Acts proposed to be repealed. The whole question between them depended upon whether any Act should be repealed or not; and if those words to which he had referred were included, and if they obtained the consent of the Committee to the three words in the clause, "shall be repealed," they would lead the House into an admission which he hoped the majority of the Committee would not be induced to adopt. There was, for instance, the Act 1st Elizabeth, which he apprehended was one of the Acts which the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State described as already substantially repealed by the Acts passed in the present reign. Now, if that Act was still in force, and if the Bill in his hand professed to do something more than had been already done, that something was this—that whereas, at present (he would assume for a moment the Act was not repealed) no Roman Catholic could publicly impugn the Queen's supremacy without incurring the penalty which the Act of Elizabeth imposed, this Bill, if adopted, would
 316
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  saw no reason for removing from the Statute-book any of the securities we had for the maintenance of the King's supremacy; and, therefore, the arguments of the Attorney General were inoperative with him to induce him to relax in his opposition to this clause, and he trusted the hon. Member for Oxfordshire would give the Committee an opportunity of dividing.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  wished that the House should he put in possession of the instructions of Her Majesty's Government on the subject of the Bill.
 LORD NUGENT  understood some evenings since the right hon. Baronet stated that he had received a communication from the Chief Baron, before whom the unhappy woman (Annette Meyers) had been tried, accompanied with a recommendation to mercy on the part of the jury. Taking it for granted that the right hon. Baronet had of course forwarded that recommendation to the proper quarter, he now wished to know whether the right hon. Baronet had received any further report from the Chief Baron, and whether the Government intended to recommend the prisoner to the favourable consideration of Her Majesty?
 MR. FAGAN,  in considering the construction put upon the quarter-acre clause by Her Majesty's Government, and that which his hon. Friend the Member for Rochdale put upon it, should say that his hon. Friend (Mr. S. Crawford) was borne out by the facts; and a large number of the people of Ireland agreed in opinion with him, and thought the quarter-acre clause the most pernicious and injudicious in the Bill. It should be remembered that for six weeks in every year a great portion of the people of Ireland were in a state of destitution; and it had been shown that 95,000 families, consisting of about 300,000 individuals, were existing upon holdings of less than a quarter of an acre. Why, if the provisions of the clause were fully carried out, all the workhouses of Ireland would not contain one half the number of the people so thrust upon them. They talked of the generality of outdoor relief in Ireland, but he contended that the ablebodied poor did not receive outdoor relief generally. There were many districts in his own locality, for instance, where no outdoor relief had been as yet admitted. He called upon the House to support the proposition of his hon. Friend.
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  asked the hon. Gentleman whether he supposed the evils of Ireland had originated since any one, now a Member of that House, had first had a seat in it? If he referred to Mr. Madden's  History of Ireland 359
 COLONEL CONOLLY  opposed the Motion, and said the landlords of Ireland had not profited by the quarter-acre clause. To say they had was a grossly unfounded aspersion upon them.
 MR. CLEMENTS  said, that in reply to what had been stated by the hon. Member who had just sat down, with regard to tenants in common, he believed there was nothing in the law which prevented them from giving up their land as well as other persons. Whatever opinion might be entertained by the hon. Gentleman with regard to the justice of this clause, he believed there would be but one opinion in the House as to their having as yet but very imperfect information with regard to its operation. He thought that he might say of the Irish Members generally, that they were most anxious to see the new poor-law brought fully and fairly into operation. A Motion had been lately before the House with regard to a revision of the unions and electoral divisions; and on that subject he should say that he thought they had received a very unsatisfactory answer from the right hon. Baronet. He had been asked by many English Members why they were not satisfied with the answer which the right hon. Baronet had given them, seeing that an inquiry was to take place; but his reply was, that the Poor Law Commissioners had already too much to do, and that it was impossible for them to undertake such an inquiry as was necessary for a complete revision of the Irish unions. If the right hon. Baronet meant to have the inquiry conducted with a view to the reduction of the areas of the unions, he could have no hesitation in saying so; but the right hon. Baronet carefully guarded himself against making any statement of the kind, and even expressly stated, in answer to the deputation of Irish Members, that he would not preclude himself from increasing the area of some unions, should he think it necessary. He, for one, would much rather not see the Commission appointed at all, unless it were granted with a view to the reduction of the areas of the unions, and until the right hon. Gentleman declared that the time had arrived to have the question fully and fairly gone into. In order that English
 348 349
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  seconded the Motion. He considered that the repeal of the clause was absolutely necessary, for the people were in such a wretched state, particularly in the western part of Ireland, that he did not think the clause could be sustained at present. He could say that many of their public institutions were turned into poor-houses, or rather he should call them pest houses; and with the permission of the House he would read a few extracts from a letter he had received in reference to the prison of Galway from the chaplain. He had on a former occasion called the attention of the House to the state of that prison; and on that occasion the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department had made some observations indicating that he did not acquiesce in the statement which he had made. He (Mr. O'Flaherty) now begged to lay before the House the information he had since received. It appeared from the letter he had received that such sufferings as the wretched prisoners were subjected to, arising from indifferent prison accommodation, disease, and nakedness, had never been heard of in any country on the face of the globe. There were in custody on Saturday night 503 prisoners and 34 children, and the deaths for a week amounted, to 44. The hospital was crowded to excess—a woman and six children were to be seen lying in one bed—persons were lying on the flags waiting for others to die, that they might seize on the portions of the bed occupied by them—and at that moment there were one hundred in fever of the most malignant kind. He would place that letter in the hands of the right hon. Gentleman, who, he hoped, would make use of it. He trusted the Government would recollect that forbearance could not go beyond certain bounds.
 MR. A. STAFFORD  asked the right hon. Baronet whether he had received any information respecting the expulsion of English artisans, tradespeople, and labourers in great numbers from France, and whether Government had taken, or purposed to take, any steps to forward those poor persons to their respective homes? To this question he would add another inquiry (which he made in compliance with a suggestion he had received from others, and in order to allay any possible feeling of excitement), namely, whether the Government had the least notion of retaliation?
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  contended, that there was an inconsistency in the grounds assigned by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland, and the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary, for their opposition to this Bill. One opposed it for the benefit of the paupers, the other for the benefit of the landlords. It was impossible to reconcile the two arguments. Never was a greater calumny uttered, than to charge the landlords of Ireland with being exterminators of the people. It was the British House of Commons and the British Government that were liable to this charge, as he would undertake to show. The potato crop having failed, the people had no other resource than the poor-law; but what did the House of Commons and the Government do? Why, they passed a law, prohibiting any relief being given until the people who required it gave up their land. They, therefore, were the real exterminators. The British House of Commons and the English Government were greater exterminators and greater criminals than the Irish landlords. It was very important there should be no disguise on this question, for we were in an age of social revolution. The right hon. Baronet said, only three Irish Members voted against the Gregory Clause. He should have voted against it himself, but he was called away to Ireland by the famine which prevailed there at that time, as were other Irish Members; and it was during their absence that the Government assented to the introduction of the clause, which was not in the original Bill. He repeated that we lived in an age of social revolutions, and that small as the question now appeared, and thin as the House then was, it would grow into a mighty question, demanding their most serious consideration. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland had called upon them to support this clause, because he said, if it were repealed, the poor man would sell his potato
 353
 MR. FEARGUS O'CONNOR  said, that if he had any doubt as to the policy of the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Rochdale, it had been removed by the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary for Ireland. The right hon. Gentleman set out by saying that his hon. Friend had misinterpreted the law; but the right hon. Gentleman ought to have recollected that the law had been framed for persons who were far more ignorant of its nature than his hon. Friend, namely, the landlords of Ireland generally. The invariable rule, however, was, that the landlords were to have the benefit of any misinterpretation of the law that might take place. The right hon. Gentleman did not deny that the landlords had taken advantage of that clause to level houses, and to exercise an illegal right; and yet he said that the working of the law would be perilled if the clause were struck out. Now, what could be a stronger proof of the incapacity of the Government than such an assertion; for the clause to which such vital importance was attached, was one not introduced originally into the Bill by the Government, but by the hon. Member for Dublin (Mr. Gregory)? The right hon. Gentleman appeared to have altogether forgotten the part of his hon. Friend's speech referring to tenants in
 346 s 347
 COLONEL DUNNE  observed, that it must be obvious to any one who had watched the administration of the poor-law in Ireland that numerous cases of individual hardship occurred; but, if the right to relief were to be extended to all classes, it was impossible that the country could support the burden.
 MR. AGLIONBY  looked upon the clause as one of the most monstrous that had ever been introduced into an Act of Parliament. If Ireland were not what Ireland was, such a clause never would have been introduced. It was a peremptory clause. Like Procrustes' bed, it could not be stretched. A man and his whole family might die in a ditch, and no power on earth could relax it at the moment. What were the terms of the clause?—

 "And be it enacted. That from and after the first day of November next, after the passing of this Act, no person who shall be in the occupation of any land of greater extent than the quarter of a statute acre shall be deemed and taken to be a destitute poor person under the provisions of the first-recited Act, or of the Acts amending the same, or of this Act; and if any person so occupying more than the quarter of a statute acre shall apply for relief, or if any person on his behalf shall apply for relief, it shall not be lawful for any board of guardians to grant such relief within or out of the workhouse, unless such applicant for relief shall bring satisfactory proof that he has surrendered to his reputed immediate landlord, or his known agent, the actual possession, and whatsoever right or title he may have had to the occupation of all and any such land over and above the extent of one quarter of a statute acre, and the occupation thereof, which surrender the landlord shall be required to accept, provided it shall include the entire of the holding held by such applicant in one holding from the same landlord." 354 "We are convinced that much of the misunderstanding between the inspecting officers and the relief committees, and of the complaints on both sides, have arisen from the inspecting officers having adopted one rule and principle on which to judge of the destitution of applicants; the committees another. The former took, as a  primâ facie
 MR. REYNOLDS  would support the Motion, because he believed it was intended to apply a remedy to a most obnoxious
 355
 MR. MORGAN J. O'CONNELL  said, the clause to which the attention of the House had been called was very unpopular in Ireland; but those who denounced that clause did not consider what would be the state of the country if relief were to be extended to all persons. He must say he
 360 361
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  said, that he had originally opposed the quarter-acre clause on its introduction, because he thought it would have a most injurious tendency, and would be made a method of effecting clearances by the landlords on a most extensive scale. The facts which had since come to his knowledge regarding its operation had convinced him that his original supposition was correct, and that it had been made a method of effecting clearances on a very large scale. At the time of passing the amended Poor Law Act, the Government ought to have introduced a measure which would have provided employment for those ablebodied people in some way, and not have thrown them upon the poor-law unions. It was a criminal mode of relief to give relief to thousands and tens of thousands of able-bodied people without obtaining any return whatsoever from them. It was scarcely anything but a continuation of the soup-kitchen system of relief of the last year. That was not the principle of the poor-law of Elizabeth. He wanted to see the poor-
 344 345
 MR. R. M. FOX  thought that the hon. Member for Cockermouth had not paid much, or perhaps any, attention to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman. From that speech he might have learnt that it was practicable for the holders of quarters of acres of land to give up their holdings; by giving up a small portion of their land they might entitle themselves to relief. He was as much opposed as any one could be to maladministration of the law; but without the clause now under consideration, he did not see how any board of guardians in Ireland could do their duty.
 MR. WAKLEY  said, that that might be the opinion of a learned barrister, but it appeared to him that the clause was positive and decided, and that if a board of guardians were to grant relief to persons possessing more than a quarter of an acre, they would be liable to proceedings for a misdemeanor. The law was a sentence of death against these poor creatures, and this was done in a mean, cowardly, and dastardly manner. Why not consign them at once to destruction? Under this clause the guardians of the poor had not the power to grant even medical relief to a family struck with disease and destitution, if they were so situated as to come within the terms of that clause. In bringing this subject forward the hon. Member had done benefit to the poor, though he should hardly say that, for it was useless to discuss the grievances of the poor in that assembly. The House was composed of rich men and landed proprietors, and had not that sympathy for the poor which ought to be felt. Such apathy was fraught with danger. Gentlemen, who called themselves Conservatives, acted on that principle; but, at the bottom, it was a most destructive principle. According to all the accounts which they heard in that House, Irish gentlemen appeared to be very unhappy and very unfortunate; but he wished they would change places with the poor. Let them experience what was the actual condition of the poor, and then, he thought, they would adopt a different course in their legislation in that House. They would then be induced to sympathise with the poor, and take measures to promote
 357 Laughter 358
 MR. MONSELL  concurred in the statements made by the hon. Member for Rochdale in reference to the destitution and distress prevailing in Ireland, but could not agree with the hon. Gentleman in attributing those lamentable results to the clause in the Irish poor-law which had been referred to. He believed that the repeal of the clause would be beneficial to those jobbing landlords whose conduct had been animadverted upon, for they would endeavour to get their tenants and dependents on the poor-rate, for the purpose of getting their rent paid by such means. A greater premium could not be given to those gentlemen, whom he believed to be the greatest curse of Ireland, than by assenting to the proposition of the hon. Member for Rochdale. It was complained that the poor-law in Ireland was insufficient to relieve the poor already thrown upon the funds, and yet it was now proposed to throw upon them an additional class of claimants. It could not be expected that the poor-law in Ireland would remove all
 356
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  replied. It had been said that the harsh and unjust acts which had been referred to were not committed under the law. That might be the case; but they were committed under colour of the law, for the existing law aided the landlords in carrying out their illegal objects. The practical operation of the law was to compel the poor man, when he required relief, to give up his house as well as his land, because the landlord would not accept one without the other.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Irish Poor Relief Extension Act, with a view to repeal the 10th Section, commonly called the Quarter-acre Clause. He asked for the attention of the House while he brought under its consideration the deeply injurious effects that had arisen to the population of Ireland from the clause which he sought to have repealed. He would remind them that there was no qualification in that clause; and if a poor man, having more than a quarter of an acre of land, was so unfortunate as to be in destitution, he was absolutely doomed by that clause to starvation. It might be urged that he could surrender his land; but in some cases it would be impossible for him to do so—for example, if he held under a joint tenancy, where there were joint partners, they were all responsible, and not one of the joint partners could surrender except the whole of them consented. So that, although one of them got into a state of destitution, he could not surrender to qualify himself for relief. It might also happen that a party was a tenant at will, and could not sell his occupancy. He had, therefore, no way of parting with it, and was really in a state of starvation, without having any means by which he could redeem or relieve himself. He proposed to repeal the 10th section of the Poor Relief Extension Act, and to give authority to boards of guardians to grant relief to all persons who are at the time in a state of destitution. It was intended that, where parties in possession of holdings required relief, such relief should be given by the board of guardians in the shape of a loan—that the deeds connected with their property should be lodged—and that the boards of guardians should, if necessary, have power to sell such property, or any other property possessed by the parties,
 339
 SIR G. GREY  must venture to express a hope that the ordinary rule of adhering to the question before the House might not be altogether lost sight of. If any Member happened to have entered the House after the beginning of the hon. Gentleman's speech, he could not possibly have imagined that he was speaking on a "Bill to Amend the Irish Poor Relief Extension Act, with a view to repeal the 10th Section, commonly called the Quarter-acre Clause." The fact was, the hon. Gentleman had given notice of a Motion which stood number four on the Paper; and, finding that the forms of the House would not allow him to bring it on, he was unwilling for hon. Members to lose the benefit of the speech he intended to make on that subject. But he must observe, that if this practice were adopted, it would prove most inconvenient, for it would absolutely prevent the House from proceeding with business; on this account the hon. Gentleman must excuse him if he did not enter upon the subjects he had discussed, seeing they would involve the House in a debate upon questions quite foreign to that submitted by the hon. Member for Rochdale. He would only say that the instructions to the commissioners to be employed in the revision of the boundaries of the electoral divisions were in preparation, and that he should be happy to communicate with the hon. Gentleman upon them, because he would then see more sanguine grounds for satisfaction than he seemed to possess at present. With regard to the Motion of the hon. Member for Rochdale, his right hon.
 350 351 bonâ fide l 352
 SIR GEORGE GREY  would answer the last question first. He had no hesitation in stating that the Government did not entertain the slightest notion of retaliation. In answer to the original question of which notice had been given, he begged to state, that early last Sunday he received a letter from the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Foreign Department, enclosing for his perusal a communication received by the noble Lord, from the British Consul at Havre, which conveyed the information that the French workmen in some of the factories at Rouen had de-
 337 338
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Without meaning the noble Lord the slightest disrespect, I must say that it appears to me that I shall best discharge the duty—the very painful duty which in this case devolves upon me—by declining to answer his question.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said:
 340 "Poor Law Commission Office, Dublin, February 7, 1848. "Gentlemen—I am directed by the Commissioners for Administering the Laws for the Relief of the Poor in Ireland to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 4th instant, requesting the Commissioners' instructions as to your powers for affording relief to poor persons who have been in the possession of more than a quarter of an acre of land, with a house, and who have offered to resign possession of the land, but whose landlords refuse to receive possession of the land without a surrender of the house. In reply, I am
 341 "H. HANLEY, Secretary. "The Vice-Guardians of the Ballina Union, Ballina." "In every case that it should be fully and in-controvertibly proved that the applicant was still in possession before we deny him relief. On the other band, we consider a certificate from the agent or bailiff to the effect that the applicant had given up possession, should be deemed conclusive and construed in his favour, unless the relieving officers had good reason to believe to the contrary." Galway Mercury "There are but two witnesses as to the ejectments on Mr. St. George's property who could swear to the facts; the others stating that their houses had been thrown down when they were absent, and they could only speak as to their belief. It will appear from the evidence recorded that these forcible ejectments were illegal—that notices had not been served—that they were perpetrated under circumstances of great cruelty." 342 l 343
 MR. J. B. SMITH  expressed his inten-
 388 s. s. d. s. l. l.
 MR. MILES  maintained that the increase of expenditure was caused by hon. Gentlemen sitting on the opposite side of the House. Did no one recollect the Motion of the hon. and gallant Captain, now in the Admiralty, the Member for Gloucester, relative to the half-manning of our ships? Did no one recollect how he was cheered from all sides, and that those ships which
 403 l. l. 404 l. l., l. l. l. l., l. l.
 MR. F. SCOTT  wished to ask whether the Government had any intention of making any, and what, change in the constitution of New South Wales; whether any communication of such an intention had been made to the Legislative Council of the colony, in order to obtain the opinion of the colony upon such a proposed alteration; and if so, whether the Government would lay the papers before Parliament?
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the hon. Gentleman the Member for Westbury, in his lucid speech, has placed the question under discussion on its true basis. But although I agree with him that the real question at issue is the excellence or the evil of the new commercial system of this country, I must remind the hon. Gentleman, that in forming a judgment and taking a view of the effect and operation of the system, it would have been as well had he made that view as comprehensive as our experience. It would have become the hon. Gentleman if he had not called on us to form our judgment of that system merely on our experience of it during the administration of the late Minister. Let it be observed that the hon. Gentleman studiously confined his remarks to the time of the late Government. His motives for taking such a course are perhaps not difficult to apprehend. For instance, one proof of the success of the new commercial system, according to the hon. Gentleman, is the fact, that the late Minister was no longer obliged, like his predecessor, to apply to the Bank for large advances on deficiency bills; but the hon. Gentleman seemed quite to forget that only last April, under the influence of the same commercial system, the Chancellor of the Exchequer was obliged to apply to the Bank to make up one of the largest deficiencies ever experienced. The hon. Gentleman congratulated the House on another beneficial consequence of the new commercial system in the high rate of Exchequer-bills during the late Government; but why does the hon. Gentleman omit to remember that Exchequer-bills only a few months back had experienced a rate of depreciation quite unpredented? The hon. Gentleman, pursuing the same course, made also some other
 413 l. l. l. s. d. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l., 414 l., l., "Our commerce, thanks to its prudent activity, has been but feebly affected by the crisis that has been experienced in other States. We are reaching the conclusion of those trials … I reckon on your co-operation in order to bring to a conclusion the great public works which, by extending to the entire kingdom facility and regularity of communication, must open fresh sources of prosperity. At the same time that sufficient resources shall continue to be applied to that fruitful enterprise, we will all watch with scrupulous economy over the judicious employment of the public revenue; and I am confident that the receipts will cover the expenses in the ordinary budget of the State, which shall be shortly presented to you." 415 416 Pitt and Peel, 417 418 l., l., l., l., l., 419 420 421 ad valorem 422 l. 423 l. Morning Chronicle l. l. 424 l. 425 l. l., l. l., l. l. l. l., l. l. l., l. l. 426 Commercial Glance, 427 "They are now withdrawing the slaves from the cultivation of cotton, and throwing their labour upon the sugar estates, owing to the increase of price on sugar. The consequence, and as beckoned upon, will be the running up the price of cotton from 5 cents to 10 cents or even 15
 MR. CARDWELL : I am anxious, Sir, to state to the Committee, and I will state them as briefly as I can, the reasons which have induced mo, after mature reflection, to give my support rather to the proposition which was originally made, than to either of the Amendments which have been offered. These reasons rest upon two considerations: first, upon the duty which I owe to the great and industrious community I have the honour to represent; and, secondly, upon those still higher obligations which have regard to the vital interests of the empire. I am very sensible of the weight with which any income-tax must bear upon incomes, the produce of industry, derived from uncertain sources; and I know how much that pressure must be aggravated when the impost, levied upon an estimate of former and prosperous years, comes to be paid in a period of unprecedented distress. But with these considerations heavily on my mind, yet when
 407 l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. 408 l. l. 409 l. d. d. l. d. d. d. d. 410 411 ad valorem Gratiora posse vobis dicere satis scio; sed vera pro gratis loqui, si meum non moneret ingenium, necessitas cogit. 412
 MR. LABOUCHERE  replied, that a representation had been made from Australia to Her Majesty's Government, strongly urging the propriety of separating New South Wales from Australia. The noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Department hoped to be able to propose a measure for effecting that object. The noble Lord had it also under consideration whether it might not be expedient at the same time to introduce certain other alterations into the constitution of New South Wales.
 MR. JAMES WILSON  said, the question before the House was, whether the income-tax should continue for one year, or three years; but after the very effective speech of the right hon. Baronet opposite on Monday night, and the speeches of the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn and the hon. Member for South Warwickshire, it was quite evident that that was the stage in which it was the intention of the House to consider the whole question of our financial and commercial policy, and more especially with regard to the course taken in 1842, and confirmed in 1845, and upon which he apprehended the House had then to decide whether they were willing to go on, or to revert to the old system. The question before the House involved the question of the success of that policy. He was quite aware, after hearing the speeches of the hon. Member for South Warwickshire and the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn, that those hon. Members and the Gentlemen who usually acted with them, referred the present distress of the country to the measures that were introduced by the right hon. Baronet. Now, if he understood the policy adopted by the right hon. Baronet in 1842, and confirmed by the House in 1845, it involved two great public questions—that of finance, and that of commerce. He should propose, in the first place, to make a few observations upon the financial effect of that policy, because he believed that that was the object which the right hon. Baronet then had principally in view. It was hardly necessary that he should remind the House of the state of our finances in 1842, when the experiment was first made. The right hon. Baronet had so effectively done that on Monday night, that it was unnecessary for him to do more than refer to it. But he believed it was admitted on all hands, and was professed by the right hon. Baronet himself, that in imposing the income-tax in 1842 he had two distinct objects in view. The first was, to raise the financial condition of the country; and the second was to relieve the springs of industry, in order that from the ordinary sources of revenue the income might, in the course of a moderate time, rise equal to the expenditure. The first point then for the House to consider was, how far those two objects had been attained since
 365 
 
 In 1842 £1,590,000 
 1843 411,000 
 1844 407,000 
 1845 4,749,000 
 1846 740,000 l. l., l. l., l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. 366 l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l., l. l. l. 
 
 Funded debt, of £1,295,580 
 On the cost of management, of 68,612 
 For interest on deficiency bills, of 98,600 
 For interest on Exchequer-bills, of 475,033 
 And for reductions in the Customs and Excise duties, of 7,897,000 
 Making together £9,834,825 l., l. 367 l. l., 368 369 l. l. l. l. l., 370 
 
 1846. 1847. 
 Cotton twist 102,629,901 lb. … 73,087,127 
 Thread and sewing 896,128 lb. … 919,207 
 Plain calicoes 109,417,507 yds … 67,024,351 
 Printed calicoes 76,548,710 yds … 77,585,332 
 Lines 4,135,902 yds … 4,918,120 
 Woollens 2,067,136 £. … 1,733,124 
 Silks 319,360 £. … 326,597 
 

 1846. 1847. 
 Cotton twist 27,665,843 lb. … 22,529,236 
 Thread and sewing 114,746 lb. … 257,886 
 Plain calicoes 289,926,041 yds … 205,997,215 
 Printed calicoes 35,147,317 yds … 30,691,702 
 Linens 741,043 yds … 542,076 
 Woollens 579,966 £. … 538,019 
 Silks 16,223 £. … 32,338 371 
 
 1846. 1847. 
 Plain calicoes 12,468,113 yds … 44,460,459 
 Printed calicoes 17,240,546 yds … 51,813,329 
 Linens 20,817,312 yds … 28,063,267 
 Woollens 1,354,249 £. … 2,104,366 
 Silks 161,898 £. … 299,202 
 Cotton twist 14,116,502 lb. … 12,714,394 
 —thread 1,407,804 lb. … 996,656 s. d. s. d., s. s. s. 372 s. l., l. 373 374 l., l. l. 375 376 377 l. 378 379 380 l. l., 381 l. l., 382 383 384 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 385 386 387
 MR. BROTHERTON  was unwilling to give a silent vote. He would not occupy the time of the House by discussing the comparative merits or demerits, or justice or injustice, of different taxes, or whether the income-tax, tea-tax, or house or window-tax, or stamp-tax, were most unjust; but he was quite convinced that the income-tax was unequal, and that it was possible it might be made more just. In that belief he had voted for the Amendment moved by the hon. Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Horsman). The question for the House to decide at this moment was, whether they should grant this tax for one year or for three years. He had given the subject
 405 l. l. l. 406
 MR. HUME  said, he would take that opportunity of correcting an error which the hon. Baronet the Member for the Tower Hamlets had made in his speech in the House, and which he had afterwards repeated in a letter to the  Times. l., l. 364 l.
 MR. W. GLADSTONE : I wish, Sir, that I could hope, in any degree, to sustain that lively interest with which the remarkable speech of the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has been heard by the whole of this assembly. But, not attempting a display to which I feel myself entirely unequal, I shall think it my duty to pass most lightly over those matters of a personal description upon which the hon. Gentleman chiefly touched. I feel that greater interests demand our attention. We are called upon to give a vote in a critical state of the country and of the world; and although it may be well in its time and in its place to discuss the conduct of Administrations not now in office, and to expose the crude or exaggerated opinions vented at former periods by different individuals who could not have been expected to arrive at once at infallible truth upon so complicated a subject; yet, if I understand aright the character of the British House of Commons, these are not considerations which will influence mainly the ultimate decision on this question. I must, however, for a moment refer to what the hon. Gentleman has said of the late Government; and here I would address myself to Gentlemen on this side of the House. Let them observe what is the policy which is now assaulted. It is not merely the policy of 1846; it is not merely the repeal of the
 439 "I believe that in the general principles of free trade there is now no difference of opinion, and that all agree in the general rule that we should purchase in the cheapest market and sell in the dearest." 440 "We have reserved many articles from immediate reduction in the hope that ere long we may attain that which would be just and beneficial to all, namely, increased facilities for our exports in return. At the same time I am bound to say that it is for the interest of the country to buy cheap whether other countries will buy cheap from us or no. We have a right to exhaust all means to induce them to do justice; but if they persevere in refusing, the penalty is on us if we do not buy in the cheapest market; but I believe firmly that the example England is now setting will ultimately prevail." 441 442 l., l. 443 s. d. s. l. l. Laughter. 444 445 l. l. s. s. s., s. d. s. 446 l. l. l. l. l., l., l. 447 l. l. 448 l. 449 ad valorem. l. 450 l. l. l. l. l. l. primâ facie 451 l. l., l., l., l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. 452 l. l. l. l. 453 454
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH : It appears to me that the two questions which have been the main subjects of discussion in the course of this debate, are, what are the causes of the present financial embarrassment of this country, and what is the best mode of meeting that embarrassment? The noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn, and his friends, maintain that the financial embarrassment of the country has been brought about by the free-trade policy of the right hon. Baronet the Member for
 389 l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 390 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 391 l. l. l. l. l. "if we could not come to the conclusion that the militia force was desirable, he should be obliged in future years—in the next year or in some future year—to propose a still further extension of the Army." l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l., 392 Vixen, l. l. l. l. l. l. 393 l. l. l. l., l., l., 394 l. l. l., ad valorem 395 l. l. 396 397 l l. l. l. l. l. l. 398 l., l. 399 400 habitans 401 plus 402
 MR. RICE  believed that the House could not inflict a heavier blow upon the public credit of the country than by refusing to accede, at the present moment, to the proposition of the Government. The hon. Member for Montrose thought the Government might economise the resources
 482 l l 483
 MR. HEADLAM : Sir, I am well aware that I am guilty of no small presumption in rising upon this important national question, and thereby standing in the way of others whose experience gives them a claim to the attention of the House far greater than any to which I can individually pretend. But representing, as I have the honour to do, a constituency of no small magnitude and importance—and one, moreover, deeply sensitive of the proceedings now before the House—I feel that I should not be adequately discharging
 468 l 469 470 471 472 l l 473 474 475 476
 MR. COBDRN : In the very few remarks I shall address to the Committee, I can promise this at least, that I shall confine myself to the question before me. If anybody in this House can be thought to have a motive for entering on the field of free trade and protection, it is the humble individual before you; for it is precisely the subject on which I feel myself most at home, from considerable practice in dealing with it. But I say, once for all, that whatever repetition there may be in this House of the purposeless ravings which we hear with regard to free trade, I promise you that I will never enter on the discussion of the question till hon. Gentlemen opposite put those purposeless ravings into a tangible form by producing some measure for the re-enacting of their own views. We have so many motives alleged for the votes to be given to-night, that I wish distinctly to explain what are the reasons for which I intend to support the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose. Certainly it is not for the reason assigned by the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down; for, of all the extraordinary statements, that which he made was one of the most
 505 l l 506 l l d. s s s s s s s s s s s d. s s s 507 l l l l l l l l l l 508 509 naïveté 510 511
 LORD J. RUSSELL : If it were necessary for me only to allude to those topics which would come properly under discussion arising out of the proposition of the hon. Member for Montrose, I should not be called upon to detain the Committee for more than a few minutes; but I have heard, to my astonishment, I confess, the strangest and the most opposite reasons given for supporting the hon. Member's proposition. Did I not know that the hon. Member for Montrose always frames his propositions with the fairest intentions towards his opponents and towards the House generally, I could suppose that he was, on this occasion, acting the part of a skilful tactician. If the hon. Member had submitted a Motion, pledging the House to the most rigid economy, and proposing to cut down the estimates, he knows well that he would have had only about the same number of Members to support him as voted recently in a division which has been more than once referred to. If the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn had proposed a resolution, declaring that it was not desirable to continue the income-tax but that it was expedient to resort to indirect taxation, and, more especially, to lay a tax on imported corn, I am persuaded he also would have found himself
 512 513 l l l 514 515 l s. s. 516 s s 517 l l l l 518 519 520 521 522
 MR. STAFFORD  asked the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department if he had received any further information with reference to the workmen who had been expelled from France?
 MR. C. PEARSON  inquired whether, as the representative of 4,800 electors, the House would be pleased to allow him four minutes and eight-tenths of a minute for his address. He held his watch in his hand, and if they would listen to him in silence, he would not exceed the time he had mentioned. The subject was now nearly exhausted. They had touched upon almost every topic connected with it. They had wandered from Dan to Beersheba, and had exhausted every topic upon which it was possible to dilate. He had presented a petition to the House signed by his constituents at the most numerous and the most respectable meeting that ever was assembled at the Horns Tavern. That petition declared that the imposition of the income-tax was unnecessary—that it was unjust in principle—that it was oppressive in its operation—and that it was inquisitorial and inequitable in its assessment and collection. Upon those grounds his constituents had requested him to oppose it. It was therefore his intention to vote against it in every form, and at every stage. He would merely support the proposition of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose, because he thought that one year's infliction of taxation, unjust, iniquitous, and oppressive, was a less evil than its imposition for three years. But he would reserve to himself the right of opposing it altogether when it came before the House for its final discussion, and he
 532
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  observed, that although it was the custom with certain hon. Gentlemen at the other side of the House to talk a great deal about their "sympathy for the working classes," just as good a feeling was exhibited for them at his side of the House. He would like to know what had been done for the working classes by the hon. Gentlemen who professed so much on their behalf? It was his intention to vote for the Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose, as he had no confidence in the Government, and thought one year was quite long enough to trust them with the public money. He was no advocate for reductions in the estimates for the national defences, so long as the security of the country was at stake; but, at the same time, he thought judicious retrenchments might be made. Whenever the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Law) brought forward his Motion, he would vote for it, as also for any Motion that might be made to include Ireland.
 MR. ROCHE  was desirous that there should be no mistake about the vote that he was about to give. He was desirous that the people of England should not suppose that he, the representative of the most numerous constituency in Ireland, was actuated by base, corrupt, or selfish motives, in the course that he was about to pursue. If he had previously entertained any doubts as to what the course ought to be, the speech of the hon. Member for Westbury, who admitted that the tax was unfair and unjust; the speech of the hon. but not very secure Member for Liverpool, admitting that the tax was unequal; and lastly, the speech of the right hon. Baronet, the father of the impost, in defence of this iniquitous law, would have decided him; and when he recollected that London, and Manchester, and Liverpool, had all protested against this tax, he felt that, as a representative of the people, he had no alternative but to vote in favour of the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose. He had read with great pain the speeches of his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Middlesex, and of his hon. Friend the Member for Marylebone, who had declared their conviction that the liberal Irish Members would all support the Government upon this question. It was not for him to say what the liberal Irish Members would do, but he knew what they ought to do. Support the Government!—support that Government at the head of which was a man who when they and their people proclaimed the wrongs inflicted on them, and protested against the injustice under which they suffered, told them that sooner than redress those injuries he would force them to undergo the perils of civil war! Would they renerve that arm which had raised over their heads the scourge, and would dye their native soil with blood? Would they support that Government, the Members of which were earning for themselves, through the doings of their Viceroy, the just appellation of the Guizots of Ireland? That Viceroy was gagging the expression
 487
 MR. MOWATT  considered that the question before the Committee was one of such vital importance to the well-being of the country, to its onward progress, and to its peace and tranquillity, as of itself to form a sufficient excuse for, and indeed to justify, any Member of this House, however slight his claims might be upon its attention, in desiring to express his opinions as well as to give his vote upon it. He desired to explain also, why, being an advocate for direct taxation, a strenuous advocate for that form of taxation, and being also a Liberal, he yet felt it to be his duty to support the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montrose, Mr. Hume, in opposition to the measure proposed by a Government styling itself also Liberal. And, first, a few words on that Government. He, Mr. Mowatt, had entered that House as a Liberal Member, in the hope and expectation that he should be able to give that Government, styling itself likewise "Liberal," his general and hearty support. He was sorry to say, however, that so great had been his disappointment at the budget they had brought forward to the House, and in fact at their whole financial scheme of policy, that he felt obliged to withhold from them his support in this case. Indeed, he would say further, that he should feel ashamed to be considered an adherent of the present Government, so far as their financial policy was concerned. He thought with reference to it, that the existing Government, so far from realising the hopes and expectations of the country, had, on the contrary, shown a disposition not merely to stand still, but actually to retrograde.
 493 l 494 l 495 496 l 497 l l l 498 499 l 500 ad misericordiam 501
 MR. BANKES  observed, that the Member to whom the hon. Gentleman ought especially to direct his attention was the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tam-worth, for other Members could hardly be expected to abstain from such discussions when so very eminent an example was set before them.
 MR. HUDSON  would endeavour to confine the observations he had to make within the narrowest possible limits, for he sincerely hoped the House would come to a division to-night. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down spoke very strongly against the inequalities of the income-tax, but failed to point out any instance in which those inequalities existed. Others had endeavoured to point out inequalities; but the hen. Member for Falmouth contented himself with vituperating the tax. It was easy to make bold and daring assertions, but to substantiate those assertions was quite another matter. The hon. Gentleman complained that the landed interest did not bear an equal share of the public burdens; but it was quite notorious that a landed proprietor could not sell, transfer, or lease any part of his property
 502 l l 503 s l l l 504
 MR. MUNTZ  begged the indulgence of the House for a few minutes. He had listened with the greatest attention to the speech of the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), in the hope of hearing some argument which would have given him an excuse for voting in favour of the Ministerial proposal. Not the slightest reason, however, had been given for inducing him to alter his mind. He could not see how the national credit could be influenced by the continuance of the tax for three years. He had always acted upon the maxim, that the only way to make persons economical was to keep them from having too much money at their disposal; and he would venture to say that Ministers would not be so careful, cautious, and economical in spending a tax which they knew would be continued for three years, as they would be if it were only continued for one. The noble Lord had said, that if the House would not grant the tax for three years, he would go out of office. Well, let him go out of office. He entertained a great respect for the noble Lord; but he believed there were other men who could govern the country as well as he or those who acted with him could possibly do. And who were the great promoters of the three years' proposal? The Government who were in, and the ex-Government who were out, but who expected to be in as soon as the other should be out. The hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire (Mr. Cobden) had said that if the income-tax was imposed fairly, the country would consent to its being permanent. He (Mr. Muntz) did not agree in that opinion. He believed that unless means could be found to divest the impost of its inquisitorial character, it would never prove acceptable. The hon. Gentleman then adverted to the inconsistency and unfairness of the Irish Members entering into league with the Government to saddle England and Scotland with a tax from which their own country was exempt. In return, he could tell those hon. Gentlemen that he should do every thing in his power to extend the tax to Ireland; and he then stated that every representative of a constituency who objected to the tax was bound in honour and honesty to adopt a similar course. With respect to national credit, he really thought that Ministers were putting the cart before the horse. He thought that public credit depended as much upon private credit as upon anything
 530
 MR. SANDARS  said: As an independent Member of this House, belonging to no party, representing a constituency feeling strongly on the question before the Committee, I beg the indulgence of the House while I explain my reason for the vote which it is my intention to give. The noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government told us the other evening when he brought forward his financial statement, that he had a deficiency of a million for the past year; and he calculated a further deficit for the next year of three millions and upwards. I was not surprised at this deficiency, considering the general depression of trade, the partial suspension of manufacturing industry, and the panic that prevailed, and that, in fact, "the springs of industry were broken." If I were surprised, it was that the deficit was not greater—that it was not eight or ten per cent in place of two per cent. But I was surprised, I was disappointed, when the noble Lord at once proposed to make up that deficiency by an increase of two per cent on that unjust, unequal, and inquisitorial tax—the income-tax. Surely, the noble Lord could not have known the feeling of the country, or he would not have placed himself and the Government in the humiliating position of proposing a tax one night, and coming down to this House in a few nights after to withdraw it. The noble Lord should have taken a leaf out of the book of the right hon. Member for
 477 l l l 478 "Mr. Pitt agreed that the principle on which the two Bills were founded was much the same, and that if this Bill (tax on succession of personal property) passed, it would be very desirable that the principle should be extended to real property." 479 l l l l l 480 "Montreal, Feb. 5th, 1848. "The opening your ports to foreign countries, while you compel us to ship in British vessels, and give us no advantage in your markets, places Canada in a worse position than any foreign country. Unless something is done, we shall have another rebellion; and if so, it will be a serious one, as there is universal dissatisfaction, even amongst the most loyal inhabitants. If Great Britain would compel the colonies to take all the goods which she manufactures, and they consume, from her, and then give us a preference over foreigners with our produce in her markets, it would, we feel sure, be a much wiser course than this new free-trade system, of which so much has been said." s 481 s
 MR. G. THOMPSON  would give a distinct pledge not to infringe on the House for many minutes. He considered he was justified in making a few observations, re-presenting, as he did, one of the largest constituencies in the kingdom, who had commissioned him to enter his protest on their behalf against the continuance of the tax, and more especially against its continuance in its present unjust, unequal, and oppressive form. He therefore rose, not to enter into any matters of finance, but to lift up his voice, humble though it was, to swell the note of remonstrance which he hoped, even at the eleventh hour, would not fall unheeded on the ears of Her Majesty's Ministers. The income-tax was acknowledged by all parties to be unjust and oppressive; and it was not until a recent period of the debate that hon. Gentlemen were found to take up its defence, and endeavour to show that it had any semblance of justice or equality in it. The law which imposed it was declaredly unjust; and, like all other unjust laws, contained within it the seminal principle of disaffection and revolution.
 531
 MR. LABOUCHERE : I have great satisfaction in answering the question of the right hon. Gentleman. It is perfectly true that the coalwhippers on the Thames, of whom there are 2,500, have tendered their services as special constables to the Secretary of State for the Home Department. Their services were accepted. About 300 of their number were sworn in on Saturday, and the magistrate is in attendance to swear in more if necessary. With regard to the measure for the benefit of those persons which the right hon. Gentleman introduced, I am bound to state that it has fully met the views and intentions of the right hon. Gentleman. It has greatly conduced to the improvement of the moral habits and general condition of the coalwhippers.
 MR. MACGREGOR  observed, that if he were charged with presumption or rashnees in addressing himself to the question at so early a period, he could only plead the honesty of those motives which forbade his silence when the question under discussion was one on which his experience and opportunities ought to enable him, if he were not very stupid, to give information leading to some practical conclusions. He required indulgence more than if he were a practised debater, or artistic orator. He approached the question under peculiarly painful circumstances, differing as he did from the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) and his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, upon two grounds. In the first instance, he opposed the measure because he believed that the tax was unequal and unpopular in itself, and because he was convinced that if the income-tax were continued for three years, it would not answer the purposes of the Chancellor of the Exchequer without other measures; and, secondly, because he considered that the greatest calamity that could happen to the country would be the derangement of the national credit. He hoped, therefore, that the question would be considered free from personalities, and all the meanness of petty jealousies. He would take the advice of the hon. Member for Montrose, and say very little on the subject of free trade. But he trusted he might be allowed to make a few observations with respect to what had been stated by the hon. Member for Buekinghamshire. With regard to the financial and commercial measures of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tam-worth, he agreed in the wisdom of those measures from the day when the right hon. Gentleman entered office to the day when
 462 463 464 l l 465 History of Bohemia
 MR. HENLEY  said, that if he had any difficulty, that difficulty would be cleared away by the very extraordinary speech of the hon. Member for Cork, because, the true matter before the House being whether the tax should he continued for one year or three years, the hon. Member had introduced a new element of discord, and said they were not to support the Motion and strengthen the arms of a Government who were averse to the dismemberment of the empire. The right hon. Baronet late at the head of the Government having chosen, for some reason best known to himself, to introduce the financial policy of which he was the godfather, and the hon. Member who followed him having taken the same course, it Was difficult for those who did not agree with him to give a silent vote on the occasion. That was a position in which he found himself, and therefore he would trouble the Committee with a few remarks. There had been an array of figures which he should not attempt to follow, by which some Gentlemen supposed we were now in a state of unrivalled prosperity. Another extraordinary thing was, that all those Gentlemen, without exception, begun with 1842, went on to 1845, passed lightly over 1846, attributing the commercial and financial prosperity to the measures which then took place, and then came to 1847, and said that the great depression was owing to the failure of food. He should like to know why they did not attribute the financial prosperity of the Country to the good harvests subsequent to 1842? In 1836, there was a good harvest, and commercial prosperity in 1838, 1839, and 1840 a short harvest
 488 489 490 491 492
 MR. HUME  expressed his regret that during the debate, which simply related to the question whether the income-tax should be continued for one year or for three, two-thirds of the discussion had been on the subject of free trade. It was most desirable that they should come to a decision, and he trusted they would endeavour to keep as closely as possible to the point. He hoped the hon. Member for Glasgow (Mr. Macgregor) would not be led away by the example of the hon. Members for Westbury and Buckinghamshire (Mr. Wilson and Mr. Disraeli) to enter on the subject of free trade, which was a fit and proper topic for discussion at a fit and proper time, but which was not relevant to the present question. If any blame was connected with the introduction of that "greatest work of imagination," the Import Duties Committee's report, he as Chairman of that Committee was ready to bear it all.
 MR. BUCK  agreed with those who thought that new financial arrangements must be made, or that the income-tax must be given up; yet in common candour and honesty he was bound to say, that never was there a tax more revolting to the feelings of the people of England than the income-tax. When it was first laid upon this suffering community, they were told that the object of its imposition was to relieve us from a state of the utmost financial embarassment, and that when the temporary evil from which it was so proposed to rescue the country should have passed away, the income-tax was to cease with the cause which had called for such a heavy burden. When that expectation was held out, who could have supposed it possible that this tax was intended for such a purpose as it had been applied to—who could for a moment have thought that it would have been used for the purpose of aiding those measures, the passing of which had shaken all confidence in public men? At the time those measures received the assent of the Legislature, every branch of our national industry was in a flourishing condition, and now every one of these was in a state of deep depression. At such results it was impossible for him or for any man to look without feelings of the utmost alarm. Generally speaking, he was disposed to support the Government in cases of emergency, but he did not see how he could support a continuance of the income-tax for three years longer. If the taxes upon estates were averaged, he had no doubt it would be found that, on the whole, they paid not 3, but 5 per cent. He had often heard it
 484
 MR. LENNARD  said, there could not be a tax more unacceptable to the great body of the people than the tax upon income. It was marked, by every feature which could render it odious and intolerable. It was, as they all knew, most inquisitorial. It was most objectionable on account of its incurable inequality. He voted with the hon. Member for Cockermouth, thinking, as the right hon. Member for Portsmouth did, that it would be most desirable to cure as many as possible of the inequalities which the income-tax system presented. But now, despairing of any such improvements, he should vote against the continuance of the tax. It was a tax originally bad enough; but it had been made worse and greatly aggravated by some of the provisions recently made with reference to it. The exemption of Ireland from its operation appeared to him most unjust. In his opinion, the same reasons which were alleged for exempting Ireland, would justify the exemption of absentees from the operation of the tax; and yet absentees laid out as much in the improvement of their estates as any other class of proprietors. Still, if the House of Commons refused this tax, he almost doubted that they had any alternative; there was, however, one thing that no man could rationally doubt, that England had adopted the principles of free trade irrevocably. It would be impossible for us to retrace our steps. Had he possessed a seat in the House when the measures of free trade were under discussion, he should certainly have voted against them; but, having been once practically carried out, he did not understand how it would be possible to get rid of them. He did not believe that, for the next three or four years, it would be possible very much to reduce our expenditure;
 485 interregnum
 ALDERMAN SIDNEY  had mixed much with the middle classes of this country, and was, therefore, able to tell the House accurately what was the opinion of that important portion of the community with respect to the measure of the Government. He denied that those who opposed the re-infliction of the income-tax had placed themselves in hostile array to the interests
 466 l l l l l l s d. s. d 467 l l l l l l l l
 MR. WAKLEY  said, he thought he might be pardoned for addressing a few word.3 to the House, as not a single Member
 523 "That it is the duty of the House to take care that the income-tax be imposed in a form in which its operation shall he less unequal and inquisitorial than it now is;"— "But then they would have already taxed the man on the income he had received, and taxed him too at the same rate that they taxed the man whose income was permanent, and who would receive the same amount even if confined to a sick bed; it was impossible by any ingenuity or by any sophistry to show that there was equality in the mode of assessing the tax. " 524 525 526 l A general cry of s s s s d. 527 l 528 l l Interruption 529
 MR. GLADSTONE : I am anxious to take an opportunity of asking the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade a question with regard to a body of labourers in whom the House has taken a great interest, for whom it has been
 459
 SIR G. GREY : Allow me to confirm the statement made by my right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade. In the course of last week an offer was made on the part of the coalwhippers, to the number of 2,000, to be sworn in as special constables, and that offer was accepted. But I am anxious, in
 460
 SIR G. GREY  had received information from the Mayor of Portsmouth that the workpeople who had arrived there were in a very destitute condition, and that a communication had been transmitted to the authorities at Rouen with reference to the unpaid wages, clothing, and other property which they had left behind, in order that information might he transmitted through the Foreign Office to Paris, with a view of obtaining compensation to the injured parties from the Provisional Government. A considerable number of workpeople were still expected to arrive at Portsmouth from Havre, and he might also state that he had a letter from the Lord Mayor of London, informing him that a number of persons in a destitute state had arrived from France in the city of London.
 SIR R. PEEL  remarked, that the question had been introduced by two very eminent Members of the hon. Gentleman's own party, the noble Lord the Member for Stamford, and the hon. Gentleman the Member for Warwickshire (the Marquess of Granby and Mr. Newdegate).
 VISCOUNT DRUMLANRIG  said, the hon. Member for Westbury had made a speech which must, he thought, force an answer from hon. Members of the Manchester school, although they showed such an indisposition to answer the arguments brought forward by some hon. Members on that (the Opposition) side of the House, and generally by those who were prepared to support the income-tax in its present shape. He could assure them, however, that this system of burking evidence and arguments which they might find it difficult to answer, would bring them into disrepute. The hon. Member for the West Riding had said that there was nothing like repeating an argument if you desired to enforce it; and therefore he, as he supposed hon. Gentlemen opposite would not attempt to offer an answer to any further arguments, as they had not deigned to answer those already put forward, would content himself with repeating the emphatic language in which the hon. Member for Bucks (Mr. Disraeli) had concluded his speech:—
 "Are hon. Gentlemen here so poor in apprehension, and so dead in spirit, that they will submit without a struggle? If so, it will be but a poor consolation to us, after all we have already endured, to discover that the only return we have for a diminished revenue and a declining commerce is the arrogant effrontery of a class who obtained power by false pretences, and, having so obtained it, attempt to exercise it for their own advantage." 486
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  would state, as shortly as he could, the law on this subject. The House was aware that before the recent Act was introduced by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, remedies were given against the hundred by several statutes; but by the Statute 7 and 8 George IV., cap. 27, the Statute of Winton, the Riot Act, the Black Act, and other statutes relating to remedies against the hundred were repealed; and other provisions were introduced by the Statute 7 and 8 George IV., cap. 51. The Acts which related to the question were the 7th and 8th George IV., c. 27, and the 7th and 8th Victoria, c. 31. The first section of that Act gave a remedy against the hundred, where the house, shop, or other building mentioned in the Act, was feloniously broken or begun to be broken, pulled down, demolished, or destroyed, wholly or in part. But to come within the section of the Act, the offence should be complete according to the provisions of the 7th and 8th George IV., 3. 30, sec. 8, which made it felony wantonly to force into, demolish, or begin to demolish, the buildings specified. Now, the question to be satisfied in order to the bringing of the offence within the meaning of the Act, was, what was the beginning to demolish which would suffice in order to give a right to the remedy against the hundred? And that was a question solely for a jury to decide. The jury should say that the parties had either demolished the
 539
 LORD NUGENT  said, agreeing in much of what had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Romilly), to whose authority on such subjects his hereditary name gave additional consideration, strengthened, might he be allowed to say, by what must always be to himself (Lord Nugent's) most affectionate remembrances, he could not agree with him in recommending the hon. Member for Dumfries to take the offer of his right hon. Friend (Sir G. Grey), and to withdraw his Motion, for the sake of the chance of prevailing upon the Committee on the right hon. Baronet's Bill to adopt the principle of the great measure he had brought before the House that night. In the first place, he doubted whether he could make up his mind, or arrive at a conviction, to vote the affirmative with his right hon. Friend, that it was desirable to read any Bill the second time, the object of which might be to retain in any of its provisions the punishment of death; and, in the next place, it would not be an advantageous mode of recommending the great principle to the House, if it were to end in inducing the Committee to retain in such a Bill a clause including such a punishment. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Ewart) had brought before the House the statistics of the effect which always and everywhere, as far as statistics could be obtained, the punishment of death had had in increasing instead of diminishing the prevalence of great and atrocious offences. From the Porcian law of the Romans-commended by Julius Cæsar, extolled by Cicero, and by Seneca, suspended by the Triumvirs, and abolished by the Emperors,
 560 561 "Respecting the expediency of abolishing capital punishments we have found scarcely any difference of opinion; almost all the witnesses agree in opinion that, for offences of the gravest kind, the punishment of death ought to be retained." "This question involves considerations much too grave to warrant a hasty opinion, however great may be the objections to the punishment of death, and, in my opinion, they are very great." "We have found scarce any difference of opinion. Almost all the witnesses agree in opinion that for offences of the gravest kind the punishment of death ought to be retained." 562 "I have not yet sufficiently considered the queestion to be able to come to a decisive judgment upon it." 563 564 565 566 onus probandi
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  was understood to say, that he was induced to rise solely for the purpose of noticing some extraordinary assertions which had been made in the course of the discussion. With reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member who spoke last, it appeared to him that, in inflicting punishment upon a criminal, we had nothing whatever to do with the consideration of what might be his eternal state. Then, again, he must deny that men ought to be gifted with infallibility before undertaking to pronounce and execute judgment on individuals. The objection would apply equally to any other subject upon which men were called to
 587 circonstances attenuantes 588
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  thought the Motion of his hon. Friend so reasonable, that the House could not object to it. He wished some plan could be devised for the prevention of bribery and corruption.
 MR. STAFFORD  remarked, that the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire had said, that during his time in the House his efforts had been entirely devoted to the repeal of one system of taxation, which he thought to be most unjust; and he had only to say, that if the hon. Member's success in the measure he now contemplated were equal only to his success in the other, he would not have to congratulate himself.
 MR. HINDLEY  begged to put the question which he had put on the preceding evening to the noble Lord. He wished to know whether there was any truth in the report that a treaty offensive and defensive had been concluded between this country and Prussia?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had not heard of the probable report to which the hon. Member referred. He did not think it advisable to present an address to the Crown on the subject; for though not disposed to disagree with the object the hon. Member had in view, he did not think it would be quite proper to carry it out in the form suggested. For his own part he had taken care, while an inquiry was pending into the offices in the Treasury, that any appointments should be filled temporarily, or that the persons appointed should distinctly understand, in case the abolition of their office or reduction in their salaries were recommended, that they should be subject to such a decision.
 Mr. F. O'CONNOR  having had a good deal of practical experience in the criminal law, could not allow this debate to close without making a few observations. He would vote for the first reading of the Bill, but would pause in Committee before agreeing to abolish capital punishment in some cases of murder. The hon. Member for Manchester said, that if there were three, or four, or five, or six, all convicted at the same assizes of apparently the same crime, they were all visited with different punishments. He (Mr. O'Connor) would state, that although no difference in the degree of guilt was visible to the hon. Member, it was visible to the Judge and juries who tried the cases. Formerly, when a man was indicted for murder, the jury had no alternative but either conviction or acquittal of the capital charge; and the result of that system was, that in some instances there was difficulty in obtaining convictions. That was now obviated by the power which there existed of convicting of the secondary offence of manslaughter. The hon. Member for Manchester had shown, however, that a feeling existed adverse to the repeal of the punishment altogether, when he stated that several criminals met with great execration when brought to the scaffold. There was, he believed, no set of men in society who entertained a greater degree of horror and aversion to the crime of premeditated murder than the working classes; and many of them would be averse to see the extreme penalty removed from that offence. The opinion of Mr. Justice Coltman, given on the subject, seemed to warrant the belief that the extreme penalty could not be entirely removed from cases of murder—there would be so many inducements to the hardhearted, greedy, cruel, or savage man to commit murder, which could only be restrained by the fear of death. One man could, if the law were altered with regard to the punishment of death, induce another to commit murder; for men who could not be suborned under the fear of the extreme penalty, would not, perhaps, dread any other
 584 585
 MR. MUNTZ  said, that upon this question he had no morbid feeling like that which had been alluded to by previous speakers; if any man should attack his person or his House, he should make no scruple of killing him; but that was a very different question to hanging a man in cold blood. The hen. Member for the University of Dublin would prefer that an inno-
 591
 MR. SANDARS  asked the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade whether the Government had any
 540
 MR. G. THOMPSON  would trouble the House for a short time upon this subject, which he conceived to be of some importance. He would say that if he had heard any argument that evening which could demonstrate the reasonableness of, and the necessity for, the proposition of his hon. and learned Friend for the abolition, total and immediate, of capital punishments, it was the argument used by the hon. and learned Member who had just resumed his seat, that two men known to have been guilty should have been acquitted, and two men known to have been innocent should have been convicted, and only saved from execution by an application to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. That case demonstrated as strongly as any which had been quoted the necessity of saving themselves as a Legislature, and their judges and juries, from the awful predicament of finding themselves parties to the execution of the irrevocable decree of death—led away by the ingenuity of counsel, and discovering when too late that they had inflicted the last punishment on one or more human beings who were guiltless of the crime laid to their charge. The cessation of crime and outrage in Ireland, in consequence of the measure passed during the short Session last year, had been referred to, as showing the wholesome effects produced by capital punishment; but those who used this as an argument begged the question, and forgot to take into account the number of persons who were deprived of the power of carrying arms, the greatly increased amount of the police force, and the vigilance of the landowners in consequence of the extra expense thrown upon them by the precautionary measures. He had received two letters from most trustworthy informants in Limerick, assuring him that the shocking spectacle exhibited by the execution at Clonmel had not produced the desired effect, for a fearful number of murders had followed. The hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford justified the punishment of death by Divine authority, and was of opinion that the magistrate, in his ministerial capacity, was intrusted with authority to inflict
 586
 MR. AGLIONBY  conceived that the hon. Member for Montrose would be willing to withdraw his Motion if he was assured that Her Majesty's Government intended to give effect to the general principles announced by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade. But the hon. Member doubted whether that opinion were responded to by Her Majesty's Government.
 MR. AGLIONBY  did not know what electioneering tactics might be at work; but he could not help feeling some misgivings when he found an attack upon bribery and corruption coming from the hon. Member for Wallingford's side of the House—a side which had never been remarkable for opposing corruption. He could not help having some doubts when he saw a book relating to past transactions, and one which had been before the House for some considerable time brought forward upon that occasion, and not before. He had sent for the report of the Committee, which would shortly be printed, and in the hands of all hon. Members, and he found not a word in it about the wholesale bribery of which the hon. Gentleman had spoken. There was one single case of money given to influence a vote; and there were two cases mentioned in which money had been given; but the Committee could not say that these sums had been given to influence the votes of the parties. However, if they took the outside, there were only three cases of bribery reported out of a constituency of 180. Where, then, was the case made out for disfranchising the borough? On the subject of treating, the Committee made a most milk-and-water report:—
 598 "It was proved to your Committee that there was treating practised to some extent; but there was no proof given of by whom the treating was committed."
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that, although there might be some objection to the form of the Motion, yet he could offer no objection to the general principle of it. He agreed with his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer that it would be most improper, pending this inquiry, to make any appointments that would obstruct any well-founded scheme of economy emanating from the Committee. At the same time he could conceive the ease of an office becoming vacant which it would be most improper to offer to any person under the stipulation suggested.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he had considered the subject of the measure introduced last Session with regard to agricultural statistics. But one of the recommendations connected with it which he had made was that the expenses which should be necessarily incurred, amounting, as they were estimated, to between 30,000 l l
 DR. BOWRING  suggested that inquiries into all matters connected with the sala-
 594 l
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that notwithstanding that for some period during that evening there had been but a thin attendance of the Members of that House, yet he thought he was able to discover that there was a stronger interest felt in the present discussion than there had been during some of the past years, when the hon. Member for Dumfries brought the question before the House. And if he had any doubt as to the increasing interest in the House, he was sure there could be none as to the increasing interest without the walls of Parliament. He was perfectly certain that from the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, to any Member who might have formed an opinion on this question, there would be a universal admission, that whether the abolition of capital punishments was in the abstract right or wrong, this question was one which was making extraordinary progress in the public mind—and was proceeding to that final and complete fulfilment which had attended many other questions which had been brought before that House, and supported year after year, for a time, by very small minorities. They had not been charged upon this occasion, at least to any great
 577 578 579 580 581 "However much we may deplore the melancholy catastrophe which has cast such a gloom over so many families, yet we can deeply sympathise with the perpetrator of the awful tragedy, when we take into consideration the extenuating circumstances connected with it. I have corresponded with the various members of the family on the subject, and find a strong and earnest desire to second the efforts you are making to mitigate the awful sentence. Should it be thought advisable to draw up a petition, with the signatures of the bereaved parents and the other members of the family, to be forwarded to Sir George Grey, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, I will immediately attend to it; or if you think the sentiments embodied in this letter to be sufficient, I am authorised to say that you are at liberty to use it to the best advantage." 582 583
 MR. BRIGHT  had never stated he was in favour of putting people to death secretly. On the contrary, he had a perfect horror of private executions.
 MR. TRELAWNY  observed, that if the hon. Member proposed to take away from public officers the certainty of remuneration, he must be prepared to increase their salaries.
 MR. BROTHERTON  wished to enter his protest against this question being argued merely on the ground of expediency. The hen. Member who spoke last said, that the Government of the country had power over the life of man. He (Mr. Brotherton) should admit that they had the power, but he disputed their right to take the life of man. He who alone gave life had a right to take it away—man had no right to destroy his own life, and therefore, in entering into civil society, he could not delegate to another a right he did not himself possess. There was a sentiment and feeling in the mind of man superior to the written law which says, "Thou shalt not kill." The hon. Member for Surrey had quoted the passage, "He that shed-deth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed;" but he (Mr. Brotherton) contended, that that was no more a precept than the declaration of our Saviour, when he warned his followers, saying, "He that taketh the sword will perish by the sword," in the way of retributive justice. The aim of all punishment should be the prevention of crime; and if we wished to cherish the principle of the sacredness of human life in others, the best way was to respect it ourselves. Believing that capital punishments were not sanctioned cither by the divine law, the spirit of humanity, or sound policy, he should support the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Dumfries.
 MR. HUME  moved—
 "An Address to Her Majesty, that She will be graciously pleased to direct that in all appointments to office, in every department of the State, both at home and abroad, the appointments be made subject to a reduction of salary and allowances, and even to the abolition of offices, if such
 593 l l
 MR. HUME  said, that he had had the advantage of having heard Sir Samuel Romilly raise his voice against capital punishments; but no man now could form an idea of the comparative state of punishment now and what it was in former years. With the changes of manners crime would change, and he was satisfied that if Romilly had now lived, he would have been among the first to deprecate this punishment. His
 571 572
 MR. HUME , in order to give the noble Lord (Lord John Russell), who was not then present, an opportunity of stating his views on the subject, begged to postpone his Motion to Tuesday next.
 MR. HUME  said, he would not press his Motion if he had a similar assurance from the Ministers in general; but otherwise he would persist in it.
 MR. NAPIER  said that, having had considerable experience in civil and criminal justice, perhaps the House would bear
 589 590
 MR. OSBORNE  said, the hon. Baronet who had just spoken seemed to think that hanging formed an essential part of the constitution of this country. It reminded him of the anecdote told of a man who was cast upon the shore of a strange country, and who, on seeing a gallows, cried out, "Thank God that I am in a constitutional and civilised country." He thought that the House owed much to the hon. Member for Dumfries, for the great trouble which he had taken with regard to this question; because if they sat there for any object, it should be to make their fellow-creatures more happy, and to benefit their condition. He, however, should say that he was not fully prepared to agree with the hon. Gentleman altogether as to the extent to which he proposed repealing the punishment of death, though he could not see why a difference of opinion as to details formed any possible reason why the House should not allow the hon. Gentleman to bring in a Bill which might do something to render the law of this country more humane than it now was. He objected to public executions. He thought the spectacle which occurred the other day at Clonmel, was a strong argument against their continuance. Three men were sentenced to be hanged, and the execution was said to have been performed by a man who was the approver against them on the trial. This man came forward before an enormous mob who had
 555
 MR. COBDEN  said, it appeared to him that the conduct of Government on this question, put forward by his hon. Friend, would be in some measure a test of the sincerity of those expressions which they had dropped from time to time, and would show if it were their serious intention to meet the wishes of the country with respect to the retrenchment of our expenditure. He (Mr. Cobden) thought the Motion of his hon. Friend was a very important one. They all must know that there was a general concentration of public opinion on the subject of the enormous expenditure of the country, which it was admitted was rapidly growing up. They were charged with having been inattentive to the matter; and some hon. Gentlemen in that House were blamed for having neglected their duty altogether on the subject of that expenditure. Their taxation was increasing, and the House had not attended to its duty as the guardian of the public purse. He (Mr. Cobden) was willing to share the blame so far as it was attributable to him; but he would say, that since he had been in that House his attention had been given to the removal of one description of taxation which he considered of the worst kind. He was in the habit of doing one thing at a time; but in future he should not neglect his duty on matters connected with the expenditure of the country. The first thing was to get an assurance from the Government, that pending the inquiry now going on, if any appointment were made, it should be made subject to any diminution or abolition that should be recommended by the Committee; unless his hon. Friend got that assurance, or the terms of his Motion were complied with, he trusted he would again bring on his Motion, when the matter could be more fully discussed, and the attention of the country drawn to it.
 MR. LENNARD  said, that the result of the abolition of capital punishments had, so far as it had gone, been satisfactory; but the House was now called upon to legislate upon different principles, and it was questionable whether the same arguments that applied to offences against property would apply to those against life. There was too much reason to believe that innocent persons had suffered from incorrect but honest verdicts; and, if that occurred, be it ever so seldom, it was an argument in favour of a substitute for the punishment of death, if an efficient one could be found. His hon. Friend had one argument, which ought to carry with it great weight, in favour of his Motion. In the case of a man unjustly convicted of murder, and afterwards executed, they placed it out of their power to remedy the
 556
 ALDERMAN SIDNEY  had been in communication with Mr. Cope, the governor of Newgate, who had informed him, that in his fifteen years' experience he had never known but one criminal hanged for murder who had not witnessed an execution. He had paid some attention to the motives which led to these horrible crimes; and he attributed many of them to the fact that the perpetrators had been frequent witnesses of public executions. There were many cases which proved this. For instance, Connor was present at the execution of Tapping, and on the following Monday deliberately murdered the woman with whom he cohabited, for some trifling offence. Again, T. W. Wicks paid 2 s d 557 558
 MR. BLACKSTONE  thought the House should pause before they consented to the Motion of the hon. Gentleman. He would remind them that with regard to Harwich
 596 l l l l "Have you a mercantile establishment at Harwich?—Yes; I am a shipbuilder. What number of voters are in your establishment?—About a dozen. Are you directly or indirectly cognizant of any bribery being practised?—I have since the election heard there was bribery; but I was not aware of it at the time. Do you, of your own knowledge, know that a large number of the Harwich constituency received bribes?—Yes, I think a great majority—I do not mean to say I saw the money paid at the time; but I think I could induce any Committee to believe that they were bribed." "Has Sir D. Le Marchant obtained any Government clerkships, & c 597
 MR. EWART  said: Sir, in moving again for leave to bring in a Bill totally repealing the punishment of death, I am impelled by two considerations: one, the deeply increased conviction of my own mind on the subject; the other, the accumulating force which this question is acquiring in the public mind. But a few years ago, and scarce a magistrate, scarce a clergyman, not a judge of the land, was avowedly favourable to the principle of the inviolability of human life. Now, our cause is strengthened and adorned by the support of many magistrates, many clergymen (blending the sacred spirit of the gospel with the more worldly principles of human expediency), and, as I shall hereafter show, by the expressed opinions of several of the judges of the land. Among the mass of the people generally, in society itself, the feeling against capital punishment is more widely spread. It finds a faithful echo in the more modern portion of the press. It is traceable in the verdicts of your juries, given in several cases against evidence, but in favour in human life; verdicts induced not only by the well-known tendency of jurors to avert from the criminal the punishment of death, but by other circumstances which come in aid of that tendency—I mean the connexion now supposed to exist between extraordinary crime and temporary or partial, insanity; and

 541 542 "At twenty minutes to eleven o'clock, a strong body of police arrived. At a quarter to eleven, Colonel Dundas came on the ground, followed by other bodies of military. On their arrival, the people began to accumulate; more numerous than I ever beheld in this country at any previous occurrence of this nature. As far as the eye could reach, there was a perfect sea of human heads. Previous to the sheriff's arrival, the hangman, attired in a gaol dress, his head and face enveloped in crape, appeared. At ten minutes past ten o'clock, Henry Cody the elder came on the drop with a firm step and clear lively countenance. John Lonergan next appeared, much emaciated and careworn, very faint, but perfectly resigned to his fate. Philip Cody, the younger, then appeared. His appearance created a lively sensation. Young, handsome, and athletic, be elicited a strong ebullition of feeling. Henry Cody next reappeared, much excited. He walked with a rapid firm step, made directly at the executioner, caught him in his pinioned arms, and attempted to throw him over the balcony. Finding himself foiled, he kicked the executioner. Mr. Power placed him on his knees, and reasoned with him as only a minister of the Roman Catholic religion can do, and having (as he conceived) pacified him, led him forth again. The executioner was then standing on the platform with his hands folded. The culprit again attacked him; but not being able to catch him, he kicked him frightfully. His brother, during this scene, cried piteously, seeming naturally very anxious to aid him. During all this time, Lonergan was allowed to remain in suspense on the fatal drop. The younger Cody was then solicited to retire. This he refused, until persuaded by Mr. Power. The fatal bolt was instantly drawn, and the three men were launched into eternity amidst the execrations of a vast multitude. Curses loud and deep were vociferated during this awful scene, which continued for twenty-seven minutes. Revenge was sworn to audibly and determinedly in the Irish language, and imprecations awful to mention were levelled at the aiders and abetters of this awful scene," 543
 MR. EWART  replied.
 MR. W. P. WOOD  would not enter into what was called the theological view of the subject; it was sufficient for him to say, that he differed from the hon. Member for Dumfries as to the infliction of the punishment of death for the crime of murder, thinking, as a Christian, that there were sufficient authorities for the magistrate to bear the sword for that purpose. This subject was one which, above all others, required to be considered most dispassionately, and with a just frame and temper of mind, because he believed that our good feelings were extremely likely to lead us astray. He was happy to hear his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Devon-port say that he had in view, as a primary object, the sacrcdness of human life. He looked upon that as the great object which they ought to have in view in considering this question; and, taking that view, they would be led to a contrary conclusion from that to which the hon. Member for Dumfries had arrived. They were asked by the noble Lord the Member for Aylesbury not to arrive at a conclusion, unless it was one they had deeply reflected upon. He could not pretend to be able to form an opinion on the subject in the manner in which that opinion was formed by such men as Romilly and Mackintosh; but he could say, that from an extremely early period his attention had been turned to this subject, and he had never lost sight of it. From an early period he had been led to hear the trials at the Old Bailey, and was extremely shocked at that early period with the frightful state of our criminal law. It had occurred to him to observe at the Old Bailey seventy criminals receive judgment of death at one time, it being perfectly certain that judgment would not be
 573 s l 574 "I was created by the Almighty Power, The highest Wisdom and primeval Love." 575 576
 SIR CHARLES BURRELL  said, that he hoped he should never live to see the day when the jurisprudence of England would be so altered as to afford no security for life and property in the country; and he should, therefore, give his cordial support to the right hon. Baronet in the course which he proposed taking with regard to this Motion.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that in order to prevent any misapprehension, he would again state, that a Bill had been prepared to assimilate the law to the existing practice; and in speaking of cases of wilful and deliberate murder, he meant to include cases such as the intended assassination—though it was not actually effected of Mr. Uniacke Bailey.
 SIR G. GREY  thought the assurance of the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would satisfy his hon. Friend. It was quite right, while inquiry was going on in any department, to adopt the rule of his right hon. Friend; but it certainly would not be just to address the House for the purpose of depriving persons who held office under it of compensation for their services. Persons of rank and education, looking to the security offered by Government situations, accepted salaries which otherwise they would not be likely to consider sufficient.
 SIR G. GREY  thought the hon. Member for West Norfolk was rather premature in moving the issue of the writ. He was not aware that the Committee had made any special report, as in other cases. But until the report should have been laid upon the table of the House, he thought the writ ought not to be moved for. At the same time, he thought the Amendment ought not to be put in the form in which the hon. Member for Wallingford had moved it. If the hon. Member for West Norfolk persisted in his Motion, the Amendment properly to be moved to it would be, that the evidence taken before the Committee should be brought up; and then would follow a Motion for printing that evidence. And there should be an understanding that until it were printed, the new writ should not be moved for. But he recommended the hon. Member for West Norfolk to withdraw his Motion for the present.
 SIR G. GREY  regretted having to take the same course on the present occasion which he had found to be his duty to take last year on a similar Motion of
 549 550 551 552 "Do you think we might safely dispense with the punishment of death for grave offences, such as murder?" replied, "I doubt that very much." "Do you think any punishment by transportation or by imprisonment would be a sufficient substitute for death in the cases still left capital?—I am disposed to think that imprisonment for life, without hope of any remission of the sentence (unless the innocence of the accused should be made to appear), might be substituted without inconvenience for capital punishment. Many guilty persons now escape who would then be convicted; and though the punishment has little to excite apprehension, in comparison with that of death, to the majority of persons, I do not think that the apprehension of death operates much on the mind of a man who is meditating a great crime: he is generally, I conceive, under the dominion of some overpowering passion, which leads and enables him to set all consequences at defiance." "There can be but little doubt that secondary punishment may be made so severe as to be a sufficient substitute for the punishment of death,
 553 "Respecting the expediency of abolishing capital punishments, the Committee found scarcely any difference of opinion. Almost all witnesses, and all authorities, agree in opinion that for offences of the gravest kind the punishment of death ought to be retained." 554
 MR. ROMILLY  expressed his approbation of the motives which for several years had prompted the hon. Member for Dumfries to persevere with this question. The punishment of death was certainly limited, in practice, to cases of murder; but there were a number of offences to which it was still attached, for which the offender was liable to death. In all those cases the Legislature would act wisely in making the law conform to the practice by removing the capital punishment from the Statute-book; but the crime of wilful and deliberate murder stood upon a different footing. If death were not inflicted for wilful and deliberate murder, that crime would of necessity increase, because of all others it most completely destroyed the evidence of guilt. He was not prepared, therefore, to go along with the hon. Member in the measure he proposed for the purpose of taking away the punishment of death in all cases, including wilful and deliberate murder; but in all cases short of that, he fully concurred in the proposition. Under these circumstances, he would suggest to the hon. Member the expediency of withdrawing the Motion, in order that when the measure which the right hon. Baronet intended to move was in Committee, amendments might be introduced which would meet the views which he had urged with so much force. He might add some observations on the disgraceful scenes at the exhibitions (for they were nothing more) which usually occurred at public executions; but he would only ask, whether it would not be wise to enact that no execution should take place in public. He was convinced that a knowledge of the fact that the offence of murder would be followed by the punishment of death, would have great effect in preventing crimes of this description; and he also believed, that those who witnessed the dying
 559
 SIR R. H. INGLIS , though he rejoiced at the reappearance in that House of the noble Lord who spoke last, yet differed from him on many points. Their attention had been called to the opinions delivered by more than one Judge respecting the punishment of death. He did not inquire who put these questions; he did not ask whether any one put them, being himself a Judge; but he thought that such interrogatories must have proceeded from one who had not well considered the responsibility of the judicial character. The proposition referred to the whole empire; and, therefore, it ought to be remembered that Scottish and Irish Judges had given evidence on the subject, and their opinions were certainly in favour of retaining capital punishment in certain cases. They certainly were opposed to any statutory changes in the law upon this subject. Amongst the minor observations which fell from the noble Lord, there was a complaint against lawyers for mutilating the English language. He was surprised to hear a scholar like the noble Lord say that "kill" and "execute" might not be used as synonymes. He was almost ashamed to pursue such a trifle; but, as
 567 "O Tyburn! couldst thou reason and dispute, Then couldst thou judge as well as execute." 568 569 570 in petto,
 MR. BAGGE  moved—
 "That Mr. Speaker do issue his warrant to the Clerk of the Crown, to make out a New Writ for the electing of a Burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the borough of Harwich, in the room of John Attwood, Esq., whose Election has been determined to be void."
 SIR W. CLAY , seeing the Attorney General in his place, wished to put a question to him, which was of considerable importance not only to his constituents, but to the inhabitants of other portions of the metropolis—he alluded to the damage done to property by the recent riots. Window-breaking was carried to a great extent; and as the glass broken was generally that in shop windows, the damage perpetrated amounted to a considerable sum. He wished to ask—first, whether the persons whoso property had been thus destroyed possessed any claim for compensation upon the county or elsewhere; and, if so, what was the proper legal course to adopt to recover the amount?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that there was no truth whatever in the statement. The only foundation that he could imagine there had been for the report was the statement that the Prussian Government had determined to follow the same course as that which Her Majesty's Government had determined to pursue, namely, not to interfere in any way whatever in the internal affairs of France, and not to say or do anything that might be construed into an intention of interfering.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  observed, that it might be satisfactory to the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose to know that when, in the year 1831, very large reductions had been made in the salaries of many of the Ministers abroad, and almost all of the Consuls, it was not Considered that because they had been appointed at the former salaries they should not suffer the reduction that it was thought proper to apply.
 MR. V. SMITH  thought that it would be very inconvenient to discuss at present the question of a disfranchisement of the borough of Harwich. He thought that the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department had been somewhat hardly dealt with by hon. Members. The hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) had attacked him as though he wished to screen the offence. He understood him to take no such course. The question which the right hon. Baronet put to the House was, whether the writ should issue now or not. That was a question entirely distinct from the disfranchisement of the borough. He thought that in a constitutional view of the question the writ ought to issue, because no borough ought to remain unrepresented for any longer period than was absolutely necessary. One of the hon. Members on the Committee had said that it appeared to them that there was something like collusion practised between the parties; and he (Mr. V. Smith) thought that circumstance, coupled with the recommendation of the Chairman of the Committee, ought to have some weight with the House in inducing it to allow the present debate to be adjourned.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the question before the House was, first, whether the Bodmin election petition should be discharged, for that was the question put from the Chair on the Motion of the hon. Member for Warwickshire. Now, in this case, the objection was not to the recognizance, which was admitted to be good, but to some ambiguity in the affidavit as to the solvency of the person who had entered into the recognizance; and no opinion of counsel had been taken by the Committee upon this subject. Now, the question was, whether, on such a ground, the petition for Bodmin ought to be discharged, which, it was to be borne in mind, alleged extensive bribery and treating in that borough at the last election. He admitted the sitting Members had a right to all the protection the law gave them, and that the petitioners must comply with the Act of Parliament. But, besides the petitioners and the sitting Members, there were the interests of the public to be attended to. With regard to the general question, he still entertained very considerable objections to the House interfering at all. His great objection to an Act of Parliament was, that they were taking a ques-
 624
 MR. LAW  considered that the House was much indebted to the Committee for the labour which they had bestowed upon the subject now under discussion. He thought they were also much indebted to the hon. Member who had brought forward the Bill; and he must say it would be very desirable that the hon. Member for Warwickshire should put his Motion in a different shape. As to the recognizances, they would be invalid in a court of law. The mode to place all parties in a proper position would be, to give by way of Bill to the General Election Committee the power to inquire into the validity of the recognizances; for it was that validity alone which gave them jurisdiction. He objected to the form of the Amendment moved by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, because he would not set up a resolution of that House against the law of the land.
 MR. J. S. WORTLEY  was not prepared to give any opinion upon the question of the suspension of the writ for the borough of Harwich, because he was not in Parliament in 1842, and because he had no knowledge of the circumstances mentioned
 607
 MR. ELLIOT  said, that as a Member of the Committee, he felt called upon to make a few observations. He had not been aware that it was intended to move for the issue of the writ that morning, as he understood, with the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir James Graham), that the question would be allowed to rest until the evidence was laid before the House. He wished to offer merely a few words as to the question of bribery. The only case of bribery proved was that of a person named Saxby, who obtained 41 l 604
 MR. ELLIOT  said, that the hon. Members for Finsbury and Birmingham had both endeavoured, by the strongest language that they could use, to show that Members were not honest in endeavouring to put down the practice of bribery. When such assertions went forth to the public, the attention of the public ought also to be called to this fact, that in the present Session of Parliament a number of petitions had been presented on the subject of bribery, and almost in every instance the sitting Member had been unseated. Such being the case, with what possible justice could hon. Members be accused of favouring bribery? He thought it would be much more creditable to the hon. Members themselves if they endeavoured to support the characters of
 615
 LORD D. STUART  agreed with the right hon. Gentleman, that the further
 609
 MR. D. WADDINGTON  believed, that at this moment Harwich, from her increasing prosperity, was not the corrupt borough which she was in 1842, and on that ground he did not think that the present electors ought to be visited with the sins of their predecessors.
 MR. ROCHE  trusted that, whatever was the decision of the House, they would sift the matter to the bottom. There was a general impression abroad—more especially in Ireland—that the boroughs in this country were becoming more corrupt and more rotten than before the Reform Bill. As an Irishman, he felt a particular interest in having the question sifted to the bottom; because, for every borough disfranchised in this country, he intended to put in a claim on the part of Ireland. [ Laughter 605
 MR. MOWATT  said, the House would perhaps allow him to say a few words in explanation. He could declare, not merely on account of the decision of the House, but most conscientiously, that he had entertained no intention whatever of imputing anything of a personal
 617
 MR. MOWATT  rose not only as a Member of that House, but as one of the electors of the country, to thank the noble Lord at the head of Foreign Affairs for the manly and straightforward declaration that he had made, of his sincere desire to aid in purifying the constituencies of the realm and the returns to that House; and he could not but contrast, painfully, that declaration with the conduct, he might say shameful conduct, of the noble Lord's Colleague, the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department.
 MR. MOWATT  said, that he at once withdrew the expression objected to, and which he had used only under strong feelings, and in the hurry of the moment. But certainly he had understood the right hon. Baronet to have avowed himself, by the course he had followed, an advocate for the protection of the present system of corruption. Why, the right hon. Baronet had told the House that it ought to dismiss from its consideration the monstrous corruption that had been proved on a former occasion to have been carried on in the borough of Harwich, for that it had nothing to do with the question before the House. Whereas he (Mr. Mowatt) contended, that, although the evidence before the House might not of itself be sufficient to make out the present charge of general corruption, yet that, taken in addition to the established character for corruption of the borough, as shown in 1842, it
 614
 MR. MUNTZ  maintained, that the expression which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman ought to be brought before the House. He had said, that as the sins of the parties were not visited on them in 1842, they were not to be considered now. If they were to be excused because time had elapsed, at least some steps ought to be taken to prevent a recurrence of the evils. If those steps were not taken in this House, they would be taken by the people out of doors.
 MR. BAGSHAW  was not in the House last night when the character of his unfortunate borough was under discussion. He did not mean to deny that great corruption had prevailed at the election in 1841. On the contrary, he believed that a great majority of the voters were then bribed; but the moment that election had passed over, a change came over the spirit of their dream. In 1841, there were but 180 voters in the borough. At that election he made his canvass alone, without the aid or assistance of any individual or of any committee; yet the House was told not only that his committee was bribed, but that the chairman had received 1,000 l
 MR. FOLEY  moved—
 "That Mr. Speaker do issue his warrant to the Clerk of the Crown to make out a New Writ for the electing of a Burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the borough of Harwich, in the room of John Attwood, Esq., whose Election has been determined to be void."
 MR. BROTHERTON  concurred in every ward uttered by the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir W. Heathcote). He certainly thought the hon. Member for Falmouth had made an ungenerous attack on the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey).
 MR. HUME  was anxious to state that he felt confident that nothing personally offensive was intended in reference to the right hon. Baronet. He (Mr. Hume) had perhaps expressed himself as strongly as other hon. Members, although in a different way. What he had said was, in effect, that it was unfair to draw a comparison between the cases of Lancaster and Carlisle and that of Harwich, when, in fact, there was no resemblance. He must say, however, that if they allowed personal remarks thus to intervene, all good feeling would depart. When the hon. Member for Falmouth had been in the House a little longer, he would, no doubt, find it necessary to be more guarded in his expressions.
 MR. HUME  said, he was surprised at the speech of the right hon. Baronet, which seemed to him to be intended to cover the abuses which took place at elections. In the last Parliament a Motion was brought forward by Mr. Roebuck on the subject of the bribery which took place in boroughs generally. Mr. Roebuck having in the most fearless and manly way declared in the House that he was prepared to prove bribery, not only on the part of the electors, but of persons having seats in that House; and having made charges implicating five boroughs, though he might easily have extended the list to fifty boroughs, succeeded in inducing the Government to agree to the appointment of a Committee. That Committee sat, with the understanding that no penalties should attach to any individuals on account of transactions which occurred up to that period; this arrangement being considered necessary in order that the Committee might be the better able to obtain evidence.
 601 l
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  fully coincided in the remarks of the hon. Member for Penryn (Mr. Mowatt), which had been made with such boldness. He thought that there was a mock modesty in this House about these cases of bribery. The right hon. the Secretary of State for the Home Department had led away the House when he quoted the cases of Lancaster and Carlisle. What were the cases of Lancaster and Carlisle? Hitherto they had never been mentioned as cases of bribery. As to Harwich, it had one of the worst characters for its constituency of any borough in the kingdom. The case of Harwich formed a remarkable feature of Mr. Roebuck's Committee; and there was no assimilation between that and Lancaster and Carlisle. The time was coming when they must bring about a new reform. Neither the representation of England or of Scotland could stand much longer as it was at present; and if that House did not take up the question of the franchise in a short time, it would be taken up, in a voice of thunder, by the people out of doors.
 MR. SPOONER  said, that if his hon. and learned Friend who had just sat down found the present question difficult and embarrassing, how much more so ought he to feel it, unskilled as he was in matters of legal detail? He had often contemplated such a revision in the law; but he considered that the subject was of too vast an importance not to attract the attention of more eminent men than himself, and he accordingly delayed until the last moment making any proposition to the House. He must now say, after a full consideration of the subject, he had come to the conclusion that the present Bill could not pass, as it would not remedy the evils which existed. He was also of opinion that Parliament would not be doing its duty if it contented itself by merely negativing the measure. By pursuing such a course they would not be grappling with the difficulties of the question in an efficient manner, the grievances would still remain, nor would the difficulty be lessened. The proposition which he was about to make, although he knew that it was not perfect, appeared to him to be best calculated to meet the difficulties under which we at present labour; admitting, as he did to the fullest extent, the legal knowledge and the brilliant talents of his hon. and learned Friend, yet he felt himself conscientiously bound to dissent from his proposition. His hon. Friend had said that they were now to act in their judicial character; he completely agreed with him—in that character, and in that alone, had they come to the consideration of the subject—party views, party feelings, party considerations, party intimacies, or friendships, should all be laid aside; and he, for one, felt the same weight of responsibility to rest upon him as if he were in a jury-box. The preamble
 621 ab initio ex post facto laches de jure 622 ex post facto "To leave out all the words after the word 'that,' in order to add, 'the orders referring the petitions presented against the returns of Members to this House for the boroughs of Bodmin, Cheltenham, Leicester, and Walsall, the city of Dublin, and the county of Longford, to the General Committee of Elections, which petitions are mentioned or referred to in the said Bill, be discharged, and that no further proceedings he taken on the said petitions.'"
 MR. R. C. HILDYARD  must oppose the second reading of this Bill, but he could not vote for the Amendment. He concurred with the Attorney General that the only way in which the House could get out of the difficulty in which it was placed, was by legislation; but he thought the Bill now under consideration was not one which ought to receive the assent of the House. The hon. and learned Member by whom it was introduced, admitted that if it could be shown that the measure was liable to the objection of  ex post facto ex post facto ex post facto 625 ipso facto
 MR. WALPOLE,  on rising to move the Second Reading of the Election Recognizances Bill, said he would first briefly state the circumstances under which it had been introduced. The House would remember that a petition was presented against the return of the hon. Member for Cheltenham, and that the recognizances were discovered to be invalid. In accordance with the advice of eminent counsel, it was supposed that if that petition were allowed to proceed, accompanied by defective recognizances, either the proceedings would be vitiated  in toto 618 619 620
 MR. ANSTEY  could not hesitate to vote in favour of the Amendment. The question did not involve any large question, it merely related to six constituencies and
 626 ex post facto
 MR. WAKLEY  had witnessed with great delight the virtuous indignation of the noble Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston), and he should not be surprised to see that noble Lord one day appearing as the illustrious head of a powerful Radical party in that House. Stranger things than that had occurred before now in that House. He was proud to see that the noble Lord was not determined, with inflexible stupidity, like some hon. Members, to stick to old and obsolete prejudices, but had shown himself willing to advance in the right direction. The noble Lord the Member for Marylebone and the hon. Member for Northampton had endeavoured to excuse, or to palliate, the conduct of the right hon. Baronet
 611 612 l
 MAJOR BERESFORD  said, as the hon. Member for Montrose had, during his absence, stated that at the former election for Harwich a very considerable sum had been paid to the committee, he begged to give the charge a most unequivocal and decided denial. It was quite new to him that there had been a recognised committee of his opponent's appointed at that time; and how he could have bribed a committee that never existed he was at a loss to understand.
 MR. BLACKSTONE  had only asked for the suspension of the writ until the evidence was printed. The delay could not be more than two days at furthest, and after what had occurred he thought it was tolerably plain that there was something behind the scene, and that the House was warranted in requiring the delay.
 MR. BLACKSTONE  admitted that it was the privilege of any hon. Member to move the issue of a new writ, and his hon. Friend the Member for West Norfolk was quite right in moving it on the preceding night. He was aware of his hon. Friends' intention, and he had told them that he intended to move the Amendment which he had moved upon it. But as he had been markedly alluded to by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Aglionby) as one belonging to that side of the House which had never been remarkable for opposing bribery or exposing corruption, he begged to say that for the long period of fifteen years during which he had occupied a seat in that House he had uniformly voted on every question of bribery and corruption which had been raised, and
 599 Hansard "That the Minutes of Evidence and Proceedings taken before the House at Election Committees be laid before the House, and that Mr. Speaker do not issue his warrant for a New Writ until the said evidence shall have been printed and laid before the House."
 SIR B. HALL  said, the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey) had not met the question fairly; for he had argued as if the Motion before the House was for the disfranchisement of the borough, which was not the immediate point. The question, however, would arise, whether a borough, which had been remarkable for many years for gross bribery and corruption should return Members again, after a report from a Select Committee in which bribery to some extent was charged as being proved. He believed, that collusion had existed between the parties. It was clear that some bribery had taken place at the last election; and he would remind the House of what
 606 "Do you know of your own knowledge that a large number of the Harwich constituency received bribes at the last election?" His reply was, "Yes; I think the great majority of them." l
 SIR GEORGE GREY : If the understanding that the right hon. Gentleman alludes to had really been the understanding in the House last night, I certainly should not have supported the issue of the writ; but I need not remark that the Votes only give the result of the proceedings of the House, and not the discussions upon them. In order that the hon. Gentleman might not be misled, I said that I wished the House should be in possession of the report of the Committee printed this morning, and that if the report did not contain any special recommendation—if it were not a special report, but in the usual form—I should be prepared to support the issue of the writ. But I said that if, on the contrary, a charge of general bribery were contained in the report, with a recommendation that the House should interpose its authority, then I could not consent to the writ being issued.
 SIR G. GREY  thought the hon. Member had expended a great deal too much virtuous indignation with respect to him. The hon. Member had even taken a phrenological survey of his head. He hoped that nothing that he had done on this occasion had thrown any discredit upon the phrenological skill of the hon. Gentleman. He (Sir G. Grey) instanced the cases of Lancaster and Carlisle, because he thought they should follow the course adopted with respect to those boroughs; nothing, he as-
 613
 SIR G. GREY  was extremely indebted to the House for the assurance they had given him that he need not say one word. He was certain, from the view which the hon. Member was disposed to take of his conduct, that anything which he might say would utterly fail to convince him.
 SIR G. GREY  reminded the House he had opposed the original reference of the petitions to the Committee, whose report was then under consideration, on the ground that the decisions of the examiner of recognizances should be final, and was intended by the Legislature to be so considered. The discussions that had taken place on this occasion had not tended to make him doubt the correctness of that opinion; but as the matter had been referred to the Committee, and as they had fully considered in what way the grievances of which the sitting Members complained might be most conveniently redressed, he thought the Amendment of the hon. Member should not be adopted, and concurred in the suggestion of the hon. Member for Midhurst (Mr. Walpole) with respect to bringing in this Bill, which provided a total remedy for the evils which they desired to alleviate. As a Member of the Committee, he was prepared to support the report they had made, and to vote for the second reading of the Bill; but in saying so, he merely offered his individual opinion, and had no wish to bias the course of any hon. Member. It would set a most dangerous precedent if the House interfered with an Act by a mere resolution; and hereafter any strong party or Government, acting on the example set before
 623
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that as allusion had been made by the hon. Gentleman to what had fallen from him on the preceding night, he would take that opportunity of explaining an expression which he feared had been misunderstood. He was far from meaning to say that the hon.
 600
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : If I might offer a suggestion, I would propose a course which will tend to the convenience of the House on the present occasion, and insure that deliberation which is due to the importance of the subject now brought under our consideration. On reading the Votes of the House which were circulated this
 602 603
 SIR J. TYRELL  was sure the right hon. and learned Gentleman had displayed great judgment and impartiality upon the Committee. If public opinion was so strong in Ireland upon the subject of corruption in English boroughs as represented by the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Roche), he would venture to suggest that the borough
 608
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  would not pass any opinion upon the suggestion which had just been made. The real difficulty which existed, and from which he was desirous to see the House delivered, related to the means by which the House was to be replaced in the position in which it stood on the 10th of December last, when the matters were first submitted to the Select Committee. Four propositions were contained in the Committee's report, and to each of them he had great objection. With the exception of the first, all of them related to legislation, and if that course was adopted,  ex post facto ex post facto
 MR. BAGGE  said, he was willing to withdraw the Motion, or to submit to its being adjourned.
 SIR W. HEATHCOTE  said, he could assure the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Mowatt) that the indignation expressed on that (the Opposition) side of the House, was not founded on the hasty expression which had fallen from him, and which he withdrew as soon as he perceived it to be offensive, but was called forth by the substance of his remarks. The hon. Member must certainly have forgotten the character of the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey), when he assailed him as he had done, charging him with having pursued a course different from that which, on the previous
 616
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  rose and said, he was sure his hon. Friend the Member for Falmouth would at once see that the expression he had used was not consistent with the proceedings of that House. The words "shameful conduct" ought not to be applied to any hon. Member.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  trusted the House would accede to the first alternative offered by the hon. Member, namely, that his Motion should be withdrawn—that therefore the debate should drop—that the Motion for issuing the writ should not be renewed until after the minutes of the evidence taken before the Committees should be printed, and in the hands of Members a sufficient number of days to allow those minutes to be fully considered—and that due notice should be given beforehand of the renewal of the Motion. He thought that that course would reconcile all the opinions which had been expressed, and that it would be the one which a consideration of what was due to the House and the country would point out as being the most fitting to be pursued. He must confirm the statement of his right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Home Department, as to the understanding which prevailed on the previous evening. He was himself in the House, and he acquiesced in it. The understanding to which he was a party, and which he conceived to have been agreed to by the other side, was, that the decision whether the writ should issue or not should be postponed until after the report of the Committee should have been received. That, however, did not prejudge the other question, whether, when that report should be in the hands of the House, a further postponement should take place until the minutes of the evidence were before them. He owned that his own personal individual opinion led him to state that he should be perfectly ready, upon the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the chairman of the Committee (Mr. S. Wortley), to vote for the issue of the writ; and he thought that the reference which had
 610
 LORD ASHLEY  rose to move the resolutions of which he had given notice, founded on the evidence taken before the Medical Relief Committee in 1844. It would be his earnest endeavour to economise the time of the House, and spare the necessity of any repetition in the argument. Looking on the evidence as extremely dry, though very important, he thought the best course was, after a few preliminary observations, to take the resolutions in detail. They were founded on the evidence taken in 1844 by the Committee of which he had moved the appointment, in consequence of a very strong feeling which was manifested that some remedy Ought to be applied to the state of things as regarded the administration of relief to the sick. The Government acquiesced, and the result was a ponderous volume of evidence. The Committee did not report till the close of the Session of 1844. It was impossible, therefore, to do anything that Session. In 1845, the pres
 633 "That every woman claiming medical assistance from the parish in consequence of being pregnant, shall be entitled, in all cases, to the aid of the medical officer with her first child, and also with the second or others which may follow, provided she present a certificate from the medical officer who attended her in her previous confinement, stating that circumstances had occurred in it out of the ordinary and natural course of events which rendered it desirable that she should have medical attendance on the next occasion of delivery." 634 "Cases have occurred of mischief from delay, by the difficulties thrown in the way of obtaining orders of the board of guardians. I recollect one whore, in consequence of this delay, the labour was so protracted, that terrible results took place, and the woman died. She told mo, that the difficulty thrown in the way of getting an order was such, that if the woman applies, they will not grant it; it must be the husband, who is probably at work. In this case her husband could not go. An ignorant midwife was called in, who, in fact, killed her." "That the after-treatment is frequently the most necessary and important. He has applied for payment, and been refused, because he did not deliver the child." 635
 MR. C. BULLER  thought it would, perhaps, save the time of the House if he stated what was the nature of the order. It was an order for giving medical relief to any woman in the workhouse or on the pauper list, or whom the guardians might subsequently determine to have claims from her destitute condition. His interpretation and decision on that order would be, that in any case where the board of guardians held the case of a woman to be one in which she could not be delivered without parochial relief, they might treat it as a pauper case.
 LORD ASHLEY  continued: If the medical man attended without an order from the guardians he would not be remunerated; if the guardians decided that the woman was not in such a situation as to require assistance, the medical man would not be remunerated. When the husband was in receipt of 6 s s 636 s d 637 638 "A few weeks ago a poor girl of seventeen, being with child irregularly, could not apply by her companion in guilt for an order on the doctor for her labour, neither had she the courage to face a hoard of guardians. She remained in her corner until her hour of trial came; she then begged assistance from an old woman, who was unable to give it properly. She was at last delivered, but so injured and torn from ignorance as to be unfit hereafter for the duties of a wife or mother. If she could have gone to the doctor and stated her case to him as a friend of the poor, the person to stand between her and the guardians, this would not have happened." 639
 MR. C. BULLER  felt not a little embarrassed by the course taken by the noble Lord in placing upon the table of the House a notice of a variety of resolutions impugning the present mode of medical relief, and suggesting a large and material alteration therein—an alteration applying to the whole system and principle upon which medical relief was administered under the poor-law at the present moment, and in now coufining himself to one particular resolution. He felt the more aggrieved by that course because, on looking through the resolutions proposed by the noble Lord, stated to have been founded upon the evidence taken in 1844, he found the noble Lord had proposed those resolutions without taking any notice of what had been done by the Poor Law Commissioners in the interim. The consequence was, that it would appear from the resolutions before the House, that it was necessary to rectify certain deficiencies and abuses which he would undertake to show had been long ago much more efficiently rectified by the Poor Law Commissioners than they would be by the course proposed by the noble Lord. It was with great pain that he opposed the noble Lord on the present occasion. He felt the difficulty, in any case affecting humanity and the interests of the poor, of opposing the noble Lord, who was justly regarded as one of their best and most zealous friends. He remembered too, that on one memorable occasion he had had the honour of supporting the noble Lord against what was conceived to be sounder views of political economy; and of vindicating with him the right of the working classes to protection from the law, thereby conciliating the feelings of that class by an act of justice and wise humanity, and doing much to secure their cordial co-operation. On another occasion, when he had felt it necessary to submit a Motion to the House affecting the great mass of the labouring community, he had had the honour to be seconded by the noble Lord. He assured the noble Lord that the subject which he now submitted to the House had occupied his painful and frequent, he might say his constant, attention, since he had had the honour of holding his present office. It appeared to him, that both in principle and detail it was at the same time one of the most anomalous and important, and one of the most difficult, connected with the
 640 641 l 642 l l l l l l l 643 644 l 645 l 646 647 "That no medical person be appointed surgeon or medical officer to a union unless he possess a diploma in surgery, and a degree, diploma, or license in physic, from one or other of the Universities or Colleges of Physicians or Surgeons, or Societies of Apothecaries of the United Empire,
 648 649 650 "That in cases in which any medical officer, either for the workhouse or the district, shall be called upon by the order of persons duly qualified to make such order to attend a woman immediately after childbirth, or shall, under circumstances of difficulty and danger, without such order, visit such woman receiving relief, or whom the guardians should subsequently decide to be in a destitute condition, such medical officer shall be paid not more than 20 s s 651
 MR. WAKLEY  said, that the right hon. and learned Gentleman had concluded his speech by saying, that the present occasion was the first on which he had addressed the House since holding his new office. It was to be regretted, that the right hon. Gentleman had made so bad a commencement, for the very first thing he had done was to oppose a change in favour of humanity which had been made by the noble Lord the Member for Bath. After the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, he could not help wondering why the hon. Gentleman now sitting opposite to him (Mr. C. Lewis) was out of office. That hon. Gentleman must now consider that he had been very ill-used in being removed from a situation he had held for so many years, and in which he had, according to the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, made everything so perfect and complete that scarcely any change was requisite. The disappointment out of doors would be
 652 653 s s 654 s s 655 656 657 s s s
 MR. HUME  agreed with his hon. Friend (Mr. Wakley) as to the distress and destitution generally prevailing, and he wished it was in their power to ameliorate that necessary and inevitable state of poverty. Having, however, such a state of things to deal with, they ought to be cau-
 658 659
 MR. C. BULLER  would answer the question put to him by the hon. Member for Finshury. The hon. Member expressed some doubts of his (Mr. Buller's) experience in these matters, and asked him by whose advice he had acted in opposing the resolutions of the noble Lord? This reminded him of a fact which he had forgotten to mention, and which, in justice to himself, he would now state to the House. Before deciding on this question, he had sent a copy of the resolutions round to every one of the gentlemen, lately assistant commissioners, who were now poor-law inspectors, in different parts of England and Wales. He attached great importance to the opinions of these gentlemen, from the ability they displayed in the zealous and energetic discharge of their duties, and from their intimate acquaintance with the subject. With respect to the first resolution, he had received written answers from seven of these nine gentlemen; he had verbal communications with other two gentlemen, who entirely agreed with the others; and they all, with the exception of Sir John Walsham, objected to the resolution, and took precisely the same objection. Sir John Walsham said that he did not see any objection to that resolution, provided only that some reasonable definition of the class of persons were substituted for the comprehensive words "every poor woman."
 MR. HENLEY  was disposed to do every justice to the motives which had actuated the noble Lord in bringing forward this subject of medical relief; and he did not regret the discussion, inasmuch as it afforded him an opportunity of bearing testimony to the admirable mode in which the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. C. Buller) had discharged the high and important duties of the office to which he had been recently appointed. It was quite true that there had been no material alteration in the rules and regulations of the Commission; but it was said on all sides, that the spirit in which the business was carried on was very different, and very
 660 l l l l l
 SIR. W. CLAY  was satisfied that no better choice could have been made than
 661 l l
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, though he differed from the noble Lord in the result at which he had arrived, he sympathised with his motives, and gave him credit for the manner in which he had brought forward his Motion. The object of the noble Lord's first resolution seemed to be provided for by a general order of the late Poor Law Commissioners. The hon. Baronet who spoke last said, if the power proposed to be given by him to the poor were abused, he was willing to let the wages be attached. Under the present
 662 suo periculo
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  hoped, that in the course of the next vacation, the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. Buller) would consider it a part of his duty to go down and visit all the poor-law unions, the boards of guardians, and the medical officers; he would then see the way in which medical relief was applied in the Gilbert as well as the other unions. He believed, with the hon. Member for Finsbury, that there was not one case in a thousand of improper application; and he believed that was the only objection to the resolution urged by the economical Gentleman sitting in his neighbourhood (Mr. Hume). He should certainly give his cordial support to the Motion now before the House, for he thought that no money could be better bestowed than that which it was intended to expend in carrying these resolutions into practical effect. There was no one who attended the proceedings of the Committee which investigated the case of the Andover union that could for a moment doubt the conclusions at which that Committee had arrived. With the recollection of the case fully before them, he hoped that the House would see the necessity, or at all events the expediency, of enabling the noble Lord to create an opportunity of seeing what could be done. It had been stated before the Andover Union Committee, that when an ablebodied man applied for relief, the relieving officer insisted upon his going into the workhouse, put him to hard labour, and that was what they called testing. In the 8th Resolution of the Committee, on the subject of relief, they said—
 "That on the application of an ablebodied man for relief, on account of sickness in his family, and also in some instances where the applicant has
 663 664 s d
 SIR H. VERNEY  thought it was absolutely necessary the poor, even in childbirth, should have all the assistance that science could render to them; and, therefore, he should support the resolution. There was no danger of destroying the character of the lower classes by supplying them with medical relief. They need not be afraid of being too lavish of medical relief to the peor, for they would never apply for that species of relief unless they absolutely required it. Boards of guardians could not be too economical as regarded other sources of expenditure; but with regard to medical relief, he felt that they had not been sufficiently—he could not say liberal, but—easy in their treatment of the poor. He hoped the noble Lord would not only press this resolution, but that he would persevere in his other resolutions also. He thought that if these resolutions were agreed to, they would be productive of the utmost advantage to the poor. He was not at all satisfied with the statement of the right hon. Gentleman; and he believed, that under the old system the poor, as far as regarded medical relief, were much better attended to than they were under the present system. This was the first step taken in a right direction, and he had great satisfaction in supporting the noble Lord.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that the more legitimate way of meeting the difficulty complained of by the noble Lord, and which he sought to remedy by his resolution, would be to encourage parochial lying-in societies. There were many such in existence at present, which were supported by the poor themselves; but if this resolution were carried, not a single person hereafter would enter one of these societies. If the Government would encourage these so-
 665
 MR. C. BULLER  assured the noble Lord that in respect to this resolution every thing that could be done by instructions from the Commissioners would be done.
 LORD ASHLEY  having that assurance from the right hon. Gentleman, withdrew the resolution.
 LORD ASHLEY , in moving the third resolution, said that it was important there should be a competent person who should see all that was going on in the union, should make his observations, and report his progress to the Central Board sitting in London. It was essentially necessary that there should be some supervising body of this description. Hon. Gentlemen would bear in mind that the number of poor-law medical officers at this moment amounted to nearly 3,000 persons, and that was a body of men discharging very important duties, who ought to be subjected to some system of regular inspection. There were inspectors for the Army and Navy medical staffs; and when the great importance of the interests at stake was considered, the vast number of persons who were engaged, and the great duties they had to perform, and the real concern which the whole country had in the due performance of those duties, it must be acknowledged that it was necessary to have a body of officers who should keep the Government daily apprised of everything that was going on. It was necessary to have some authority to settle the disputes which were constantly arising between the boards of guardians and the medical men. Many other duties might be given to this body of men. It might be their duty to make a supervision of all the drugs, for he believed that a vast deal of money was thrown away by the administering of inferior drugs. The House had no knowledge whatever of the general system of medical relief. He believed that the board of Somerset House was utterly ignorant of the whole system of medical relief. The fact was, that these parties, having great and responsible duties, were left altogether without control, except the local control of the board of guardians, and which the board of guardians was incapable of exercising. It would also, he believed, have a very beneficial effect in keeping all these medical officers alive and active in discharge of their duties; because the periodical inspectors should not only
 667 668 "Complaints against medical officers as to the performance of their duties are extremely common—I think more common than any class of complaints. I have been told that a very large proportion of the correspondence in cases which the Poor Law Commissioners have to decide, is from cases arising out of disputes between the guardians and medical officers." "That it is expedient that medical inspectors be appointed by the Poor Law Commissioners, or by the Secretary of State, or with his sanction; one to each district to which an assistant poor-law commissioner or inspector is attached, at a salary not exceeding 600 l
 MR. C. BULLER  said: Sir, I am sorry that I feel obliged to take the same course with reference to this resolution as I did with regard to the previous one; but I must guard myself by saying at once that the objects which the noble Lord wishes to secure by means of a staff of medical inspectors are objects in which I fully concur, and that no person would properly administer the duty which I have undertaken, if he did not at least endeavour to attain them. My only objection to the plan of the noble Lord is, that I do not think the costly and complicated machinery which he proposes would afford the best means of arriving at the results at which he aims. I will not dwell much on the question of expense. But the noble Lord proposes that wherever there is a poor-law inspector, a medical inspector, with a salary of 600 l 669 l l l 670 671 l 672 s l 673
 MR. WAKLEY  said, that the right hon. and learned Gentleman had acknowledged that as soon as he got into office he found he was in want of medical relief. That was a want which he thought likely
 674 675 l l l l l 676 Ex uno disce omnes l l l 677
 MR. HENLEY  said, that this Motion had certainly not received so decided a negative as it ought to have received, for a Member of the Government said, in answer to it, "Only let me act in my slow way, and I will carry out the object which you have in view." He did not approve of the appointment of an additional number of inspectors, and, therefore, he should enter his protest against any mode of proceeding, slow or otherwise, which would effect that. The hon. Member who had last spoken seemed to have taken quite a different view of the question from him, for he had characterised it as one containing a very simple question. He (Mr. Henley) did not think that these resolutions contained a simple or narrow question. There was a wider question contained in it than the mere appointment of these ten medical inspectors. He believed that the
 678 679
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had not dealt fairly with this question. He had referred to the question of diet and to the poor wanting food. The hon. Member had stated that these medical officers would be deficient in their duty to the poor by ordering physic instead of food. The hon. Member for Finsbury had often referred to this subject, and had expressed his opinion that it was from the want of food that physic became necessary; and it was not to be supposed that the poor would be kept on such a diet as to keep them constantly in the hands of the medical man. This Motion had been objected to by a right hon. Poor Law Commissioner, on the ground that it introduced the new doctrine of interference with the local administration, and also upon the score of expense. Now, as to the score of expense, there were, he maintained, quite sufficient funds in the Poor Law Commissioners' Office, and the rest of the machinery connected with it,
 680 681
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, that he was placed in some difficulty with regard to one part of this Motion, and from that portion he must withhold his assent. He thought, upon the whole, that great credit was due to his noble Friend for bringing this subject before the House, and he only regretted that it was brought forward amidst so thin an attendance of Members. The House was full enough when the subject of the income-tax was under discussion, as that affected the interest of the middle classes; but now, the subject vitally affected the interests of the poorer classes only, he was sorry to see so small an attendance. Why it was so he could not conceive, for the subject deserved greater and closer attention; for there was, in his opinion, nothing more important to the well-being of the poor than well-regulated medical relief. He entirely agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Fins-bury in his observations respecting the medical board. He had never met a set of men who had displayed more true humanity and benevolence to the poor than the members of that profession. He had seen them sacrificing their money, their labour, their time, and even, in many instances, sacrificing health and life, in order to render humane and charitable assistance to such poor persons as required their aid. It was impossible to say too much of the merits of that profession. The difficulty he felt in voting for this resolution applied to the latter part of it—not that part imposing on the medical inspector to be appointed the duty of pointing out the number of medical officers which ought to be employed in each union, for in that he concurred. He objected to their imposing the duty of fixing the salaries to be given to the medical officers for
 682
 MR. ADDERLEY  suggested that if there were such a sum as 6,000 l l
 MR. E. DENISON  did not think that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. Buller) merited the observations of the hon. Member for Finsbury. It appeared to him that the right hon. Gentleman had spoken with excellent sense, sound judgment, and good feeling. The explanation which the right hon. Gentleman had given was most satisfactory; if, therefore, the noble Lord should go to a division, he must give his vote decidedly against him. 683
 LORD ASHLEY  then moved the 4th resolution, viz.:—
 "That from and after the month of March next the appointment of medical officers of unions shall be permanent during good behaviour, they being removable only by the Poor Law Commissioners, whose decisions shall be final." "Do you think that, in the matter of recommending relief to the sick, such as wine, beer, or meat, the medical men would make such recommendation if they thought that by so doing they would place themselves at variance with the guardians? " "I do not think that they would; I think a medical officer who is re-elected annually is placed in a very uncomfortable position, both to the poor and the board. He cannot be independent: and I think a board of guardians would be very cautions in appointing a man if they knew they were to appoint a permanent officer." "It is better that medical officers should be permanently appointed. There are many cases that come before the boards of guardians connected with the medical men; I allude, particularly, to the removal of nuisances, A great number of guardians are owners of small houses; and, should their premises get into a bad state, and the medical officer report them, I think it very likely he would suffer for it at his next election. I think that annual election prevents his independence." "The situation should be permanent. If elected annually, we are very much under the influence of the guardians. A case came under my observation a short time ago. A medical officer was attending a poor woman, pregnant, and suffering from painful ulceration of the leg and varicose veins. Five loaves a week were allowed by the guardians to the husband, in order to pay a woman for performing the domestic duties. After a fortnight one of the guardians called her an idle hussy, and stated that the bread should be
 685 "I am certain that in case any difference should arise between the board of guardians and the medical man, if the medical man were elected annually, he would run a very good chance of not being re-elected."
 MR. P. SCROPE  hoped the Government would concede this point. He had voted against the noble Lord on other resolutions, relying on the kindly spirit evinced by the two Members who had spoken on the part of the Government. He had great confidence that the objects of the noble Lord would be effectually carried out. The officers of boards of guardians were permanently appointed, with the invidious exception of the medical officers. The Poor Law Commission itself had recommended that they should be appointed permanently. If the Commissioners had not power to make an order to that effect, it ought to be settled by legislative enactment.
 MR. C. BULLER  regretted that he could not accede to the suggestion of his hon. Friend. The effect of the resolution would be to deprive the poor of their only guarantee for attendance by medical officers to their wants. He disclaimed any language which could imply the slightest reflection on the intelligence, public spirit, and humanity of medical men; but that was a very different question from the appointment of ten medical inspectors. The ground of issue was very narrow. The noble Lord wished to establish the rule that all medical officers should hold their offices permanently, or during good behaviour, not being subject to annual re-election, and that they should be liable to removal only on proof of misconduct before the Poor Law Commissioners. Due attention, he thought, could not be secured from medical officers holding office by a permanent tenure, and paid by salary. In about half the unions, the guardians had this hold over the medical man, that if he did not give them satisfaction, they would not re-elect him. The noble Lord wished to transfer that power to the Commissioners. He did not see the advantage of that transfer, though it might enable medical officers sometimes to go on fearlessly in the discharge of their duties. It would make medical officers practically irremovable. The office was not one to which the rude test proposed was applicable. Was it enough that a medical officer should not show gross ignorance—should not actually murder the poor by negligence—should not have moral delinquency proved against him? It would be hard dealing with the poor to subject them to treatment by one whom no one would employ in his own parish. Was it not necessary that the medical man should be skilful and learned in his profession—that he should be zealous in the discharge of his duties—that his manners towards the poor should be civil and kind—that he should not only have those qualities, but be reputed to have them? Who was the best judge of those qualifications—a Commissioner, sitting in Somerset House, acting through inspectors, or the board of guardians, the neighbours of the medical man, who knew him in all the relations of life, and were aware of the estimation in which he was held by the poor? He did not reject the task which it was proposed to impose on him because it involved too much trouble; but because he sincerely believed that a person in his position was not so competent
 687
 MR. WAKLEY  remarked that the right hon. Gentleman had stated that one-half of the medical appointments were permanent. Did he mean to let them remain so? or did he mean to bring in a Bill to alter them? It was understood when the new poor-law was passed, that it was to introduce a uniform system—clearly defined and well understood; but where was
 688 689
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  wished the medical officers to be permanently appointed. Had a permanent medical officer existed in the Andover union, the disgraceful abuses which were proved to have prevailed there would either have been exposed at an earlier period, or altogether prevented. The conduct of the board of guardians of that union towards Mr. Westlake was most tyrannical.
 MR. WALTER  had accidentally been absent during the discussion which had taken place upon the first two resolutions proposed by the noble Lord the Member for Bath; had he been present, it would have afforded him great pleasure to support them, as he certainly would the resolution at present under consideration. He would take that opportunity of expressing the gratification with which he had heard the orthodox doctrine propounded by the right hon. and learned President of the Poor Law Commission, that the reference of local questions to the Central Board was a thing to be deprecated. If the right hon. and learned Gentleman should continue to inculcate such doctrines, there would be some chance that, eventually, the central authority would be still further dispensed with. With respect to the present question, he thought it impossible that the House could conceal from itself that the choice of two difficulties lay before it. From his own personal observation he had had opportunities of knowing that the right hon. and learned Gentleman's statement, with respect to the incapacity of parish doctors, was fully home out. To declare that a parish doctor should in no case be superseded by the local authorities unless a specific charge should have been brought and proved against him, might be productive of injury to the parishioners. That was one difficulty. On the other hand, the results of his experience prompted him to concur in the statement of the hon. Member for Finsbury, that parish doctors frequently laboured under a disadvantage, and were, indeed, in some cases prevented from doing their duty in consequence of
 690
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  suggested that the words "during good behaviour" should be omitted.
 MR. HINDLEY  was very much opposed to the annual election of medical officers; but he did not see so much objection to their being made permanent, with the exception that they should be removable only by the boards of guardians. The proposition of the noble Lord, however, was quite of a different character. He believed the medical officers of prisons were removable by the parties who appointed them, and he thought it would be best if the dismissal of union medical officers were vested in the local boards of guardians. It might happen that the local authorities might have a perfect knowledge that the medical man did not duly or satisfactorily attend to the poor, and yet find it impossible to make out such a ease as would cause his removal by the Poor Law Commissioners, supposing them to have the exclusive power to dismiss him. And it often occurred that sonic circumstances, at the bottom of which it was difficult to get, engendered such a dislike to a particular medical man on the part of the poor themselves as rendered his services distasteful to them; and though it might sometimes be hard to assign any very valid reason for their objection to him, such as would convince those unacquainted with the immediate district, yet, knowing how much the comfort of the poor depended upon their having the attendance of a medical man on whom they could rely, he considered it advisable that the local boards, who could better understand the true state of the ease, and sympathise with the feelings of the necessitous people in their respective localities, should have the power of appointing and dismissing the union medical officer.
 LORD ASHLEY  said, he was quite willing to strike out the words "during good behaviour" from the resolution, and to substitute "removable only by the Poor Law Commissioners" in their place, in order to obviate the difficulty.
 MR. C. BULLER  objected to the re-
 691
 MR. FEARGUS O'CONNOR , on rising to move for leave to bring in a Bill to alter and amend the existing law with respect to friendly societies, said, he did not come before Parliament to ask for an extension of any law now in existence that would prejudice any vested interest in the kingdom, but to obtain its sanction to a scheme for securing the additional comfort and contentment of the working classes of this country, who had been baulked of the promised fruits of all the great political changes which of late years had led to so much agitation in the public mind. The working classes were now suffering under an unprecedented amount of privation; and with the view of permanently and substantially ameliorating their own condition—which all political reforms had hitherto failed to accomplish—100,000 of them had established a plan for a great social change—social, he meant, in a sense totally unconnected with Socialism or Communism—in 1845, since which political trials and incarcerations had ceased. The principle of this plan was, that every man who subscribed 2 l s l l s l s l s l 693 694 s s s l l s l 695 l l ejusdem generis 696 ejusdem generis ejusdem generis l l 697
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, that as the Adjourned Debate on the Treaty of Adrianople was upon the Orders of the Day, he wished to state, that as there was no possibility of his bringing the adjourned debate on for some time—not less than three weeks—and having communicated with his noble Friend the Member for Marylebone (Lord D. Stuart), who was the only Member who wished to address the House upon the subject, he had come to the determination to move that the order be discharged. If, however, any hon. Gentleman objected to his doing so, he would proceed with the debate. He felt deeply grateful to the House for the attention with which he had been received, aware as he was of the difficulties with which he had had to struggle, and sensible of the force of prejudice with which he had had to contend. He was impressed with a sense of the great justice, forbearance, and even generosity with which the House had received him.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  did not think it necessary at that late hour to follow the hon. Member through all the topics of his discursive speech. He was not quite sure that he had been able to gather from the hon. Member's address a very distinct idea of the plan he proposed to himself, or of the alterations which he was desirous of introducing into the Act 9 and 10 Victoria, cap. 27. He denied, however, that there was, as the hon. Gentleman wished to have it supposed out of doors, the slightest indisposition on the part of the House to give every due facility for the investment of the savings of the poor. The very passage that had been read from the Act 9 and 10 of Victoria were suffi-
 698
 MR. WARD  must state, in answer to the question of the hon. Gentleman, that there was too much cause for anxiety as to the present situation of Sir J. Franklin's expedition. Though it left England in the most perfect state of preparation, the ships were victualled only for three full years, which would expire in the summer of the present year. They were accompanied by a transport, which was required to complete their amount of provisions for the period of three years. They left in July, 1845; but, no doubt, unless intelligence were reeeived of them in the course of the present year, their prospects were very precarious. Two years and ten months had elapsed since intelligence of them had been received. But he thought he could satisfy the House that the Government had not been wanting in any precautions which humanity or experience could suggest, with the view of placing every available means of succour within their reach, at whatever points it seemed most likely to be of service. Three expeditions were now in course of preparation. The  Plover Pearl 632 Plover Enterprise Investigator
 MR. WARD  observed, that it was not to be expected such rewards could be offered by the Government as should induce persons on board those vessels to face the perils of a minute search, or to pass the whole winter. Rewards of 100 guineas would be offered for information, and this amount would be increased according to the assistance which might be rendered.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  regretted that so serious a charge as that which had been brought against a Minister of the Crown, should have been preferred upon a mere Motion for papers.—Order discharged.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS , seeing the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Admiralty in his place, wished to ask a question of which he had given notice, relative to the expedition sent forth from this country in 1845 to explore the North-West Passage, and in respect to which a great and natural anxiety prevailed, not only on the part of persons connected with science, the promotion of which was included as one of the
 631
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  inquired if the right hon. Gentleman was prepared to state the amount of the rewards which were offered? The whalers would depart before the 21st or 22nd of this month, so that an immediate announcement was desirable.
 MR. FAGAN  had risen when the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone resumed his seat; but he did not regret not succeeding in catching the Chairman's eye, as the hon. Baronet was followed by one far more competent to reply to his statements, and who was so thoroughly master of the subject—he meant the hon. Member for Waterford (Sir H. W. Barron). He would confine himself to the task of replying to a few points in the hon. Member for Marylebone's speech, which were not touched on in the able address of the hon. Member for Waterford. But, first, he must express his astonishment at the inconsistent course adopted by the hon. Member for Marylebone. He voted last week on all the divisions against the income-tax, because it was unjust, unequal, and inquisitorial; and yet he came forward that night to put such a tax, without amendment or alteration, on Ireland. This was inconsistent, and not a course he should
 722 l ad misericordiam 723 724 l l 725 726 l l in toto 
 
 Articles. Great Britain. Ireland. 
 £. £. 
 Of apparel, in value, imported 613,671 1,488 
 Brass and copper manufactures 644,048 200 
 Hardware 1,745,260 259 
 Iron and steel 2,586,136 4,697 
 Cotton manufactures 16,249,268 4,782 
 Cotton yarn 7,193,771 443 
 Linen manufactures 2,783,629 19,594 
 Linen yarn 819,450 79,380 
 Silk manufactures 667,938 14 
 Woollen manufacture 6,789,943 289 l 727 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 728
 COLONEL CONOLLY  thought this the most inopportune and inauspicious occasion that could be conceived for bringing forward such a Motion as that before the House. The hon. Baronet had chosen the very time when Ireland was most depressed, and in the greatest difficulty, to place upon her this additional burden. When the tax was introduced in this country it was under impression, whether right or wrong, that England would be benefited by another measure which accompanied it; but as no advantage had been conferred upon Ireland, he contended that the tax ought not to be imposed on that country. On the part of his constituents and himself, he thanked the English people for the
 738 l l ad misericordiam 739 l
 COLONEL CONOLLY  observed, that allusion had been made to a speech of his in 1845. But the hon. Gentleman had chosen to stop where he pleased, in the middle of the speech, so that the meaning was perverted.
 COLONEL MURE  said: The opinion which I have long entertained, and which has frequently been advocated by very eminent authorities in this House, is, that the only effectual basis of real or permanent amelioration in the condition of Ireland, must be to place that country, in all practical and essential respects, both as to constitu-
 751 752 753
 MR. BOUVERIE  wished to ask a question of the right hen. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, viz., whether the Board had sanctioned, on the part of the Crown, the granting of a Royal Charter to a trading company for the carrying on of mining, agricultural, and trading operations in the Eastern Archipelago? He was desirous of knowing whether such was the case, because it had been made a subject of complaint, and he thought of just
 700
 MR. NEWDEGATE , who spoke amidst interruption, was understood to say that trade was prosperous in 1845, but it was the reverse in 1848. On all occasions where the interests of Ireland were involved, he had voted with the sincere desire of promoting those interests. With this view he had opposed the repeal of the corn law, believing that Ireland derived benefit from its existence; and he was not prepared to continue to press for the payment of the advances which had been made if an easier adjustment could be effected. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, when speaking of the cruelty which would be inflicted upon Ireland by the extension of the income-tax, ought to have recollected that he was demanding payment of the advances which had been made to aid that country in the hour of her distress. His own opinion was that, if the income-tax was taken in lieu of the payment of the advances, great relief would be the consequence, because the burden would not fall exclusively upon land, but would extend over all other interests. The necessities of Ireland had thrown her upon the resources of the empire; but he thought it would be for her benefit to submit to a tax which would fall upon the classes best able to pay, than to exact money from the weakest, the poorest, the most distressed, and, he must say, the most miserable classes in Ireland. The hon. and gallant Member (Col. Dunne) had spoken of free trade having been adopted for the benefit of the manufacturing interests of England; but what had been the result? He stood there as the representative of an interest which had suffered from the operation of free trade; and he begged to toll the hon. and gallant Member that if the Irish people had been under the necessity of living on charity, the population of Coventry had been equally de-
 759
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  must say a few words. What he had said was not precisely what the hon. Gentleman had imputed to him. The hon. Gentleman had given the House a lecture on the organ of justice. He had to make the same remark as the hon. Gentleman opposite, that the hon. Member for Finsbury had stopped where he chose and where it suited his purpose, omitting a portion of what had been said, and so
 761
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thanked his hon. Friend opposite for the fairness with which he had treated this subject, and also for having given him an opportunity of expressing his opinion
 743 l l 744 l l l l l l l l l l l 745 746
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  had heard, with considerable regret, the speech of the hon. Member for Cockermouth, who complained of a certain number of Irish Members who had voted for imposing upon the people of England this unjust, unfair, and iniquitous tax. It was not for him to express an opinion upon the conduct of the Irish Members, because he had differed from them, and voted with the hon. Member for Cockermouth. But, if it was unjust and unfair in those Gentlemen to impose this tax upon the people of England, let him ask his hon. Friend if it would not be much more unjust and unfair in him now to turn round and vote for imposing upon the people of Ireland that tax which he admitted to be unjust when imposed on the people of England? His hon. Friend the Member for Cockermouth, as well as the hon. Baronet the Member for Essex, had been very smart in commenting upon the conduct of certain parties in Ireland; but let him tell them that, no matter how eloquently Mr. Mitchell might write, and Mr. Dillon might speak, they might depend upon it that such acts as they and the hon. Member for Marylebone were about to perform that night would cause more disaffection and lasting discontent than all the writings or the speeches of Young Ireland. If this tax was unjust towards England, it was doubly unjust towards Ireland. By
 754 l l 755
 MR. HORSMAN  was perfectly willing, considering the permanent poverty of Ireland, and the nature of its recent temporary distressed condition, to make any allowance which could reasonably be asked for that country. He could not but agree with his right hon. Friend in the statement made at the commencement of his speech, that it was on no principle of justice, if the question were taken upon that basis alone, that the Government could impose an income-tax upon England, and refuse to impose it upon Ireland. He had felt that this was really the case when this subject was before the House on a previous occasion, and he should now give a vote similar to the one he then gave; but he could not help feeling that, after all, the
 747 ad misericordiam 748 749 750 l l
 COLONEL DUNNE , in reference to what had been said about the inconsistency of the Irish Members voting for the continuance of the income-tax as regarded England and Scotland, while they opposed its extension to Ireland, begged to say that he did not regard himself as an Irish Member merely, but as a Member of the Imperial Parliament. He did not consider it to be his duty to consult the wishes of the majority of the English Members, but to decide for himself. The hon. and gallant Member then proceeded to adduce instances to show that English Members did not, on all occasions, consult the wishes of Irish Members, when called upon to deal with Irish questions. He dwelt particularly upon the hostile spirit displayed in connexion with the passing of the poor-law, and the recent resistance to the proposal which was made for a Committee to inquire into the working of that law. It was impossible that Ireland could support now, or for a long time to come, the burden of the income-tax. But there were other reasons besides inability which gave Ireland a good claim to exemption. The corn law was repealed mainly with the view of conferring a benefit upon the manufacturing interests of England. He did not pass any opinion as to whether that hope was likely to be realised; but he knew that that repeal had caused a balance of loss of three millions to Ireland, and that, he thought, ought to be taken as an equivalent for the income-tax. Mr. O'Connell and the great majority of the Irish Members assisted in bringing
 758
 MR. BANKES  admitted, that the hon. Member who had just spoken was in a different position from that of most of the other Irish Members; and if all the others had acted as he had done, there would have been a greater difficulty on his mind as to the course which he ought to pursue. He might then have been prepared to say, with the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that, taking into account the present circumstances of Ireland, it would not be expedient to impose this tax for the present year. But as the majority in the division of the other evening was largely composed of Irish Members, and, as the tax was now likely to be permanent, or at least certainly for the next three years, they were compelled now to decide the question, one way or the other, shall this tax, or shall it not, be chargeable over the whole British empire? It might have been reasonably supposed, from what was stated by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in reference to the finding of a substitute for the annual vote on the sugar duties, that the proposal to vote the income-tax for one year might have been accepted. The noble Lord, upon being asked what annual tax he proposed to substitute in lieu of the sugar duties, said—
 "I do not propose to vary in any respect the constitutional practice of having a large and considerable amount of yearly income subject to an
 756 "I take the opportunity of answering a question put to me early in the Session, as to whether I intend to propose an annual tax in lieu of the sugar duties. Hon. Gentlemen will recollect that we have now a duty which must be renewed next year, namely, the income-tax, and therefore that will confer the full advantage of an annual duty, and it is not my intention to propose to substitute, at present, any annual tax in lieu of the sugar duties." 757
 MR. GEORGE A. HAMILTON  said, that however strongly he might differ from the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone, as to the justice and policy of the proposition submitted to the House, he felt bound to say that he by no means agreed in the strong animadversions which his hon. Friends the Members for Water-ford and Mayo had used in reference to the manner in which the proposition had been brought forward by the hon. Baronet. There was nothing, he thought, in the speech of the hon. Baronet on this occasion to call for such severe animadversions. With respect to the question itself, he was quite sure there was no Member connected with Ireland who would not at once admit, that if the circumstances of the two countries were equal, or even approximating to an equality, the application of taxation should he equal also; and for himself, he could assure the House that he was greatly disinclined to advocate peculiar exemptions—the exemption of peculiar classes from taxation. Considering the nature and origin of the national burdens, he was ready to admit that it was most desirable it should be felt that they rested equally and justly upon all classes of Her Majesty's subjects, according to their different means and ability to bear them. But he was equally certain, that no Englishman would deny, that in the application of taxation to the two countries, it was just, and rea-
 729 "That at the expiration of twenty years after the Union, the expenditure of the United Kingdom shall be defrayed in such proportions as Parliament shall deem just and reasonable, upon a comparison of the real value of the exports and imports of the two countries, or on comparison of the value of the quantities of certain articles therein named—beer, spirits, sugar, wine, tea, tobacco, and malt—consumed within the respective countries; or on the comparison of the amount of income in each country, estimated on the produce of a general tax, or on an average of three years." "If it shall appear to the Parliament of the United Kingdom, that the respective circumstances of the two countries will henceforth admit of their contributing indiscriminately by equal taxes,"— 730 731 l l l l 732 l l l l l l l l 733 l "The intensity of the pressure of a burden must be measured by the relative ability to support it, and the Committee therefore place before the House an estimate of the rateable value of real property on which the enumerated burdens are assessed. According to a return made to the House of Lords, the annual value of the real property assessed to the poor-rate in England and Wales, in the year ending Lady Day, 1841, amounted to 62,540,000 l l l l l l l l l l 734 l l l 735
 MR. MOORE  observed, that he would have been glad to believe that no other motive than one of justice and a keen regard for the interests of the realm, had induced the hon. Member for Marylebone to bring forward this Motion; for, though he could not have congratulated the hon. Member either upon his good sense, the kindness of his feelings, or the correctness of his information, still the hon. Member would have risen in his estimation if he could have believed that such feelings and motives had actuated the hon. Member in his consideration of Irish policy. But the manner in which he had given notice of his Motion, and the manner in which he had introduced it, rendered it impossible that any such charitable construction could be put upon his motive. Therefore, he could not but regard it except as another shot of that guerilla warfare which it was the hon. Gentleman's pleasure to maintain, and which appeared to have its origin in that peculiar idiosyncrasy of mind which he had ever manifested in his study of the Irish character. It was not to be wondered at that the hon. Gentleman should have devoted so large and so flattering a portion of his valuable attention to the affairs of Ireland, for Ireland had been to him a friend in need. To Ireland the hon. Member owed his seat in Parliament, and Ireland had furnished him with the one idea which alone had shed a flickering light upon the barren waste of his understanding. The Irish question had been the making of him. If not his first political love, it was at least his first successful one. It was the one  bonne fortune 718 in terrorem 719 "Either as an available fund or as a wise provision, inasmuch as any amount of money collected from those who are themselves on the verge of pauperism is necessarily insufficient to save from destruction the immense numbers of human beings now suffering all the horrors of famine through the country: and as the greater part of those who are liable to pay have been found unable
 720 "Since Sunday last the following persons have died of hunger:—Walter Burke, Anthony Roache, Michael Joyce, Thomas Byrne, Mary and Kitty M'Nulty, James Lally's wife, Bridget Walsh, Anne Barnicle. Ned Burke, the son of a widow, applied for relief three times, nine in family; offered to give up house and land for one quart of meal; refused relief without a certificate from the middleman landlord; refused unless applicant threw down his house: applied to the agent of the head landlord. Lord Erne; would not interfere. When relief came at length, the man was a corpse; this occurred at. Melton-hill, in Ballintubber. In the same village Michael Connor was starved to death; offered to give up his land; not accepted. Mary Tuaghy, John Donnelan, and Peggy Morrin were found dead in a ditch. They applied for relief, and were refused. We are now three days without food; the guardians say they can't get in their rates, and the lives of thousands are thus hanging on the prospects of relief, only to be dragged at the point of the bayonet from wretches themselves not many degrees from starvation." 721
 MR. MUNTZ  said, that no one had been more liberal in his sentiments towards Ireland than he had. In a court of law, the man who knew nothing of the matter in dispute was, of course, not heard; and the Irish Members in the recent division were the very last persons who should have ventured to vote. He would not have approved of extending the income-tax to Ireland, had such a proposal been made in the first instance; but, after the course taken by the Gentlemen from the other side of the water, he felt that he could not do otherwise than support the Motion of the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone.
 MR. MUNTZ  explained: He had not meant to say that Irish Members were not entitled to vote on English questions; only that they ought not to have voted on this particular question.
 MR. BAILLIE  asked whether Her Majesty's Government had received any despatches from Captain Maunsell, who had been employed in the blockade of the coast of Africa, stating that a certain number of slaves had been brought down to the coast from the interior by some of their chiefs, and their disposal and removal having been prevented by the British vessels, they were all murdered? He also wished to know if there were any objection to lay the despatches, if they had been received, upon the table of the House?
 SIR H. W. BARRON  said, that the people of Ireland had a right to be thankful to the hon. Baronet for the constant interest he had manifested in their concerns. The conciliatory style of his philanthropy had so often been brought before the House, that it needed no remark on the present occasion. The hon. Baronet had earned, by his conciliatory treatment of the Irish, the distinction of having his name handed down to the latest posterity.
 714 Pater patriœ par excellence "On Friday, the Irishmen resident in Paris, are to assemble in the Place de la Concorde—Conciliation-hall—to compliment the republic, and to join it." [ Laughter United Irishman 715 "It is a tax to which Ireland was not subjected during the war. It is a tax for the levying of which no machinery exists in Ireland. I consider it in the highest degree impolitic to lay the tax upon the country." "The taxation in Ireland at the time of the Union amounted to 2,440,000 l l l ne plus ultra "The Union contribution of 2–17ths, it is now allowed on all hands, was more than she was ever able to pay, and it would be monstrous to attempt to keep it up." "But the Committee cannot but remark that for several years Ireland has advanced in permanent taxation more than Great Britain herself, notwithstanding the immense exertions of the latter, including the extraordinary war taxes." "I hope it will not be said that Ireland has thrown a great burden upon England, with a view of saving herself. We have contracted an expenditure for her which she cannot meet. She paid over 78,000,000 l 716 "Taxation in Ireland has gone on to such a pitch that the more taxes we lay on the leas we shall receive." l l l l l l 717
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the charter had been granted as far back as the month of June last. He (Mr. Labouchere) was not then connected with the Board of Trade; but he believed he could state the conditions on which it had been granted. The object was, that a company should be incorporated, not for the purpose of carrying on trading operations generally in the Eastern Archipelago, as had been stated by the hon. Gentleman, but for the purpose of carrying on mining and agricultural operations, and developing the resources of the settlement of Labuan and the parts of Borneo adjacent. It had been considered right by his noble Friend who had preceded him in office at the Board of Trade, that the charter should be granted to the company, under the peculiar circumstances. The charter was limited to twenty-one years, and the mining and trading operations of the company were limited to Labuan and the parts of Borneo adjacent to it. In answer to the last question, he should say, that he did not know that Governor Brooke was at all connected with the company, and he did not conceive it possible that he could be.
 MR. REYNOLDS  rose and said, that, as the hon. Member for Montrose had claimed the privilege of speaking for Scotland, he claimed the privilege of saying a few words for Ireland. He had listened to all the speeches on the other side of the question, and he confessed that he had heard no argument in favour of the extension of an income-tax to Ireland, except that which was founded on the principle of uniformity. But he was surprised that a constitutional Member like the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose, should say, "we cannot give you equality of rights, unless you will take at the same time equality of taxation." That, he must say, was a new doctrine in that House. When the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth first introduced the income-tax, he said that be exempted Ireland from its provisions because of her inability to pay it. That was his opinion in 1842; was it his opinion still? He wanted to ascertain whether Ireland had increased in prosperity since 1842? But Ireland was not quite so exempt from the payment of this tax as some imagined; for when the tax was imposed upon England, they had put an ingredient into the measure by means of
 763 l l 764
 MR. HUME  said, that whereas it had been the object of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down to show that Ireland had derived no benefit from the remission of the duties to which he had referred, yet what he had said went to show that she had had her proportionate advantage from such remission. Ireland, too, had made no more sacrifices than had the people of Scotland; it would be injustice of the worst description if one portion of the people of the empire were to be saddled with a tax in order to relieve the other from it. They ought to make the Irish pay all the taxes which they made England and Scotland pay, and then they would have a still stronger claim, with equal taxation, for an equal share of the privileges they asked for.
 MR. NAPIER  said, that notwithstanding the vote he had given on a former night he was prepared to vote against the extension of this tax to Ireland. When he entered the House he was determined that every vote he should give should be without any reference to party questions, but should be given purely on conscientious principles; and, finding no substitute proposed for the diminution in the revenue, he had certainly thought it his duty to give his support to the Government, that they should in no respect be crippled in their resources. But he opposed the Motion of the hon. Baronet on the present occasion on the ground on which it was so ably put by his hon. Colleague, viz., that the circumstances of the two countries required a difference in the legislation; and he did not find that upon other occasions it had been sought to carry out the principle of assimilation so perfectly as to prevent any difference. As to the fact that when the tax was first laid on in 1842, Ireland was exempted, he took it for granted there was good reason for that exemption. At that time a great plan was proposed as
 736 737
 MR. WAKLEY  next rose to address the House, but was for some time unable to proceed from the impatience of hon. Members who were anxious to go to a division. In 1845, the hon. Member said, he voted against the proposition to impose an income-tax upon Ireland, but in 1848 he was prepared to vote for it, and he would state to the House why. They were placed in a very different position now than what they were in in 1845. At that period it was determined that it should only he a temporary tax; but now they heard from the chiefs of all parties that it was to he a permanent tax. Now, he could not go before his constituents as an honest representative and say to them that he thought it was just that they should be taxed for the purpose of relieving the landed property of Ireland. The gallant Colonel (Colonel Conolly) said in 1845—
 "He would state the grounds on which he approved the continuance of the income-tax—not for Ireland, but for England. The income-tax had the effect of greatly improving public credit, and the consequence was, that not only had the nation been relieved from the payment of a large amount of interest on the public debt, but the general rate of interest had been greatly reduced. He felt himself particularly called on to state that great benefit had been conferred on the country whence he came by that tax, for the effect had been greatly to relieve the distressed landed interest. Numbers of landed proprietors in Ireland had been enabled to relieve their estates." l l l 760 "He remembered that the right hon. Gentleman stated that it was a tax only to be imposed in time of war or great necessity; and, if imposed, it would be unjust if not imposed on Ireland as well as England. He had never been able to discover any reason why an Irish gentleman of 5,000 l l "The rich Irish were exempt from the assessed taxes. If there be any one country in the world in which it is desirable that taxes imposed should rest exclusively on the rich, and not on the poor, it was in Ireland." s s d s l s
 MR. MONSELL  wished to say a very few words, in the hope of showing that the arguments in favour of the non-imposition of this tax upon Ireland at this moment were not unjust. When the tax was imposed upon England in 1842 and 1845, certain boons were simultaneously conferred upon her productive industry, as was stated by the right hon. Baronet who introduced the tax; and the proofs that were given at the time that those boons were far more to the advantage of England than of Ireland, and that therefore the income-tax could not then be fairly placed upon Ireland, were stronger now than they were then. The hon. Gentleman illustrated this by a reference to the comparative duties on auctions, glass, and cottons; and, in reference to the repeal of the corn laws, observed, that England, being an importing country, necessarily derived greater benefits from their repeal than Ireland could, which was an exporting country. Ireland, too, in comparison with England, derived but very little advantage from the expenditure, in wages and so forth, under the naval and ordnance establishments. But there was one point which, he thought, had not been referred to, in connexion with this subject, viz., the probable amount that an income-tax would produce in Ireland—for he felt that if the House were to deal unjustly with Ireland in this matter, it would be doing very great injury to the interests of that part of the united Kingdom. Taking into account the great number of incomes in Ireland below 150 l 762 l
 SIR A. BROOKE  rose only to rebut the charge which had been brought against the Irish Members by the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Muntz), of having combined with the Government to throw on England a tax in which they were themselves in no way concerned. Now, he (Sir A. Brooke) had been a Member of the House when the income-tax was originally proposed by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, and he had then abstained from voting. He had taken the same course on each occasion when the subject was brought forward; and he should not have voted on Monday evening but for the observations of the hon. Member for Birmingham, and the threat, as it might be termed, of the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone. It appeared to him to be a most unjustifiable, as it was a most unconstitutional, doctrine, to declare that Irish Members were not entitled to vote freely on English questions. This, in point of fact, was the strongest possible argument that English Members could assert in favour of the repeal of the Union. He
 765
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL , in submitting to the consideration of the Committee the Motion of which he had given notice, and upon which, as he had already intimated, he intended to take the sense of the Committee, could not proceed in his observations without first expressing his regret at being the cause of hon. Members connected with Ireland, absenting themselves from that scene of conviviality and charity for which that anniversary was always so distinguished, and of which he was reminded by the emblems of nationality borne by the hon. Gentlemen who sat near him. He had no doubt, from the fact of his introducing the subject to the consideration of Parliament, he should be accused by some persons on the other side of the Channel, who dealt occasionally more in fiction than reality, of having selected that particular day for his purpose; but those Members who heard him, whether agreeing with him or differing from him in opinion, must be well aware, that according to the rules and regulations of the House, that was not only the first opportunity, but the only opportunity, he could by any possibility have taken for offering the Motion to their consideration. He feared, however, that he had really caused some hon. Gentlemen considerable inconvenience by the delay which had already taken place, because he observed some time since a paragraph in a Dublin paper, headed—
 "Important Announcement.—Great departure of Irish Members.—The following Irish Members have left Kingstown since Friday last, in order to be present in the House of Commons to vote against Sir Benjamin Hall's Motion;"— 702 "It would hardly be contended that if a property-tax were established, Ireland ought to be exempted from its operation. To impose a property-tax on England and Scotland would, in his opinion, be extremely unjust." "His objection to such extension rested in a great measure on the non-existence of proper machinery to work out the object. Extensive arrangements must be made, and officers must be appointed for the collection; and it would be unwise to make these arrangements, and to appoint such officers, unless the tax was likely to endure." "If the income-tax was made a permanent
 703 704 "Considering that you did not originally, in 1842, impose the income-tax on Ireland, and that a very great struggle is now making in order to adapt the social condition of Ireland to the great change that is now taking place in that country, as regards the working classes and the relations between landlords and tenants—in regard to the landlords, inducing them to improve their lands, and in regard to the farmers, inducing them to pay wages for labour—considering that all classes, both in Ireland and in England, are called upon to take part in this great change, we think that in justice we have a right to impose this tax upon Ireland as well as upon England." 705 "Admitting fully the justice of that course, we consider that this is not the moment;" "We have shown, I think, our readiness to incur some obloquy by not proposing to extend the income-tax to Ireland, from an opinion that she is unable to bear it at a time when she is called upon to pay what I must call a very large tax of 2,000,000 l 706 "That rate after rate should be collected for the preservation of life, until the landholders and farmers either enable the people to support themselves by honest industry, or dispose of their property to those who can and will perform this indispensable duty." s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d 707 "I have come from a country which has been,
 708 "Oh, how the contrast struck me when I saw the artisan, the humble mechanic, the poor stall-keeper, thus cheerfully and generously giving to the relief of the Irish (with whom Ma country is bound in no bonds of State connexion)—between the noble conduct of these poor men and the heartlessness of the statesmen and legislators and press writers of wealthy England, who, after plundering us for centuries, refuse us the smallest assistance in the extremity of that misery which has been brought upon us by English misrule." "A painful and tender sympathy pervaded every class of society—from the Queen on her throne to the convict in the hulks; expenses were curtailed, and privations were endured, in order to swell the Irish subscription. The vibration was felt throughout every nerve of the British empire. Besides the great stream of charity there were a thousand other channels which it is impossible to trace, and of the aggregate result of which no estimate can be formed, and of which no record exists, except on high." 709 l 710 711 l l l l l l l l l 712 l l l l 713 "That towards raising the supply granted to Her Majesty, the respective duties levied on property, profits, professions, trades, and offices, in Great Britain, by Acts passed in the sixth year of the reign of Her present Majesty, and further continued by Acts passed in the eighth year of the reign of Her present Majesty, be levied on property, profits, professions, trades, and offices in Ireland, for a time to be limited."
 SIR J. TYRELL , having been one of those who took an humble part in the discussion on the income-tax on a former occasion, hoped that the Committee would bear with him whilst he ventured to contrast some of the arguments that were used upon that occasion, and which induced the then Chancellor of the Exchequer to resist a proposition for extending a property and income-tax to Ireland, and endeavoured to compare some of those circumstances that had been glanced at by the hon. Members who had preceded him, and state the reasons which induced him to support the proposition of the hon. Member for Marylebone. He regretted his inability to distinguish between the disinterestedness and generosity of hon. Gentlemen who represented the various counties and boroughs of Ireland, in the course which they had taken on this occasion. The hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin resisted this Motion, because of some clause in the Treaty of Limerick—he begged pardon—of the Union, the seventh article of which, he said, provided that this tax should not be extended to Ireland; but he begged to remind the House that when this subject was discussed in 1815, the Father of the present Member for Dorsetshire (Mr. Bankes) moved that the clerk at the table should read the 7th article of the Act of Union; and that hon. Gentleman showed that it was perfectly competent to the House to entertain the question of applying the income-tax to Ireland, and very
 740 ad misericordiam 741 l l 742 l s l s d
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  replied, that there had been a despatch to the effect stated by the hon. Gentleman, received last year.
 The EARL of LINCOLN  hoped the Secretary to the Admiralty and the Chancellor of the Exchequer would now withdraw the novel doctrine they had promulgated, that the number of men was determined by the prerogative of the Crown.
 The CHAIRMAN : The vote was a substantive vote of 43,000 men, to be employed for the sea service.
 MR. CORRY  said, that if the debate had been confined to the discussion of the resolution then under consideration, he should not have thought it necessary to offer a single observation on that occasion; but as the general question of the amount of the Navy Estimates of the last few years had been raised by the hon. Member who had last spoken, he felt himself called upon to give the Committee some explanation on the subject. He was, he confessed, astonished at the expressions of surprise and alarm which he had heard from some quarters, respecting the growing increase in the amount of the Navy Estimates, as if the causes of that increase had not been from year to year stated on the face of the estimates themselves, and the sums proposed, upon almost every occasion, unanimously assented to by Parliament. To show that their increased amount was the result not of any want of economy, but of additional charges which had from time to time been thrown upon them, he would institute a comparison between the estimates for the year 1846–7—the last and the largest which were prepared by the late Government—and the estimates for the year 1831—estimates which were proposed by a First Lord of the Admiralty who certainly had never been accused of extravagance in the administration of the Navy—he meant his right hon. Friend the Member for Ripon. The year 1835 was, he was aware, the favourite period of comparison with some hon. Members; but he would not revert to that period for a reason which he would presently state; but comparing the estimates for 1831 with those for the year 1846–7, he found that the total increase on account of effective services, amounted to 2,127,615 l l l 800 l l l l 
 
 For wages to artificers in the Woolwich steam factory £50,000 
 For steam vessels built by contract 120,000 
 For the purchase of steam machinery 390,000 
 For coals (exclusive of those used in the packet service) 80,000 
 For steam basins, factories, and docks 314,000 
 Making a total increase, on account of the steam navy, for services specified in the estimates, of 954,000 l 801 l l l l l l 802 
 
 1834. 1846. 
 Ships of the Line 87 64 
 Frigates 108 89 803 infanterie artillerie de la marine 804 l 805 l l l
 LORD SEYMOUR  opposed the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), and thought it would be neither judicious nor desirable to diminish our naval force at the present time.
 ADMIRAL DUNDAS : I think it my duty publicly to contradict the statement made by the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire with respect to the discipline of the Navy. I have a letter from Vice-Admiral Sir William Parker, the Commander-in-Chief in the Mediterranean, in which he refers to a statement attributed by the hon. Gentleman to the American Consul at Malta. Sir William Parker says, "The American Consul has written to me to say that he has not seen Mr. Cobden at Malta for ten years." Sir William Parker is perfectly at a loss to name what ship the hon. Gentleman complained of as lying at Malta during his cruise to Naples and back again. I am confident there are not ten men in this House who believe what was said by the hon. Gentleman of the discipline of the Navy to be a correct representation.
 ADMIRAL DUNDAS  would only observe that his attention having been attracted to the statement made by the hon. Member for the West Riding, he knew that a ship of war could not have remained so long at Malta as the hon. Member asserted. He took the trouble of making an extract from the speech of the hon. Member, delivered on the 27th January of this year, and the words were as follows:—
 "I was at Malta at the commencement of the winter, in November. A ship anchored there from Portsmouth, whilst I was there, with a thousand hands on board. I went thence to Egypt and Greece, and on my return to Malta there she was still—her captain had gone ashore to live at the clubs, and the lieutenants found the utmost difficulty in finding anything to do. It was lamentable to see the shifts they were put to—letting loose the sails, hoisting them up again, and scrubbing the decks, till one would think they'd scrub holes in them. I was introduced to the American Consul when I was at Malta, and we conversed very freely upon the subject, he said, 'I consider your Navy very slack.' 'Slack,' I said, 'what do you mean by slack?' 'Oh, he replied,' too idle; they can't be in good order if they are allowed to be idle in this way three or four months at a time. We have three ships in the Mediterranean, but my instructions are never to let them come into port at all. There they are—up one side, down the other—always in motion.' The consequence is, that the American ships are in a far better state of discipline and equipment than the English ships are." 833
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND : Hon. Members may rest assured that I shall not occupy the time of the Committee but for a very few minutes, because I am perfectly aware of the indecency of any person rising after a Minister of the Crown has concluded the debate. Such at least was the practice when I was a Member of the House before. When I hear a great number of Gentlemen belonging to a profession, of which I myself am not a member, charged with selling the interest of their country, for their own personal aggrandisement, I must rise up to say, that you are upon the very verge of carrying into your military condition, and into the very existence of the country, the principles of the very same school which has ruined you in every other way. Now, other occasions will arise, and I am determined to trace through their whole ramifications the doctrines of that school. You have been taught to consider the interests of the master cotton spinners as identical with the interests of England. For this you sacrificed the interests of the cotton operative; for this you sacrificed every other interest in the country; for this you sacrificed the colonies; and those Gentlemen not content with these, do now come forward with most inordinate presumption, and sneer at Ministers, because forsooth they hold the doctrine that every Minister of State has ever held concerning every country in the world which a Minister of State was ever called upon to guide, and they require us to put away all those maxims and that policy which all former years and all countries have shown to be the maxims and the policy of common sense, Why, according to
 842
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  said, the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire had been set forth in a supposed Ministerial programme, which had been published in one of the periodicals of this country, as the First Lord of the Admiralty. The hon. Member had been called by a variety of designations, such as "free-trade philosopher," and such like; but there was one title which had not been given him, and that was, "the libeller of the Duke of Wellington," and bethought no Member of that House could be supposed as expressing the feelings of a people—of a country—which that illustrious man had saved, and whose services were appreciated by that people, when he traduced such a character. The hon. Member's attacks on the Navy had been already so well answered by the First Naval Lord of the Admiralty and hon. Friends at his own side of the House, that it was unnecessary for him to refer to them.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : His right hon. Friend was quite right in saying that there was a declaration every year in the Queen's Privy Council of the Crown having decreed a certain number of men for the Navy. This was not the custom with the Army estimates; and, in the case of the Navy, of course a subsequent alteration might be made by the House. But, so far, the Crown possessed a prerogative; and, so far, the explanation of his right hon. Friend had been correct.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I rise to make a Motion which I am sure will not require any argument on my part to enforce it, for the proverbial loyalty and attachment
 770 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, to congratulate Her Majesty on the Birth of another Princess, and to assure Her Majesty that every addition to Her Majesty's domestic happiness affords the highest satisfaction to Her Majesty's faithful Commons."
 LORD J. RUSSELL  would not then discuss the question of sending the Woods and Forests expenditure before a Select Committee: that question would come under consideration on a future day. But when the hon. Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Horsman) said that complaints against the inequality of the tax were almost universal, and that some proposition for a modification of it, such as he had proposed, was necessary in order to allay discontent, he must say, that, although that proposition was most skilfully worded, had it been successful, and had it been adopted by the House, many of those who would have been called upon under it to pay 8 d
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  was exceedingly astonished that the hon. Member for Montrose, who so frequently appeared to be well read in history, should have made this Motion. The hon. Gentleman could not have read the address of M. de Lamartine to the different Courts of Europe; he could not have read the speeches that had been made by the members of the Provisional Government. The hon. Gentleman must not be aware that at Dijon there were men who started this principle that war was to be made for the sake of war—that the blood which was shed in war was necessary to refresh the exhausted veins of Europe. No man could have watched the proceedings of the Government of France who would say that war was not likely to occur, and that war within a short period, unless some great changes took place, was not inevitable in Europe. The hon. Gentleman had referred to what had fallen from Mr. Sturge, who headed a deputation to the Provisional Government of France. He would take that opportunity of saying that it was disgraceful to any English gentleman to have presented such an address in Paris. He (Mr. Cochrane) did not by any means wish to make any
 806
 MR. DISRAELI : Then what became of the ingenious argument of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, which, no doubt, had had such an effect upon the House?
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  having had the honour of being upon the Committee to which the "long range" of Captain Warner had been submitted, and seeing the very anxious manner in which the hon. Member for Cockermouth had endeavoured to press the claims of the Captain upon the House, wished to warn them against entertaining wild projects, as the testing of them formed a large item in the public expenditure. He advised them not to give too willing an ear to the statements of adventurers, who would endeavour to force their schemes upon the country. He remembered testing the invention of Captain Warner, and he confessed that it appeared to him to be one of the wildest and most chimerical projects that had ever entered into the mind of any man. He entertained a high respect for the hon. Member for Montrose; but surely he could not conceive for one single moment that there was the slightest chance of carrying the proposition which he had just made. His hon. Friend was continually proposing reductions in the public expenditure; being apparently possessed of a notion that "estimate" necessarily implied "reduction" he believed that the hon. Gentleman could form no idea of an estimate in which there was no reduction; in fact, he appeared to be as singularly devoted to "reduction of estimates" as Captain Warner was to his "long range." He really must say that, in his opinion, Her Majesty's present Government had not received from their usual supporters that support on these questions to which he believed they were fairly entitled. Those hon. Gentlemen talked as if Her Majesty's present Government were the first who had ventured to propose an income-tax, and as if all the distress, all
 808 l l
 COLONEL TYNTE  could not remain silent, because he thought the British Navy had been maligned by the statements of the hon. Member for the West Riding. He had just seen a relative of his who had arrived from Lisbon last night, and who had been on board these greatly calumniated vessels in the Tagus. It was well known that British sailors never complained of doing their duty, but his relative stated that they were kept in constant exercise every way; they were never idle, and the squadron of Admiral Napier was remarkable for the dexterity in exercise and efficiency of the ships. He must say, this was not exactly the time to reduce the British Navy. Had not the hon. Member seen the statements as to the naval armaments of France? Had he not seen the circular from the French Minister of War, which declared, although there is every reason to hope that the friendly relations between France and foreign Powers will not be disturbed, measures have been taken for concentrating towards the frontiers a considerable number of troops, sufficent for every contingency; and that every regiment of infantry would be augmented by one company; thus providing for an enormous augmentation of the military forces of France.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in the case of the Navy there was no distinct and separate vote for the number of men; while in the case of the Army the first vote in the estimates was for the number, and the way proposed was the only one that could be adopted.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It was quite true that the first vote put into the hands of the Chairman
 792
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The vote was so signed, but there was no estimate of the number of men which was signed.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that it had been stated by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Macgregor) himself that in South Carolina, in the United States, an income-tax was levied upon the profits of trades and professions.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , after the observation just made by the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster, might be permitted to say a single word. He begged to say, of his own knowledge, and he was quite sure he might say the same of every other Member of Her Majesty's Government, that they been in no respect intimidated on this question. He could only add that, for his own part, he had given his best attention to the proposals for a modification of this tax, and that, however plausible it seemed at the outset, the further he had inquired into it the less able he had found himself to devise or adopt any plan which would not make the inequalities still more gross and apparent than they existed under the present mode of levying the income-tax. He assured the House that it was from no want of consideration that he had come to this conclusion. On the contrary, the further he had inquired, the more he had become convinced it was impossible to do otherwise than they had done. At the same time, he should be exceedingly sorry to preclude himself from any further consideration of the subject. He was perfectly ready to consider any plan which any Gentleman might bring forward; but certainly no plan had yet come under the consideration of Government which was not in their opinion more objectionable than the plan which had invariably existed at all times and in all countries where the income-tax had ever been imposed.
 MR. HORSMAN  understood the right hon. Gentleman to object to refer the Bill to a Committee, as proposed by the hon. Member for Montrose, because he was convinced that no plan could possibly be suggested which would not leave the inconsistencies and inequalities of the measure still more glaring than those in the plan at present in operation. Now, on this point the right hon. Gentleman was at direct issue with the public at large. He was
 774
 MR. AGLIONBY  wished to ask the noble Lord the Chairman of the Committee that had been recently appointed to inquire into the best mode of lessening
 807
 DR. BOWRING  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had not answered the
 773
 MR. BRIGHT  had listened to the speech of the noble Lord the Foreign Secretary, and as the noble Lord spoke, the impression crossed his mind that it was very much like the sort of speech that had been delivered by noble Lords and hon. Gentleman holding that office in that House for the last sixty years. He wished to recall the attention of the House to what really was under its consideration, namely, to say whether they were now to vote this enormous sum without reduction; and in point of fact, whether that Committee was to give its sanction to a policy that had been followed for so many years, of perpetually increasing the military expenditure of the country. Now, what was that expenditure at present? All that was paid
 839 840 l 841
 MR. MACGREGOR  had confined himself to the States in the West when he made the statement alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman. It was undoubtedly true that a tax upon profits existed in South Carolina for local purposes. In Frankfort, also, a power was given to the Senate to impose such a tax when the ordinary revenue did not meet the expenditure; there was a similar power in existence in the free towns of Hamburgh, Bremen, and Lubeck. He concurred with the right hon. Gentleman that the difficulty of apportioning such a tax was greater almost than could be estimated, and therefore it was that he felt very sorry that the Government had not taken the tax, or even an income-tax of 5 per cent for one year, in order that the House should have had time to go fully into the whole question of taxation. He had been anxious to press his Motion upon the notice of the House, because upon a careful analysis of the expenditure upon Ireland, he found that it, up to 1846, exceeded the revenue derived from her by 166,000,000 l
 MR. TRELAWNY  had made several attempts to explain to the House the grounds upon which he had felt it his duty to vote in favour of the Government on the question of the income-tax. Upon full consideration of the question he had arrived at the conclusion that Mr. Warburton had adopted—viz., that it was correct in principle, and that in fact it in-
 775
 MR. HUME  objected to the question being put. It had been understood that no money was to be voted until the Committee had reported. He had no objection to a vote being taken for the number of men, in order that the Government might bring in the Mutiny Bill; but he did object to voting money, as it would be in fact, a breach of faith.
 MR. HUME  said, that after the very distinct manner in which the House had pronounced its approbation of the income-tax being continued for three years, it was not his intention to offer any further objection to it at present. He hoped, however, that he should be allowed to suggest that the Bill to be brought in to carry the resolutions into effect would be referred to a
 771
 MR. HUME  said this was as it ought to be. Mistakes would arise in the best regulated families; and he would say nothing of the confusion of mind which seemed to exist upon this point. He felt at some loss how to deal with his hon. Friend (Mr. Ward), who seemed to glory in his extravagance, and to take credit for the fact that during the last five years the naval expenditure had been rapidly increasing. His hon. Friend evidently approved of the policy of this increase; and he did not see that any protest of his as to the details was likely to produce much effect. His hon. Friend started with arguing that our power must be relative, and in proportion to the strength of our neighbours'. He was willing to admit that, and he would rest his case upon the admission. We had nothing to dread now; he knew by the Speech from the Throne that we were at peace with all the world. There was a great change taking place in France at this moment, and there were commotions throughout the continent of Europe; but, supposing those commotions to continue, and even Austria and Prussia to change their Governments, he did not see how the question with regard to our fleet would be thereby affected. The only Powers from whom we had anything to apprehend were France and the United States. The Americans had already had to suffer from meddling, and they were not at all likely, just now, to come into collision with us; on the contrary, they evinced the most peaceful disposition towards us. And, with respect to France, it seemed to him
 793 794 l l l 795 l l 796 l l l l l l l l l l l l 797 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 798 l 799
 MR. HUME  wanted to raise the question of the number of men, because the expenses of other departments depended upon it, and it was useless to inquire into those details if the Committee upstairs were precluded from entering upon the question of the number of men. He begged to suggest that the number of men be first taken, in conformity with all preceding practice.
 MR. HUME  replied, and denied that the object of his Motion was, as many hon. Members had assumed it to be, to destroy
 843
 MR. COBDEN : The gallant Admiral tells you what is perfectly true, that it is ten years since I was in Malta. It is perfectly ridiculous for a man so notorious in his movements as I have been to think of mis-stating the time when I visited Malta or any other place. Why, I believe, that in every town I was at I was chronicled in the newspapers. But I was at Malta in the winter of 1836 and spring of 1837. Don't tell me of the characters of gallant admirals. They are all admirable. But I ask whether my facts are correct? The American Consul will not deny that he went in the same steamer with me from Malta to Gibraltar; that we were four days in the same vessel. We hear too much in
 832 l par excellence
 MR. COBDEN : Before proceeding to address a few words to the Committee upon the question immediately under its consideration, I must enter my protest against the doctrine advanced by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon—a doctrine which I once heard propounded by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth—namely, that the Executive Government is alone responsible for the estimate and expenditure for the Navy. The Secretary to the Admiralty and others have lately taunted this House with having by large majorities voted increased estimates. When Ministers are called to account respecting the expenditure, they throw the reponsibility back upon the House; but when the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon wants to find a sanction for the vote which he is about to give, he throws the responsibility upon Ministers. If the Government is responsible for the expenditure of 7,900,000 l 821 822 823 Expressions of dissent Moniteur Hansard 824 "We pay England the compliment of thinking of her, and her only, when we discuss the question of our navy; we do not trouble ourselves about the fleets which sail out of Trieste or Venice; we think only of the ships which leave Plymouth or Portsmouth. Now, what are the naval forces of England? It is generally said that when she has put forth her greatest strength they have amounted to 100 vessels of the line. If you examine the facts you will find that she has never had 100 vessels out of port; she has had but 80. But on a future occasion I think she would have more—perhaps 100 …. When you speak of 36 ships in the face of 80 or 100 it seems to me a farce. It is true the Minister has raised the proposition to 44, but even he can hardly be serious …. If he had said France will aim at having 60 ships, I should have understood him. I think that with 60 vessels against a nation with 80 or 100, but with a much larger space to cover, it would be possible for us to maintain an honourable struggle." "In the great lottery of force and of chance, on which side will the advantage rest? On the side of the most numerous. Now, can we pretend to establish a navy as numerous as that of England? If to-morrow we had 100 vessels, the day after England would have 200." "England has not less than 700 vessels of war, with which she could cover the two oceans at the command of her Admiralty. Everybody knows that as respects those steamers, with which we think ourselves sufficiently armed in adding 38 to our 72, England has 500 merchant steamboats which she could, in case of war, arm and let loose upon the ocean …. I confess that to-day, for the first time in my life, I have thought with susceptibility—I had almost said with jealousy—of England. Yes, at the moment when after three days' debate we are coming to this great vote, I say to myself, and I say to my colleagues. 'It is
 825 "England, which we may be permitted to view, if not as a model at least as a guide—in spite of the 112 vessels of war of from 70 to 120 guns which she keeps afloat—in spite of the immense development which she has given to her steam navy—England still continues to construct more vessels of the largest dimensions. At this moment she has upon the stocks 13 ships of from 70 to 120 guns, besides a considerable number of frigates calculated to carry a powerful artillery. …. God forbid. Gentlemen, that I should so far allow myself to be led away as to demand from France the sacrifices of men and money necessary for the creation of a fleet equal in force to that of England; I know that we are not, like Great Britain, exclusively a maritime Power; but I think I am within the limits of a wise policy in begging the Chamber not to allow itself to be carried away by prospects which, however pleasing, may be deceptive, and are assuredly very far distant. I entreat it not to reduce the number of our vessels whilst England preserves hers, and even augments the number." "If we compare this destructive force with the most formidable batteries ever employed by armies on land to burn fortified towns, or batter down buildings, we shall know what to think of an armament got up under the inoffensive and defensive designation of steam coast-guard vessels. It is for France an indispensable necessity to complete an armament of the same kind, and of equal force, so that we may have nothing to fear
 826 "France did what she thought right and necessary for the maintenance of her position. She set us, in many respects, a noble example. He admired the wise and systematic liberality with which her great naval works had been carried on from year to year, till she had compensated herself for the great natural disadvantages under which she laboured along the whole coast of the Channel." "These facts," he added, "it appeared to him, ought to be a lesson to us. They imposed a very heavy responsibility on those who were in power in this country—it behoved them to take care, by the proper development of our resources in times of peace, to prevent the balance of power being changed in time; of war." 827 l l 828 829 830 l l l l 831
 MR. COBDEN  had understood the right hon. Gentleman to say, with some emphasis, at the close of his first remarks, that the income-tax was levied in the same way in this country as it was in all other countries. Now, a remark was made by his hon. Friend the Member for Glasgow (Mr. Macgregor), in the course of his speech last week, which he (Mr. Cobden) believed was well founded, that in no other country in the world was there an income-tax at all. There was a heavy amount of direct taxation levied in France, and in other Continental States; but there was no instance in the civilised world in which they levied a tax upon profits. This was a fact which should be borne in mind, because the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said that the tax was levied in the same mode here as in other countries.
 MR. SLANEY  said, that as one of those who had voted for the continuance of the income-tax under the present exigencies of the country, he ventured to implore the Government to give ear to the request of the hon. Member for Montrose, and try whether, after due time, and after due consideration, some plan could not be adopted—he would not say to make it exactly fair, for that might be impossible—but to improve the measure so far as to meet the wishes of the great body of Her Majesty's subjects. At the same time he spoke with great hesitation on the subject, when he remembered that those who were best acquainted with it, on both sides of the House, had stated that it would be extremely difficult to remove the present anomalies without introducing others as great in their place; but still he believed it was not impossible, and he certainly did wish to see such an improvement, or an approach to improvement made, as would content the great body of Her Majesty's subjects. He said this the more earnestly, because he believed the tax to be just on principle.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that the hon. Gentleman had treated this as a question of prerogative, inferring that all that the House of Commons had to do was to vote the money, without reference to the number of men. But how did that apply in the case of the Army when, as the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said, the practice was to vote the number of men as well as the money? He found in the Journals of the last year, 1847, page 181, that Mr. Greene reported that the Committee of Supply had passed several resolutions, the first being that a sum not exceeding 185,000 l l
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  could not resist joining in the entreaties of the hon.
 772
 SIR H. VERNEY  protested against the insinuation made by Mr. Smith O'Brien in Ireland, that if orders to fire upon the people were given, the soldiers would fire upon the officer who gave the word of command. He believed that there never was a more loyal body than the British Army of the present day, and there were none more ready to do their duty than the Irish Roman Catholics in the service. With regard to the advice given by the hon. Member for the West Riding to withdraw the ships from foreign stations, he believed there was not a British merchant who would not rise up and protest against his doctrine, for they all felt that the safety of their commerce depended upon the protection afforded by the Navy of this country.
 MR. WARD  explained that he meant nothing personally offensive or unkind in the allusion he had made to the state of the Navy under Lord Grey's Government to the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down, whom he cordially thanked for the able and impressive speech he had just made to the House. He thought he had guarded himself sufficiently against being understood as wishing in any way to fetter or prescribe the investigation of the Committee which had been appointed by the House.
 MR. WARD  did not propose to take
 790
 MR. WARD : Although the votes in connexion with the Navy Estimates, which it is my duty to bring under the consideration of the Committee to-night, turn almost exclusively on one point, which the Select Committee on the Navy Estimates has very properly refused to investigate, because they felt that the question is one that can only be decided on considerations of general policy, with which it is the peculiar attribute of the Crown and of Parliament to deal; yet, as it is obviously impossible for me to consider the number of men to be maintained for the service of 1848–9, without raising other questions connected with the Navy Estimates, and involving a very large amount of expenditure, I hope the House will favour me with its indulgence while I endeavour—studiously separating those points on which inquiry can take place from the question of the force which it is necessary to maintain—to make
 776 777 l 778 779 780 "Esteeming the naval superiority of this country as the principle on which its external power, internal safety, and general prosperity in the highest degree depend, your Committee are of opinion that the sense which they entertain of the necessity for economy cannot, with a due regard to the interest of the State, be allowed to interfere with the support of such a maritime force as may be deemed necessary in time of peace, nor with the preparation for its adequate augmentation in the event of war. And as naval expenditure, in time of peace, is principally connected with the purchase and preparation of materials for future exigency, there is no part of the public service in which an ill-judged temporary economy might be ultimately productive of such considerable expense." l 781 l l l l l l l l l 782 783 784 l l l l l l l l l l 785 l 
 
 Reduction on new works, improvements, and repairs £214,643 
 On the purchase and repair of steam machinery 180,000 
 On building iron steam vessels (the last contract for which will be completed in the ensuing year) 25,000 
 On ships building at Bombay (which it is not the intention of Government to continue) 25,000 
 On fitting steam guard-ships (the last contract for which will expire this year 8,500 
 On building a tank vessel and a schooner at Bermuda 3,710 
 Making a total reduction of £456,853 786 l l l l l l 
 
 On steam machinery £2,689,000 
 Iron steam vessels 503,000 
 Stores (since 1844) 4,444,000 
 Works 2,794,000 
 £10,430,000 787 788 789 l
 MR. WARD  (who handed a vote to the Chairman with reference to the number of men) said that the mistake had originated entirely in an error on his part. He had prepared the proper resolution, but by an oversight the wrong one had been first proposed.
 MR. WARD : Oh, yes, it was quite wrong.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  had not had time since the speech of the hon. Gentleman to refer to the estimates of former years in the library; but, unless his memory failed, the practice had been that before the vote which the Chairman had been about to put with respect to the means of paying the officers and men, there had always been an enumeration of the number of seamen, boys, and marines to be voted, signed by the responsible advisers of the Crown. He was surprised when he saw that the usual form had been deviated from in the estimates for the present year, and that the number of men required had been only printed in very small letters. Mr. Bernal
 791
 SIR J. GRAHAM : Perhaps Mr. Bernal would tell the House what the vote now was.
 SIR J. GRAHAM : The first vote, he contended, was signed by the Members of the Board of Admiralty; the vote now in the hands of the Chairman was so signed.
 SIR J. GRAHAM : The Queen in Council certainly did so decree; but, in consequence of that declaration, there had always been set forth, in the first vote of the House, under the name of the First Lord of the Admiralty and of the Board of Admiralty, the responsible advisers of the Grown, the precise number of men proposed by the Government for the service; and it was always then open to any Member of the House to suggest any reduction which might be thought expedient.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said: I gave way most willingly to my hon. Friend (Mr. Cumming Bruce); but I hope he and the Committee will pardon me if I ask leave not to follow
 809 810 811 l 812 813 814 815 816 817 818
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  was desirous, also, to have some opportunity (he did not care when) of calling the attention of the House to a question to which he had already, on more than one occasion, asked their attention—namely, the expediency of begining the application of the income-tax at a given sum, and never going below it.
 SIR R. PEEL : Having, on some former occasions, when holding office under the Crown, proposed addresses of a similar nature to that which the noble Lord has now proposed, I have great pleasure in seconding the Address, which, as a Minister of the Crown, he has submitted to the consideration of the House. I cordially join with him, and I am sure I am but expressing the universal feeling of the House, in wishing Her Majesty a long and happy reign; in congratulating the country that the Throne of this kingdom is likely to be perpetuated in the descendants of Her Majesty; and in earnestly hoping that every blessing will attend Her Majesty, which, under Divine Providence, is due for Her uniform anxiety and zeal to promote the best interests of the people in Her political capacity; and also for the admirable example of private virtue in every relation of domestic life which has been set by Her Majesty.
 VISCOUNT INGESTRE  said, that connected as he was with the profession which
 819 "My Lord—I find, from your statement in the House of Commons on the 18th instant, that your Lordship is under some apprehension that this country might be invaded by some foreign Power; your Lordship thinks it advisable to increase the Army and Navy, and to strengthen our fortifications along the whole line of coast. If your Lordship had assented in the last Session of Parliament, to Viscount Ingestre's suggestion, that a Secret Committee should be appointed for the purpose of investigating my discoveries, you would have seen that there would have been no occasion for any further increase or expenditure in the manner now proposed. I am still willing, my Lord, to allow myself to be examined on oath, before a Secret Committee, either in the House of Lords or House of Commons, composed of Members unconnected with cither profession. Such a Committee would be an unprejudiced body, and perfectly competent to form a correct judgment of my inventions, for they would have the power of examining on oath as many professional gentlemen as they might think proper. General Sir Harry Smith, who examined some of my inventions in the presence of several noblemen, acknowledged
 820 l
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said: Sir, I do not rise to defend the British Navy: "the blood of Douglas can protect itself." The high character which the British Navy has acquired, and the brilliant discipline for which it is perhaps more remarkable now than at any former period, will secure it the admiration and respect of all, even though their acquaintance with it may not be ten years old, and whose memory, therefore, need not deceive them as to what they have seen or done during that long period. With respect to the question more immediately under our consideration, I shall not go over the ground which has been so ably trodden by those who have preceded me on both sides of the House, as to the reasons which have led to that progressive augmentation of the charge of the Navy which has been observed upon by
 834 835 836 837 838
 MR. TATTON EGERTON  did not wish to object to the Motion, but he rose for the purpose of directing the attention of the House to the fact that the Committee had presented a special report in this case, and
 847
 MR. CHARTERIS  begged to ask the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether it were true, as reported, that the Marquess of Norman by, acting on instructions which he had received from the Foreign Office, had gone to M. Lamartine to apologise for this country having afforded an asylum to the Royal Family of France. He wished to state that he did not believe that the rumour had any foundation in fact, but he thought it was desirable that the noble Lord should have an opportunity of contradicting such a statement.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  begged to ask his noble Friend whether there was any foundation for a rumour that some documents had come into the possession of the Provisional Government of France implicating the Duke and Duchess de Mont-pensier in some extraordinary transactions; and that these documents had the effect of hastening the departure of those personages from England?
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  wished to ask another question of his noble Friend. He wished to know whether the noble Lord had received any intimation which he
 849
 LORD GEORGE BENTINCK  said, he wished, in pursuance of the notice which he had given to the noble Lord opposite, to ask whether there was any truth in the statement which had appeared a few days since, to the effect that the negotiations between Lord Howden and the Government of Rio Janeiro had been brought to an unfavourable conclusion, and that notice had been given by the Brazilian Government of their intention still farther to raise the tariff against this country?
 MR. HUME  read a passage from the special report of the Committee confirming the statement made by the hon. Gentleman who preceded him, and said he should move that the writ do not issue until the evidence be printed.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  rose to bring under the consideration of the House the injuries alleged to have been suffered by Mr. Rayson, an English merchant, from the Austrian authorities at Constantinople. The hon. Gentleman observed, that he was aware of the great difficulty of
 850 dernier ressort 851 super arbiter 852 853 854 855
 MR. F. MACKENZIE  would not press for the issue of the writ under the circum-stances.
 MR. FORBES MACKENZIE  moved for a new writ for the borough of Bewdley, in the room of Mr. Ireland, whose election had been declared void.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I am very glad that my noble Friend has put the question to me, if there appears to have been on the public mind any doubt on this matter. There has been no such communication made to Her Majesty's Government by the Provisional Government of France. I have not heard that any such correspondence, or any correspondence of any kind affecting the Duke and Duchess de Mont-pensier, has been discovered. I have no knowledge or belief of anything of the kind having taken place, and at all events no communication of the sort or kind has been made to me. With regard to the departure of the Duke and Duchess de Mont-pensier from this country, it was entirely the result of their own choice; and so far from that departure having been the result of any communication that had been made by us, I think the House will see that there are many reasons why we should think it desirable that they should remain here instead of going away.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : There is no foundation for the statement that any communication of the kind to which the hon. Member has alluded has taken place, or has been sent from me to Lord Normanby, or through any other channel, in regard to the Royal Family of France. It is, however, true that Lord Normanby conveyed in a private letter to me a statement
 848
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I have to state, in reply to the question of my noble Friend, that the last despatch which we received from Lord Howden contained information exactly of the nature which my noble Friend has mentioned, namely, that the result of his communications with the Brazilian Government had led him to despair, for the present, of concluding a commercial treaty, or a treaty for the suppression of the slave trade, between this country and Brazil; but just at the moment of the packet sailing, he wrote a few lines to let me know that he thought it was possible that a change of opinion might take place on the part of the Brazilian Government on this subject. At the same time, I cannot hold out to the House any confident expectation that, in the present state of the Brazils, it is likely that any commercial treaty with this country can take place, as the Brazilians are averse to any avoidable treaties with foreign countries, and as they have a notion that we look upon their trade as so valuable that we are willing to carry on the commerce with them on almost any terms they choose to fix.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The information which Her Majesty's Government has received is, that on the 14th instant Prince Metternich ceased to be the Minister of the Emperor of Austria. Beyond that, I have had no information.
 MR. SPEAKER  considered the hon. Member was not in order. The hon. Member had given notice of his intention to put a question, and in doing so he had no right to make a statement beyond what was absolutely necessary to explain the question. The hon. Member was not justified in going into circumstances which would give rise to discussion.
 MR. SPEAKER  must declare that the hon. Gentleman had exceeded the limits necessary for putting a question. If hon. Gentlemen made statements longer than was necessary to make their questions clear and intelligible, it would seriously embarrass the business of the House.
 MR. CALLAGHAN  did not think that the Bill of the hon. Member for Rochdale went to the extent that was necessary to settle satisfactorily the relations of land-
 891
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  said, that the poor of Ireland owed a deep and lasting debt of gratitude to the hon. Member for Stroud. The fact was that the poor of Ireland had no protectors. The whole of the shocking occurrences mentioned by the hon. Gentleman arose from the operation of the Quarter-Acre Clause, for the repeal of which, on the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Rochdale, they could only obtain twenty-one votes the other night. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department had said that no criminal prosecution would lie against the landlord for levelling the tenant's house, but that it was just possible there might be ground for a civil action. But could anything be more absurd than to imagine a poor wretch seeking such a mode of redress? When the right hon. Gentleman said that the Government could not prosecute the landlord for throwing down the unfortunate tenant's house, what he meant was, that the poor man had really no protector in Ireland. Could the Government suppose that, after such declarations, the people of Ireland could have any confidence in them? The onus of protecting the poor lay morally upon the Government; and if, under the Quarter-Acre Clause, those poor people were swindled out of their property, the onus lay upon the Government of repealing it.
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  thanked the hon. Member for Rochdale for having introduced the present Bill, and complained that the measure of Her Majesty's Government had not been pushed forward with that degree of assiduity and perseverance which the Irish people had a right to expect. It had been on the Paper from day to day, and from Week to week, and it was
 878 "By Pol, Tre, or Pen, You may know the Cornish men." Times. 879
 MR. REYNOLDS  coincided in the opinions stated by the last hon. Gentleman, that the offending parties ought to be named, and that the entire body of the landlords should not be included in the charge. The hon. Member for Stroud did not include them. But that hon. Gentleman was entitled to the thanks of the Irish people for having brought under the consideration of the House a state of things which was unparalleled in the whole civilised world. He should at the same time say that the Government of Ireland had in the present instance performed their duty. They had sent a Commissioner to inquire into the circumstances of the case, and he had reported upon them. Major M'Kie remarked himself, in his report to the Commissioners, that—
 "The witness, John Costello, states, that Mr. Arthur Blake, son of Mr. James Blake, J. P., and agent to Mr. Patrick Blake, of Gorumna; Patrick M'Nalty, steward to James Blake; Edmund Walsh, and one Faherty, drivers to Mr. Blake, with several others, tenants to Mr. Blake, were the actors in these illegal proceedings; and their identity is confirmed, together with that of Mr. Richard Blake (also son to Mr. James Blake), by the witnesses Bridget Faherty, Mary Faherty, John Toole, John Magan, Mary Feeny, and others, all of whose cases were attended with circumstances of great cruelty. I have visited the ruins of these huts (not any great distance from Mr. Blake's residence): I found that many of these unfortunate people were still living within the ruins of these huts, endeavouring to shelter themselves under a few sticks and sods, all in the most wretched state of destitution; many were so weak that they could scarcely stand when giving their evidence. The site of these ruins is a rocky wild spot, fit for nothing but a sheep-walk. It appears from the information I have been able to obtain, that these people had many of them been living in those huts for years; renting patches of land on the rocky shore, and earning a precarious and scanty subsistence by the culture of the potato, paying even for the sea-weed to manure the land. The total failure of the potato crop left them without any means of subsistence, and, being unable to cultivate the land, they had given up their holdings, but continued to occupy the huts, paying no rent. It has been stated, and I believe with truth, that Mr. Blake and many of his tenants had lost sheep, and suffered from depredations on their turnip crops. These people, having no means of subsistence, suspicion fell on them, and it was re-solved to root them out. Mr. Blake, senior, was present on the 15th, and had the perusal of the whole of the depositions, of which he took notes. He denied any knowledge of the proceedings, he being absent at the time they occurred. I asked if, as a magistrate, he had not on his return from Dublin made any inquiry as to the acts of violence committed during his absence. Mr. Blake said,
 863
 MR. SADLEIR  thought the hon. Baronet (Sir B. Hall) was embarrassing questions of this class by the continual introduction of irritating topics. With reference to the "tenant-right," he felt that a great error was committed by those who cried out for it without defining what particular tenant-right they advocated; for the practice, not recognised by law, differed in different parts, even of Ulster, Properly understood, tenant-right was not inconsistent with the just and full rights of the landlord. He (Mr. Sadleir) was not in favour of the Amendment moved by the hon. Member (Mr. Trelawny); it would only postpone remedies; but in voting for the second reading of this Bill, he should do so avowing that it contained at present the seeds of interminable litigation, but hoping that the result of the discussion of this and the Government Bill would be to send the subject before a Select Committee. He did not believe that the Government were at all indifferent to the evils by which Ireland was afflicted. The subject of the operation of the poor-law in that country would force itself upon the attention of Parliament. It would not be merely the question of the propriety of narrowing the area of taxation; but that was a very important point. The hon. Member was proceeding to compare the size, rateable property, and population of various counties in England and in Ireland, and to show that the number of unions and electoral divisions in Irish counties was very much less than the number of unions and parochial divisions in English counties, when
 MR. SADLEIR  would bow to the feeling of the House.
 MR. TRELAWNY  moved that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. The hon. Member for Rochdale, whose honest intentions he readily acknowledged, appeared to him to entertain the most mistaken views as to the way in which Ireland could be best benefited. He raised hopes which could never be realised. If carried, this Bill would act as nothing more nor less than as a law of confiscation against the Irish landlords; in fact, it would be like taking a watch out of one's pocket and giving it to the first beggar we met upon the street. The principle of the Bill amounted to the same thing. Great as the suffering and discontent of the tenantry in some parts of Ireland might be, this Bill could have no other effect than
 868
 MR. HUME  agreed with the hon. Member who had last spoken, that at this moment this subject was of paramount importance. The statement of the hon. Gentleman was, that while in their own country Irishmen failed to prosper in the same way as Englishmen and Scotchmen similarly circumstanced, yet when out of Ireland they conducted themselves as well, and acquired wealth as rapidly, as the natives of either of the other British Isles. If that were, in reality, the case, it appeared to him to be the bounden duty of the House to inquire at once into the anomaly, and to apply immediately a remedy to the social disorganisation of which this was the result. There was no doubt that Ireland had been kept for centuries in a state of degradation and discontent, and it was equally unquestionable that they must look for the causes of her existing unhappy position to the fact that during no portion of that period had she been governed on the same principles as either England or Scotland. The people of Ireland had not been treated as men, they had not been treated as freemen; they had been dealt with as slaves. They had been treated doubly ill; they had been crushed by the proprietors of the soil, and neglected by the Legislature. He had often declared in that House, that, had he been an Irishman, he would not submit to such a system as that pursued towards that country without perpetually struggling for an amelioration; and he thought the Irish Members were fully entitled to demand that some effort should be made to remove the causes of the evils of which they complained. He advocated the extension to Ireland of all the rights enjoyed by the people of England and Scotland. Ireland was one member of the Union, and if she was really united it was a crime to introduce any difference in their legislation. Was the Union one on paper merely, or was it a fact? Did the Irish people really possess the same privileges as the people of England and Scotland? He would not go so far as to say that the Irish were incapable of self-government, because he had first to inquire if the pre-
 873 874
 MR. NAPIER  entirely agreed with his right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland, that there was no law under which the landlord could be reached by a criminal prosecution for pulling down the houses of the tenant; and that being the case, he thought it should not go forth to the people of Ireland that the poor were not protected. Much mischief might be done by such assertions.
 DR. POWER , as he represented 800,000 of the people of Ireland, was anxious to make a few observations upon this important question. The hon. Member who had just sat down had afforded to the people of Ireland a specimen, if any were wanting, of the incapacity of a British legislator to legislate for Ireland. The hon. Member for Rochdale had brought before the House a measure which had been loudly called for by 7,000,000 out of 8,000,000 of the people of Ireland; and the hon. Member who had just down pronounced the Bill a measure of confiscation of landlords' rights. The hon. Member had said it was tantamount to taking a man's watch out of his pocket; but, for the life of him, he could not see upon what grounds the hon. Member had made that assertion. Property was designed for the benefit of the people; and if the Legislature found that it was monopolised by one class, while the other was in a state of starvation, surely they could remedy the abuse without being
 869 "Their condition is most deplorable; it would be impossible for language to convey an idea of the state of distress to which the ejected tenantry have been reduced, or the disease, misery, and vice which they have propagated in the towns wherever they have settled." 870 l l l l l l 871 872
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  said, that he could have obviated the difficulty by bringing the subject forward on reading the Order of the Day. He would, however, then simply put the question of which he had given notice. He wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, "whether any steps are being taken or contemplated by Government for the prosecution of the parties concerned in the illegal destruction of several houses, and the forcible ejectment of their inmates, which took place in the union of Galway on or about New Year's day last, and which occasioned the deaths of several of the unfortunate beings so ill-
 858
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  said, that he was then entitled to make some observations on the question he had put, and he must be allowed to say he thought that he was fully justified in the course which he had taken. The statements he had made were from documents of a most authentic character, which had been laid
 859 860
 MR. POULETT SCROPE , under these circumstances, would at once go to the statement of Major M'Kie, who had been requested by the Poor Law Commissioners to make inquiries as to the ejectments which had taken place. It was dated February 19, 1848, and was page 466 of the blue book. It was as follows:—
 "It would appear from the evidence recorded, that these forcible ejectments were illegal; that notices had not been served; that they were perpetrated under circumstances of great cruelty; the time chosen for the greater part nightfall, the eve of the new year—"
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  said, that it would be in the recollection of the House that, on the recent debate on the Irish Poor Law, a statement was made, that under the operation of it a great number of houses, with several hundreds of inhabitants, had been pulled down without any previous legal notice of ejectment, and great distress and misery had resulted from these proceedings; but doubts were expressed as to the accuracy of this statement. He had, however, on that morning received a letter which confirmed the statements previously made, and which stated that in many parts houses had been pulled down, and the poor persons ejected had been left to perish in the ditches, or to wander about the country in a state of the most abject destitution. In addition to this, in the papers respecting the Irish Poor Law delivered yesterday, he found ample evidence of this. In a letter of Mr. Horsley, the poor-law inspector of the Milford union, he found a passage which clearly showed the destruction of houses. It stated that—
 "Destitution is frightfully on the increase. There is no employment for the ablebodied poor; and I fear it will be necessary for the Commissioners to authorise very shortly outdoor relief to that class. Numbers of them have given up their small holdings to the landlords, and their houses have, in very many instances, been thrown down. Indeed the classes eligible to outdoor relief, under the 1st section of the Act, cannot be turned out of the house to make room for the ablebodied, as they have no place to go to for shelter from the winds of heaven. Within the last three months almost every landlord or occupier has, on the admission of such parties to the workhouse, instantly levelled their wretched hovels with the ground, thus making permanent paupers of those classes. It would not be affirming too much to say there has been a rate to get these classes into
 857
 MR. R. M. FOX  thought that Mr. Blake ought not to be allowed to retain the commission of the peace after the report which had been made by Major M'Kie.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  rose to move the Second Reading of the Outgoing Tenants (Ireland) Bill. He hoped the reasonableness and utility of the Bill would induce the House to agree to its being read a second time. The Bill did not propose the establishment of any new relations between landlord and tenant—it simply proposed to confirm by law those relations and agreements which had existed for upwards of one hundred years in the province of Ulster. The importance of this question had been set forth in the report of the Landlord and Tenant Commission, and that in such strong terms that it was impossible to deny the propriety of legislating on the subject. Although the Commissioners did not point out the mode in which the relations between landlord and tenant should be adjusted, yet they expressed a decided opinion that some modification of the pre-
 864 865 866 867
 SIR A. BROOKE  thought that if the statements of those occurrences were true, nothing could be more unjustifiable. But the House ought to be very cautious in giving credence to such statements, for the landlords of Ireland were very much maligned. He would give one instance in point. The medical board of health in Dublin instituted certain inquiries into the condition of the fever hospital, and the progress of fever in his (Sir A. Brooke's) neighbourhood. The medical superintendent reported that there were a great many cases of fever in the district, but that there was only one in the hospital. But being of course unwilling to lose his situation, he gave a reason, which was, that the poor people were so afraid of having their houses pulled down by their landlords whilst they were in the hospital, and having no place to go to upon coming out, that they would not enter the hospital, but preferred lying at home. Further inquiries were instituted, and the medical superintendent was unable to state one single instance in which such an event as the throwing down of the house of a fever patient had occurred; and he had recourse to the explanation, that whether such a thing had happened or not did not signify—it was the fear of it that prevented the poor people from coming into the hospital. He thought that the Barnes of those persons who had acted as
 862
 SIR ARTHUR BROOKE  rose to order. He appealed to the Chair whether the hon. Gentleman was justified in getting up in that House and making attacks on the landed proprietors of Ireland in such a way that they would have no opportunity of replying?
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL , before he addressed himself to the subject under their consideration, begged first to be allowed to say a few words in reference to what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and who had accused his right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland for not having pushed forward with greater earnestness the project of the Government for the settlement of the question of tenant-right in Ireland. The hon. Gentleman must be well aware that the Government had only two nights in the week on which they could proceed with Government business; and these nights had for the last three weeks been taken up by debates on the income-tax, into which Members had introduced all sorts of matter, most of which was wholly irrelevant to the question at issue. It was therefore unfair, because the Members of the House had taken up the whole of the time devoted to Government business, that they should thus accuse the Government of having shown a want of energy in the prosecution of their measures. He (Sir B. Hall) would abstain from touching upon the merits or demerits of the Bills which had been introduced by the Secretary for Ireland and the hon. Member for Surrey, for the definition and legalisation of tenant-right in Ireland—they would be fit subjects for discussion hereafter. But with regard to the present Bill, he would confess that he had entertained much difficulty as to the vote he should give—he wished not in the least degree to interfere with the principle of tenant-right as it existed in Ireland, and yet he could not support the definition of that principle contained in the Bill of the hon, Member for Rochdale. But the hon. Gentleman had relieved him from the doubts he had previously entertained, for the hon. Gentleman said—
 "I do not wish my Bill to be referred to a Committee. I wish the House to determine at once on the principle as laid down in that Bill; and if you do not approve of the principle of tenant-right—not as it exists, be it observed—but as laid down in the Bill, I wish hon. Members to vote against it." 880 881 882 883 "You must not put your reliance on the press
 884 "They must rely in part on the benevolent disposition of the Queen towards them—and the measures that he hoped the Ministry would adopt." "It is a truth that our people are bad farmers, slovenly, ignorant. Like their bodies and minds, they leave the fertile lands of Ireland fallow—they work not the soil—they promote not cleanliness in their houses—they allow our lands to he idle from generation to generation—they continue to build, like the swallows, and after they build they leave the house in the same state of neglect and filth—they leave their fields from year to year to the action of the winter rains, and the abrasion of the weather. Who have the power to make this unfortunate people what they ought to be, by bringing fertility to the land? The persons having this power are bound to those classes. Those who can perform the work are the landlords placed over the tenants of Ireland. The proprietor owes a duty to the people—to give them fair play, to encourage them, to show them how to act, and, with the blessing of God, he will find the people not only willing to work and to be taught, but he will reap a harvest of gratitude when he shall have placed them in a new condition." "Tenant-right is just this. The tenant, no matter whether he be a tenant-at-will or a tenant by lease, shall not be turned out until he shall have put up the possession of his holding to a kind of auction and sold it to the highest bidder; even if there is no improvement in the land, the occupancy of the farm is still to be sold." 885 "Now, what is tenant-right? It is this, that a tenant, whether he be a tenant-at-will or a tenant with an expired lease, shall not be obliged to leave the land until he has sold the possession of it to the highest bidder he can find, and if he cannot find a bidder the landlord shall not turn him out" "I entered several of the cottages at this place, within one mile of the mansion. The distress of the people was horrible. There is not a pane of glass in the parish, nor a window of any kind in half the cottages. Some have got a hole in the wall for light, with a board to stop it up. In not one in a dozen is there a chair to sit upon, or anything whatever in the cottages, beyond an iron pot, and a rude bedstead with some straw on it, and not always that. In many of them the smoke is coming out of the doorway, for they have no chimneys. In one that I entered, the door was taken off its hinges, and made a table of, by placing it on two turf baskets. The tenantry are worse off than any tenantry in Ireland; they are in a more lost, filthy, wretched, and neglected condition; and, to use the words of Lord Devon's report, 'The agricultural labourer on this estate is badly housed, badly fed, badly clothed, and badly paid;' and the only food of the tenantry is the potato." Cries of Times 886 "They had amongst them one cart, one plough, twenty shovels, thirty-two rakes, two feather beds, and eight chaff beds; they had no clocks; there was not a looking-glass in the parish above threepence in price; no garden vegetables or fruits of any kind but potatoes and cabbage. 887 None of their married or unmarried women can afford more than one shift, some not any; whole families of sons and daughters of mature age lie indiscriminately with their parents—their beds are straw, green and dried rushes, or mountain bent; their bed clothes are either coarse sheets, or no sheets, and ragged filthy blankets. I can show 140 children bare naked, and who were so during the winter, and hundreds covered with disgusting rags. Men and beasts are housed together; some houses have within their walls from one cwt. to thirty cwt. of dung; others have from ten to fifteen tons of dung, and are cleaned out once a year." 888 "We have to express our satisfaction at the evident improvement in the mode of reclaiming and cultivating boggy and mountain lands by draining and spade husbandry. We are happy to find so much attention given to the home manufacture of woollens, the quality of the cloths, the flannels, stockings, &c., being most creditable. But in nothing have we had such pleasure as in the marked improvement in the dwellings and offices of the tenants. We behold in all directions neat and comfortable cottages, with well-thatched roofs and whitewashed walls, giving an aspect of health and cheerfulness; in the interior of the houses the rooms are clean and orderly—the beds and bedsteads comfortable and suitable, with a supply of bedclothing and furniture equal at least to the wants of the inmates, and in many instances showing a taste in the arrangement for which we were quite unprepared." 889 "Why are our harbours empty—our mines un-worked, our lands untilled, and our country impoverished?" and he answers and answers truly, "The fault is not in the country but in ourselves: they were apt to speak of their country in the language of poetry, to describe it as the first flower of the earth, the first gem of the sea." 890
 SIR GEORGE GREY  would only say that he hoped his hon. Friend would remember that he did not defend the acts of the landlords of Ireland. He merely demurred to the proposition which implied that the parties so offending were liable to be criminally prosecuted. Neither did he deny that deaths had occurred subsequently to the events alluded to. He should not, however, be supposed to acquiesce in the statement that those deaths were consequent upon the outrages.
 SIR G. GREY  had read with great pain and regret a statement in the volume of correspondence lately laid before the House, relating to the destruction of houses in Galway, just referred to by the hon. Gentleman. At the same time, he could not undertake to say that the hon. Gentleman had quite fairly stated the case, for he did not think it was to be inferred from that correspondence, that the destruction of those houses did occasion the deaths of the individuals referred to. The question was, "whether Government had taken any steps for the prosecution of the parties concerned in the illegal destruction of several houses, and the forcible ejection of their inmates? "Major M'Kie, who took evidence on oath on the authority of the Poor Law Commissioners, had stated that in several cases previous notice of ejectment had not been served; but he was sorry that the learned Attorney General was not in his place to speak to this point, as any opinion of his own on the legal question must necessarily have little weight with the House. He was not aware that the parties had rendered themselves liable, by the destruction of these houses, to any prosecution that could be instituted against them by the Poor Law Commissioners. He apprehended that, if a landlord did destroy a house, without complying with the previous requisites that the law required, he would lay himself open to a civil action; but he was not sure that a criminal action would lie against him for such an act; and he believed that no proceedings of the nature adverted to by his hon. Friend could be legally taken by the Poor Law Commissioners.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that hon. Members who addressed the House in the course of the present discusion did great injustice in asserting that the Government had done nothing in legislating on the subject to which the present measure referred. They ought not to forget that very soon after the recess he had introduced a Bill
 875 876 877 s s s
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that a large portion of the extract quoted by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Stroud had been alluded to by himself (Sir W. Somerville)
 861
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  rose to order: Many a Gentleman wished to be heard upon the subject before the House, and the hon. Member ought not to hinder them by going into a discussion on the poor-laws.
 MR. ELLICE  felt considerable difficulty as to the vote he should give. These accusations against boroughs he considered as important with regard to the character of constituencies. He had known a great deal of this borough, and from that knowledge, and the disclosures that had taken place before the Committee in the present Session with respect to the purchase by Mr. Attwood of property in Harwich, there was great suspicion on the whole transaction; and he thought that, if the House should issue a new writ without further inquiry, the public might be apt to say they were returning to their old system, and that they stopped at the threshold of these matters without making a full inquiry. It was very difficult, however, to say, on the evidence before the Committee, that the House should suspend the writ. It was said before the Committee that Mr. Attwood had spent 10,000 l 904
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY  said, that it appeared to him, that either great harshness or gross bribery prevailed, and in either case an inquiry ought to take place; but at the same time he thought it would be unjust to deprive boroughs of their representatives by withholding writs for any unnecessarily long period.
 MR. PAGE WOOD  denied that the supporters of measures of this kind wished to deprive any class of public estimation or esteem; but they were desirous to do that which would do more to raise that class in the estimation of the country than any other act they could perform in the course of the Session. He did not believe that the great grievance, arising from the game laws, could be relieved by any palliatives; therefore they must be altogether got rid of. He had hoped that the right hon. Gentleman had some remedy, for he intimated that some measure might be adopted, founded on the resolutions of the Commit-
 959 malum in se malum prohibitum …. "Mingle not your joy With sorrow of the lowest thing that breathes." non meus hic sermo "Lastly, there is another offence, constituted by a variety of Acts of Parliament, which are so numerous and so confused, and the crime itself of so questionable a nature, that I shall not detain the reader with many observations thereupon. And yet it is an offence which the sportsmen of England seem to think of the very highest importance; and a matter, perhaps the only one, of general and national concern, associations having been formed all over the kingdom to prevent its destructive progress. I mean the offence of destroying such beasts and fowls as are ranked under the denomination of game, which, we may remember, was formerly observed (upon the old principles of the forest law) to be a trespass and offence in all persons alike, who have not authority from the Crown to kill game (which is royal property) by the grant of either a free warren, or at least a
 960 "The statutes for preserving the game are many and various, and not a little obscure and intricate, it being remarked that in one statute only there is false grammar in not less than six places, besides other mistakes, the occasion of which, or what denomination of persons were probably the framers of the statutes, I shall not at present inquire." "Another violent alteration of the English constitution consisted in the depopulation of whole counties, for the purposes of the King's royal diversion; and subjecting both them, and all the ancient forests of the kingdom, to the unreasonable severities of forest laws imported from the Continent, whereby the slaughter of a beast was made almost as penal as the death of a man. From a similar principle to which, though the forest laws are now mitigated, and by degrees grown entirely obsolete, yet from this root has sprung a bastard slip, known by the name of the game law, now arrived to and wantoning in its highest vigour; both founded upon the same unreasonable notions of permanent property in wild creatures; and both productive of the same tyranny to the commons; but with this difference, that the forest laws established only one mighty hunter throughout the land, while the game laws have raised a little Nimrod in every manor." 961 962
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  begged to remind the House that bribery of voters was a misdemeanor in point of law; and he wished to know whether it was not competent for the Attorney General to direct a prosecution against every person who gave a bribe to another? The effect of the bribe now fell upon the sitting Member alone.
 MR. S. WORTLEY  said, the hon. Member for Finsbury had made an unwarrantable charge against the Committee. He denied that the Committee knew, as the hon. Member had asserted, that the bribery proved to have been committed at Harwich had taken place with the knowledge and consent of the sitting Member. He would ask the hon. Gentleman whether,
 910
 MR. S. WORTLEY , as Chairman of the Committee that was appointed to inquire into this election, might perhaps be allowed to make a few observations. He rejoiced exceedingly that the evidence had been laid before the House, because, on a former occasion, he thought a disposition had been shown to charge the Committee with not having acted on the evidence, and with being unwilling to institute a further inquiry. It had been said, that the country was beginning to suspect that the House were endeavouring to screen these transactions from investigation, and that they were not sufficiently alive to the detection of bribery in general elections. There might be times when there might be truth in that statement; but he thought that the present was a most unhappy moment for it, for if ever there was a time when the House had shown the greatest jealousy of corruption, and a determination to act under that most efficient statute which was introduced by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and which alone made it
 905 l 906
 MR. ELLIOT  said, the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley) had one speech that he made to the House on all occasions, and he would declare that there was was but one speech that the hon. Member ever made to the House. He had listened to the hon. Member for four years, and had always heard the same speech, until he was almost obliged to conclude that the hon. Member borrowed the speech from somebody. Thus it ran—the old story over and over again—"You are all a set of rogues, and I am the only honest man among you. The people out of doors know you very well, and they know that I, the Member for Finsbury, am the only honest man in the House. I have been brought up in the principles of honour and virtue, while you have no pretensions to anything of the kind." Now, as the hon. Member for Finsbury was so fond of telling the Members of that House what people said of them out of doors, it was but fair to the hon. Member to let him know what people said of him. He (Mr. Elliot) had heard it said a hundred times, that all the speeches of the hon. Member meant one and the same thing; namely, that there was not an honest man in the House of Commons except himself, and that he made all those speeches for the purpose of gratifying the lowest persons in the borough of Finsbury. He had thought it right at least to tell the hon. Member what was said of him, though he hoped the hon. Member was actuated by other motives.
 MR. ELLIOT  explained, that when he had used the expression "lowest classes," his meaning had been the lowest in moral principle.
 MR. ELLIOT  said, the Committee had sifted the whole of the allegations brought forward as far as they had the power. As a member of that Committee, he thought it right to state to the House exactly how the
 903
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  was anxious to make one remark as to a relative of his own. He must say that the hon. Gentleman had been guilty of a great and gross impropriety in alluding to a case—which he regretted was also referred to by the right hon. Gentleman—which had recently occurred in Hampshire. That case had given the greatest pain to the gentleman with whom he was so nearly connected. He complained, above all, of the impropriety of manner in which that case had been alluded to, as it had not been tried. He thought that the right hon. Baronet would have taken a more judicious part in not having alluded to it. He would appeal to many hon. Members in that House who were acquainted with his relative, as to the high character that gentleman bore; and he believed it would be universally admitted that no one could behave more kindly to the tenants as well as the peasants on his estate, than that gentleman. He regretted that the hon. Member, as well as others from the manufacturing districts, still persisted in making general and sweeping accusations and charges against particular classes.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, that nothing could be harder or more monstrous than some of the recent decisions of the Election Committees; and he trusted the suggestion of the hon. Member for Montrose would be adopted.
 MR. COWAN  seconded the Motion, and in doing so, he wished to disclaim any unkindly feeling towards the owners of property. He had often experienced the kindness of many landlords in permitting him to sport over their properties. He must also express the satisfaction he felt that, at a time when convulsion pervaded Europe, this country possessed a body of gentlemen who, for patriotism and intelligence, and the many qualities that adorned the country gentleman, offered one of the greatest securities that could exist for the preservation of the country's peace and security in troubled times. He
 950 l l l l onus probandi 951 l l
 MR. NEWDEGATE  opposed the introduction of the Bill. He thought the country had little cause to thank the hon. Member for Manchester for his speech; for he had described the country as a complete Aceldama, and the people as a set of Ghouls.
 MR. SPEAKER : I certainly did not understand the hon. Member to impute improper motives.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  was aware it might seem uncourteous to prevent an hon. Member introducing a Bill into that House; but he felt so strong on this subject, that he must waive every such consideration, and must give his decided opposition even to the Motion for leave to bring in a Bill. If he had ever entertained any doubt whether he should object to this Bill or not, the conclusion of the hon. Member's speech would have satisfied him of the propriety of doing so; for the hon. Member had stated that he had not touched at all upon the law of trespass, and therefore he (Colonel Sibthorp)
 952 953 l s d
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  denied that Captain Dillon possessed any claim whatever to any portion of the prize-money, or to any reward of any kind. At the same time, if it would afford any satisfaction to Mr. Dillon or his friends, he was quite ready to say, that no imputation of cowardice rested upon his character, nor even any suspicion that he had not done his duty. It was perfectly true that Captain Dillon prevented the landing of the tobacco at the place appointed near Ross Bay; but it was equally certain that the vessel which carried that tobacco, being chased by a revenue cutter, stood out to sea, in consequence of the exertions of Captain Dillon; and the question was, who seized the vessel, and what were the circumstances? She stood out to sea and received serious damage; the crew began to apprehend that she was leaky, and insisted on putting into Kin-sale, and under the guidance of a mutinous part of the crew she was brought into that harbour, where she was boarded by the revenue officers, her cargo being seized and condemned. There was no difference as to the facts. Captain Dillon did not
 918
 MR. O'CONNOR , in reply, stated, that Captain Dillon had taken the earliest opportunity of putting in his claims, and had not, as had been stated, postponed his application to 1829. He begged to say, that the hon. Member for Montrose was not an infallible authority with him; that hon. Member's excessive sentimentality and kindness always induced him to request hon. Members to withdraw their Motions, so that he might have the opportunity of substituting some other Motion of his own; which, if carried, enabled him to say that the credit of having settled the affair rested solely with himself. Lord Althorp objected to the compensation asked by Mr. Dillon solely on the ground of his alleged want of bravery; and the settlement of that point was delegated by Lord Althorp to Sir Edward Codrington, who reported that, in his opinion, there was no ground whatever for such an imputation upon the character of Mr. Dillon. In Chancery, when a matter of fact was disputed, issue thereon was sent to a court of law to he tried, and by the decision of that court the Court of Chancery was bound. This case was of a perfectly similar character; the decision of Sir E. Codrington ought to have been at once acted upon, and compensation made to Mr. Dillon. The speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer had completely substantiated Mr. Dillon's claim. He hoped, then, as Mr. Dillon had beggared himself in his attempts to obtain compensation, the House would agree to this Motion which he (Mr. O'Connor) was thoroughly convinced was based on justice.
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  rose to move the adoption of an address founded on the statement contained in the petition of John Dillon, presented to the House Dec. 14, 1847, and printed with the Votes on the 9th of February, 1848. The circumstances of the case were these:—An American brig, named the  Peru l Peru Peru 914 l l Peru Peru Peru Peru Peru 915 l "That on this day fortnight the House shall resolve itself into Committee, to consider the case of Mr. Dillon, with the view of compensation."
 MR. GEORGE THOMPSON  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. AGLIONBY  had come to the conclusion that Captain Dillon had been exceedingly ill used, and was entitled to prize-money for the capture of this vessel. He had always been of opinion that when the case first came before the Treasury it was met on the ground of cowardice alone. That charge was now disposed of. He believed that, although the vessel was not actually captured by Captain Dillon, it was taken in consequence of his shot, and then his claim to compensation was within the rules of the service. The case was a very hard one.
 DR. BOWRING  called attention to the result of the division, and remarked, that when so many hon. Gentlemen were desirous for an adjournment of the debate, he thought it would be a very unusual thing-to decline to accede to their wishes. He,
 964
 DR. BOWRING  said, all that the Committee had had to do was to get evidence enough to unseat the improperly-elected Member; but, if no further inquiry was instituted, a very great mass of corruption would altogether escape. He thought that the whole subject in this case demanded inquiry.
 MR. BRIGHT  said: In rising to move for leave to bring in the Bill of which I have given notice, I shall offer no apology for asking the attention of the House to the statements which I am about to make; except so far as an apology may, perhaps, be thought necessary, because I have so long delayed to bring before the attention of the House the question upon which I asked and obtained a Select Committee three years ago. I hope and believe, however, that the delay which has taken place has not been prejudicial to the question, or to the views which I hold upon it. I am am afraid that I shall, upon this occasion, be compelled to claim more of the time of the House than I am usually in the habit of occupying, or ever desire to occupy; but having to ask the House to consent to a complete reversal of a policy which it has pursued for a very long period, I think I am bound to submit such a case as I may be able to make out, in order to justify that change of policy. I feel, moreover, that the question is one of so grave a character that I have a right to ask the House to attend to the case which I shall submit to it, before it concludes to reject the proposition to which I am now about to ask its attention. 920 921 922 l l l l l 923 l l l l l l s l l l 924 l l l l l l "But I have a strong case now of injury to wheat, which occurred only two years ago. A tenant of mine came to tell me that he must give up his farm; he was a very improving tenant indeed. I asked him why; he said the injury which he received from the game was such that he could stand it no longer. There was a piece of sixty or seventy acres of wheat, and he told me that it had been completely fed away by game from a neighbouring cover; and he asked me to go over it. I did so, and I can state positively to the Committee, that half of that field I should not have known had any crop at all upon it; this was light land. I said to the tenant that his loss should be valued; and I paid him the loss; I think it was valued at about 40 l "I have not the least hesitation in saying the land of a small proprietor, in the neighbourhood of a large cover, might be injured to the extent of 50 per cent at least on the rental; indeed, it might be rendered almost useless to cultivate it. That puts me in mind of another thing; one of the points which made me come to the determination of giving up preserving was, finding that my own keeper, who had got three or four acres of land near his house in the covers, after cultivating for eight or ten years, said at last that he must give it up because it did not pay him; it would ruin him; and then it occurred to me to consider what was the case with my keeper's neighbours round the covers. " 925 "The damage done to meadow land in the neighbourhood of the covers may be stated at from 5 s s l l s l "Take the case of Mr. Haywood, would you think that a reduction of 20 per cent upon the rent was a compensation?—I should want that certainly, if the rabbits were always kept up. "Do you think that you would be justified in taking a farm like this at 75 l l l "You would rather give 100 l l 926 "From this experiment it will be seen that in six weeks twelve rabbits consumed of oats, cut sanfoin, bran, carrots, and swede turnips, 33 bushels, 3 pecks, and 7 pints, weighing 68 stone, 74lbs., 14 oz., and valued at 18 s d s d s d 927 "I found, to pursue the two occupations, a rigid preserver of hares and game generally, and an improver of my land by planting and farming, perfectly incompatible. "Do you say that you had not land in your occupation when you first preserved game?—I had, but it was principally grass land; I had not begun to plough or to plant. I soon found, as a farmer desirous of introducing among my tenantry and into the neighbourhood a better system of cultivation, that it was utterly hopeless to do so unless I completely destroyed the hares; for the attempt merely to reduce them was useless, for a good season repaired their numbers to such an extent, that I found there was no effectual means but entire destruction. There is no reluctance on the part of the farmers to occupy those lands, on the terms on which they take them, referring to the power of destroying game?—None whatever; on the contrary, since I have destroyed it, I perceive there is an infinitely greater degree of confidence on the part of the tenants in their expenditure; and it has happened to mo, within the last two or three years, to have received indisputable evidence of my character as a destroyer of hares, it having turned very much to my account, in a better class of tenants having offered themselves for my farms when they have been vacant." 928 "What is your right over that land that Mr. Lock occupies; how far does your right of preserving and killing game extend?—I have the whole of the game; not a gun dare come upon that land without my leave. To what amount can you preserve game upon that land?—Any amount whatever; 10,000 partridges if I like to get them. And as many hares?—Yes; but I should not do it, for fear of injuring the farmers. You have the right?—I have the right of preserving to the utmost. All kinds of game?—All kinds of game. What right have you with respect to keepers, watchers, and assistants; have you the right to employ as many as you choose?—Yes; a whole regiment of guards, if I choose." "What were the circumstances under which they left?—The lease of one was out, and he wont somewhere else; and the other failed—I do not know where he is. There was more game preserved than there has been since Mr. Lock has been there?—Yes; I should say there was. One did not renew his lease, and the other two failed? Not two; but one went as a steward to the north. Then the facts of the case are these: there was more game before Mr. Lock was there; and of his three predecessors, one would not renew his lease and went to another place; another failed, and another became steward?—I believe so; but I do not trouble myself with the tenants after they leave the farm." 929 930 931 "Have those more general returns led to any similar remark to that which was made upon the first return, namely, that many of the sentences were illegal?—From the 23rd of May, when the business began, to the 11th of last March, the returns amounted to 1,849 commitments. "Those were commitments for non-payment of penalties under the game laws?—Yes. Of those cases a great many have been illegal; there have been forty discharges out of prison, under sentences clearly illegal, and there have been fourteen commutations of sentence besides. "In the cases of those discharges you speak of out of prison, there was a free pardon of the Secretary of State?—A pardon. "Were those discharges on account of mere technical objections to the conviction, or were they discharged on the ground that the conviction was a substantial injustice?—All the discharges were on the ground of the law having been actually violated, the sentences being against the law. There has been no instance in which a prisoner has been discharged because the commitment was defective in point of form." "You are of opinion that the Assessed Tax Act was not passed by the Legislature with a view to the suppression of poaching, but rather for the protection of the revenue?—Certainly. "Are you of opinion that that law has been made use of by the magistrates in a different sense from that which was intended by the Legislature?—I have no doubt of it. I will mention one instance; two magistrates in the case to which I allude, convicted under the 23rd section of the Game Act: the very day after one of those magistrates proceeded against the man under the Certificate Act." 932 "Are there not statements in your Ninth Report of the opinions of chaplains of some of the gaols?—Yes; several. "Are you prepared to state to the Committee that the opinion you have stated as being given by one or two chaplains is the general opinion amongst the chaplains, as far as you have come in contact with them?—I should say it was, amongst the chaplains and amongst the superior officers in prisons. "Have the gaolers generally coincided in those opinions?—My impression is so. "Have you observed, that prisoners after sentences under the game laws have acknowledged the justice of their sentence?—I do not think they ever acknowledge the justice of their sentence. Very few prisoners will ever acknowledge the justice of their sentence; but I think there is a much stronger feeling the other way among poachers than others. "From your experience among the labouring population, and your knowledge of their feelings upon this matter, do you believe that they attach the same sort of immorality to poaching that they would attach to stealing?—Quite the reverse. Many times when I have spoken to them upon the subject of poaching, and warned them of the consequences, I have been replied to, 'Well, I am not here for stealing. I am not on the other side of the gaol.' "You say you observed an influx of prisoners at particular seasons for offences under the Game Acts, in certain counties; can you mention those counties?—I should comprehend them generally under the agricultural counties. There is a general influx of prisoners at certain periods of the year above any others; when the game seasons begin, the class of offences connected therewith naturally increases. "Have you compared the severity of the punishments for offences against the game laws with the punishment for offences of ether kinds, where such a comparison is capable of being made?—I should say that it was almost impossible for a person so constantly in communication with prisoners, but such comparison must have occurred to him. The cumulative penalties and the peculiarities of these laws, the length of the imprisonment and the severity of punishment, could not fail to strike my observation. "Which county is the one in which you find the most prisoners for poaching; and in which do you consider the offence to be most rife?—Nottinghamshire, Derbyshire, Suffolk, Norfolk, Rutland, Cambridgeshire, and Huntingdonshire. I may here observe, that the application of the game laws varies most remarkably in various districts. It seems entirely dependent upon the individual feeling of the landowners, and which I look upon as one of their most injurious consequences. In one place you have a person who will carry these laws to an extreme, and in the next you will have a person who will scarcely have anything to do with them. "Do you find the same difference with respect to the administration of the law for offences of other kinds?—Certainly not. 933 "Then, how do you account for it that there is that difference with respect to the application of the game laws?—I think there is a feeling against them amongst many of the higher classes of society, and a strong and universal feeling of sympathy on the part of the middle classes of society with offenders of that description, "Is it your opinion, as far as you have observed, that the course of game-law legislation, as it now exists, and the administration of the game laws, is running counter to the great mass of public opinion?—Yes, I should say it was. I have noticed that there is a very increasing feeling against it of late years; I think every year the feeling increases against it." "Upon my last visit to the county gaol at Derby, I found in the prison there a prisoner in the convicted misdemeant's ward; he was clothed in a prison dress picking oakum, and under the discipline of silence. I have copies of the conviction. He complained to me of having been illegally apprehended—that the warrant had not been shown to him at the time of his apprehension—and in the course of my investigation of his complaint, I felt it necessary to call the surveyor of taxes before me, to ascertain whether he had given instructions to the constable to employ the police generally, to apprehend him without a warrant whenever they could find him in the borough of Derby. The surveyor of taxes informed me that he had been obliged to proceed in this case; that he did not proceed against the people in this way for a surcharge, unless he was satisfied that they had funds to pay the penalty, as it was only giving him additional trouble, and it was a loss of money and time to him; that he was allowed three guineas in every case where he obtained payment of the surcharge; and that he never instituted proceedings against individuals of this description who could not pay, unless it was at the instance of a gamekeeper, or some gentleman, and that when a gentleman came to him, he thought it was his duty to interfere; that 'he thought he must interfere' were his words." "And they have generally expressed the opinion that game does no harm, and that the game laws ought to be maintained?—Unquestionably; if you were to poll the whole of the magistracy, I should say that nine out of ten would be in favour of protection to game. "But as far as you can observe, the feeling is very strong in the county of Gloucester about the game laws, as you say the magistrates are acting under the influence of a strong popular feeling?—I think they are so; I think there is not a magistrate in the county of Gloucester but would feel, when a game case is brought before
 934 s l 935 936 "The evidence taken before the Committee shows undeniably, that the great increase of preserves for game, which has taken place of late years, has tended materially to the increase of crime in particular districts; a pheasant or a hare is so easily taken, that a labourer only half employed, and ill-fed, cannot resist the temptation. Men of a wild character likewise have within their reach both the means of gratifying their love of sport and the means of disposing of their booty. Some are of opinion that if the sale of game were allowed by law, poaching would not be so frequently resorted to. Whether such a speculation be well founded or no, it appears to be the duty of the Legislature to listen to every rational proposal on the subject of the game laws, and rather to hazard an experiment which may fail, than to allow the present evils to continuo without any effort to counteract them. Many of the petty larcenies in the agricultural counties are to be attributed to the vicious habits created by poaching." "The abundance of offenders against these laws, it must be repeated, is not owing so much to any increased severity of the laws, as to the immense increase in the quantity of game. There has been, of late years, a vast profusion of game exposed to the eyes and appetites of a poor and sometimes suffering class of the people. No wonder that if property exposed on the outside of shops is carried off by depredators, that pheasants and hares should be carried off by night and day.
 937 "I am myself a preserver of game, and being so I am bound to confess that the most fertile source of crime in my immediate neighbourhood is connected with game, and with the preservation of it. "I think the lower orders, in common with the highest, have a love, a natural love, of the sport, even stimulated perhaps by the risks attendant on its gratification; in many cases also poverty is a strong inducement to commit the crime; but I should say that in my own immediate neighbourhood the love of the sport predominates over almost every other consideration. "I have latterly preserved the game more strictly than it was heretofore preserved, especially pheasants." "Winged game were almost unknown in that neighbourhood, and since I have so preserved, poaching has increased, notwithstanding all my efforts to prevent it, or rather perhaps in consequence of my efforts to increase the quantity of game. The tameness of these birds, seen constantly in the fields close to the road, is, I think, a great temptation to the lower orders to take them. On the whole, I should think poaching the cause rather than the consequence of criminal habits." 938 "The system was also attended with this baneful consequence—it increased and heightened the feuds between the higher, the middle, and the lower classes. Would their Lordships believe, that in three years, from 1827 to 1830, 8,502 persons were convicted of offences against the game laws in England and Wales." "I have not before me the returns of the number of crimes committed against the game laws at that period, as contrasted with other crimes; but I have a distinct recollection, that the attention of Lord Grey's Government was forced to this subject, on account of the great increase of crime under the unchanged law at that time apparent, and which circumstance now is attracting, in a painful degree, the attention of the country." 939 Leicestershire Chronicle "Since 1845, there has been a diminution in the committals to the county gaol, but no diminution in game offences. The cause of this is stated by the exemplary chaplain as follows:— "Commitments under the game laws have alone exceeded those of the previous year. With respect to this class of offenders, it is obvious, that the  malum in se Herts County Press "In the county prison are now—that is, at the Epiphany session—confined 106 prisoners: of these 47 are for poaching! Nearly half you see of those in the county gaol, more than half those in the liberty gaol—add these together, and we have 153 prisoners, of whom 69 were poachers. Think of this, gentlemen of Hertfordshire, when next you discuss the cause of demoralisation among us, or take in hand some remedy for the perils of the nation. Just one short of seventy are in your gaols for aggression on the sports of the higher classes. Dare you multiply this by 40, and find that 2,760 are in gaol in the whole of the English counties? or can you feel satisfied that our county should furnish an unhappy disproportion of such eases? I cannot pledge myself for the accuracy of an unit; but there is no intentional exaggeration, and the pro-
 940 Times "Harris and Meadham, tried for cutting and wounding Grant, a keeper of the Marquess of Aylesbury. Three keepers heard shots on Bedwin Common; saw four men coming down Bath and London road; keepers were armed with swingels resembling a flail; keepers stood in the middle of the road, and King, one of them, said, 'Holloa, lads, what's up?' Fight began; tremendous fighting took place; 'the blood streamed down Grant's head, nearly blinding him.' The heads of the keepers dreadfully cut, and the worst consequences were apprehended for them. Thomas Meadham's arm was broken, and Maurice Meadham died from concussion of the brain the same day. The affair caused much pain to the Marquess, who sent messages every hour for intelligence as to the state of the deceased." "Dec. 25. Christmas Day. Thomas and Wallace, poaching in a wood belonging to Mr. Beaumont, of By well, Northumberland; desperate fight with keepers; Thompson fired twice or thrice, once at a large dog with the keepers; Wallace wounded in the thigh; both taken; sent to Morpeth gaol, where Wallace died of lockjaw, on or about the 3rd January. "Manslaughter. Fifteen years' transportation on Thompson. "Keeper said in evidence, 'My dog is between a Newfoundland and a bloodhound; he is very large, but I do not know how savage he is. I keep the dog to go with me at night; he has been trained to scent a man; he can trace the footsteps by the scent, and take me to any part of the wood where anybody is.'" 941 "Three men, Davies, Hill, and Bryant, were charged at Cardiff with shooting David Davies, an assistant gamekeeper to W. W. Lewis, Esq. The gamekeepers were aroused by the continued discharge of firearms in the preserves. The keepers' dogs scented out the three prisoners, and another man not in custody. The keepers followed, demanding their names, telling them they did not want to have any quarrel with them; they refused to give their names; one of the keepers seized Bryant by the leg to prevent his getting over a fence; Bryant resisted; the keeper struck him on the arm with a stick till he dropped his gun; Davies shouldered his gun, and cried out, 'If you don't let the man go, I'll blow your brains out.' The three other keepers rushed forward and laid hold of it by the stock; the prisoner resisted, the gun went off, and the deceased received the contents in the groin; he staggered, fell down, and cried out, 'I am shot; I am a dead man.' He was carried to a cottage, covered with blood, but life was extinct." "Four keepers and four poachers had a desperate fight for twenty minutes, the poachers getting the worst of it. During the struggle a gun was fired, but without any effect. The poachers used their gunstocks and bludgeons, and the keepers were armed with strong heavy cudgels. "The wounded man, Tudor, who was lying on the ground in a state of insensibility, was then conveyed to the hall, as well as his companion Brown. Tudor had a severe wound on the head, which had been inflicted by one of the keepers' clubs, besides other injuries, and his recovery is considered very doubtful. Brown had several cuts and bruises, but not of a serious character." Hants Independent "Charles Payne, assistant gamekeeper on the estate of Mr. A. R. Drummond, of Cadland Park, Hants. The watchers were only armed with sticks. The poachers had two guns, and they used the butt-ends of the guns to beat off the watchers. Deceased's skull was fractured by the butt-ends of the guns, and one gun went off by accident, and part of its contents lodged in the breast of Morris, but not to any serious extent. Payne survived but a short time. The coroner's jury returned a verdict of wilful murder against Morris as principal, and against Smith, Bracker, Cavell, and Knapp, as accessories. Morris, the principal in the affair, is the son of Stephen Morris, the head gamekeeper. Thus the father is chief gamekeeper, and the son is a poacher, and now charged with murder." 942 "Five keepers were watching in the Mulgrave Woods; heard firearms; keepers armed with sticks, the Marquess forbidding firearms. They met a gang of poachers, armed with guns; summoned them to surrender. One of the gang presented his gun and fired at a keeper named Brown, the contents lodging in his arm. A struggle followed; the keepers were beaten off, the poachers firing at them. The wounded man was carried to the nearest house. One of the gang was shot in the thigh by one of his comrades. He crawled away, concealing himself in a thicket, but was discovered. The wounded poacher died on the following Thursday." 943 944 l 945 l "Smouldering as it goes, in silence feeds;" 946 947 948 Bury Post "There is often no material difference between the English young noble, and the Red Indian or the Arab: the treasures of science—the refinements of taste—the luxuries of wealth, are disregarded or forgotten, and the real excitation of life depends upon the destruction of wild animals, or the management of impetuous steeds." 949
 MR. PARKER  had only to repeat the statement which he had made when the subject was brought before the House last Session. It was a disagreeable office to refuse such an application, and it would be always more agreeable to the Government to be liberal. The facts occurred in February, 1822, when the  Peru Peru re infectâ Peru Peru 916
 MR. HENLEY  saw no reason whatever for suspending the writ for the borough of Harwich, because, whatever might have been the practices in former years, there was no general allegation of bribery at the last election. On the contrary, there was a manifest improvement, both in the number and the conduct of the constituency. With reference to the remarks of the hon. Member for Montrose on the general question, he must say he thought that hon. Member had taken the most extraordinary course, to say the least of it—for, after mentioning seven or eight boroughs where Members had been unseated for bribery, with the view of showing the great amount of bribery in the country, he had immediately added that there had been many decisions given by the Election Committees, which, in his judgment, could hardly be reconciled with strict justice. Now, both those statements could not be correct.
 902
 MR. HUME  rose for the purpose of suggesting another mode of proceeding. If Harwich had stood alone he would have entirely concurred with the hon. Member; but when he remembered that Great Yarmouth, Kinsale, Lancaster, Carlisle, Lincoln, Dundalk, Aylesbury, Bewdley, Derby, and Horsham, were all in the same position as regarded bribery and treating at the last election, it did appear to him that it was incumbent upon the House to consider whether some measure should not be taken to vindicate its character—to ascertain, if possible, why those cases had occurred—in what way the bribery and treating had been conducted, and also to what extent. It was perfectly well known that when a petition was presented against the return of a Member, and referred to a Committee, that Committee generally con-
 900
 MR. HUME  said, he had had communications with Lord Althorp upon this subject, and he had come to the conclusion that Captain Dillon could not substantiate his claim. No man could have taken more anxious care to investigate the claim than Lord Althorp had done.
 MR. HUME  was sorry the Speaker had not interfered at first, for if Members began to abuse one another, where would they stop? His hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury had attacked principles, not persons; and when the hon. Member for Roxburghshire thought proper to talk about lower morality, he (Mr. Hume) could tell him he had a strong opinion that there was a lower tone of morality among the higher than among the lower classes.
 MR. HUME  said, the House could now only negative the Motion for issuing the writ.
 MR. POWER  said, that all the facts of the case had been brought under his notice, and he considered that Mr. Dillon had succeeded in making out his case. At the time that he prevented the landing of the cargo, as many as 400 men were ready with carts to remove the goods the moment they were landed.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  thought it rather a hard case, when an independent Member of Parliament rose in his place—a Member whose seat probably cost him less than any man in that House—and delivered his opinion concerning a gross case of bribery, that he should be liable to such an attack as had just been made upon the hon. Member for Finsbury. But however popular that attack might be within the walls of
 911
 MR. WAKLEY  wished to know if it was consistent with Parliamentary usage that the hon. Member who had just sat down should impute improper motives to him (Mr. Wakley) in the discharge of his duty?
 MR. WAKLEY  said, the House could do something beyond what his hon. Friend suggested—they could still appoint a Committee to institute a searching investigation into the whole case. Why, he would ask, was Mr. Attwood unseated, if no wrong had been done? Who were the wrongdoers? They charged the hon. Gentleman whom they unseated with being guilty of corruption through his agents; but did they not know perfectly well that be had a full knowledge of all that was passing himself? Did they suppose that money had been spent without his knowledge, or that his agents had volunteered to expend their own money for his benefit? In his opinion, what the House ought to do, was to negative the Motion for issuing the writ, and to commence a searching inquiry into all that took place at the last election. Unless that were done, the metropolitan constituencies, who looked to their representatives for a faithful discharge of their duties, had a right to complain that they were treated unjustly by the impunity that was allowed to these small boroughs. They had it in evidence, that at the election of 1841 a sum of 9,000 l
 MR. WAKLEY  regretted the remarks that had been made by the hon. Member for Montrose, and contended that the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Treasury had given no answer to the claim of Captain Dillon. If the Government had resolved to negative the Motion of the hon. Member for Nottingham, he apprehended that nothing which he could say would be likely to alter their resolution; but he trusted they would consider the justice and expediency of referring the question of Mr. Dillon's claim to a Select Committee of that House. He fully believed it would not take a Committee more than three or four days to dispose of the whole matter; and he entertained no doubt whatever that a Select Committee, fairly chosen, would report in favour of Captain Dillon.
 MR. BLACKSTONE  felt it to be his duty, on a former occasion, to move that a new writ be not issued for this borough until the evidence taken before the Committee in reference to the last election was printed and submitted to the House. After reading through the whole of that evi-
 899
 MR. F. MACKENZIE  said, that the simple question before the Committee was, whether a new writ should be issued for the borough of Harwich? Now, the hon. Member for Wallingford (Mr. Blackstone) had admitted that, as far as the evidence respecting the last election was concerned, there was no ground for refusing the writ; and the House could hardly refuse it on the ground of the evidence taken before Mr. Roebuck's Committee, seeing that it had been agreed on that occasion that if evidence was tendered in a frank and open manner no penal consequences would ensue. As far as he could make out, there was the greatest possible symptom of improvement in the borough of Harwich; and he had heard nothing whatever to justify the House in suspending the writ. With regard to the proposition of the hon. Member for Montrose, he thought that a more monstrous injustice could not be perpetrated than to hang up this case until all the other controverted elections were decided. He should persevere in his Motion.
 MR. F. MACKENZIE  moved—
 "That the Speaker do issue his warrant to the Clerk of the Crown to make out a New Writ for the Election of a Burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the borough of Harwich, in the room of John Attwood, Esq., whose Election had been determined to be void."
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  said, one point alluded to by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Parker), the delay in making the claim, was explained by Captain Dillon, who stated that he had been informed, when making application, that there was an appeal upon the subject of the capture pending before the Court of Admiralty. He (Mr. Crawford) retained the opinion he before enter-
 917
 SIR B. HALL  entirely differed from the hon. Member for Peebles-shire with regard to the alleged improvement in the borough of Harwich. He thought that, whether as regarded the conduct of the electors or the candidates, there had been a change
 901
 SIR DE L. EVANS  concurred with hon. Members in thinking that there was something very remarkable in the decisions of some of the Election Committees. In the first place, he thought the Committees had, in most cases, been exceedingly delicate towards to the candidates in not tracing any acts of bribery directly to them; thus giving them an opportunity of coming forward and representing other constituencies. In the next place, he considered that the Committees had adopted too stringent a rule as to what constituted acts of bribery. According to that rule, if the most trifling acts of bribery could be traced to any individual whatever, although not sanctioned by the candidate, it would be perfectly competent for a Committee to unseat him. He declared solemnly, that although he had been engaged in many contests, he had never been conscious of any acts of bribery; and yet it was quite possible that he or any other hon. Member might be unseated, even now, if any trifling act of bribery was established, although there was no proof to connect it with the candidate. He therefore thought it would be very unfair towards this borough, and not consistent in that House, if they refused the electors of Harwich the exercise of tbeir right in the election of a Member.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  agreed that the House was indebted to the hon. Member for Manchester for calling their attention to the subject by this proposition. The discussion was one which the House ought to entertain, inasmuch as it might be productive of considerable benefit. The hon. Gentleman had forcibly pointed out the evils arising, not so much from the present game laws, as from the great accumulation of game, and its strict preservation practised in some parts of the country; still the remedy now proposed, he believed, would not remove the evils alluded to, whilst it would introduce others in addition. The hon. Gentleman overlooked the real cause of these evils, which was, as he had said, the accumulation of game. On one point he entirely agreed with the hon. Gentleman's remarks, and he thought the majority of the House would join with him in condemning the modern system of battues. That any country gentlemen should be induced to pursue this system for the mere purpose of inserting in a newspaper a statement of the enormous quantity of game killed at a particular spot in a particular time, was utterly unworthy of them; and it was this custom, he believed, which led to the great majority of the offences committed under the game laws. He rejoiced that this subject had found favour with the House; and was so far indebted to the hon. Gentleman for proposing this Bill, as it might lead to a discontinuance of the system, which was fraught with the greatest evils. The hon. Gentleman had spoken of the game laws as injurious to crops, to tenants, and to the general morals of the country. With respect to the injury to crops, he believed that great injury was done by game, especially by hares, whilst pheasants were very destructive to the crops adjoining the coverts. But when the hon. Member spoke of the great loss of food thus occasioned to the country generally, he forgot that the game was food; and the real evil was that this
 955 956 957 958
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  said, that, notwithstanding all that had been done of late years to improve the game laws, a strong feeling yet existed in the country that they were oppressive and unjust. He had listened to the speech of the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), and it must be confessed that it was a very powerful one, as far as related to its decription of the evils of the game laws; but when he came to his proposed remedies, then the hon. Member broke down. If the hon. Member's measure were carried, it would introduce in six months anarchy and confusion into the whole state of the relations between landlord and tenant. The tenant who suffered from game was, if he understood the hon. Member aright, to have a remedy against his neighbour who preserved by an action at law; but how was he to mark the pheasants, hares, and rabbits by whom he was injured, or tell from whose lands they came? All the remedies proposed were of a similar nature; and he could not but believe that the hon. Member was somewhat ignorant upon the subject he had taken up, as he had described hares and rabbits as similar animals, as far as injury to the farmer was concerned. The hon. Member said that twelve rabbits devoured as much as two sheep, but had not recollected at the same time that the rabbit, as well as the sheep, were human food. If the hon. Member would take a walk along the streets, he would see that the Cockneys were far from being averse to that kind of food, and were quite willing to give a high price for them. The hon. Member's new regulations were proposed to be equally stringent against rabbits as
 954
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  thought that the only real benefit that the House could confer upon the agriculturists would be the doing away with the game laws; for they incited the people to more crime than anything else in the country. The game laws filled the gaols, and poaching was the first thing that made the farming assistant a criminal. No measure could be of greater importance than their repeal; and he should support the Bill of the hon. Member for Manchester for that purpose.
 Sir W. MOLESWORTH  approved of everything that had fallen from the Chairman of the Harwich Election Committee (Mr. S. Wortley). Nothing that had occurred ought, in his opinion, to hinder the issuing of the writ. He was strongly of opinion that such small constituencies as that of Harwich were very injurious, and he would willingly support a measure for reforming the Reform Bill, and getting rid of those small constituencies. But he was called upon now to perform a judicial act; and he had to ask himself whether there had been such amount of bribery and corruption at Harwich as would justify the House in refusing a new writ for the bo-
 907
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  said, there was no encouragement for Committees of that House to do their duty properly, if, after having to the best of their judgment and with great patience reported upon the several cases submitted to them, they were to meet with such broadsides as those of the hon. Member for Montrose. The Committees were obliged to act on the facts brought before them. He did not mean to say that bribery and treating equal to the practices of former years had been carried on at the last elections, but there had undoubtedly been a great improvement in the law. It was an extremely difficult case to prove bribery and treating, and then to disconnect the sitting Member from the acts of his agents. But, on the other hand, it was within the knowledge of every Member of that House that an over-zealous agent might now, without the knowledge of hon. Members, place both their seats and their honour in jeopardy. The House, he thought, ought to amend its own legislation rather than attack its Committees.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  thought that he could relieve the hon. Gentleman from the difficulty in which he was placed. He had asked whether an indictment was to be preferred by the law officers of the Crown against the parties concerned in the illegal destruction of several houses in Gal-way, as appeared by the evidence taken before Major M'Kie, the poor-law inspector of the union of Galway. There was no doubt of the law upon the subject. If a landlord gave a notice to quit to a tenant, after the period of his tenancy had expired, such landlord had a perfect right to enter the premises, provided he did so peaceably. If he entered by force he might be indicted for such forcible entry; and if a riot was occasioned, the party might be indicted for a riot. If, on the other hand, the entry was made before the notice to quit had expired, and before the term for which the tenant held his lease had ended, the tenant was entitled to a civil remedy. Of the law there was no doubt whatever. He apprehended that it was not usual in this country, certainly not in Ireland, to make
 1008
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY  had seen the evidence relating to this monstrously cruel transaction; and if it were not the practice of Government to indict in such cases, the sooner that became the practice the better.
 COLONEL ANSON  replied, that a portion of it would be devoted for that purpose; but the subject would come before them in detail on a future occasion.
 The EARL of LINCOLN  wished, before the vote was put, some more definite answer was given to the question of the hon. Member for Bodmin (Mr. Wyld), as to whether the ordnance survey of the metropolis was to be defrayed out of this vote. It was desirable to know whether it would be necessary to suspend the surveys in the other parts of the country to proceed with that of London. He hoped that they would not suspend the surveys in other parts of the country; for if they were stopped, it would entail great expense hereafter. He hoped the hon. and gallant Gentleman would explain more fully what was the nature of the vote now proposed, and what was the expense of the survey of the metropolis.
 COLONEL ANSON  would in the first place answer the last question of the noble Lord. The whole amount of the charge in the Ordnance estimates for the surveys of the United Kingdom was 60,000 l 1015 l l l l
 COLONEL ANSON  said, that the money came out of the Treasury. The Chancellor of the Exchequer gave to the Ordnance Department permission to draw on account of the expenses, which were estimated at 1,000 l l.
 The EARL of LINCOLN  said, the noble Lord (Lord Morpeth) thought there was no injustice in taxing the rest of the country for this survey of the metropolis; but here, in reality, rested the whole of the question. In the noble Lord's Bill, at least as originally introduced, a provision was made that every town which was surveyed for sanitary purposes was to pay, by a rate imposed upon it, the expense of such survey. If the various towns throughout the country were, in pursuance of that provision, to be obliged to pay such expenses, then undoubtedly it would be a great injustice to take a large and wealthy city like London out of the category. If they paid for the survey of London, why should they not adopt the same rule with regard to York, Nottingham, Bristol, and other towns? In that case, instead of those
 1017 l l l l l l
 MR. BOUVERIE , amidst calls for a division, said, that the question was, whether the policy which they had been pursuing, expending millions of money and sacrificing hundreds of lives, was a right and just policy or not? Was it right to tax the people of this country for an object which did not properly fall within the range of the Government at all?
 LORD H. VANE  said, that it seemed to be the general desire that this discussion should not be pressed upon the present occasion; but, nevertheless, he would trouble the House with a few words upon the subject. It certainly seemed to him inopportune to ask the House to decide
 985
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I wish to address a few observations to the House, not upon the general subject of the efficacy of the system adopted with respect to the slave trade, but with reference to the position of the question as it stands before us. I will, therefore, abstain from entering into any discussion as to whether we have thrown away a vast sum of money, and aggravated the horrors of the slave trade by our efforts to suppress it; but I venture to remind the House that according even to the statement of those Members who urge those considerations upon our attention, this course has now for more than thirty years, under different Administrations, been continued at a cost of 80,000,000 l primâ facie 999 1000
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL , in rising to move the Order of the Day for going into Committee of Supply, explained the course he meant to adopt in forwarding the Bills before the House, and then continued: But I wish to make a statement with regard to the general business of the House, so far as legislation is concerned at this time: first, because it is a comparatively early period of the Session; and in the next place, because I have every reason to thank the House for the attention it has given to the business brought before it by the Government; for I do not know an instance when the Government wished to press business forward in which the House has not been disposed to assist them. What I say, therefore, will be said without making the slightest complaint either against the House or against individual Members. My noble Friend the Member for Bath (Lord Duncan) has given to-night an instance of his wish to accommodate the business of the Government by not bringing forward his Motion with regard to the expenditure and management of the Woods and Forests; and I own I should be glad if the hon. Gentleman
 969 970
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that the whole conduct of the Government, both in relation to this atrocious affair, and to the administration of the poor-law generally, acquitted them entirely of the charges made against them. It was not to be expected that these ponderous blue volumes should be waded though except by those who had
 1012
 MR. DISRAELI : The hon. Member for Gateshead thinks that there is some similarity between the speech with which a month ago he favoured the House, and that which has been made to-night by my hon. Friend the Member for Inverness. I had not the privilege of listening to the speech of the hon. Member for Gateshead; but I have respect for his talents—of which indeed I have many proofs—that I can easily believe that his speech was as clear and as able as that of my hon. Friend; and as both spoke upon the same subject, I have no doubt there would be some similarity. But I beg to say that there is a difference in the course which has been recommended by him and by the hon. Member for Inverness; for the hon. Member for Gateshead did not recommend the House to do anything, whereas the hon. Member for Inverness recommends the House to act decisively, and with effect. The noble Lord who has just sat down reminds us that on the Motion of the hon. Member for Gateshead the subject had been referred to a Select Committee. Sir, the House agreed to that course; but it agreed to no more than that the question should be referred. But I want the House for a moment to consider this—is the question of so much importance that they wish it to be settled? and if it is a question of so much importance, is the reference of it to a Select Committee exactly the process by which it will be settled? Night after night questions are referred to Select Committees. Two Select Committees have been appointed to-night to decide questions of importance which ought to have been decided,
 994 995 996 997
 MR. HAWES  said, in answer to Mr. Reynolds, the House was no doubt aware of the distressing circumstances connected with the emigration to Canada last year. The character of that emigration would be perceived from the one fact that out of about 90,000 emigrants who went to Canada last year, no less than 15,000 died on board the vessels, or immediately after
 968 s
 MR. URQUHART  said, it was impossible to present to the House a graver or a simpler case—grave from the expenditure of money, life, and character—simple from the clear, conclusive, and unrefuted evidence of the utter failure of all the objects for which that expenditure had been incurred, and the aggravation of all the ills which it had been designed to relieve. The House, since it met, had been engaged in the fruitless contemplation of the misery of the people, greatly increased beyond the scale of former suffering, and in the industrious voting of supplies, surpassing even the limit of former expenditure. If ever then there was a period when economy and reduction were an obligation, it was the present. If ever there was a time when the House stood in need of redeeming its character with the nation from the charge of extravagance, it was the present; and the present Motion afforded the opportunity.
 986 987 988 989
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  rose to encourage the hon. Member to proceed in his Motion. He hoped, notwithstanding the impatience of the House, and the unwillingness with which they had heard the hon. Member, that he would press this question, which was one of the greatest importance to the poor people of Ireland. The houses of the poor were pulled down without either justice or law, and he submitted that the hon. Member should be heard on the Address.
 MR. O'CONNOR  condemned the Attorney General for the heartless manner in which he got up and told the House that there was no law in existence to meet the case. If property had been touched, there would have been a law, or, if not, one would have been quickly proposed; but when the lives of the poor Irish were at stake, the House treated the matter with cold indifference. He would tell the Government that theirs was an exterminating Government, and that they refused to look after the interests of the people, though they were dying by thousands every day, while the landlords received every advantage they asked. He felt insulted as an Irishman when he saw the people starving upon a land large enough and fertile enough to maintain them all in affluence, contentment, comfort, and peace. Let the Government look to what was passing in other countries, and then say whether this was a time to trifle with the people. They sympathised with Poland; but while Poland was redolent only of the fresh blood of the martyrs who had fallen for their country, Ireland was stinking with the decomposed carcases of her starving people, who had been cut off by famine, "unhouselled, unanointed, unannealed." ["Oh! oh!"] It was the truth; ten persons had been buried in one coffin.
 COLONEL DUNNE  expressed his abhorrence of the atrocities that were stated to have been committed.
 MR. MOWATT  had made up his mind to support the Motion. He thought the great experiment in which this nation had engaged was one worthy of its character; but after the clear statement made by the Mover of the address, which was uncontradicted by any Member of Her Majesty's Government, he saw no other conclusion to which he could come, but that the great experiment which had been made had wholly and totally failed. The very policy which led this country to allow the importation of foreign slave-grown sugar could not fail to give a great impetus to the slave trade. We were pursuing a course which involved increased expense to augment the price of the produce which was to be consumed in this country.
 MR. G. THOMPSON  rose and said, that he had not intended to have said anything on the question; but as it seemed that no Member of her Majesty's Government was inclined to rise and show cause why this inordinate expenditure of money, and this most awful sacrifice of human life, should be any longer continued, he would
 982 983 984
 MR. BAILLIE  regretted that he could not assent to the wish of the noble Lord, because the Motion he intended to propose had reference to a most wasteful expenditure of public money, which, in his opinion, ought to be considered before any further supplies were granted. The time had arrived when it was necessary to dispel the delusion that had prevailed with regard to the slave trade. When the naked truth should be revealed, it would become apparent, that all the blood and treasure which for so many years past had been expended for the purpose of suppressing the slave trade had been poured forth in vain—that all our efforts had not only failed in attaining the object this country had in view, but had actually increased the slave trade, and added tenfold to its cruelties and horrors. If those facts could be clearly and distinctly proved, then it would be most criminal to persevere in a course that was attended with such melancholy and fatal results. The most competent naval authorities had repeatedly declared that the whole Navy of England would not be sufficient to maintain an effective blockade upon a coast of 6,000 miles in extent. In 1845 the House had been informed that new and important measures were about to be adopted, from which the Government anticipated the most successful results. But at the very time that communication had been made, the Government had actually surrendered to the Government of France those treaties for the mutual right of search, by which alone the utility of our squadron could be tested, and by which alone the object could be effected for which those treaties had been made. At the time of the late Government coming into office, they had found difficult and delicate questions pending both with France and the United States; questions that were calculated to interrupt our friendly relations with both those Powers. Amongst these was the question of mutual right of search, concerning which both the people of France and of the United States were peculiarly sensitive. It was true the late Government had settled those questions, and peace had been preserved. But how? By giving up the main point at issue. It might have been wise to take that course; but the point of mutual right of search was, at all events, wholly given up, and it was not just that the people of England shold be held responsible for maintaining, at a vast expense, a squadron on the coast of Africa,
 972 l l 
 
 Expenditure from 1808 to 1847 £29,752,271 
 Bounties upon captured negroes, civil establishments, &c. 153,434 
 Compensation for emancipation 20,000,000 
 Making a total of £49,905,705 s l l l l l l 973 l s d l l Venus "Would any man who knows the state of Cuba pretend that this is not enough to shut the mouth of the informer, arrest the arm of the police, blind the eyes of the magistrates, and open the doors of the prison?" 974 975 976 977 978 "An estimate of the charge to the public for the ships of war of all classes employed for the suppression of the slave trade, and also of the number of men lost in that service." l l 979 l l l l l "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to give directions that negotiations be entered into with Foreign Powers to relieve this country from the engagement under which it labours of maintaining a squadron upon the coast of Africa."
 MR. WYLD  thought the survey for the Sanitary Commission was entirely unnecessary. It was calculated that it would cost 25,000 l l l l 1016 l l l
 MR. WYLD  wished to ask the hon. and gallant Officer (Col. Anson), whether any portion of this vote was to be given for the survey of London for the purposes of the Health of Towns Bill?
 MR. BRIGHT  rose for the purpose of putting a question to the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary, and he did so with great reluctance, as the question was one which he felt must be productive of pain to the right hon. Gentleman. Two men were at present under sentence of death, in the county gaol of Durham, for a murder committed on a gamekeeper of the Duke of Cleveland. He perceived by the public papers that a respite had been sent down from the Home Office for one of these unhappy individuals; and he understood also that the town-council of Durham, and also the jury before whom the case was tried, had forwarded a memorial to the Home Office for respite or commutation of punishment in the case of both the prisoners. When the subject of the abolition of the punishment of death had been recently before the House, a feeling seemed to prevail in favour of the system existing in France of giving in verdicts under extenuating circumstances, the custom being, under such verdicts, never to enforce the extreme penalty of the law. Now, he did not mean that the case of these men differed in point of guilt from many others in which the extreme penalty of the law was enforced; but what he thought was, that a circular which had been signed by the jury was to be regarded in the light of a recommendation to mercy, and that it ought to be treated as such. The question which he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet was, whether he had any objection to state if such a memorial from the jury had been received by him; and also whether he had any objection to place a copy of it on the
 967
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, this was a question of far more importance than the one which had engaged the attention of the House for the last five hours. They had been discussing African slavery; but he must be permitted to ask whether Irish slavery, and the murder of the Irish people, were not more important than the mitigation of African slavery? He had heard with deep regret the reply of Her Majesty's Attorney General, that the only remedy in this dreadful case was to be obtained by resorting to what was called the ordinary operation of the law, as that amounted to the fact that there was no redress at all, considering the power of the oppressor and the weakness of the oppressed. The accused in this case, Mr. Blake, a magistrate of the county of Galway, had admitted in the evidence that he had unhoused the people without the sanction of either law or justice, and sent them forth upon the wide world in the inclement month of December, and that lives had been sacrificed in consequence. If there were no law to punish this conduct, he would still ask the Government whether this magistrate was to be allowed to remain in the commission of the peace? He recollected that Mr. Alexander O'Driscoll, a Cork magistrate, had been dismissed for striking a boy while he was engaged in his magisterial duties; but that offence was a most venial one compared to that of Mr. Blake. He cautioned the House against passing over the offence of Mr. Blake, for if they did, it would teach the people of Ireland that they were to
 1009 "Small by degrees, and beautifully less."
 MR. HUME  wished to ask whether there was any Government in Ireland, and if so, why it did not deem it a duty to interfere in such a case as this? Were there any public officers to take cognizance of these things? If not, would it not be much better to let the people of Ireland govern themselves, than to allow such scenes as those they had heard described to-night occur again? He was not at all surprised that there should be a call for a repeal of the Union. They had, in the course of their debates, spoken of the sufferings of slaves in the middle passage; but they had now evidence that even more grievous sufferings might have to be endured in the midst of civilised life. This was a case which put the Government on their trial. Why, he would ask, had not the Government, through their officers, taken cognizance of these outrages against the common feelings of humanity? He trusted Her Majesty's Ministers would not rely upon moral influence alone, as suggested by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth; but that, if the law was not sufficient to protect the poor and helpless from the tyranny of their landlords, the Government would at once bring in a measure to afford them that protection. He was quite shocked at the statements he had heard; he was not aware of anything having occurred of so distressing a nature; and he hoped the Government would not lose a day before devising means for preventing the recurrence of such outrages against the people.
 MR. HUME  had not yet heard a distinct answer to the question as to who was to pay for the survey of the metropolis and other towns. He certainly had heard that the survey was to be made by the Ordnance, but had never heard that London or other large towns were not to pay for the expense out of their local funds.
 MR. HUME  said, that when, upon former occasions, he suggested the propriety and expediency of reducing our naval establishment on the African coast, he showed that we were not only spending money uselessly, but occasioning a great deal of misery. The plan on which we proceeded involved an expenditure of not less than a million a year, and, so far from doing any good, it produced much mischief. Of late this country acted, or seemed to act, upon some principle; but if the general tenor of our policy were examined, it would be found that, with reference to the slave trade, we very often acted upon contrary principles. He had seen within the last few weeks statements illustrative of the progress of estates cultivated by slave labour; those were estates on which 60,000 70,000, and 80,000 dollars had been expended, and the returns showed that the owners got back their money in about three or four years. Now those and a multitude of similar facts proved that the cultivation of sugar by means of slave labour was enormously profitable. What was our practice? We permitted the importation of slave-grown sugar, and we made war upon all who carried on the slave trade. What consistency was there in that? He would appeal to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and he would ask him was it right that the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs should be allowed to ride his hobby so unmercifully as to put the country to an expense of a million annually,
 980 "You have no right to interfere with that which the United States think the best form of government. There are portions of the United States which disapprove of slavery as much as any other country; other portions are not willing to relinquish it; are we to allow you to interfere with those States with whom we do not ourselves interfere?" 981 l
 MR. P. SCROPE  rose to move an humble Address to Her Majesty, that she will be graciously pleased to direct an indictment to be preferred by Her Majesty's law officers against the parties concerned in the illegal destruction of several houses, and the forcible ejectment of their inmates, which took place within the union of Galway, on or about New Year's day last, and which appears to have occasioned the deaths of several of the unfortunate beings so ill-treated, by the evidence taken on oath before Major M'Kie, poor-law inspector of the union, by order of the Commissioners; which evidence is printed at length in p. 467 of the fifth series of papers relating to the relief of distress and state of the unions in Ireland; thereby to show, by a practical example to the
 1007
 MR. P. SCROPE  replied, his object was attained by calling attention to the subject. If the law to punish did exist, let it be vindicated, if not, let a law be passed to do justice to all—to the poor as well as to the rich.
 MR. OSBORNE  thanked the hon. Member for Stroud for having brought forward this charge. He (Mr. Osborne) was not previously aware that such statements as that which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Tamworth had made were contained in the report; and he would ask the Government whether the Lord Chancellor had communicated with Mr. Blake, respecting his situation in the commission of the peace; for if he were cognizant of those proceedings he ought to be dismissed; and, if there were any law in Ireland, he ought to be prosecuted. He found that the son of Mr. Blake, not content with turning the people out of their houses, had actually beaten one within an inch of his life; and if the House did not interfere from motives of humanity, it ought from motives of selfishness; for it could not be expected that if such atrocities were perpetrated with impunity, the people of Ireland would remain contented. He wished to hold no violent language; but, he did gay, that unless the Government took up this subject with a strong hand, and instituted a searching inquiry, it would be impossible to answer for the peace of Ireland from day to day.
 MR. OSBORNE  thought that with the uncertainty which existed with regard to the block plan, they would be blockheads if they thus voted 1,000 l
 MR. MONSELL  said, it appeared that the people who were turned out and who died, did not die from want, but from exposure to the weather, being turned out in the middle of the night in snow and rain; and he believed that if the Government acted with vigour, they would establish against the persons guilty of these atrocities the crime of manslaughter. But, although
 1014
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  complained that in a case of such atrocity the House was told that it was not the duty of the Government to institute an inquiry. He knew it was an indictable offence, as the Attorney General had stated, and that the parties might be taken before a magistrate; but what were the poor people to do when the magistrate himself was the party concerned in the ejectment? for Mr. Blake, who was the party accused of this inhuman act, was himself in the commission of the peace. He considered it was the duty of the Government immediately to send down a Commission to find who was to blame.
 SIR G. GREY  said, it was quite evident the hon. Member for Montrose had not read the papers that were before the House relating to these occurrences. If he had, the hon. Gentleman would have seen that it was through the instrumentality of the Government that the statement of facts which had so strongly excited his indignation
 1011
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that no matter how proper the hon. Gentleman's motives might have been in bringing forward such a subject, he could not help expressing in the strongest terms his deep regret that questions of the kind should be asked in that House on matters the whole circumstances connected with which it Was quite impossible could be fully laid before the House. He had doubts whether such a course of proceeding did not tend very much to impede the Executive in the proper discharge of the painful duty which devolved upon them. With regard to the present case, in which the sentence had been finally signed, he could only say that it had received the most careful consideration from him; and, painful as the decision to which he had been forced was, he did not feel himself at liberty to shrink from it by the anticipation of any comments that might be made upon his acts in that House or elsewhere. He would only say, that the verdict of the jury had not been accompanied by any recommendation to mercy. He had subsequently, however, received from the neighbourhood many applications for a commutation of sentence, and among others a memorial to that effect, signed by the jury by whom the case had been heard. He did not feel it to be advisable to lay that memorial before the House, as, if he did so, it would be necessary to accompany it with all the counter statements and communications which he had felt it his duty to call for in order to enable him to come to a decision on the subject. He thought that such a mode of proceeding would be subversive of the constitutional practice followed in such cases.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  would not have risen on the present occasion but for some expressions which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, who had been pleased to term the efforts of the officers and men engaged on the coast of Africa for the suppression of the slave trade as buccaneering expeditions. He had thought that the hon. Gentleman, who was so fertile in language and argument, would have shown how those officers and seamen had conducted themselves to prove his assertion, that the object of that squadron had failed. But it appeared to him the hon. Gentleman had failed to establish his own position. The hon. Gentleman had not shown the points to which he attributed the failure of the experiment. The hon. Gentleman was fond of matters of diplomacy, and he thought he must have seen that the Treaty of 1845 had greatly contributed to lessen the power of our cruisers on the coast of Africa. In respect to that treaty he must say there had been a complete truckling to Prance. Let the hon. Gentleman bear in mind what our gallant seamen and officers suffered from the influence of a pestilential climate! But, instead of tendering his thanks to these men, the hon. Gentleman (he hoped he did not intend it as a sneer) spoke of them as persons engaged in buccaneering expeditions. He hoped the hon. Gentleman would on reflection see that these were expressions which were hurtful to the feelings of the officers and seamen who were employed in this service. He thought the Motion of the hon. Gentleman was inopportune, being calculated to excite the apprehension that this nation wished to back out of her engagements in respect to this squadron. For his own part, he believed it to be impossible for us to prevent the trade on the coast of Africa, without having a sufficient supply of ships.
 SIR H. VERNEY  said, that hon. Members who had talked of Poland and of slavery could not say that any hon. Gentleman
 1013
 SIR R. PEEL : I can easily believe that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General is perfectly correct in stating that, according to the existing law, the Government cannot interfere in this matter; but if that be so, it is the more incumbent upon us, when cases of this kind are brought under the notice of the House, where the law affords no remedy, and where the Government are powerless, to exercise at any rate the moral power which we possess, by marking our indignation against such occurrences. I shall read to the House what is the report of a military man on the case—a person employed by Government, and in whose statements apparently the utmost confidence may be placed; and I doubt whether in any country calling itself civilised, a case of more grievous injustice ever occurred. Major M'Kie, in his report to the Poor Law Commissioners, stated, that—
 "It would appear from the evidence recorded, that the forcible ejectments were illegal; that previous notices had not been served; and that the ejectments were perpetrated under circumstances of great cruelty. The time chosen was for the greater part nightfall on the eve of the new year. The occupiers were forced out of their houses with their helpless children, and left exposed to the cold on a bleak western shore in a stormy winter's night; that some of the children were sick; that the parents implored that they might not be exposed, and their houses left till the morning; that their prayers for mercy were vain; and that many of them have since died. I have visited the ruins of these huts (not at any great distance from Mr. Blake's residence); I found that many of these unfortunate people were still living within the ruins of those huts, endeavouring to shelter themselves under a few sticks and sods, all in the most wretched state of destitution; many were so weak that they could scarcely stand when giving their evidence. The site of these ruins is a rocky wild spot, fit for nothing but a sheep walk." 1010
 SIR R. PEEL : I am not one of those who think this a convenient occasion to revive the discussion that took place in 1845, as to the policy of the treaty then entered into with France, for the purpose, not of abrogating the rights we then possessed, but of substituting some other system for the suppression of the slave trade, that was thought likely to be more efficaciously applied than that which we then
 1001 1002 bonâ fide 1003 1004
 SIR T. D. ACLAND  agreed with the hon. Member who had spoken last, though on different and higher grounds than he had taken, that they ought not to be regardless of the character of the country, which he thought they would be if they were now to abandon a system which had for its object the highest point of redeeming benevolence. He thought they would at least better maintain their credit by showing that if they were to change their policy they would not do it on light grounds—that they would not overturn in the debate of a single night the policy that they had steadily pursued for thirty years. The hon. Member who proposed the Amendment spoke of the health of the squadron, and pointed to the reports of 1845 and 1848, as if they were contradictory of each other. He certainly thought they required explanation; but that only showed the more the danger of acting precipitately. From the information he had received he had reason to believe that the last return was the more correct one. On the 7th of April last. Commodore Hotham wrote to inform the Lords of the Admiralty that the general health of the squadron was excellent—that the per centage of deaths, including the hospital, did not exceed 4¾ per cent, which would be considered a marvellous low average in any part of the world. This was altogether in the face of the report for 1845, which stated the loss of life in the squadron at 250, with a sickness of nearly equal amount. If this discrepancy existed with regard to figures, how much more likely was it to occur in questions which, after all, were matters of opinion. In the same despatch from which he had already quoted, Commodore Hotham said it was the general opinion of the best informed persons at Sierra Leone, that the slave trade in that neighbourhood had received a decided check, and that the natives were beginning to turn their attention to legitimate traffic, rather than engage in the precarions trade of slaving. In that sentence, he thought, was contained the whole philosophy of the question. He was satisfied that the system
 998 l l
 MR. HUTT  said, that as Chairman of the Select Committee to whom the whole subject of the slave trade had been referred, it might be expected that he should say a few words. It would be useless, however, for him to go over the whole of the ground which he had attempted to traverse a month ago. Between himself and the hon. Member for Inverness there
 990
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  could not say whether those persons could be punished by law; but the attention of his right hon. Friend the Attorney General had been called to it, and the circumstances were now under his consideration.
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  did not intend to shrink from any representation he had made to his colleagues of the Government. He did not see that there was any injustice to the country in large in doing for London what the inhabitants of London were doing for the country at large. A certain sum was voted every year for the Ordnance survey of the United Kingdom; other towns in the country were now in the course of regular survey; and when it was considered of importance, with a view to sanitary improvements, that a survey should be commenced in London, he did not see the injustice of taking a portion of the sum voted for the whole kingdom, and applying it to the commencement of that work.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I do not mean to dispute that this is a subject very well deserving the most attentive consideration of the House, and that it may very properly he brought before us at a time when a vote of supply is demanded; of course, I admit, that when the Government ask the House to vote money, it is competent for any hon. Member to propose means by which, in his opinion, expenditure may be saved. But, on the other hand, seeing that the whole of this subject was not long ago, and, after considerable debate, referred for examination to a Select Committee, I think the hon. Member (Mr. Baillie) has not exercised a sound discretion in bringing it again before the House on this occasion. If the hon. Member thinks he can prove the matters which he has asserted that he can, I would suggest to him that it would be a
 991 992 993
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  explained that the right of search he referred to as necessary to a fair trial of the system was a right of searching vessels under the Spanish and Portuguese flags, and that that right had not been given up.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  rose to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary to a case of great oppression. It was the case of Mr. Charles Pollett, a clerk to the Brighton railway, who had been summoned in the White-chapel county court for a debt of 2 l 1020 l
 MR. NEWDEGATE  proceeded to say that it had not been his intention to speak on the question, but that having listened attentively to the arguments which had been used against the proposition of Government, he thought hon. Members who had spoken in favour of the Amendment had completely contradicted each other. The hon. Member for Montrose objected to the tax because it was under the direction of commissioners appointed by the nation, who might be supposed to have some interest in its operation; but he could not suppose this would have much weight with the House. The Chancellor of the Exchequer admitted that every landlord was taxed on 20 per cent more than he received, on account of the outlay to which he was subject; but the right hon. Gentleman had proposed no feasible plan for remedying this injustice. He wished the House to observe that men of every shade of opinion, and representatives of every interest, with the sole exception of the landlords, had objected to this tax, while they were the most heavily burdened and had to pay the largest share of the tax. He would ask the House what other conclusion indifferent persons could draw from these debates, than that direct taxation was so invidious that they would always find objections to it? He would ask them whether they had ever known a case where indirect taxation had met with such violent opposition, and from such different quarters, as had been excited against the present propositions to which they had been driven by the necessities of their exchequer? He begged to protest against its being supposed that in voting for this tax for three years, he approved of it as a permanent impost; and he warned the Government to look to the discontent which prevailed throughout the
 1045
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Member for Montrose proposed to refer this Bill to a Select Committee, He thought this was an unusual course; he did not believe there was any instance of such a Bill being referred to a Select Committee. Nor would the hon. Member attain his object by so doing, which was to introduce a graduated scale of taxation; that would he contrary to the forms of the House.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I certainly should not do that justice which I always wish to do to my hon. Friend who has just sat down, if I did not allow that any suggestion from him ought always to command my best attention; but, nevertheless, I must decline entering into all those questions of different taxes to which he has adverted. I do not think that I should be furthering the business of this House by going at length into those subjects, when the subject before us is simply the mode of imposing the income-tax. I will only refer very shortly to one of the hon. Gentleman's suggestions—that of a tax on gas. I do not think that a duty upon gas would be a very just tax; it would press greatly upon shopkeepers, and very much upon the lower description of them. Nor do I think it would produce anything approaching to the amount which its advocates suppose. Many such suggestions have been made to me—a tax upon hats, upon bells, upon opera glasses, and fifty other things, and latterly I have been told that, inasmuch as English servants have been driven out of France, I ought to extend the principle of the duty on bachelors' servants, and impose a double tax upon French servants, and a quadruple tax upon French cooks. But really so many impediments have been thrown—I do not say
 1028 1029 1030 "He should be happy to render the tax as little onerous as possible, but the right hon. Baronet had declared that he would not allow of the alterations and improvements which had been suggested. Very well, then; if that was the case, what was the use of their bothering themselves with these discussions? " 1031 l l 1032 l l l l 1033 l l l l l l l 1034 l l l l l l 1035 1036 "The subjects of every State ought to contribute towards the support of the Government as nearly as possible in proportion to their respective abilities." "That is, in proportion to the revenue which they respectively enjoy under the protection of the State."
 MR. URQUHART  said, that this was a subject to which he had long devoted his most anxious attention, upon which he had the most settled conclusions, and which he had urged, while as yet the distinction between direct and indirect taxation was unknown in this country. He conceived that mistake upon this subject was the most fatal that a Government could commit, and that sound maxims upon it were necessary for the well-being of any people or the permanency of any system. They were now upon a great experiment. They were making a trial of the two systems; and he must say they were giving to direct taxation a most unfair trial. Would not the wise and proper course have been, in such a matter, to separate such a question from all others—to deal with it on its own merits—and, while excluding that which was extraneous, to take it up in all its parts? The reverse was the course which had been followed. It was introduced as a claptrap urged on the plea of necessity, frittered into discussion on details, and cast as a bone of contention to conflicting interests and prejudices. At one moment it was mixed up with national defences; at another with deficiency of revenue; at another with the peculiar defects of the operation of the income-tax, and with the consequences and expediency of commercial treaties and reductions of customs duties. The result had been an inextricable jumble of all these questions, whence unceasing and profitless debates. The question ought to have been at once boldly faced and absolutely determined, whether they were to continue the old system, or adopt a new one; or rather, he should say, whether they should cling to the aberrations of modern times, or resort to the old rule—the only just and constitutional rule—of laying the burden where alone it could be borne—on the property of the country. By this income-tax, in which they imagined that they were having recourse to direct taxation, they were disqualifying themselves from judging of the system; and the reason for which he had risen on the present occasion was simply, but emphatically, to protest against a scheme like this
 1041 1042
 MR. CARDWELL  thought the House would perhaps expect him to say a few words, after the extraordinary and formal challenge which he had received from the hon. Member who had just sat down. He had on a former evening taken the opportunity to say a few words on the plan of the hon. Gentleman with regard to the income-tax; and if he did not then convince him that there was such a class of cases as the hon. Member had now challenged him to produce, he hoped he might succeed in doing so on the present occasion. He told the hon. Gentleman that they were discussing, not an abstract principle, but a specific plan; and he did not confine himself to general grounds of objection, but stated two special grievances which would arise under that plan, as instances of its practical operation. The hon. Gentleman, in making the distinctions of payment which he proposed, followed the schedules of the Act of Parliament; and according to his scheme the hon. Gentlemen would have taxed an income, not according to the interest the individual might have in it, but according to the source from which it arose. If the source were in its nature permanent, then the individual was to pay the higher rate; and he (Mr. Cardwell) went on to show that the source might he permanent, and the interest of the individual terminable and fleeting. He supposed the case of a widow with a small annuity of 160 l 1047 d d l d d l d d 1048
 MR. HORSMAN  had been completely misunderstood in what he had stated to the House on a former occasion. The hon. Gentleman said that he proposed to tax an annuity at the highest rate. Now, that was just one of the cases he had stated that he would tax at the lowest rate; and he had not only stated it so in his scale of duties, but had referred to it in his speech as one that showed the hardship of the present system. He stated that the highest rate of charge was only to be imposed on the classes having realised property, and property descending to their heirs; and that every kind of annuity was to go into the lowest rate of charge. He was, therefore, really at a loss to know why the hon. Gentleman should persist in the statement he had made.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that he, for one, could see no practical advantage in the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose. Concurring with that hon. Member in the wishes he had expressed regarding a modification of the tax, he still could not help feeling that that question had, after due deliberation, been already decided by the House, and he had no reason to expect that the House would be induced to change that decision. His views remained the same as he had formerly expressed; but he could not help remembering that both the noble Lord at the head of the Government and the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had distinctly told them that they had given the subject their best attention, and that the decided conviction on their minds was that the injustice and inequality of the tax could not be remedied. He had not in the slightest decree changed his opinion; but at the same time he felt that it would be presumptuous in him to insist upon his view being carried out in opposition to that of a majority of the House. Having trespassed so long upon the House on a former occasion, he had during the subsequent debates refrained from speaking upon this question, feeling as he did that it had been virtually decided by the House, and that it was more becoming in him to consider what was duo to the sense of the House than what was due to himself. As the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Cardwell), however, had published a letter to his constituents in which he stated that he was prepared to show that the plan he (Mr. Horsman) proposed would make the injustice of the tax greater than before—that it would make it more offensive, and would not in any degree remedy the inequality that existed, perhaps he might be allowed to make a single observation on that point. There never was a more unfounded statement than that made by the hon. Gentleman; and he challenged him to produce a single class of cases which would in any degree bear him out in making it. The noble Lord had said that the landed proprietors would oppose the addition to the tax which he proposed, as respected them. But what was that addition? Only a penny in the pound. And he was satisfied that if such a proposal was believed by them to be accompanied with what was beneficial for the country at large, they would not oppose it.
 1046
 MR. ROBINSON  said, that that which the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said could not be denied—viz., that it was an unusual course in the present stage of proceeding to refer a Bill like the present one to a Select Committee. The necessity, however, for some such inquiry was admitted by the noble Lord, who had the other evening in a spirit of candour stated that the entire system of taxation of this country was anomalous and unequal, and a fit subject for the careful consideration of the Government. The noble Lord also stated, that he should be ready to consider the question with a view to the removal of those inequalities.
 1025 l
 MR. GOULBURN  had not the least doubt, after what the hon. Gentleman had said, that it was not his intention that his plan should operate as had been described; but his hon. Friend and himself had addressed themselves to his statement as they really found it; and certainly there was nothing in his speech that showed that under Schedule A income from land was not to be charged 8 d
 MR. J. CLAY  said, he would not have broken that silence which he was convined was the most acceptable token of respect which a new Member could pay to the House, but that he was anxious to explain why, on this subject, he had already voted, and why to-night again he should vote in opposition to an Administration with whose general policy he concurred. He had great confidence in the Government—he believed that they were able and willing to uphold the interests and honour of the country, both at home and abroad; but if there was a point on which neither the present nor any former Parliament had inspired him with implicit trust—if there was a point on which a very large party in that House distrusted the present Administration—nay, more than that, if there was a point on which the country distrusted the present House of Commons, it was on matters concerning finance, retrenchment, and economical government. He felt sure that the country was determined on having a severe and serious revision of every item of public expenditure; beginning with those of the most formidable amount, and finishing with the paltry 7,000 l 1037 1038 l l 1039
 MR. J. BONHAM CARTER  would oppose the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose. The country, in opposing the tax, was hardly aware of the difficulties of the Government, and at the same time took an exaggerated view of the injustice and inequality of the impost; but at any rate, whatever might be the opinion of the country, this was not the proper time to refer to a Select Committee a tax which
 1040
 MR. TRELAWNY  would vote against the Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose. He believed that the pressure of the income-tax, whether just or unjust, was analogous to that of all kinds of taxation. The hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire had shown the House how disproportionately heavy was the share of customs and excise duties which fell upon the poor compared to the rich man, and the income-tax went upon the same principle. If it was a wrong one, then let there be a general revision of taxation. He held, however, that under present circumstances, and in the present state of the public mind, it would not be advisable to remit this tax, but to continue to exact it, at least until a fair trial had been given to the late commercial measures of relaxation.
 MR. HUME  said, there might be difficulties in the way of his attaining the object he had in view; but when the right hon. Baronet said his (Mr. Hume's) proposal was unusual, so was the proceeding in respect to this Bill; and it was on that ground he appealed to the House, and asked it, as this tax was to become perpetual, whether it was not better now to
 1021 1022 l s s l d l l s d l 1023 s d l s l l l l l l l l l s d l 1024 l l
 MR. ANSTEY  thought that taxes ought no longer to be levied by the Treasury, and collected by a tax-gatherer appointed by the Ministry; but that, in place of that system they should resort to the old policy of their forefathers, and assess taxes in every locality under the residents for the supplies that should be required from that locality.
 MR. MITCHELL  said, it was a most extraordinary argument for the Chancellor of the Exchequer to use, that because the tax was greatly evaded at present, therefore it ought to be continued. He could not believe, any more than the right hon. Gentleman, that the income-tax leviable under Schedule D was paid by all the parties who were liable to it; but what consolation was that to those who did pay the tax, and who felt that it pressed upon them with undue severity? If the right hon. Gentleman believed that the tax was evaded to any great extent, let him take measures to enforce its better collection; but let him not make that an argument for continuing its present injustice. Being connected with trade himself, he had as much reason as any one to dislike the inquisitorial operation of the tax; but he would much rather undergo that inquisition than suppose that a large portion of his fellow-traders evaded the tax who ought to pay it. The right hon. Gentleman had also gone into an extraordinary calculation with reference to the net incomes of two persons, who each derived 1,000 l l 1043 l l l l l 1044
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  said, that no opponent of the income-tax had made out so strong a case against it as had the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer himself. That right hon. Gentleman had proved that in every way Schedule D was loaded with injustice. He would therefore urge the hon. Member for Montrose not to give even that sanction to the measure which was implied in his Motion, but to divide upon the main question, and to refuse to go into Committee at all.
 SIR G. GREY  said, he had received no complaint from Mr. Pollett; but having seen the statement which the hon. Member had read, in the  Daily News
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  was not prepared to support the proposition of the hon. Member for Montrose. If, indeed, the present year were the last of the income-tax, he could not but feel that there would be a great deal in the observations which the hon. Member had urged upon the House.
 1026 l l l l l l s l l l l l s l l l l 1027 l
 MR. V. SMITH  was of opinion, that under the Act there was no efficient control over railway companies, whereas the object of the Act was to supply a greater and more efficient control over those bodies. He hoped that, although the Act of last Session had not, as the hon. Member stated, given the necessary powers. Parliament would be disposed to give greater power to the public over railway companies. The hon. Member for Sunderland considered that no control was requisite; but the powers which were given by the Act might be more beneficially exercised. In the part of the country he lived in the communication from west to east was completely useless, because of the disagreement or misunderstanding between two companies, which caused a stoppage between two termini. [Mr. HUDSON: There is no misunderstanding.] Then there is a very bad understanding. He was content with what had been said by the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but he hoped Parliament would not lose sight of the subject, of establishing a more efficient control over railway companies, for the speech of the hon. Member for Sunderland had laid sufficient ground for requiring a better control.
 MR. BERNAL  thought, that whoever undertook to introduce legislation upon this subject, ought to provide for future cases as well as for those which had occurred. There was wanted, in fact, some Act to define, and perhaps extend, the powers of the examiner. But the principal objection to this Bill was, that it would give Committees the power to decide questions of great legal difficulty; it was a pity that they had to do this now incidentally, and the House ought not to increase the instances.
 VISCOUNT MAHON  said, that if the Bill, when it came out of Committee, should be presented to the House in its present shape, he would vote against the third reading; but if it were altered in the manner proposed by the right hon. and learned Member for Buteshire, it should receive his support. It was impossible to deny that the irregular proceedings in the examiner's office—be the fault whose it might—had been the cause of involving the House in very serious difficulty. Had there been no such irregular proceedings, there would have been no difficulty at all. The recognisances in each petition would
 1087 laches laches ex post facto 1088
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  was satisfied from what had occurred in the debate, that he was right when he contended that it was unnecessary to have any Bill at all in the matter. He now found that there were four courses under consideration. It was impossible to overcome the argument of the hon. Member for the University of Oxford, who had urged that it was quite informal and unparliamentary to read a Bill a second time merely for the purpose of rejecting all its clauses. But the Bill before the House would do nothing. It suggested a conflict between that House and the courts of law. He doubted the possibility of such a conflict. The Bill of his right hon. Friend would do literally nothing towards providing a remedy for the difficulties in which the House was involved. There were two classes of recognisances to which objections were made—the one, such as Cheltenham, in which there was high legal authority for saying the recognisances were not bad; and the other, such as Leicester and Walsall, where it had been suggested the fault lay with the examiner, who had not adopted the forms of the House; and in neither of those classes of cases would the Bill of his right hon. Friend be operative. Its only effect would be to create a great deal of delay, and to impose upon the petitioners the expense of keeping up their witnesses, and the annoyance of having their cases undisposed of while the inquiry was pending. He regretted that there had been any canvassing on either side in this which was a purely judicial matter. It had been intended that these questions should be withdrawn from the consideration of the House; and he thought they would be acting in fatal opposition to this principle if they did not at once reject this Bill.
 MR. S. WORTLEY  said, that as far as any decisions of that House had gone, they had been in favour of some legislative interference on this subject, and he wished the House not to dismiss it from their minds till they should have come to a deliberate decision. He was anxious that they should do justice to parties who might think themselves exposed to injustice. It was advisable to interfere, and thus avoid all difficulties with courts of law. The authority of Parliament was in favour of interference by a majority; and the Committee on the subject was unanimously in favour of some interference. The Committee, in their report, stated that one suggestion was, that the petitioners against the sitting Member should he allowed to go on, and if the recognisances were incomplete or deficient, that then the parties should be allowed to appeal to the House for redress. The objection to this course was the postponement of the difficulty in the first place, and in the second place that it left the sitting Member in uncertainty as to the recovery of his coats. These alone were strong reasons why the matter should not be left as it was. But upon a former occasion—(he apprehended he was correct when he stated it)—the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and the Attorney General, and other hon. Members on that side of the House, on the first discussion on the second reading of the Bill in that House, came to the conclusion that some interference was necessary; but the fact was, that no deliberate decision had been come to on the former occasion. It was admitted on all hands, that there was a necessity for legislation; and he did not deny that, take what course they would, the matter was encompassed by great difficulty; but he conceived that the worst course of all which could possibly be taken would be to leave the matter as it was. The Act 7 and 8 Victoria was that which formed the ground upon which legislation proceeded in regard to these election petitions. In one matter respecting that Act—namely, the deficiency of the recognisances, they had no adequate remedy afforded them. A case might go to trial without any security to the parties as to the validity of the recognisances, and hence the costs would not be awarded. Formerly the House might have given relief; but since the Grenville Act had passed and
 1085 1086 laches
 MR. NEWDEGATE  concurred in the views of the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham). He thought the petition ought to be rejected.
 MR. SPEAKER  read the Order of the House, which referred to petitions which might contain something contrary to the
 1056
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought that the hon. Member was mistaken as to the existence of any department of the Ordnance connected with the Railway Board. With regard to the statement of the hon. Gentleman, that some persons under the Admiralty were paid for services rendered only in respect of railways, he would remind him that this was an arrangement which had been carried out in express obedience to the wishes of the House. The House had required, in many cases of Railway Bills, that preliminary reports should be made by the Admiralty, as to the effect of bridges and other works on navigable rivers throughout the country; and, of course, if these reports were deemed indispensable to Committees called upon to grant particular powers to railway companies, it was useless to complain that expense was in consequence incurred. With respect, however, to the observations which had been made upon the Railway Board itself, he would, in the first place, express his decided concurrence in the views of the hon. Gentleman as to the expediency of the utmost possible economy at this moment in every department of the public service. Her Majesty's Government were well disposed to effect every practicable reduction, and they would therefore give due weight to that portion of the argument of the hon. Gentleman on this occasion. The hon. Gentleman said, that he had not been made fully acquainted, in the first instance, with the project for the constitution of the Railway Board. The subject had assuredly been
 1068 l l l l 1069 1070
 SIR F. THESIGER  observed, that, under the peculiar circumstances in which the House stood with regard to this subject, there appeared to him to be only three courses for them to adopt: either to do nothing; or to leave all questions respecting elections open for the determination of the House; or, thirdly, to legislate
 1089
 MR. BANKES , in moving—
 "That in the opinion of this House the powers, rights, and authority, now vested by the Act 9th and 10th Victoria, c. 105, in the Commisioners of Railways, may be so regulated as to secure their efficient execution at a greatly diminished rate of charge to the public,"— l 1064 l l 1065 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1066 1067
 MR. BANKES  had voted against the proposition of the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst, because he thought in insufficient for the purpose which it was intended to serve; but he would support the proposition of the right hon. and learned Member for Bute, because, though not free
 1093
 MR. HUDSON  congratulated the House upon the speech of the right hon. Gentleman. He had no wish whatever to deprive the Government of the supervision over railway matters which they at present exercised; all he desired was in supporting this Motion that that supervision should be more economically administered. The right hon. Gentleman had spoken of the heavy duties which the Railway Commission was called upon to discharge. He (Mr. Hudson) would give the House an instance of the activity of this Board. The other day an accident happened to a train in which he was travelling; the wheel of one of the carriages broke, and there was, of course, great alarm. Some gentleman who was in the train wrote an anonymous letter to the  Times Times l 1071 l
 MR. AGLIONBY  protested against the doctrine that there was no use in sending petitions to that House. For his own part, whenever he had an opportunity of addressing his constituents, he invariably
 1060
 MR. LABOUCHERE  should exceedingly regret if the House were obliged to divide on this question, lest their vote should be misunderstood, because he felt satisfied that those who should think fit to vote in favour of the petition would not differ from the remainder of the House in the determination to uphold the constitution of Queen, Lords, and Commons. He believed that the immense majority of that House entertained on this question the same opinion with the immense majority of the people of this realm, who, however desirous they might be to see improvements introduced, were determined to uphold that great constitution under which they enjoyed more of security, and of liberty, and of happiness, than had been ever imparted by Providence to any other portion of the human race. But that was not the question before the House, and if forced to divide, he should certainly note with his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department in favour of the petition being received. If a petition contained improper and scurrilous language against another branch of the Legislature, he thought that the House would be bound to feel as jeal-
 1061
 MR. LABOUCHERE  felt strongly the great disadvantage the House laboured under in discussing the present question in the absence of Mr. Strutt, who lately filled the office of President of the Railway Commission, and who, as that office had been held by no other person, was the only individual capable of giving the House a satisfactory account of the duties imposed on the Commission. He freely admitted to the right hon. Member for Oxford University, that when the present Railway Commission was constituted, it certainly was in contemplation that the duties to be devolved on it should be very considerably extended; but experience had convinced him that it was very difficult to please that House on the subject of railway legislation. He had always found a disposition to exist to quarrel with that which existed; to demand a change; and then immediately to quarrel with the alteration. Under these circumstances, he did not know that the opinion expressed by hon. Gentlemen in the course of the present debate could be taken as the final decision of the House. It had been said that the duties of the Railway Commission could not be expected to increase. It might be imprudent in the House to come to such an opinion; but if such were the opinion of the House, they might decide that a separate Commission
 1081 1082
 DR. BOWRING  thought that the question of the Monarchy had been introduced into the debate most unnecessarily. It was an entirely different question from the consideration whether one legislative body or two were more suited to the wants and interests of the country. As the question had been opened, he trusted that the petition would not be rejected.
 MR. BRIGHT  wished to know whether it had not been the custom of the House to allow petitions to be received for the ejection of Bishops from the House of Lords. He thought, that if such petitions were allowed to be received by the House, there could be no reason to believe that the House was unable to receive petitions praying for the total abolition of the House of Peers. He did not express any sympathy, and probably no hon. Member in the House would express sympathy with the whole of the contents of the petition. He was sure that, with regard to this particular petition, the only effect of this discussion would be to raise the petitioner in his own estimation, and turn the public attention to the discussion of questions which the House did not wish to have discussed. If the House determined not to receive the petition, he was sure that it would only lead to the presentation of other similar objectionable petitions. He would express no opinion whatever upon this petition; that was a matter of minor importance, but he considered it of enormous importance that the House should not take a false step on the present occasion.
 MR. HUME  said, that it was quite refreshing to hear such advocacy of economy from such parties; he hoped that a new era had taken place, and that it would have many repetitions. With reference to the question before the House, viz., the establishment of the Board, he, as Member of the Committee recommending it, was as much to blame as any man in the House; but he must say that he agreed to it under the statement made of the necessity of certain powers of control and coercion; and the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who was upon the same Committee, agreed to it under a strong impression that greater powers were requisite, and that if the Board was appointed they would be given. He agreed that those powers had not been given, and he ventured last Session to ask a right hon. Gentleman, now no longer in the House, whether the department was worth continuing? He had now come to the conclusion that the department might merge altogether into the Board of Trade; and he concurred with the right hon. Gentleman in thinking that individual responsibility would secure a better performance of the duties. The Commission had been appointed with an intention to perform certain duties; they had not done it, and the question was, whether they might not come back to the department of the Board of Trade. He believed that there was sufficient leisure in the department of the President or Vice-President of the Board of Trade to do all that was requisite. He took it for granted that the Commission was broken up; the principal issue, therefore, was amalgamation with the Board of Trade. As to another department which had been spoken of by the hon. Member who brought forward this Motion, viz., the new board
 1076 l 1 l
 MR. HUME  believed that no hon. Member could object to a petition being brought up. He might object to its reception.
 MR. HUME  thought that the whole petition should be read at the table. That was the rule of the House.
 MR. HUME  said, that in his opinion a more absurd reason could not be given for the rejection of the petition than that urged by the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford—that the petition could not be received on the ground that it was opposed to the general opinion of the House. Why, this was the very kind of petitions which were required, and which the House ought to throw its doors wide open to receive. Petitions which agreed with the House were not petitions that were required. It was the duty of the House to receive every petition that was sent to it. If once the House were to be gin to refuse petitions, whore could they draw the line of distinction? The House was perhaps not aware that the petition was signed, not by some ignorant Chartist, but by a gentleman who had gone through the University, and was now a clergyman of the Church of England. He thought that it was the duty of the House to receive petitions from all portions of the people, whatever might be the sentiments which they expressed.
 MR. NAPIER  thought a short declaratory Act ought to be passed, stating that doubts existed whether the certificate of the examiner was final, and declaring that it should be so. Such an Act would apply both to the present and to future cases.
 MR. MORGAN J. O'CONNELL  did not think that the right hon. Baronet had put the case fairly. Any person in that House or out of it might express an opinion—which he thought would be a foolish one—that the House of Lords ought to be abolished, without committing an offence
 1059
 MR. SHEIL  reminded his hon. Friend the Judge Advocate, who had assumed the certificate of the examiner to be conclusive, that on the 7th of February, when the Attorney General was discharged from attendance on the Committee, the names of the Solicitor General, Mr. Stuart Wortley, and Mr. Hayter, were added to it; so that his hon. Friend, being a Member of the Committee himself, had it in his power to press on them those considerations which he had now urged with more ingenuity than soundness. Yet there was not a word in the report as to the certificate being final; there was no dissent on the part of his hon. Friend. The Committee set forth the opinion of Sir F. Kelly, Mr. Austen, and Mr. Peacock, which was that the judgment of the examiner of recognisances was not final. Why did the Committee not think it final? Because the finality of the certificate would destroy the Committee—the Committee could not have been appointed if the certificate had been final. The Committee was appointed on the Motion of the hon. Member for Midhurst, supported by the right hon. Member for Tamworth, and composed chiefly of lawyers. Perhaps they had not got the usual stimulus—the  quiddam honorarium ex post facto 1092
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  concurred so far with the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Hayter), that he thought the Act set certain machinery in Motion, and prescribed certain things to be done, without giving to Parliament any power of stopping the one, or of interfering with the other. Once the examiner gave his decision, the House had no power to do anything but to follow a series of proceedings recited in the Act; but he certainly was not prepared to think the hands of the House should be tied altogether, and that they should not be able to correct error wherever it existed. The principle on which it was proposed to interfere was that of legislative equity; and it was not to be endured that the House should interfere to correct every flaw in favour of the sitting Members, and then to allow the latter to avail themselves of every technical objection against the petitioners. The noble Lord (Viscount Mahon) stated, that all the annoyance which had occurred arose out of the mistakes and errors in the office of examiner of recognisances; and it had been suggested in another place that fraud had occurred in the recognisances; but he could not see anything to warrant the latter assertion. The House should interfere, because by doing so they would put all the parties into the position they had originally occupied; and if the recognisances were in the form prescribed by the Act, while the sitting Members would have
 1091
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  hoped his hon. Friend (Sir R. H. Inglis) would not divide the House. He understood that the House had received petitions on several occasions for a repeal of the Union between England and Ireland, which he would venture to say was a subject less within the powers of the House to entertain than even the matter before them. Though no man was more attached to the House of Lords than he was, still he should feel himself obliged to vote on this occasion against the Motion of the hon. Baronet.
 MR. WAKLEY  had reason to complain of the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford for having referred to him as approving of all that the petition contained. He utterly denied that Members of that House were supposed to concur in all the petitions that were presented by them. Now, as these were times when persons ought to speak plainly, he would not hesitate to say that he agreed in a great measure with the prayer of the petition; but he did not agree in that part of it which related to the abolition of the House of Lords, because he sincerely believed that under the form of government which they had in this country more liberty might be enjoyed by the people than under any other. He believed that under the existing form of government the greatest extent of human liberty might be enjoyed by the British people. But was it to be supposed that the people were to reflect on what views would be agreeable to the House before they ventured to send a petition to it? For his own part, he should be delighted if he never received another petition for presentation, and if his constituents would select some other hon. Member to send their petitions to, because he thought that there was not the slightest good in sending petitions to that House when they met with no attention whatever.
 MR. WAKLEY  said, he would read the passages to which the hon. Baronet objected. They were—
 "The abolition of the House of Lords, your petitioner considering one assembly of representatives duly elected sufficient for national purposes." "Your petitioner extremely desires to see all these measures passed, believing the condition of the country to be such, that unless they are adopted, a convulsion must ensue which will bury in one common ruin all establishments which are now the envy of foreigners, but a continued source of evil to this nation."
 MR. WAKLEY  begged the attention of the House to a petition from John Beale, of No. 4, Grosvenor Cottages, North-end, Eaton-square, London. The petition set forth that he considered the country as being in a most critical state, and that what has been going forward in countries elsewhere was likely to rouse the masses of this into action to seek for what they considered likely to be beneficial to them; that poverty and wretchedness almost indescribable existed amongst the people; that one of the causes of discontent was the defective character of the representation of the people in the House of Commons; that another was the fact, that whether in the Church, the Army, the Navy, the courts of justice, the colonies, or any place of emolument at home or abroad, they saw them all reserved for and filled by the scions of wealthy families. The petitioner therefore prayed for the establishment of universal suffrage, and of secret voting in the election of representatives of the people. He prayed that the Church property should be applied to the reduction of the national debt, and the produce of the Crown lands to the same purpose; that all sinecures, gratuities, and pensions should be abolished, except for meritorious services; he prayed for the reduction of the Army to the same footing as that on which it stood at the close of the last war—for the reduction and arrangement of taxation on a new scale—for the abolition of the laws of entail and primogeniture—for the separation of Church and State—for a reformed system of currency—and for the abolition of the House of Lords. The petition stated that one representative assembly was sufficient for all national purposes, and he prayed that his very reasonable requests might be taken into the consideration of the House.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that the question was not whether there should be a cessation of control over railway companies, or whether there should be from time to time an extension of that control, nor had it anything to do with the amount of duties
 1072 1073 locum tenens 1074 1075
 MR. HAYTER  had listened to the hon. and learned Member for Bute (Mr. S. Wortley) in the hope of hearing some argument to alter the opinions he held on this question; but, disappointed in that hope, he begged to call the attention of the House to the position in which they were placed by the proposition which had been made to them. The Bill of the hon. and learned Member proceeded on the supposition that the House had a right to inquire into the validity of election recognisances; but he maintained that they had no such right except in one case only. It did not thence follow that if the examiner certified a blank sheet of paper as a proper recognisance, the House could not inquire into it, for then a fraud would be committed, for which a remedy existed, as against the parties guilty of it; but he could not understand on what principle the House took on itself the character of a court of appeal from the decisions of the examiner, nor could he discover any trace of such an authority being vested in them by the Act of Parliament. The appointment of the Committee was not an adjudication on the question at issue: the reference made to them by the House was, that "they should inquire into the allegations of the petitioners" in certain cases; and from the terms of that reference they derived no authority to inquire into any matter whatever, except such allegations, and had no right even to make suggestions to the
 1090 in para matinâ
 MR. F. T. BARING  said, that most undoubtedly it was intended that greater control should be given to the Board over railways than Parliament had; and if it was the intention of Parliament that no further powers over railways should be given, he quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that the Board was an instrument too large and too expensive; but, on
 1077
 SIR G. GREY  desired to make a short statement with regard to the forcible ejectments and the destruction of houses in the union of Galway, which had been several times before the House. He had promised the hon. Member who had introduced the case (Mr. P. Scrope), that he would put the House in possession of the information he received from his noble Friend the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, which he hoped would be more satisfactory than that which he (Sir G. Grey) at that time possessed. He immediately wrote to his noble Friend; and this morning he received a private letter from his noble Friend, written in consequence of the notice taken of the case in that House. In this letter his noble Friend expressed surprise, in which he (Sir G. Grey) participated, that, owing to
 1062 Galway Mercury 1063
 SIR G. GREY  felt very indifferent as to the decision which the House might come to upon this occasion. At the same time, he could not avoid declaring his opinion that the right hon. and learned Member for Bute had taken a most unprecedented course. Here was a Bill abandoned by its promoter, which the right hon. Gentleman seized upon as a sort of waif or estray, and invited the House to read a second time in order that he might have an opportunity of striking out every clause it contained. Why did not the right hon. and learned Gentleman move for leave to bring in a new Bill, in which he might embody his views? Under the extraordinary circumstances in which the House was placed with respect to this Bill, he would oppose its second reading.
 SIR G. GREY  thought it would be enough to have the objectionable passage read at the table, as the House might be better employed than in listening to a long petition read at the table. It was customary for hon. Members to receive all petitions intrusted to them for presentation; but it was not understood that by presenting a petition, any hon. Member was bound by the sentiments contained in it. He hoped his hon. Friend would not persevere with his Motion, as it would in his view be attaching too much importance to the petition.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  was extremely sorry to be compelled, by the course taken by his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford, to pronounce an opinion on a matter of such extreme importance. He felt as anxious as any hon. Member in that House to offer no obstruction to the presentation of petitions; and he was rejoiced that the House had allowed the petition to be read, because without hearing it he did not think that they could deliberately pro-
 1058
 SIR J. GRAHAM  thought that his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford had, without intending it, placed the Speaker in a somewhat invidious position. The question was really one for the House and not the Speaker to decide; and in order that they might be enabled to come to a decision fairly, it would be necessary that the hon. Member for Finsbury should state the precise nature and force of the petition. It would be then for the House to determine what course should be pursued.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, he had not been in the House when the Committee was appointed from which the Bill had emanated, which had originally been introduced by the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst, but which his right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Bute now sought to mutilate with a view to changing its provisions. He must say that he was not conscious of any canvassing with reference to this Bill; that he was not aware of any party bearing that it had; and that he considered it entirely a judicial question. He thought the expression of the Judge Advocate was a very happy one, that much mist surrounded this subject. It had been with much doubt and hesitation that he, as an unlearned Member, approached the question; and, placing as he did much reliance on the judgment of the Gentlemen of the long robe, he had hoped to derive important information from them during the discussion. He thought he had heard the opinions of seven eminent lawyers on the present occasion. On the preliminary point as to whether any legislation on the subject was necessary, the Gentlemen of the learned profession were nearly equally divided. A majority, he believed, were in favour of legislation. But, assuming that legislation was necessary, there was great difference of opinion as to the mode of legislation that should be adopted. First of all, there was the Bill as it had emanated from the Committee, resting upon the high authority of the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst. From the plan thus recommended, with the concurrence of the Committee, his right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Bute entirely dissented; and he introduced them to forego the opinion of the Committee—to forego the plan introduced by the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst, and to substitute in its place a plan which had been deliberately considered by the Committee, and as deliberately rejected. Then came the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon (Sir F. Thesiger), who, in discussing the subject, and in dealing incidentally with the question as to whether legislation was necessary or not, had held out a sort of threat, which he (Sir J. Graham) confessed, even amidst the mist which surrounded the case, did not terrify him, that if they proceeded without legislation, some injunction,  mandamus 1094 brevi manu 1095
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, he agreed with those who thought that the true question before the House was not that which had been raised by the right hon. Member for Northampton, namely, whether the extensive powers of supervision, as regarded railways, exercised by the Commissioners, should continue to be vested in their hands,
 1078 1079 l l 1080
 SIR R. H. INGLIS , in explanation, said it was with no common pleasure he had heard from all sides of the House a repudiation of the doctrines contained in the petition. Under these circumstances the object he had in view, though not technically gained, had been substantially obtained, and therefore he would not divide the House.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that a few nights ago the House was placed in an unprecedented position by having the word "that" left as the only question upon which they could come to a decision; and if the right hon. and learned Member for Buteshire were allowed to have his way, the House ran the risk of being put into a somewhat analogous dilemma. The right hon. and learned Gentleman took ap a Bill which had been abandoned by its promoter, and how did he propose to deal with it? He would exhibit the Bill bodily, as the right hon. Gentleman proposed to make it; for he (Sir R. H. Inglis) had pasted paper over the parts which it was intended to strike out. All that the right hon. and learned Member intended to leave of the Bill was the clause which graciously permitted the House to repeal the Bill, if it should think proper to do so, in the course of the present Session. Should the right hon. and learned Gentleman succeed in doing what he proposed, the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst would be somewhat astonished on seeing his Bill in its new shape—
 "Miraturque novas frondes, et non sua poma,"
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  only wished to have the passage of the petition to which he objected read at the table, and he should then move that the petition be rejected.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that if an analogous petition were presented to the House of Lords for the abolition of the House of Commons, that body would not receive it, neither would either House receive a petition praying for the abolition of the Monarchy; and he could not see, therefore, why the House of Commons should receive a petition like the present, advocating opinions which were opposed to the almost unanimous feelings of the House. The hon. Member for Finsbury had, by his tone and manner, and his running commentaries, seemed to invite the attention of the House to the matters contained in the petition, and thus seemed to identify himself with it. He invited the House to pronounce a decision on the question whether it was conducive to the interests of the country that this species of petitions should be allowed to circulate?
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  opposed the bringing up of the petition.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  presumed the House had no right to receive such a petition; and he contended that a petition could no more be presented to that House containing a prayer for the abolition of the House of Lords than if it contained a prayer for the abolition of the Monarchy.
 MR. GARDNER  considered that as both masters and men wished for an inquiry, it was too bad to refuse it. Although it might be very desirable not to induce the working classes to suppose that legislation could do everything for them, there was also a danger in this age of the application of abstract principles of science without due allowance for circumstances.
 MR. COCHRANE  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to facilitate the removal of Schoolmasters in Scotland. The Bill was rendered necessary by the difficulty which was experienced in putting in force the provisions of the 43rd of George III. for the removal of schoolmasters. In the event of a schoolmaster being guilty of cruelty it was found to be extremely difficult to remove him; and in case of incapacity the difficulty amounted almost to an impossibility. It was not his intention to abrogate the jurisdiction of the Presbytery, but merely to give a concurrent jurisdiction to the Lord Advocate and the Sheriff Substitute. The Bill would empower individuals to lay before the Lord Advocate a charge against a schoolmaster for any of the causes enumerated in the 43rd of George III. The Lord Advocate would investigate the charge; if he should deem it insufficient in point of importance, or of proof, the matter would of course proceed no further; but if it should be properly substantiated the charge would be referred by the Lord Advocate to the Sheriff Substitute, who, after notice, would try the case, and his decision would be final. He concluded by moving for leave to bring in the Bill.
 MR. HAWES  did not rise to oppose the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman. On the contrary, he quite assented to his general opinion that an inquiry should be instituted in the case; and he had not the smallest fear of the result. He thanked the right hon. Gentleman for having given him previous notice of the Motion he had now made; and he assured him at the same time that he entertained no idea that he had been actuated by any personal or party feeling in bringing it forward. He had a very plain statement to make to the House. He admitted that on the 11th instant he was duly returned and declared a burgess to serve in the present Parliament for the borough of Kinsale; that on the 15th he had presented himself at the table of the House, in order to be sworn and take his seat, as he believed he was bound to do at the earliest possible period after his election. He had never previously been elected during a Session of Parliament, nor was he aware there was any difference in the practice as regarded the swearing in of Members during the Session of Parliament from that which prevailed at a general election; and, certainly, though
 1101
 MR. NEWDEGATE  observed, that as he had lived in the immediate neighbourhood of a large district where framework knitting was very extensively carried on, he possessed some knowledge of the situation of the persons engaged in that employment, and he must express his hope that the House would agree to the appointment of a Committee. He had been surprised at the observations of the hon. Member for Montrose, who had referred to recent events in France. Did the hon. Gentleman wish to see the scenes which had recently occurred in France repeated in this country? He (Mr. Newdegate) contended that it would be unjust, upon the abstract principles advanced by the hon. Member for Montrose, to refuse inquiry into a subject which the House had repeatedly acknowledged was one that deserved investigation. The hon. Member for Montrose had contended that the Ten Hours Act which had been adopted by the Legislature involved an improper interference with labour. He thought that measure had produced most beneficial results. He considered that every Englishman had reason to be proud of the conduct of the working classes in the manufacturing districts; and he put it to the House whether, when the Ten Hours Act had produced so much satisfaction and contentment, they were now prepared to adopt a precisely opposite course of legislation.
 MR. PACKE  thanked the hon. Member for Shrewsbury for putting the subject in its right light. It was not a mere question of raising wages, nor had it anything to do with the short-time question; but here were 100,000 persons employed in a particular manufacture, who were suffering under the grossest tyranny and oppression, and unable really to get the true and proper amount of their wages fairly into their hands. If the Committee were granted, legislation would result. The only error made by the hon. Member for Shrewsbury was in supposing that there were times when these men were in high wages. Why, the wages of men, many of them with families, ranged from 5 s s
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  thought the division would show who were the real friends of this unfortunate class, and who were their pretended friends—Gentlemen who talked about the danger of creating a sort of war between master and operatives, but had never been afraid to raise their voices in the Anti-Corn-Law League to create a difference between landlord and tenant. These Gentlemen were afraid of a Committee to examine into the frauds committed by masters upon their workmen; could they show any such fraud on the part of landlords towards their tenants, or tenants towards their labourers?
 MR. GOULBURN  rose to move the appointment of—
 "A Select Committee to inquire whether the Oaths required to be taken at the Table by Members of this House have been duly taken by Benjamin Hawes, esq., and to report their opinion thereupon to the House." 1098 1099 1100
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, it was not without real concern that he felt it his duty to oppose the Motion. He gave full credit to the statements which had been made as to the distress that existed among the class of persons to whom the Motion referred; and he readily acknowledged that they had a claim upon the consideration of the Government and of the Legislature by their general good conduct, often under the pressure of very severe privation and distress. If he could make up his mind that the appointment of this Committee would really be beneficial to that large class of persons, so far from opposing it, no man would be more ready to give his cordial support to the Motion; and if no previous inquiry had been instituted on the subject, he would have run the risk—whatever it might be—of exciting hopes and expectations which might not ultimately be fulfilled, by assenting to some such inquiry as that which was proposed. But so recently as three years ago a Commission was appointed, which instituted a very full inquiry into the whole question. That inquiry was conducted by Mr. Muggeridge, who was appointed by the Board of Trade, and who had presented to Parliament a very full and able report, accompanied by ample information in the shape of evidence; and he believed that it was impossible for the House to obtain more ample, correct, and minute information than had been afforded
 1110 "An extension of the manufacture is most likely to be attained by the improvement of which it appears susceptible in the manner of conducting it; by a more judicious appropriation and division of labour, whereby the cost of production would be diminished; and by an increased application of taste and skill in the designs and patterns of the articles manufactured, especially in the fancy branches of the trade;"— 1111 1112
 DR. BOWRING  said, the hon. Member for Leicester had spoken of the danger of refusing inquiry into this subject; but he thought there was a far greater danger which the House ought to avoid—that of deluding the people into the belief that the Legislature could provide a remedy for all the grievances of which they complained.
 1108
 MR. HUME  said, that nothing was more unpleasant to him than to offer any opposition to a measure which was represented as one for the improvement of the working classes. If there was anything to which he had more particularly directed his attention, it was to the removal of every kind of oppression from the working man, and to the establishment of perfect liberty for masters and men to make their own bargains. The hon. Member had introduced a Bill on this subject, and failed in carrying it; and the circumstances of the population rendered it impossible for that House, by any inquiry or by any means at its disposal, to give the relief sought for. He put it to the House whether the hon. Member was not seeking to introduce a principle of extreme danger? In a neighbouring country they might see the effects of such a principle. There the workmen had come forward and applied to the Government, and the Government had been foolish enough to promise wages not only to the industrious, but to all that were idle. The hon. Member's proposition was one of the same sort; and he knew of no proceeding more dangerous than that of the Government giving power to the mass of
 1106
 MR. SLANEY  thought that if they granted the Committee, they should at the same time state distinctly that they did not at all intend to give any countenance to the opinion that by legislation it was possible to improve the condition of the working classes by obtaining higher wages for them. But if the inquiry were to be directed to the frauds committed on the working classes, then he apprehended that, with respect to that matter, which was widely different from the other, it might be possible to prevent fraud, and thereby improve their condition. Payment by truck, which was one subject of complaint, was a great and enormous evil, against which the working classes had at present no means of defending themselves; for he knew, by inquiry in many parts of England, that the laws against truck were not effectively enforced. If the result of an inquiry should be to prevent frauds in this respect, it would go far to convince the humbler classes that the House was determined to throw over them the shield of its protection in every case of real grievance which they could reach. Even if it should turn out that no great practical benefit would result from the Committee,
 1109
 MR. EWART  was not aware whether his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Homo Department intended to object to the second reading of this Bill. Since he had introduced it, a noble Lord in the other House of Parliament, and a Member of the Government (Lord Campbell), had introduced a Bill of a somewhat kindred character. The Bill of that noble Lord, however, proposed to give a power of appeal on questions of law only. His (Mr. Ewart's) Bill proposed to give a power of appeal on questions of fact. There was, therefore, a considerable difference between the two Bills. Since he had introduced this Bill, he had received numerous suggestions from hon. Gentlemen for its amendment. Those alterations however, did not affect the main principle of the Bill, and could be all duly considered in Committee. He must say that he regarded this as a matter well worthy the consideration of Government; and he hoped that, whatever course the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department intended to take in regard to it, it would be a course which would not be opposed to the principle of the Bill; but rather that he would admit the soundness of the principle, although he should delay the consideration of the mode of carrying it into effect. It would depend upon the nature of the right hon. Gentleman's statement what course he should take with regard to the further progress of this Bill.
 SIR G. GREY  admitted the importance of the question which his hon. Friend had submitted to the consideration of the House in the Bill which then stood for a second reading; but this could not be considered as an isolated question. It was connected with other important matters. It was connected, for instance, with the establishment of a public prosecutor, and it was also essentially connected with the establishment of a new court of appeal, to be constantly sitting, in order to carry out the object which the hon. Member wished to see effected. It was true that he had declined the responsibility of introducing any measure at an early period of the Session; but his hon. and learned Friend must be aware that a Bill had been introduced into the House of Lords proposing material alterations in the mode of reserving questions of law, and obtaining a satisfactory decision of the Judges upon those
 1103
 SIR G. GREY  said, it appeared to him that, though there had undoubtedly been a departure from the ordinary, although not the universal, practice of the House—for he had just had his attention called to a case somewhat similar—no actual illegality had occurred in the mode of taking the oaths in this instance. His hon. Friend (Mr. Hawes), finding that a departure from the ordinary practice had occurred, had abstained from voting during the three days between his taking the oaths and the arrival of the return at the Crown Office, not under any legal advice, but simply out of deference to that House. Without entering into the question which had been raised by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goulburn), he admitted it was right that a Committee should be appointed in order to inquire into the subject, thinking it was very desirable that the practice should be, ascertained, and one general and uniform system adopted. In consenting to the Committee, however, he did not wish to be understood as prejudging the question.
 SIR H. HALFORD , pursuant to notice, moved for—
 "The appointment of a Select Committee to take into consideration the Report and Evidence laid before Parliament in 1844 by Her Majesty's Commissioner for inquiry into the condition of the Framework Knitters, and to make such further inquiries as may appear necessary, in order to ascertain whether any, and, if any, what legislative measures can be devised for the relief of their long-continued distress." 1104 1105
 SIR H. HALFORD  deeply regretted the course taken by the Government. He had been met with the abstract theory of "supply and demand;" but according to that theory there should have been a process of self-adjustment after a time, whereas here a whole generation had passed away, and the excess of supply was as great as ever. Allusion had also been made to French affairs, as if there was any danger of our imitating French legislation in regard to workmen! The greatest danger lay in refusing all inquiry, where fraud and oppression existed.
 SIR J. WALMSLEY  advocated the proposed inquiry. If there was danger in legislation on this subject, there was also danger in refusing legislation. In the Midland Counties there were about 36,000 frames, each of which sustained from three
 1107
 The EARL of MARCH  moved that a writ be issued for the election of a Member for the borough of Horsham.
 SIR J. HANMER  said, the House had
 1138 l l l
 The EARL of MARCH , after this expression of opinion regarding the suspension of the writ, begged leave to withdraw his Motion.
 MR. FAGAN  thought the hon. Member for Stroud was entitled to great credit for his humanity, and for standing forward, on all occasions, to endeavour to amend the Irish poor-law. He did not think that the hon. Member could be justly accused of making sweeping and general charges against landlords in Ireland. He had, from the first, boldly come forward and given the names of the parties. In the case of Mr. Walsh, he had reason to think the hon. Member had been misinformed; and he came forward nobly, and said he had been mistaken. But, by the blue book, it appeared that the original statement of the hon. Member, in Mr. Walsh's case, was correct. He thanked the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth for his straightforward declaration that the conduct of Mr. Blake ought to be inquired into; and Mr. Blake had been removed from the commission of the peace. The hon. Member for Stroud had said, there were many other cases; and he might bring forward the case of a Member of that House, against whom charges of a stronger character had been alleged as to his conduct towards his own tenantry. As the right hon. Baronet had stated that it was the intention of the Government to bring this subject before the House in the shape of a Bill, he begged to call the particular attention of the noble Lord to a case in which over 500 families had been ejected from an estate in one of the divisions of the Tralee union, under the Court of Chancery. He thought, a case of that kind deserved the particular attention of the Government.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  agreed with the hon. Member in all he had said upon the subject of economy; but he could not, with the same boldness as the hon. Gentleman had done, affirm that there was nothing in the present state of Europe to induce them to maintain the establishment which the Government had proposed. It might be very true that the Continental nations had plenty to do at home; but it was just possible that they might come to be of opinion that an aggressive system of policy was best for them, and so get rid of peccant humours by a foreign war. He thought, therefore, it would be hazardous to reduce the force which the Government believed, in their judgment, to be necessary; and he would have held the same opinion whatever Government had happened to be in power. Indeed, he did not know that they could have any other Government than the present, for the right hon. Baronet opposite certainly showed no thirst for office; and as for the Protectionist Powers, they had, it seemed, during the present Session, declared for a republic among themselves. But, whilst he was
 1164 l 1165 "If the burghers, when they are called upon for the defence of their own country, do not choose to defend it, but when they are called out disband themselves whenever they please, then the sooner we leave them to their fate the better. It is useless for us to lavish men and money upon people who will not defend themselves. You will find by the enclosed despatch that the burghers shamefully deserted their posts last night."
 SIR W. MOLES WORTH  thought that two very different questions might be raised. First, whether the forces of the country should be at once considerably reduced below the amount which was found sufficient last year? Secondly, whether there should be made this year a not inconsiderable increase in the amount and in the cost of those forces? He acknowledged that the objections which had been urged against an immediate and considerable reduction of the forces of the country were not only plausible, but had much real weight at present; and he was not surprised to find the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose in a small minority, and that a large majority of the representatives of the most popular constituencies were opposed to his Motion. But he thought the question of an increase of the forces was a very different one from that of a decrease of the forces. He looked with considerable alarm at the steady and large increase of the expenditure which had taken place of late years in the Army, Navy, and Ordnance. He had, on a former occasion, shown that all the financial difficulties of the country could be traced to the increase of that expenditure. He had shown that since 1835 the expenditure for the three services had gone on increasing at the rate of 580,000 l 1170 l l l l l l l l l l 1171 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1172 1173 1174 l 1175 l
 SIR WILLIAM MOLES WORTH  moved that the vote be reduced by 5,449 men, the number expected to arrive from India within the year.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  declared that the most evil consequences would result if the Bill were allowed to pass, and moved that the report be taken into consideration that day six months.
 MR. F. MAULE  said, it was his duty to propose to the House the amount of force which Her Majesty's Government thought it necessary to maintain during the ensuing year for the defence of this country and of our dependencies. The votes which he should propose had been, in common with others, referred to the Committee that the House had appointed to consider the estimates generally; but the Gentlemen who constituted that body very properly considered that they were not at liberty, in Committee, to discuss that particular part of the estimates which it would then be his duty to submit to the whole House in Committee of Supply. That Select Committee which sat upon the estimates were of opinion, with him, that, as to the amount of force necessary for the defence of the country, dependence must be placed upon the responsibility of the Executive Government for the time being; and while assent to such estimates on the part of hon. Members did not imply direct confidence in the Government for the time being, yet he agreed with the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon, that the refusal to admit the necessity for that amount of force which the Government thought requisite, very distinctly conveyed an expression of want of confidence in the responsible advisers of the Crown. In his opinion, if the Government had agreed to submit the amount of military required for the service of the Crown to a Committee upstairs, they would have laid themselves open to the accusation of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Middlesex. He believed it would not be necessary for him to utter another word in order to show that with reference to the Army the Government was not at liberty to depute the power which it possessed to any other parties, or with respect to the military service of the State to cast the responsibility off their own shoulders. The proposition
 1150 l 1151 l l l l l l l l l l 1152 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l s d l s d l s d l l l l l l l l l l 1153 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1154 1155 1156 1157 1158 1159 1160 "That a number of Land Forces not exceeding 113,847 Men (exclusive of the Men employed in the territorial possessions of the East India Company), but including Commissioned and Noncommissioned Officers, be maintained for the service of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, from the 1st of April, 1848, to the 31st of March, 1849."
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, if the Committee showed any impatience during a great part of this discussion, it was, I think, rather referable to the topics which hon. Gentlemen introduced, than to any indisposition of the Committee to hear this question fairly discussed. Hon. Gentlemen have discussed at very great length various questions, going through all the details of the Army Estimates, touching upon various points of finance, discoursing much of the Navy Estimates, the constitution of the Ordnance Board, and various other topics, which might have been all conceded for anything this debate was concerned, and yet the question of the number of men to be voted for the Army would be entirely untouched. Is it a reproach to this Committee that it did not listen with very great patience to all those details, seeing that no argument upon them would assist the House in coming to a conclusion as to the question now before us? I am quite ready to admit to the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire that this vote and others of a similar nature are the votes which are to determine the general amount of the expenditure of the present year. I quite admit that votes with respect to small salaries, although they may show a disposition in this House to economy and retrenchment, will not much affect the amount of expenditure under other heads in the present year; and that the question we have before us, together with the votes for the Navy and Ordnance, does in a great measure constitute the bulk of the expenditure on which this House has to decide. Well, then, Sir, the question is, whether or no we are justified in making, or whether the House will sanction the addition to the number of men to the Army which we propose? Let me observe, without discussing the figures with the hon. Gentleman the Member for South-wark, that he has been completely mistaken in placing to the account of the present year the very large increase in the military and naval expenditure. Taking the number which I have just admitted is great, as the test of the amount of expenditure, the number of men added since we have been in office is 3,000 marines, and to the ordnance and artillery 3,200. Now, that amount is not so large as to justify anything like the very great increase which
 1178 1179 1180 1181
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, there were two distinct questions before the House in coming to a decision on the Motion of the noble Lord, and on that of the hon. Gentleman. One was as to the conduct of the Select Committee, and whether they had acted according to the law providing for such cases; and the other was, what course the House ought to pursue if the conduct of the Committee had been irreproachable? upon the first question it had been shown that the course taken by the Committee was in strict conformity with their duty. The question before the Committee, and which they were directed by the Act of Parliament
 1140
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I think that my noble Friend (Lord Palmerston) did explain to the House on a former occasion in what capacity Lord Minto was acting between Naples and Sicily. Lord Minto had credentials to the King of Naples; and having been asked by His Majesty to go to Naples, he was then requested both by the King and by the Neapolitan Ministers to interpose the good offices of this country to make the terms which Naples had offered to the Sicilians acceptable in Sicily. Lord Minto, as representative of an Ally of the King of Naples, thought that he could do no less than interpose in the manner
 1144
 LORD J. RUSSELL  explained: He had objected to the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose as of too general a nature, but had expressed the opinion that there should, in the present case, be a suspension of the issuing the writ until there had been some inquiry by the House into the state of the borough of Horsham.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  wished to know if the Government were aware that the Whitechapel county court apparently had the power of committing any person owing a small sum, which he was not able to pay, to prison for contempt of court, that contempt being his inability to meet his debt, and that, upon that ground, he might be committed to gaol for a certain number of days? He put this question in connexion with the case of Mr. Pollett, which he had recently brought under the notice of the House. From information he had since received, it would appear that this was not at all an isolated case. An instance equally flagrant had just come to his knowledge, in which a man who owed 2 l s
 MR. STAFFORD  did not think that the hon. Member for Stroud was fairly open to the criticism of the hon. Member for Roscommon (Mr. French). The hon. Member founded his case on official documents; and the House should recollect that the blue book had been compiled by the Commissioners, who probably had left out a good deal which might tell against themselves. But when hon. Gentlemen inveighed in this way against the administrators of the poor-law in Ireland, they should not forget that they were themselves  particeps criminis 1147
 MR. NEWDEGATE  rose to refute the statements made by the hon. Members for Manchester and the West Riding, when they said that hon. Members on his side had not brought the distressed state of the people before the House. At the end of the last Session he and his hon. Colleague had felt it their duty to urge on the House the state of distress existing among the operatives of the midland counties; and only so late as last Wednesday the hon. Member for Leicestershire had done the same thing. When the hon. Member for the West Riding said that they knew nothing of the feelings of the middle classes, he begged to reply that, representing mixed constituencies as they did, they did well know those feelings; which were feelings of deep and bitter disappointment at the result of those measures which were passed at the instance of those hon. Members. He would tell the hon. Members, also, that should unhappily circumstances arise which would necessitate the interference of the State, it would not be the agriculturists who would need defence, but that, as before, it would be the manufacturers and the inhabitants of large towns who would demand the assistance of that Army which these hon. Members now proposed to reduce to a less force than the country required.
 1187
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  was in favour of economy, but not of reduction, which might endanger the safety and character of the country. He should most cordially support Her Majesty's Government.
 MR. F. FRENCH  complained of the conduct of the hon. Member for Stroud in rising night after night without giving any notice whatever, and attacking Irish landlords and reading statements which at the moment there were no means of refuting. It would be easy to show that not one of the charges which the hon. Member had urged had the slightest foundation in truth.
 MR. BANKES  was glad the noble Lord had done justice to the Committee. Their desire had been to perform their duties with all the impartiality of jurors and judges, and throughout their proceedings their opinion had always been unanimous. With respect to bribery, the noble Lord had with truth observed that the Committee not only had not inquired into the question, but had not possessed the means of
 1141
 MR. H. BAILLIE  objected to a Motion for withholding the issue of writs for an indefinite period, without some steps being proposed for prosecuting an inquiry into such oases. The hon. Member had better alter his Motion, and give notice of a Committee of Inquiry on the subject.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  said, the landlords
 1148 bonâ fide
 MR. BRIGHT  could not, in the few observations he intended to offer, attempt to enter into particulars with respect to military affairs, nor would he think of putting his decision on such matters against that of the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster. That hon. and gallant Gentleman ought to be as good an authority on military affairs as any in that House; for so fond was he of warfare, that he was prepared to do battle, not only for his own Queen, but even for the queen of another country. On the present occasion, however, they were confining themselves to the interests of their own particular country; and, circumstanced as the hon. and gallant Member was, it would be anything but judicious for the people of England to take his opinion with regard to military policy, as limited merely to this country. The hon. and gallant Gentleman's speech could not be regarded as the happiest or the most fortunate that he had delivered in that House, notwithstanding that he had succeeded in obtaining the warmest manifestations of applause from that section of the House whose favour he had been but little in the habit of courting. He would leave the hon. and gallant Member to square his accounts with his constituents of Westminster; but he would venture to assure the hon. Member and the House, that where there was one man in Westminster who sympathised with the speech of the gallant Officer, there were at least ten who approved of the spirit of the remarks
 1184 1185 1186
 MR. REYNOLDS  thought that, instead of joining in this censure, the House would be inclined to express its gratitude to the hon. Member for Stroud for the uncompromising manner in which he had exposed this gross abuse. It was a serious accusation to bring against that hon. Member that he had made statements not founded on facts; but it would be very easy to discover whether this last charge, affecting the character of Mr. Blake, was true or untrue. If Major M'Kie had calumniated Mr. Blake, let him be dismissed; 80 far, at least, they had the authority of Major M'Kie for believing the story to be genuine. He had been in Dublin on Monday last, and though he had only been absent a month, he had observed a decided change in the feelings of the best disposed of the people. He had noticed that they had withdrawn their confidence from that House; and one of the causes producing that, no doubt, was the late refusal of hon. Members to accede to the Motion of his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Portarlington (Colonel Dunne). Of course people would not expect much from the British Parliament, after it had refused to inquire into the operation of the laws relating to the poor. The hon. Member proceeded to quote from the recent report of the General Relief Committee for Ireland,
 1146
 MR. HUME : I wish to ask my noble Friend the Secretary for Foreign Affairs a question, the answer to which, at this moment, will be of some importance. There is great anxiety in this country that we should keep aloof from all warlike interference on the Continent, and some apprehension has been excited at observing that Lord Minto seems to be going from place to place in Italy as the authorised agent of Great Britain. He went in a ship-of-war from Naples to negotiate between that country and Sicily. It is of the greatest importance that we should abstain from all interference in Continental quarrels; and I hope that my noble Friend will take this opportunity of explaining the proceedings of Lord Minto.
 MR. HUME : Yes; but the King of Naples has abdicated; and why is Lord Minto there now?
 MR. HUME  said, that if the question of which he had given notice had come on on the preceding day it was his intention to have submitted to the House the propriety of suspending the writ for this borough, and every other place of which the election had been declared void, until a separate Committee should have been appointed to inquire into the extent and nature of the bribery and corruption practised at such election. In the case of Horsham, it appeared from the evidence which had been printed, that the Gentleman contending for the seat had declared that, having obtained all he wanted, he had not gone further with the matter, and.
 1137
 MR. HUME , in reply, observed that on those benches opposite, which were now so crowded, there had not been six Members when he addressed the House. As to the gallant Member for Westminster, if he knew more of war, he would at least beat the hon. Member at figures. So far from the force required for Great Britain and Ireland being only 22,000 men, the actual number was 77,297, besides the pensioners, the yeomanry, and the dockyard men. These, with the Irish police and the coastguard, made a grand total of 123,000 men, all in arms, or ready to be in arms. And yet this was in the face of the admission that we must look to the future for money to pay them. How the gallant Member for Westminster would explain his speech to his constituents, he could not conceive.
 MR. HUME  wished to appeal to the House and the Government whether, whilst they were meditating an amendment of the law upon this subject, they should not bring forward some measures to meet the
 1149
 MR. HUME  had listened with great pleasure to the statement of the right hon. Secretary at War, and he must say that he considered that many important and wholesome alterations had been made in the administration of the Army within the last few years, which had tended greatly to ameliorate the condition of the men. He considered that, by the almost entire abolition of the punishment of flogging, the House had done much to improve the character of the soldiers, although it had been predicted that that measure would have a contrary effect. But the question the House now had to determine was, what number of men should be maintained in the Army during the next year. He looked at this subject in a very different view from that in which it was regarded by his right hon. Friend. The right hon. Gentleman at the head of the department looked to that department alone, and was naturally anxious to see it in a state of the highest efficiency; but the right hon. Gentleman did not consider whether the country possessed the means of maintaining the large force he proposed, supposing the necessity for supporting it existed. The question as to what amount of military force ought to be maintained by this country had always been one of great difficulty. At the conclusion of the war, a Committee, commonly called Lord Castlereagh's Committee, was appointed, to ascertain and report what would be a proper peace establishment for this country; and in 1817 that Committee, in their second report, stated that the maintenance of a large
 1161 l 1162 l l l 1163
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  had given notice that he would that evening move—
 "That the extent to which the clearance and depopulation of many districts in Ireland is proceeding, demands the serious and immediate attention of Parliament, with a view to the protection of large numbers of Her Majesty's subjects, who are thereby forced from their homes, and deprived of their accustomed means of existence." 1145
 MR. OSBORNE  thought that the House would feel indebted to the exertions of the hon. Member for Stroud in this matter; and the evil which the hon. Gentleman pointed out was undoubtedly a fit subject for immediate consideration. He was bound to say that, so far as his humble endeavours had gone, he had, in some degree, approved of the policy of Her Majesty's Ministers; and all that he now found fault with was the absence of a sufficiently comprehensive spirit in their measures.
 MR. OSBORNE  had opposed the reduction of the Navy Estimates, but was not disposed to pursue the same course with respect to the estimates for the Army. The Navy was the natural defence of the country; but a standing Army had always, and very properly, been an object of jealousy in England. Hon. Gentlemen were in the habit of contrasting our present expenditure with that of 1835; but he was not disposed to take the expenditure of that year as an unerring test. Of this the House might be assured, that as long as we maintained a bad system of government in this country, especially as regarded the Army, the people would be called upon to pay large sums for its support. Look at a comparative list of generals and field officers in three different periods. In 1783, the period of the American war, the number of generals and field-officers in the British Army was 824; in 1799, the period of the French war, it was 1,863; in 1848, a period of peace, it was 2,106. Could any person be surprised at our being called upon to pay large sums of money for the estimates when we maintained a staff of field-officers greater than that provided for the French Army of 400,000 men, which had also to furnish staff and inspectors for the National Guard, amounting to at least 200,000 men more. There was much talk about honour and glory; but what, after all, did honour and glory amount to? Taxation. That was the result of honour and glory. The burdens we were now labouring under were the penalties imposed by former wars. The account of what the wars of this country had cost
 1166 l l l l l l personnel 1167 l l l l l l l l l l l l l Army List 1168 l l l l l l l personnel l l l l 1169
 MR. COBDEN  observed, that where so much impatience was evinced on the question whether they should vote 7,100,000 l l l l 1176 Ironical cheers and laughter l l 1177
 MR. SHERIDAN  defended the proceedings of the Committee, of which he was a member. The only suspicious circumstance that came before the Committee was an abrupt and unexpected admission of treating on the part of the sitting Member, Mr. Jervis. The Committee made the counsel for the petitioners give in a list of the parties alleged to have been bribed, and of the parties by whom the bribes were alleged to have been given. There was no evidence to show that any compromise whatever had taken place, and he would readily support the Motion of the noble Lord for issuing the writ.
 MR. WAKLEY : They had been told that it would be unjust to the borough of Horsham if they did not issue the writ; but he thought it would be unjust to the electors of this country if the writ were issued. Was it right, he would ask, to punish the candidate alone, and not to punish the corrupt body of electors who may have forced him into such proceedings? In the case now before the House, the sitting Member had been most completely victimised by the corrupt proceedings of the electoral body. Why should not the House punish the parties by whom the sitting Member had been led into a trap and then abandoned? The case was one most deserving of the suspension of the writ.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  was also of opinion that quite enough was done to warrant the House in suspending the writ when a Committee reported that corrupt practices had existed. The House should remember that only a fractional part of the corruption that took place in the country ever came before the Committees of that House. He knew a very large city where, before the last general election, forty-five public-houses had been kept open in the interest of one candidate for six months. These cases were not brought before the
 1139
 SIR DE L. EVANS , in explanation, said he was extremely glad to hear that the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) intended to revise the whole system of taxation. With respect to what the hon. Member for Montrose said, he must observe that the whole available force at present in Great Britain Was only 22,000 men; and he believed that number to be totally inadequate to the defence of the country.
 SIR DE L. EVANS  had heard with much satisfaction the declaration made by the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government, that it was their intention to consider, before the next Session of Parliament, the means of equalising the taxation of the country. That, in his opinion, was the great question to which the attention of the people of this country was now directed. The hon. Member for the West Riding had said that this was a vote for 7,100,000 l ad captandum l 1182 1183
 SIR G. GREY  had hoped, after what had been said by the hon. Member for Stroud, that the House would not have gone into matters connected with Ireland and the Irish poor-law. For the reasons assigned by that hon. Member, he should abstain from entering into any statement upon these subjects, and should only say, with reference to what had fallen from the hon. Members for Northamptonshire and Dublin, that in opposing the Motion of the hon. Member for Portarlington, he could assure the House that he was not influenced by any want of sympathy for the distress which, he admitted, did exist in a large portion of Ireland. He had thought that the appointment of a Committee at the present moment would tend to defeat the operation of a law which would mitigate the distress; for he believed that the Irish poor-law, whatever temporary evils might be incidental to its administration, would tend very greatly to mitigate the distress under which Ireland had laboured. The hon. Member for Northamptonshire, when the Bill was introduced, had advocated a town-land area of taxation. [Mr. STAFFORD: NO, no!] He was glad to find he was mistaken. With respect to the contents of the blue book, it had been his endeavour to show the working of the poor-law, without introducing any extraneous matters whatever, and he believed that, upon the whole, they did give a fair and just view of the operation of the poor-law in Ireland. The hon. Member for Dublin had called his attention to the evidence collected by Major M'Kie. Government had no reason to distrust that evidence; and they proposed to submit a measure to the House, not to give a right of perpetuity to tenants-at-will, but to give more protection than under the present law, and to give a right of sustenance to parties evicted. He hoped to be able, at an early period, to bring forward that measure.
 SIR G. GREY  was not in a position just
 1143
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  thought the House ought not to afford any facility for the passing of a measure of this description.
 SIR R. PEEL  wished to understand clearly what the noble Lord at the head of the Government intended to do. As the question stood, it was proposed that a new writ should issue for the borough of Horsham; to which the hon. Member for Montrose moved, as an amendment, that a general rule be established, which would have the effect of tying up the discretion of the House, by providing that if any Member be unseated upon charges of bribery or treating, the issue of the writ should be absolutely suspended until an inquiry before a Select Committee should have been instituted. In many cases of this kind there appeared to have been a very lax practice; and he thought it might be very desirable to institute inquiry in many of those cases where charges against Members might not, on technical grounds, have been inquired into. But It did not appear to him expedient to adopt a rule absolutely preventing the issuing of the writ in every case where a Member had been unseated for treating, because there might be many instances in which a Member might be properly disqualified for sitting without any imputation resting upon the purity of the borough. He did not agree with the hon. Member that the House should prevent the exercise of its own discretion in particular cases by an inflexible rule that in every case of this kind, even in those where the treating had been confined within the narrowest limits, the writ should not issue until there had been a preliminary inquiry before a Select Committee. He understood the noble Lord to object to the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose, but understood the noble Lord also to be of opinion that in the case of the borough of Horsham sufficient had been disclosed in the evidence before the Committee to justify the proposition for further inquiry; and that the noble Lord consequently proposed to suspend the issuing of the writ in this particular case, not indefinitely, but with a view to further inquiry. Was he (Sir R. Peel) right in this view of the noble Lord's intention? [Lord J. RUSSELL: Yes.] If that were the case, and if the noble Lord proposed a temporary suspension only, with a view to further inquiry, he should defer
 1142
 LORD COURTENAY  having been chairman of the Committee in the case of the Horsham election, was anxious to make one or two observations. He should feel it his duty to support the Motion, because he thought that no fact had been proved, nor any case established, that would justify the House in refusing the writ. Under the Act of the 5th and 6th Victoria, c. 32, Election Committees had the power of going into the question of a compromise, if they considered there was any ground for suspecting it; and in the present case the Committee had felt it their duty to institute such an inquiry, and had called the agents on both sides before them; but from each of these parties they received a distinct denial and disavowal of the impression that had certainly existed in the minds of the Committee, that a compromise had been effected. Under these circumstances, the Committee felt they could go no further, and an unanimous hope was expressed that the minutes of the evidence would be laid before the House, in order that they might be in possession of the whole case. At the same time he thought it was a matter well worthy of the consideration of the House, whether, in cases where there was a failure of proof of any grave charge of bribery alleged in a petition, the Committee might not be directed to mention the fact to the House; leaving it to the House to take such course as they should think fit.
 MR. ALDERMAN THOMPSON  could not join in the recommendation to bring in a Bill to remedy what was termed this "partial grievance." He was of opinion that a great principle was involved in the question, and that if the cotton referred to were allowed to be introduced, similar attempts would be made to introduce coffee and sugar, and other articles of colonial manufacture, from France and the Continent. The Government ought at once to make up their minds upon this subject, and either to state that they did not intend to interfere with the Navigation Laws this Session, or, on the other hand, to lay their measures on the table of the House.
 MR. GARDNER said : I fully expected, Mr. Speaker, that some such Motion as that which has just been made by the hon. Member for Shoreham, would be brought before the House in the course of this debate; and I thank the hon. Member for his candour in putting such a Notice as this upon the Paper, because it points to that which I have always believed to be the real difficulty in this and similar measures—I mean, the existence of an anomalous ecclesiastical institution in this country—in other words, the Church by law established. I have always thought the existence of that Establishment was incompatible with religious liberty and political equality; and the hon. Gentleman has confirmed my suspicion, for he invites you in the interest of that Establishment not merely to continue the present disabilities of the Jews, but to retrace your steps, and to deprive them of franchises which they already enjoy. But before I go further, I must protest against the religious colouring which this question receives at the hands of hon. Gentlemen opposite. I decline to enter into the question whether the Government of this country is based upon religion, or whether Christianity is part and parcel of the law of the land; because when I look into propositions of this character, I find they only amount to this: whether this or that individual's views of religion, and this or that individual's views of Christianity, are to be received as something final, fundamental, and essential. We were told the other day, and I think told justly, by a right hon. Gentleman who is not now in his place, that this occupation of ours as legislators was in fact a profession; and bearing this in mind, I could not help thinking on many occasions in this debate, that some at least of the Gentlemen on the opposite benches had mistaken their calling and their profession. Considering the solemnity of manner, and the almost professional pathos of expression which has breathed from the opposite benches upon this dreary camp of religious indifference, might it not be well, Sir, to appoint a Committee upstairs of controverted doctrines as well as controverted elections, and thus relieve the bulk of the House from considerations of this or that view of Divine truth, which, however full of profit they may be to those who conscientiously
 1220 quasi Sir R. Inglis signified his assent. 1221 congé d'élire prœmunire Vulnus alit veins: 1222 1223 pabulum 1224 1225 1226 1227
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the clause was taken from the 10th of George IV., and he thought there was a misunderstanding on the part of the hon. Baronet as to its meaning. The hon. Baronet presumed that the Jews could not at this time hold ecclesiastical patronage, and his Motion was to prevent that power being conferred by the present Bill for the first time; but the fact was, that a Jew might now enjoy ecclesiastical patronage, and, what was more, was now in the constant enjoyment of such patronage. The point had been put beyond a doubt by a decision of Lord Eldon. If the Amendment, therefore, were adopted, it would not be resisting an innovation, but it would show a disposition on the part of the Committee not to allow the Jews to hold a power which by law they now held.
 The CHAIRMAN : The hon. Member is too late.
 MR. ELLIOT  moved as an Amendment that it be read a third time that day six months.
 LORD D. STUART  said the House had now to decide whether they would carry out those principles of toleration which they had already adopted to a certain ex-tent, and which were supported and approved by the great majority of the population of this country; or whether they would regard the opinions of the people with contempt, and refuse to comply with their expressed wishes. The opponents of this measure, previously to the recess in December last, entreated the noble Lord at the head of the Government not to hurry this question forward, but to afford a full opportunity to the country to express an opinion on the subject. Ample time and opportunity had been afforded for such an expression; and what had been the result? The table had been covered with the peti-
 1236 1237
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, as the discussion to which the Amendment of the hon. Member invited them, would be a renewal of the debate on the second reading of the Bill, he hoped the House would consent to go into Committee now.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the clause had undoubtedly been framed upon the provisions of an Act now in force, and which it was therefore fairly presumed would again meet the sanction of Parliament. In that Act there was no clause preventing any Roman Catholic from holding office, or recommending persons to the Crown for ecclesiastical preferment. It appeared to him there was no office which had a right by virtue of that office to recommend
 1246
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I rise, Sir, with considerable anxiety to answer the question of the noble Lord. It is quite true that language of the nature he has described has been used in Ireland—language exciting to rebellion against the Crown—language exciting the people to acts of violence against persons and property, with a view to establish Ireland as a separate nation independent of the Crown of these realms. Such language may at some periods be passed over as the mere ravings of a distempered fancy, which can have no very dangerous effect. Unfortunately, it is not so at the present moment. I believe this effect has been produced partly by the excitable nature of those to whom such language has been addressed; partly by the very great distress which has been felt by all classes now during three years—a distress which naturally induced men
 1206 1207
 LORD J. RUSSELL : It is certainly the wish of the Government to be able to introduce the important question of the Navigation Laws during the present Session; but I will not declare it as their determination, that, whatever the state of the public business may be, they will proceed with that Bill to the hindrance of other measures; and I cannot think that the right hon. Gentleman is right in what he requires in that respect. I did state a few nights ago what were the means which the Government had of applying time to the consideration of the public business; and I suppose the right hon. Gentleman would hardly have had us allow the income-tax or the Mutiny Act to expire in order to take up the question of the Navigation Laws. We have at present got through the greater part of the Jewish Bill: there may be other questions of urgent importance yet to be considered; for instance, with reference to that very question which the noble Lord asked me tonight relative to the state of Ireland; and if it were necessary to proceed immediately to consider the state of Ireland, we should not like to be precluded from doing so because we had made a pledge with regard to the Navigation Laws. Certainly there are two things which appear to me hardly compatible—requiring so many things to be brought forward and completed by the Government, and yet allowing so few days in the week at their disposal.
 MR. HAWES  stated, that the question which had formerly been put to him on the subject of the tax on emigrants related entirely to the suggestion which his noble Friend the Secretary for the Colonies sent out to the Canadian Legislature, with a view to a Passengers' Bill being introduced into the Assembly there. Since that, accounts had been received, he believed he might say, of the passing of an Act imposing a much higher tax than formerly, namely, 10 s 1203 l
 MR. ADDERLEY  regretted that the hon. Baronet the Member for Oxford had wasted so much time in commenting upon the speech of the hon. Member for Leicester, which could hardly have been heard by any hon. Member in that House without feelings of unmixed disgust. Notwithstanding the assumption of constitutional right which had been put forward so frequently in arguing that question upon broad and general grounds, he maintained that that House, as being composed of the representatives of the nation, had perfect right to exclude from it those whose admission was repugnant to the general feeling of the nation. It might be said that no great expression of feeling had taken place in the country on this subject; but he contended for it that any one who had an opportunity of ascertaining the general popular opinion on the question would agree that it was opposed to the proposed measure. The admission of the Roman Catholics to Parliament was not a case analogous to the present. He did not
 1242
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, he had taken no part in the previous discussion on the Bill, and therefore he should briefly express his reasons for opposing it. In 1834, a Bill, having a similar object, was introduced by Sir Robert Grant, and on that occasion he, notwithstanding his great respect for Sir Robert Grant, moved that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. Nothing which he had since heard on the subject had induced him to change the opinions he then entertained. In his opinion, the tendency of the Bill before the House was to unchristianise the Legislature of the country, and, so far as that House was concerned, to sweep, away everything like a national recognition of our allegiance to God as the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. The Bill appeared to him (Mr. Bruce) to be so mischievous, so pregnant with evil and danger, that he should offer to it every opposition in his power. It was calculated to remove no practical grievance, and was, therefore, utterly useless. In fact, he considered it was not only ridiculous, but indecent and monstrous to propose it. One of the functions of the House was the promotion of true religion, for that was the best way to promote the peace and prosperity of society. It had been well observed by Wordsworth, that it was the duty of the State to open new channels which the flood of sacred truth might enter into, and from which it might overflow the realm as the waters of the Nile did the Egyptian
 1216 1217 1218 * * 1219
 MR. GORING  rose for the purpose of moving the Amendment of which he had given notice—
 "That it is the opinion of this House, that so long at least as the House of Commons exercises the authority which it at present does exercise over the Established Church, no Jew ought to possess the franchise, much less be allowed to sit in this House." 1214 1215 "He that abideth in the doctrine of Christ, he hath both the Father and the Son. If there come any unto you and bring not this doctrine, receive him not into your house, neither bid him God speed; for he that biddeth him God speed is partaker of his evil deeds."
 MR. URQUHART  said, that he should vote for the Bill of the noble Lord (Lord John Russell), but that he did so for reasons which he could not allow to be confounded with those given by the hon. Member for Leicester. He was placed in a peculiarly embarrassing situation, agreeing in a great deal of what was urged on both sides, by two parties who were taking courses directly opposite. With the one he entirely concurred that the Jews were subjects of the Crown of Great Britain, and were thereby legally entitled to every right which belonged to them in their capacity of ratepayers and citizens. He concurred on the other side that it was monstrous that Jews should be admitted to legislate for a Christian Church. It was not in his opinion a question of Christian ethics, but of just position of the English Church. He did not hold the Jews disqualified from judging sanely and acting uprightly in all questions in which religion was to be their guide in politics; I for the religion of the Jews, in as far as regarded the conduct of man towards man, was the religion of the Christian. Christ gave no new commandment. But, on the other hand, he held that the Church, as established in England, was not to be subject to the votes or opinions of any other community save its own. The whole process of recent legislation had been directed against the Church; and that night they had heard the Church in one and the same breath charged with usurpation, and with prostration, the effect of the usurpation of others. In every recent change of the constitution, the Church
 1228 "That the necessity which exists for a deliberative assembly in common with every other body, whether of a religious or secular character, attaches no less to the Christian Church. In representing their sense of the need of an acting Convocation, they humbly submit that they are only desirous that the Church should be placed on a level in this respect with other religious denominations in your Majesty's dominions, each of which either actually has or may have its central deliberative assembly for the regulation of its own affairs." 1229 "It is urged that persons who not only do not acknowledge, but who renounce and deny—and some say vilify—the great Author of the Christian religion, ought not to have any voice in the Legislature of a Christian country. On this point arises a question which I own I find it very difficult to answer. The Legislature of this country—I mean the two Houses of Parliament—is not confined to what may be called the civil government, the imposing of burdens which all must bear, and the enacting of laws which all must obey; but extends to the government of the Established Church also, even in matters purely ecclesiastical. It is, in fact, at present the only ecclesiastical government; since Convocation has long been in a dormant state in England, and in Ireland does not exist even in that state. Whoever, therefore, is admitted to a seat in the Legislature, is admitted to a share in the government, not only of the State, but also of the Church; and that, not only in respect of its temporalities, but also of purely ecclesiastical affairs. If, therefore, the question be asked, 'What right can a Jew have, under any circumstances, to legislate for a Christian Church?' I know of no answer that can be given to that question, except by asking another: 'What right has a Roman Catholic to legislate for a Protestant Church; or a Presbyterian for an Episcopal Church?' What right, in short, has any man to legislate, in ecclesiastical matters, for any Church of which he is not a member? This anomaly appears to me to exist in all these cases alike." 1230 jus commercii jus connubii jus honorum jus suffragii jus honorum jus suffragii jus suffragii jus honorum 1231 Communes 1232
 MR. CARDWELL  said, the state of the case was this. We had a great scarcity of cotton in England. There was admittedly a large quantity in Havre belonging to merchants, who were very desirous that they should be allowed to bring it to Eng-
 1212
 MR. BANKES  was not bound by the 10th George IV., as he had voted against it; and he also repudiated the idea that the national religion was not Christianity. He asserted that the Government itself had given grounds for the Amendment now proposed, when they said that certain officers, because they have ecclesiastical patronage, shall be excluded from the Bill. The regency of the kingdom and the Lord Lieutenancy of Ireland were not only excluded from the Bill, but beyond that the Keepership of the Great Seal could not be held by a Jew—not because he was incapable of administering the law, or of understanding our jurisprudence, but because the Lord Chancellor has at his disposal ecclesiastical patronage. Why did they not also exclude the Chancellorship of the Duchy of Lancaster, for, although the value was unequal, the principle was the same. Why not exclude the President of the Board of Control, who appointed to ecclesiastical situations of the greatest importance in India—a country where so many religions prevailed, and where it was wished to give the preponderance to that they believed to be the right one? Why not also exclude the Colonial Secretary, who
 1245
 MR. HUDSON  did not know what authority the hon. Gentleman had for saying that a strong feeling existed on the subject out of doors, for he had heard of no public meetings. But if public feeling had been awakened at all, it was in a contrary way to that indicated by the hon. Member, and was in favour of the continuance of the Navigation Laws. There were large and important classes in the country, who, whether from mistaken ideas or not, were convinced that the Navigation Laws were essential to the commercial welfare of the empire; and he trusted that Her Majesty's Government would not suffer themselves to be hurried in the consideration which they were no doubt giving to this vital question.
 MR. ROBINSON  concurred with the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, that they should not interfere with those laws whilst a Committee of the other House was sitting upon them.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  thought that, despite the indignation testified towards the President of the Board of Trade, the right hon. Gentleman was quite right in refusing to supersede the law of the land by an Order in Council. It was his (Mr. Baillie's) opinion, that even if they did so far repeal the Navigation Laws as to permit the cotton sent to France to be imported into England, the Provisional Government would at once issue a counter order, forbidding it to
 1213
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he knew very well that there was at Havre a quantity of cotton which was not wanted there, but which was very much wanted in this country; and he also knew that, under the existing Navigation Laws, that cotton could not come from France to England, but must go back to America. He fully admitted the hardship; yet that was the law of the land. It was in fact one of the essential principles of the Navigation Laws, and he thought it would be quite improper of the Government, whatever might be their individual opinion, to take upon themselves to set aside the law of the land by an Order in Council. He knew no instance of the kind; and though he agreed with the hon. Gentleman as to the impolicy of those restrictions, yet he thought it would not be justifiable for the Government to take the step which he recommended.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  could not agree that because a Committee of Inquiry into the Navigation Laws had been appointed
 1210
 MR. LABOUCHERE  had stated the other night that if a cargo of cotton was imported into Havre, either under the American or British flag, not having been landed in Havre, the ship might come to England with it. Another question had heen put to him—whether, supposing a cargo of cotton imported into Havre in a French ship, it could be brought into this country cither in a French or any other ship; and, without entering into the propriety or utility of the Navigation Laws, he apprehended nothing was more clear than that it was impossible, under the present state of the law, to import such a cargo from Havre into this country in any ship at all. He did not think the Government would be justified in altogether setting aside the Navigation Laws, and permitting the cargoes to be imported under the circumstances referred to.
 DR. BOWRING  said, that a strong feeling existed out of doors that something should be done to apply to the shipping interest the same principles that had been applied to other mercantile interests, and that the shipowners should be compelled to adopt those principles as the basis of future legislation.
 MR. BRIGHT  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade another question in connexion with the cargoes of cotton now in the port of Havre—whether or not it was not the custom in former times—in times of war
 1211
 MR. BRIGHT  was anxious to call attention to a subject on which he put a question to the President of the Board of Trade the other day. He alluded to the cotton cargoes now in the port of Havre,
 1202
 MR. HORNBY  thought it a very important point to be decided on that discussion, viz., whether the country at largo would benefit by the admission of Jews into that House, or, in other words, whether that House would better discharge its duty by the introduction of that new element into its composition? In his opinion neither the country nor the House would benefit by the proposed change. Such being the case he denied that there was any injustice or intolerance in refusing the Jews admission into Parliament. There was no more injustice in refusing them admission than in refusing to appoint a candidate to an office for which he was eminently disqualified. All the arguments in favour of the Bill were of a negative character. The noble Lord the Member for London had asked what was the value of a Christian oath when such men as Gibbon and Hume had taken it and held seats in that House, and offices under the Crown? His answer to that was, that the proof of the value of the oath was found in the fact that conscientious Jews refused to take it. If the noble Lord adhered to that argument he must carry it further, and introduce a Motion abolishing oaths altogether—which he presumed the noble Lord was not prepared to do. It was said, also, that they would only have four or five Jews in Parliament. This was by no means certain. He should not be surprised if, before many years elapsed, there were as many as forty or fifty. It was perfectly true that the Jews were a body numeri-
 1238 1239
 MR. REYNOLDS  objected to the Bill because it did not go far enough. Clause 6 excluded Jews from certain offices; he objected to any such exclusion, and particularly to that which related to the Lord Chancellorship of Ireland. He wished to know, and he hoped the supporters of this clause would give a clear and explicit answer, why Jews were excluded from the Lord Chancellorship of Ireland? He asked the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth why, when he drew up the Catholic Emancipation Bill, men of his faith had been excluded? He had asked that question of first-rate lawyers, and had been told it was because the Lord Chancellor of Ireland had patronage in the Protestant Church. That was the answer he invariably got; but it was founded upon an error. The Lord Chancellor of England was, he believed, the patron of 800 livings; but the Lord Chancellor of Ireland had not one. Having committed this injustice upon Roman Catholics, was the House prepared to endorse that injustice on the back of the Jew? If this clause were carried it would form a justification for the exclusion of Roman Catholics for ever from the office of Lord Chancellor of Ireland. On that ground, therefore, he should move that the words "the Lord Chancellor of Ireland" be omitted altogether.
 MR. SIMEON  opposed the Bill, after the fullest consideration which he could give to the subject. He heard with feelings of regret the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down; and, if anything could induce him to offer a still more vehement opposition to the Bill of the noble Lord, it would have been that same speech; and he would lament to see the introduction to this House of a class of Dissenters—if he might so term the Jews—animated with feelings so hostile towards the Estabished Church as those by which the hon. Member seemed to be actuated.
 MR. WAWN  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. WAWN  said, it was not fair upon the shipping interest to press on the repeal of those laws when a Committee was sitting upon them in another place.
 MR. P. SCROPE  suggested, that as they had suspended the Navigation Laws last year in the case of corn, the justification being the scarcity of that article, they might consent to a similar experiment now, when the circumstances were the same with regard to cotton. The House should remember that the thousands of workmen who had been thrown out of employment in the manufacturing districts had had their distress increased by the accession to their numbers of those of their countrymen who had been expelled from the mills in France; and all that was asked was, that the cotton which was lying useless in the French ports should be allowed to follow these unfortunate people.
 MR. T. BARING  said, the price of cotton was very low at present, and he could not see any very strong plea for relaxing the Navigation Laws in order to introduce an article of which the prices were at present low. If it were not a case for relaxation, he must protest against thus attacking the Navigation Laws by a side wind.
 MR. GLADSTONE : I cannot but express my extreme regret and dissatisfaction at the answer given by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade to the questions put to him respecting the Navigation Laws, as well as at the answer he gave a few days ago to a somewhat similar question. At the commencement of the Session Her Majesty, in the Speech from the Throne, gave notice of the introduction of four measures into this House. One of those measures related to the repression of crime and outrage in Ireland; the second to the advancement of the social condition of the people of Ireland; the third to the promo-
 1208 1209
 SIR W. VERNER  said, he should not detain the House more than a few moments; but upon a Motion of such vast importance as the one now before it, he could not content himself by giving a silent vote. The noble Lord had based his measure on the ground of principle; it was precisely on that ground he (Sir W. Verner) wished to consider it. He entertained no feeling of disrespect towards that portion of his fellow-subjects for whom the claim of eligibility to sit in this House had been advanced; on the contrary, he could affirm that there was not a Member who voted in favour of the noble Lord's Bill more ready than he was to acknowledge the merits and the services of the Jewish people in this country—or of the eminent individual in whose person the question of Parliamentary eligibility was now to be tried. It had been said, in support of the Motion, that every British subject possessed an inborn right to represent, in this House, any constitutency which may return him to it, unless he be incapacitated by some express ground of disqualification; that no such ground can be alleged against the Jewish portion of the people; and that accordingly it was no more than an act of justice to relieve them from the disabilities under which they at present labour. What the rights of man might be, it was not for him to decide; but the constitution had taken upon itself in various instances the office of deciding upon them. It affirmed, denied, and abridged claims of right, as seemed best for the interests of the country: it required that to become a Member of Parliament, a man should be of full age; that he should be exempt from the duties and liabilities of certain offices; that he should be, to a certain extent, independent in his circumstances; that he should not be in holy orders—but that he should be a Christian. Now he (Sir W. Verner) could not but think that this last obligation was not less important, was not less necessary, was not less salutary than any of the others. It was, perhaps, the only obligation in which principle was involved,
 1233 1234 1235 "No one in this part of the world can understand the unmitigated hostility the Jews entertain towards Jesus of Nazareth. I fear that, though having witnessed it myself, I shall not be able to convey to you any idea of that intense hatred. Ton go into the Rabbies' houses, and they will enter complacently into any other conversation; but the moment you begin to speak of that name, the Rabbies take their worst garments and shake them, as much as to say, I shake myself clear of all reference to 'that thing,' as they term the Saviour. This hatred may arise from various sources: first, that there rests in them the effects of that cry of the Jews of old, when they said 'His blood be upon us and our children,' It is a solemn thing to meet with our stranger fellow-men anywhere; it is a still more solemn thing to mix with unconverted men; but to meet with a Jew has something very awful in it, for there you meet with one who still cries out, 'His blood be on me and my children.' You meet with one whom the persecution of all ages has bowed down, and on whom the afflictions of a thousand years have worn the channels of passion deeper and deeper still. In Belfast you meet with many whom you know to be in the gall of bitterness; but when you meet with a Jew, you meet one who at once rejects the cross before which you kneel, and look for pardon. This hatred may arise from another cause. They see in the East no form of Christianity which is not idolatrous. They see men carrying the image of the Virgin Mary through the streets and churches, and putting her above the Son of God himself, and they cannot be convinced that this is not idolatry. And it has so happened that, in all the East, these corrupt churches have succeeded in teaching that the worship of their saints and angels and images stand on the self-same footing with the worship of the Trinity; and hence, the Jews perceiving that we are different from the Oriental Christians, say, you surely do not believe in the Trinity; and thus we have to enter into a subtle argument to break down and trample upon those points of belief which are not founded on the word of God."
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  moved the addition of the following words:—
 "or any office in the gift or appointment of Her Majesty, her heirs or successors, to which the appointment or recommendation to any office or preferment whatever in the United Church of England and Ireland, or in the Church of Scotland, may belong." 1243
 SIR J. WALSH , in seconding the Motion, hoped that the hon. Baronet would not readily be persuaded not to press his Amendment to a division, as it appeared to him a point which might be fairly submitted to such a test. The hon. Baronet bad brought forward a case, not founded upon a contingency of mere possibility, but upon an event which might be fairly anticipated. If all that they had heard of Jewish genius and Jewish intellect were true, he saw nothing more probable than that the House might see a Jewish Premier seated in the place so worthily at that moment occupied by the noble Lord upon the bench opposite. It was therefore incumbent upon the House to exercise a small degree of foresight as to what would be the result of a Jew holding such a position. He supposed that it would be met with the same ingenious arguments by which it had been attempted to get rid of the old maxim, that Christianity was part of the law of the land. It had been said that that maxim had no real foundation; but he thought the hon. Member's question touching the Premiership showed how completely Christianity was interwoven with all the laws and institutions of this realm. Not a single step could be taken without disturbing all the machinery of the constitution, if the step trenched upon its Christianity. He would not detain the House upon the general question; but let
 1244
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  then moved that at the end of Section 6, the following words should he added—
 "or Judge of any of Her Majesty's Courts of Law, or Members of Her Majesty's Most Honourable Privy Council."
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  expressed his concurrence with everything which had fallen from the hon. Member who had last addressed the House, and whose speech was remarkable for its manner, its talent, and the principles advocated in it, although the hon. Member took a more general view of the whole question at issue than might have been necessary in considering the proposition of the hon. Member for Shoreham, which was then more immediately before them. But after the speech of the hon. Member for Leicester (Mr. Gardner), which involved almost every conceivable subject, it would be difficult to place limits to the discussion. That hon. Member had described himself as the apostle of toleration; but there were many who, like him, laying claim to a monopoly of that moral attribute, were distinguished for the very contrary tendency, and remarkable for their intolerance. That hon. Member was not content with attacking the Church of England himself, but was anxious to elevate and give power to those who were the Church's enemies. He was not aware whether the hon. Member was then in his place in the House, or he should, perhaps, be disposed to comment at greater length on his speech; but he should then only say that the hon. Member's language and principles appeared to him to be the most intolerant of all the professors of liberality whom he had ever heard. In the absence of the hon. Member, he could not allude further to his speech than to ask if such a speech as that ought to be addressed by a
 1240 The hon. Member alluded to, here entered the House. 1241
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN said : Sir, I feel the impossibility of putting the important question to the noble Lord of which I have given notice, without some explanation of my motives for violating the ordinary rules of the House by prefacing it with a few words of introduction. I think it right to state to the House, that, looking at the present state of Ireland, I have thought it my duty, not only as a matter of justice but of public duty, to state to the noble Lord at the head of the Government the purport of the question which it is my intention to put. Indeed it was impossible to do otherwise at this time, when no man would wish to embarrass the Government charged with the administration of the affairs of Ireland; and I have to thank the noble Lord for the permission he has given me to put the question, because I believe the reply will be looked for with great anxiety by large masses of Her Majesty's loyal and faithful subjects in Ireland. I believe that the attention of the public, and of every Member of this House, must have been called in the course of the last few weeks to the language and conduct of certain individuals in Ireland. I believe there is not a single man in this House who has not seen with indignation
 1204 1205
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  said, unless the House and Government should otherwise determine, the cost of the survey of the metropolis would he defrayed out of the sewer-rates imposed on the metropolis, it being in the opinion of the commissioners of sewers quite necessary for an effective system of drainage for the metropolis at large. He confidently expected, from the best information he could acquire, that the whole expense, including that of the triangulation and taking of a block-plan, would not exceed the amount of 26,000 l l
 MR. ST. GEORGE  intreated the indulgence of the House in rising to offer some explanation in a matter personal to himself. It would be in the remembrance of hon. Gentlemen, that some short time ago certain charges were made against him of having illegally and inhumanly carried out extensive ejectments against a great number of poor persons on his estate in Galway. Some surprise had been expressed that he had not at once replied to these allegations; but the explanation he had to give of his silence was, that he had left London on the 8th of March to attend the Galway assizes—that he had not been until very recently aware of his name having occupied a place in the blue book which had been quoted from—and that it was not until the 26th of March any communication upon this subject was received by him from the Government. The statement of the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey) in the House, referring to his ease, had been made previous to the correspondence which had taken place between him and the Irish Government. He felt indebted to the hon. Member for Stroud (Mr. P. Scrope) for having brought the facts before the House; and he trusted that he should be able to satisfy every one that his conduct had been misunderstood and misrepresented. On the 25th of March he received from Mr. Redington, the Under Secretary for Ireland, a letter drawing his attention to the report of the Poor Law Commissioners respecting the ejectments in the Galway union, and requesting to know if he was desirous of making any observations to the Government on that document? He replied on the 28th of March, and took the opportunity of complaining of the partiality evinced by the Poor Law Commissioner in not having referred to him for information before inserting in the report statements
 1258 "Mesdames Jane O'Flaherty and E. O'Shaunessy in the year 1836 obtained from my father, the late Arthur F. St. George, a lease of the districts of Lettermore, Garumna, and other denominations of land thereto appertaining, at the yearly rent of 837 l s d l l s l s l s l l l l s l l l 1259 l l habere habere "'Thomas M'Donough, served personally 18th May, 1847. "'JAMES CONNOR.' "The district called Garumna comprises many denominations of land. If I was aware of the exact part Michael M'Donough claims to be of, I could inform you whether or not he was served with a copy of ejectment. This matters not, for judgment had, on the ejectment, concluded the entire interests of all parties. I am quite averse to acts of cruelty. I regret the state in which my property is in Connemara. Such is chiefly ascribable to middlemen. I have got rid of this class of tenants, save in one instance. Connemara is an extraordinary county, and requires more than private enterprise to uphold its inhabitants, and regenerate its circumstances. I have borrowed 6,000 l l l l l "I have the honour to be, Sir, your most obedient servant, "C. ST. GEORGE. "To T. N. Redington, Esq., "Under Secretary for Ireland." 1260 ex parte
 LORD SEYMOUR,  as a Member of the Committee which had been appointed last Session, said that he had heard the speech of his right hon. Friend below him with
 1274 l l
 MR. V. SMITH  entirely agreed with the right hon. Baronet in preferring a Bill to an abstract resolution; but the present resolution, though it might be called an abstract resolution, was, nevertheless, one
 1281 1282
 MR. WOOD  said, that there appeared to be only one point of difference among the hon. Gentlemen who had addressed the House on this question, namely, whether it was advisable to adopt the Motion of the hon. Member for Cockermouth at the present time, or to postpone the consideration of the question in order that a Bill might be brought in to effect the same object. If any hope were held out by the Government that they would bring forward such a Bill within any reasonable time, he should be disposed to regard the Motion of the hon. Member for Cockermouth as premature; but, if the Government did not hold out such a hope, he thought that the House ought to consider themselves indebted to that hon. Gentleman for bringing the subject under their notice. If any hon. Member doubted the urgent pressure of the subject, let him go through the streets in that immediate neighbourhood, and he would find a population in the most awful state of ignorance and vice. There were no less than 39,000 out of 60,000 there who attended no place of worship whatever. Church or Dissenting; and he added "dissenting," in consequence of the observations of the hon. Member for Manchester, whose remarks, however, did not seem characterised by the temperate tone to he desired in dealing with such a question, and to whom he must be permitted to say that nothing would induce him so to comment upon the private conduct, the character, or the fortune of any of the ministers of the hon. Member's communion. Let the House remember that there was no mode at present pointed out by the Legislature of dealing with the surplus of the Episcopal Fund, though there was an Act which directed how the surplus of the fund arising from the incomes of the Deans and Chapters should be applied. It might be desirable that this latter fund should not be exclusively applied, as now directed, to parochial purposes. To him it appeared the most proper course to throw the whole into one common fund, to be applied in meeting spiritual destitution in whatever shape it might exist. Exigencies might arise—he was not prepared to say they had not arisen—when the fund might well be applied to an increase of the episcopate; and that might lead, as in the case of the colonial bishops, to a great increase of zealous
 1291
 MR. ST. GEORGE  gave his most unqualified support to the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Portarlington.
 SIR D. NORREYS  recommended the hon. Gentleman to move only for the first return, and to withdraw the remainder.
 LORD ASHLEY  seconded the Motion, on the grounds which his hon. Friend had so fairly and eloquently laid down. He was very decidedly in favour of a fusion of those two funds. He believed it was necessary for all parties in the Church that all classes in the Church should feel that equal and impartial justice was dealt out to them all. He took no part whatever hostile to an increase of the episcopacy, because he held that from that fund they might take whatever was requisite for the immediate exigencies of the Church, whether to increase the number of bishops, or to extend the number of the parochial clergy. He was not prepared to say that an increased number of bishops was not required; but he did say, that an increase of bishops at the present moment was not necessary—not indispensable. On the other hand, however, he did assert, that a great extension of the parochial system—a vast increase of the working clergy—was necessary—was indispensable. Without arrogating anything to himself, he might be excused for saying, that perhaps few had seen more than he had of the wants of our population; and he did not hesitate to say, with a solemn conviction of the responsibility which rested on that House and the country, that if they allowed the present period to pass by—that if they suffered another interval of ten years to elapse before they addressed themselves to the redress of the existing grievances—his firm belief was, that the evil would have attained such gigantic proportions that it would require the faith—ay, and the inspiration—of a David to tear down that monstrous and almost unassailable Goliath. With the most heartfelt satisfaction he seconded the Motion of his hon. Friend.
 LORD H. VANE  supported the principle involved in the Motion before the House. It might be very desirable, for instance, to have the surplus revenues of the see of Durham applied for the spiritual wants of some of the poorer parishes. He agreed with the hon. Member for Cockermouth that it was expedient that these two funds, the General and Episcopal Funds, should not be separated; but from the statement which had been made by the noble Lord below (Lord J. Russell), by which it appeared that that proposition was not considered objectionable, and its arrangement was only a question of time until some understanding could be come to with the heads of the Church, he was inclined to recommend the hon. Member, to whom great credit was due for its introduction, not to press his Motion for the present.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I certainly cannot maintain the proposition which the resolution now proposed to the House is intended to controvert. That proposition is, plainly, "that the surplus revenue of the archbishops and bishops should be applied to episcopal purposes, permitting no part of it under any circumstances to be applied to the relief of parochial destitution." It seems to me, that, generally speaking, and at the commencement of these inquiries, those funds which were applicable to episcopal purposes are to be considered in the same way as the funds which were applicable to the revenues of the deans and chapters; and that if it is right and expedient, when there is a surplus fund arising from the revenues of the cathedrals, to apply it to the spiritual destitution of parishes, so likewise there can be no objection to applying a surplus of the other fund to parochial purposes. So far, therefore, as the general abstract proposition is concerned, I certainly cannot maintain that which the hon. Member (Mr. Horsman) proposes to contradict in his resolution. But if this resolution is intended to affirm the contrary of that which the Bishop of London affirmed in his evidence, the hon. Gentleman cannot effect any practical purpose by the resolution of itself. I was very sorry that the hon. Member, who has no doubt a purpose in view useful to the Church and intended for the public benefit, should have mixed with his observations any reference to former matters, with respect to certain prelates, and especially the Bishop of Durham, as if they had intended in any way to evade the Act of Parliament passed upon this subject. I can assure the hon. Member, that so far as the Bishop of Durham is concerned, the Ecclesiastical Commissioners considered what ought so be paid by him, and that it was proposed in that Commission that an estate of 2,000 l 1292 l l l l l l in commendam 1293 l l l 1294 l l l 1295 1296
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said: I observe that hon. Members, in speaking of the works in Ireland, leave out altogether the main purpose of those works. They speak of those works as great and useful public works in Ireland, and then say that the labour was not only ill performed, but that a great deal of it would not answer the purposes for which it was designed. That is all very just and very true, if they were right in the object; but the object was not to make public works, but to keep the people alive. We found, on coming into office, an almost entire failure in the main article of food, and the question for our consideration was, how to keep the people alive. We consulted my late lamented Friend, Lord Bessborough, and other persons on whose opinions we could rely, and the result was the framing of the Bill in question. I am quite willing to admit that the Act, framed as it was with the best intention, for the purpose of keeping the people alive, was not the best measure that could be devised; but it must be remembered that the emergency was great—that the circumstances were difficult and pressing—and that the Government showed its anxiety to meet the emergency in the manner which they believed most likely to be successful. It is no doubt easy at this moment to criticise those measures; but the object was one well worthy of the attention of Parliament, of the Government, and of this country; and the purpose was, to a great extent, answered, as those who received relief in wages were thereby enabled to purchase food. The hon. Gentleman who spoke last has adverted again to a topic at all times of somewhat an invidious nature, and which it is not very advisable to dwell upon at the present moment. He has alluded to the number of Englishmen and Scotchmen engaged in public offices in that part of the kingdom. But, in enumerating the cases in point, he has omitted a statement which ought, I think, in justice to have been made. I allude to the first appointment made by the present Government, which was that of an Irishman to the office of Lord Lieutenant; and an Irishman not only, but a nobleman who spent a great portion of each ear in the country, dis-
 1304
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland whether his attention had been called to the following paragraph, which appeared in the last number of the  Nation "Ireland's necessity demands the desperate remedy of revolution—it demands, and will justify before God and all men really made in His image, this last resource of nations long oppressed. A revolution means a peaceful or a violent uprooting of a Government, or an upsetting of society; its business is to cure the evils it cannot endure—to cure them with as little loss of blood and time as the means of the revolutionists and the nature of the opposition against them may allow. The Continental nations all had their grievances; but ours are immeasurably greater—they sought the right of meeting, but we seek the right of existence—they sought liberty of the press, but we seek liberty to live—the real alternative with Ireland is decimation or revolution. It is evident to all men that our foreign Government is but a club of gravediggers; they foster poverty and protect pestilence; fever, taxation, exile, death, all arise from their felonious taking away of our means of life; we are decimated not by the will of God, but by the will of the Whigs; obedience to a Government which rules to rob and legislates to destroy is a high crime—alliance with it is a conspiracy against the nation—votes of confidence in such Governments are death warrants—keeping order for them is doing undertakers' work—aiding them in the administration of the law is finishing off without accusation or trial fresh myriads of our doomed population."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was sorry to say, after the appeal made by the two hon. Gentlemen who had just addressed the House, that it was not in the power of Government to accede to the Motion; not that they were unwilling to give any reasonable information that might be asked for, but because it would be impossible to give it in such detail as had now been proposed—those details being so enormous, while the time and expense would be very great indeed. So soon as he received notice of the intention of the hon. Member to make this Motion, he wrote to the Chairman of the Board of Works, to ascertain whether he would be able to give such a return? His answer was that, "even supposing it were possible to give the information required, it would take many months to prepare it, while the expense would be enormous." He further stated, that at that moment they were engaged in the preparation of several returns which would embrace much of the information asked for; that these returns were attended with great trouble and expense, each return varying with the information required, so that what did for one return would not answer for another; and the letter concluded by suggesting
 1301 l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was glad of the opportunity of stating the real facts of the case of Colonel Jones. It was quite true that Colonel Jones had generally signed blank cheques, but then those cheques could not be paid without the signature of another Commissioner; and when Colonel Jones was absent from Dublin it had been his practice—not
 1302
 MR. HORSMAN,  in reply, said, there was one circumstance respecting the late Archbishop of York which had accidentally come to his knowledge in the course of his inquiries on this subject, and which he thought it right to mention to the House. It had been stated to him (Mr. Horsman) that some years ago that most rev. Prelate, feeling his infirmities increasing, expressed a wish to retire altogether from his office and to give up its emoluments; and was only prevented from doing so by the state of the law, which allowed him no option. He had before drawn the attention of the Government—and he felt it right to do so again—to the necessity of providing some means by which a venerable Prelate, who had attained great length of life, and who felt the efficient performance of his duties incompatible with his infirmities, might retire. He had been complained of for again alluding to the case of
 1298 l l l 1299
 MR. HORSMAN  said, in order to make his Motion intelligible, he must explain the
 1261 1262 "983. Do you think it expedient to continue this distinction between the two funds?—Decidedly. "984. What is the advantage of keeping these funds distinct, both being to be applied to promote the effciency of the Church?—In the first place, we want provision for more bishops; and I should say, that if the funds were sufficient, we want provision also for those officers who are of
 1263 "1026. Does your Lordship remember the statement of the great want of parochial cures, as set forth in the 2nd Report of the Commission?—Yes. "1028. The population has rapidly increased?—Yes. "1029. Notwithstanding all the efforts that have been made, is it your Lordship's opinion, that in this metropolis and in the manufacturing districts the wants of the growing population have been overtaken by the increased efforts that have been made or not?—Not nearly. "1030. May it be said generally that now, as compared with the date of the Commission, the destitution in the metropolis and in the manufacturing districts remains nearly as great as it was?—I should say that numerically it is greater. "1031. Your Lordship, by appeals to the charity of individuals, has been most successful in obtaining aid for the building of churches in the metropolis?—I made an appeal to the public, and the appeal being met by a great many noble instances of individual piety and zeal, the result has been that provision has been made for the building of fifty-five churches." 1264 "1038. Notwithstanding the fifty-five churches which have been built in your diocese, and the efforts made in the manufacturing districts generally, your opinion is, that, considering the increase of population, the state of destitution in the main is not much diminished in proportion to the population?—I should rather say that I think the efforts we have made have not kept pace with the growth of the population—we have not supplied the destitution as it was, and therefore we have done nothing to supply the new population." 1265 l l l 
 
 Income of Incumbent. Appropriate Tithes. 
 Tonge £ 199 £ 522 No parsonage-house. 
 Nonington-Cum-Womanswuld 236 600 No parsonage-house 
 Reculver 198 575 No parsonage-house 
 Hernhill 292 700 No parsonage-house 
 St. Nicholas at Wade 161 1,026 No parsonage-house 
 Alkham 152 500 No parsonage-house 
 Wye 101 680 No parsonage-house 
 Hougham 185 532 No parsonage-house 
 Leham 381 1,205 No parsonage-house 
 Herne 360 1,474 No parsonage-house 1266 "1185.—I have considerable doubt as to the expediency of such a fusion, because then, whatever was done for the bishops, would no longer appear to be done out of that property which belongs to them as bishops, but out of a common fund, in which the parochial clergy would be thought, of course, to have a much larger interest; it would be considered as so much deducted from that which ought to go to the augmentation of small livings.… 1188.—Why do you think that that difficulty would arise?—I think that there would be a louder demand for the means of creating additional benefices than endowing additional bishoprics." 1267 l l l l l l l 1268 "That, in the opinion of this House, the distinction between the Episcopal and Common
 1269
 COLONEL DUNNE  moved for—
 "Returns showing the amount of all monies expended under the Act 9 and 10 Vic., c. 107, specifying the sums laid out on each Work, and number of Works in each barony of each county in Ireland, undertaken, by the authority of the Board of Works," &c. 1300
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that if he were a member of the Church of England he should be puzzled to know how to vote, because the hon. Gentleman the Member for Kent had expressed an opinion which was the opposite to that declared by the hon. Baronet the Member for Oxford University. But he rose in the character of a Dissenter to offer a few observations on this very important subject. The House would recollect that much had been said by the noble Lord the Member for Bath in reference to the increase of our population. Amongst those who formed that increase there was not only no sympathy with the Church of England, but any measures which were taken for the instruction of those persons in the tenets of the Church of England were those of which they would not avail themselves. In reference to some observations of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, it would appear that there was always an extreme sympathy evinced in the manufacturing districts when the question of increasing the Church Establishment was mooted. Now, he came from a manufacturing district, and he was able, he thought, to give an opinion on the matter. In his parish, which was that of Rochdale, the population amounted to from 70,000 to 80,000 persons. About seven years ago, he had taken pains to ascertain the state of the parish in respect to the number of places for public worship; and he found that out of fifty-four places of worship, forty-four were built by the voluntary contributions of those who were Dissenters from the Church of England, and all that was totally ignored in the reports which had been presented to that House. He believed from the statement of the right hon. Member for Tamworth, it would seem that no such thing as a Dissenter existed in these localities. Then with respect to Wales, within the last twelve or eighteen months he (Mr. Bright) had visited different parts of the Principality, and amongst others he had visited Merthyr Tydvil. He could not say exactly what the population was there, but he believed it was between 25,000 and 30,000. He went into the shop of an intelligent bookseller there, from whom he learned that there was one church belonging to the Establishment, which had been opened as long as the town had existed; there was another church in process of completion, which was not then open; and that there were twenty places
 1283 l Devastation l 1284 l
 MR. PLUMPTRE  expressed his regret that the right hon. Gentleman had felt it necessary to move the previous question. He considered the course adopted by the hon. Member for Cockermouth a very rational and regular course, to move a resolution to test the feeling of the House on this subject; and that it should be followed up by a Bill. He was, therefore, sorry the Government had discountenanced the attempt of his hon. Friend to do that which he thought was the only one proper step for him to take. When the hon. Member for Cockermouth before moved in this matter, he was happy to second him; and he took occasion to say that the hon. Member ought to be supported, because he was satisfied that the hon. Member was not influenced by hostile feelings to the Church, but rather by friendly feelings. He was fully satisfied of that fact; if he wanted any assurance of it, he could have it in the circumstance of his hon. Friend being seconded by the noble Lord the Member for Bath. No one could doubt that the noble Lord was influenced by purely friendly feelings to the Church Establishment. His noble Friend had said very truly, that in voting for this resolution he expressed no opinion whatever hostile to the extension of the episcopacy whenever an opportunity occurred for its extension. He, for one, should be very glad to see the number of bishops, under certain circumstances and certain limitations, extended; he believed it would be a useful measure for the Church; but he must say that the working clergy were a body of men who peculiarly required assistance. He need not say how much the country was indebted to the working clergy for the state of things which now existed in Ireland, and trusted that more efficiency would be extended to that valuable body. He trusted that fair, legitimate, and rational means would be taken to render that most valuable body more efficient and useful; and that their important calling would meet with every favourable consideration. He was sure that his hon. Friend was influenced by friendly feelings to the Church, and hoped he would meet with due encouragement.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that in Ireland no local question connected with that country was considered of more importance than this. The hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. B. Osborne) had remarked that the air of Ireland seemed to convert every man of business who was sent there into a bungler. However that might be, he knew no better authority on such a question than the hon. Member himself. As comparisons had been entered into, he must observe that the heads of public offices in Ireland, with scarcely an exception, from the Lord Lieutenant down to the poor-law officers, were either English or Scotch; and so highly did the English and Scotch heads
 1303
 MR. HUME  said, the hon. and gallant Member who moved for the returns said he and his countrymen would be called on to repay this money, and it was very reasonable that they should ask in what manner it had been laid out. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had referred to the chairman of the Board of Works (Colonel Jones); but if he were not mistaken, the conduct of that gentleman had been much animadverted upon in a recent trial in Ireland by a learned Judge, as it appeared he had been in the habit, of signing blank cheques. He could not believe that any public officer in charge of public money could be guilty of such negligence, and mentioned the circumstance in order that it might be explained.
 MR. HUME  said, that as the hon. Member for Manchester was not now in the House to speak for himself, he felt bound to state—having heard every word of his speech—that he did not think it displayed the spirit of hostility which the noble Lord seemed to suppose. With regard to the question before them, he was bound to admit that great improvements had taken place—not before they were wanted—but at the same time much yet remained to be done. It seemed to him that there was a general impression about the intention of the Government to create new bishop rics; but he warned the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown against bringing forward any proposition of such a nature, lest a question might then arise as to whether the present number was not sufficient, and the salaries derived by them more than enough for their duties. The introduction of that measure last year had damaged the Government more with the Dissenters in this country than any other proposition which he had ever brought forward. There was another point to which he would also refer, and that was the nomination of colonial bishops. That was a course which he asserted had produced more discontent, ill feeling, and dissension amongst all persuasions of Christians in the colonies, than any other question. With respect to the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Cockermouth, he did not think the noble Lord who had just spoken had treated him fairly. The grounds upon which his hon. Friend had rested his Motion was the evidence given by the Bishop of London himself when examined on the subject in 1847—that it was expedient to continue the distinction between the two funds which were the subject of the present Motion. Legislation having taken place on the strength of that evidence, his hon. Friend's Motion went to affirm the inexpediency of not applying the surplus of bishops' revenues to the spiritual exigencies of parochial districts. With the justice of that proposition he entirely agreed. He regretted the House had not assented to the suggestion which he had made in 1836, to the effect that the entire revenues of the Church should be placed in the hands of lay trustees, out of the control of the bishops, and that they and the working clergy ought to be paid in proportion to their duties. If any change in the law
 1297
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, that though he disapproved of the mode in which the public money had been expended in Ireland, yet as "charity covered a multitude of sins," he would refrain from criticism on that subject. There could be no doubt that in many instances the money had been expended most profligately. As regarded the Motion, he was most anxious to see a clear statement of expenditure. All his experience of the way in which business was managed in Ireland, showed that, let who would be imported into that country, by some unfortunate fatality he would transact business in a slovenly manner. Here was a good Welshman, coming from the very same place in Wales, he believed, as his hon. Friend the Member for Macclesfield (Mr. J. Williams); yet no sooner did that gentleman, who was a man of unimpeachable probity, arrive in Ireland, than he attached his name to a blank cheque. This was a specimen of the manner in which the Board of Works performed their duty. When the sum of 8,000 l
 MR. OSBORNE : I rise, Sir, to second the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman; and at this late hour of the night I feel that I should be wanting in respect to the hon. and learned Gentleman, to the House, and to the country, if I did not observe that there is not a sufficient number of Members present to constitute a House.
 MR. ANSTEY  said: Mr. Speaker, at this late hour of the night I should not think of pressing the Motion of which I have given notice, if I were not satisfied that it is of great practical importance for the House and for the country. We have been engaged of late with discussion after discussion upon the Estimates proposed by Her Majesty's Ministers for the Navy and the Army—defences at all times necessary, but more especially called for under present circumstances, by the alarming aspect of affairs in Continental Europe. We are even at this moment engaged in inquiries as to the best and cheapest mode of providing for those defences. We have to consider how they are to be obtained,
 1305 1306 1307 1308 1309 1310 1311 1312 "That a dutiful Address be presented to Her Majesty, on the occasion of the recent important political events in Austria, Poland, and Prussia, and praying Her Majesty that She will not consent to any new territorial or other arrangement, consequent on such events, that does not recognise and secure to the Polish people their lawful liberties and independence."
 MR. GLADSTONE : When the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down stated that he was about to address the House on this important question, not in the character of a member of the Church of England, but as a Dissenter, he certainly did not anticipate such a speech as they had heard The hon. Gentleman had remarked that no account was taken of the large number of persons in different parts of this country who were connected with dissenting communities; but, although that was a point which might very properly be brought under the notice of the House, he thought it
 1285 1286 1287 l l 1288 l l l primâ facie 1289 l l "Beware, above all things, of scattering your resources over too large a surface; if you have 50,000 destitute people in a district, and you can send only two clergymen among them, beware of confiding this large number of people to those two clergymen. Take a small and manageable number of the people, and give each clergyman a small district in which he can operate; be content with doing a little work at a time, with doing it properly." 1290
 SIR G. GREY  did not rise for the purpose of controverting the arguments of his noble Friend who had just sat down, with every word of whose speech he in a great measure concurred, nor to confute the arguments of his hon. Friend the Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Horsman). At the same time he did not feel at liberty to concur in the resolution which his hon. Friend had moved. With reference to what his noble Friend had stated as to the importance of the extension of the parochial
 1270 in extenso 1271 1272 l l l l l 1273
 SIR J. JOHNSTONE  hoped that, after what had fallen from the noble Lord at the head of the Government, the Motion would be withdrawn. The statements of the hon. Member for Manchester as to the enormous sums paid to the late Archbishop of York were very much exaggerated. The hon. Member ought to have taken the more recent returns, which showed that the revenues of the see for the last three years had not averaged more than 10,500 l
 SIR P. NUGENT  could not allow the Motion to be put without endeavouring to persuade the House and the Government to accede to it. In many parts of Ireland the expenditure on lands had been greater than the value received in return; and if it were only to satisfy men's minds it should be shown how the vast sums granted by this country, which were so soon to be repaid by Ireland, had been actually laid out. He had letters from gentlemen who complained that under the operation of Mr. Labouchere's letter, the number of overseers in certain cases exceeded the number of labourers, so that the money had been laid out on the staff, and not on those employed by it. As he feared the same evils would be still further developed in the drainage system at present adopted, and would lead to the total ruin of the country, he hoped Government would find it consistent with their ideas of public duty to grant the Motion, as it might serve as some check on the future operations of public bodies in Ireland.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  approved of the spirit in which this matter had been discussed; but, at the same time, could not admit one of the principles—indeed, the fundamental principle—on which the proposition had been raised; he meant the right of considering the property of the
 1275 1276
 SIR R. PEEL  said: I have great difficulty in voting for a proposition through the affirmation of which in this House it is sought to do that by resolution which can only be effectually done by a legislative measure. If the subject respecting which we are thus called upon to pronounce an abstract opinion be in itself perfectly simple, and admitting of no doubt, then I desire to know why the object in view cannot be accomplished by the enactments of one short Bill. Even if it be nothing more than the assertion of a principle—even in such a case the introduction of a short Bill would be the obvious and convenient mode of accomplishing the proposed end. It is perfectly true that no legislative measure can become law without the consent of the other House of Parliament; but I still repeat, that whatever is to be done in this matter had much better be effected by means of a Bill, than by thus agreeing to any abstract proposition such as that which is involved in the resolution now before the House; and, for my own part, I am most reluctant to pronounce a direct opinion by means of an abstract resolution, when I do not know how the principle of that resolution is to be carried into effect. Either the principle involved in this resolution is perfectly simple, or else it is not simple, but
 1277 1278 l l 1279 l l l l 1280 l l
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  had not seen
 1257
 MR. FAGAN  said, that it was incumbent on the House to legislate in order to create some alteration for the better in his unfortunate country. He had been glad to hear the noble Lord the Member for the county of Down state that he was prepared to give a qualified sanction to this Bill; and he might observe, that the property belonging to the family of that noble Lord in the county of Down and in Ulster was justly held forth as an example of what might be done in Ireland by good landlords. The hon. Member for Dublin University (Mr. Napier) had commenced his very able and talented speech by calling the attention of the House to the difficulties which encompassed this subject. He admitted that it was a question of considerable difficulty; but his conviction was, that the Bill of the hon. Member for Rochdale met those difficulties more effectually than any measure which had before been submitted to the House, and he was, therefore, prepared to support the Bill.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD replied : In the former debate a right hon. Gentleman (Sir W. Somerville) referred to some apparent contradictions in his (Mr. Crawford's) statements,
 1342
 MAJOR BLACKALL  considered that there should be an extensive revision of the whole law bearing on the relations of landlords and tenants in Ireland, with the object of securing the fair rights of the landlords, and of insuring to the tenants ample compensation for any improvements they might effect in their farms. But the question the House was now called upon
 1340
 MR. O'CONNOR , in applying himself to the merits of the Bill, said, there were those who thought tenant-right of paramount importance to a repeal of the Union. He was not of that opinion, but he quite approved of the conduct of those who, entertaining any opinion whatever with respect to the people of Ireland, expressed that opinion openly. The true way to deal with the people of Ireland was to be perfectly frank. With respect, in the first place, to the manner in which the present discussion had been carried on, he must not only express his strong dissent from the sentiments which the House had heard from the hon. Member for Limerick, but he must also take the liberty of saying that the speech of the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin contributed little to assist the House in arriving at a sound conclusion. That hon. and learned Gentleman jumbled up the measure of the hon. Member for Rochdale with that of the Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland; it was, therefore, scarcely necessary for him to do more than call their attention to that circumstance, as of itself it seemed to him insufficient to neutralise the entire effect of the hon. and learned Gentleman's speech. He should venture to put one or two cases which
 1333 s l s l l l l 1334 1335
 MR. SCULLY  also supported the second reading. No good will would ever exist in Ireland until this question was settled by legislation.
 MR. JOHN O'CONNELL  said, that he could not hope to rival the great ability of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down—an ability which he readily confessed, though he could not admire its exhibition in the present instance, as savouring of what was too often attributed to too clever advocates—the effort to make the wrong-appear the better reason—to wrap up the merits of the case in a cloud of declamation—and to make points at the expense of truth and justice. The hon. Member had deplored party bitterness, but yet had introduced it into the debate, having left the merits of the real question before the House, to indulge in an insulting comparison between the north and other provinces of Ireland. He repudiated the comparison, and the species of lecture the hon. and learned Member had thought fit to read to his southern fellow-countrymen on what he called the superior morality of Ulster—a superior morality which consisted in license given to armed Orangemen to commit outrage and murder? The hon. Gentleman had spoken, too, of an ignominious popularity; but there was an ignominious popularity with persecuting landlords, of which it would be well if the hon. Member
 1326 1327 1328 1329
 MR. O'CONNELL  had referred particularly to the outrages perpetrated by the Killyman wreckers; and the hon. and gallant Gentleman could not forget that the life of the late Mr. O'Connell was threatened by these very loyal and peaceful Orangemen.
 COLONEL RAWDON  would vote for the second reading of this Bill, because he thought that that was due to the people of Ireland under the circumstances.
 MR. NAPIER : Mr. Speaker, I new-rise to give my reasons for voting against the Second Reading of this Bill. The question involved is one of interest and importance; for every question connected with the social condition of the people of Ireland must he peculiarly important. The subject is one on which the public mind has been much excited—I may add, much misled: it is the more necessary that our discussion of it should be calm and cautious, so that the conclusion at which we arrive may not be unintelligible, and the grounds of our decision shall not be open to any just cavil. That legislation on such a subject as the relation of landlord and tenant is a matter of extreme difficuly cannot be doubted: the very fact, that four
 1313 "That when a tenant held land by lease or otherwise, if he had laid out anything in improvements, and he subsequently happened to become unfortunate or insolvent, and could not pay his rent, he could sell his interest, and get compensation for improvements." 1314 "What," says he, "is this tenant-right, as it exists in the north? It is just this—that the tenant, no matter whether a tenant at the will of the landlord, or by lease, cannot be turned out by the landlord, until he shall have put up the possession of his holding to a kind of auction and sold it to the highest bidder he could procure. That is tenant-right in the north." "That of natural right, on the grant of God, the soil of Ireland belongs to the people of Ireland who have therefore a clear vested right of property in the soil to the extent of secure subsistence therefrom, which never could or can be parted with, pass, or perish: and which no power on earth, nor any length of adverse possession, can take away, annul, bar, or diminish." Nation "In plain English, tenant-right is an absolute perpetuity in a farm, subject to a fair rent, to have and to hold to the tenant, his heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns for over." 1315 1316 1317 1318 in perpetuo 1319 1320 1321 1322 "Lords, March 11, 1825. "D. O'CONNELL—Asked to account for this—
 1323 1324 "I am afraid that such a state of things as we witness constantly is a decided proof of apathy and indifference on the part of a large class of the Queen's subjects, from whom the support of the laws might be expected. Persons of the description I allude to are too apt to proclaim that the laws and the government of the country have not afforded that assistance which might be afford-ed; but, gentlemen, they should recollect that, without the assistance of Her Majesty's subjects, without the co-operation which it is their duty to afford, the law must remain a dead letter—that, in fact, no laws or no government can afford relief, unless every man assists in the preservation of the public peace. Gentlemen, as I have adverted to what may be fairly termed the principal object of this illegal confederacy, I may be allowed here to observe that perhaps at no period—certainly at no period, looking to land as the means of affording subsistence to a large portion of the population—does there appear to be on that account less reason for interfering with the rights and remedies of landlords, because you are all aware that the principle, 'that every individual has a right to be supported by the land,' is not only now acknowledged in the abstract, but is embodied in an Act of Parliament in full execution, by which the most stringent measures are afforded for the relief of the poor under all circumstances, and at the cost and expense of that very class of persons against whoso rights there is this general opposition." 1325
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  denied in the strongest terms the statement of the hon. Member for Limerick city that the Orangemen were licensed to commit any outrage. He was not surprised at the soreness exhibited
 1330
 MR. P. SCROPE  thought it was most important, with a view to maintaining the tranquillity of the empire, that this question should be brought to a speedy settlement. The subject was one which was regarded with intense anxiety by the occupying tenantry of Ireland; and he believed that unless some arrangement was speedily made, the great mass of the population of Ireland would take the matter into their own hands, and would settle it in a far more summary and disagreeable manner than was proposed by any Bill which had been introduced into that House. The hon. Member for Dublin University had made a very able and eloquent speech on
 1341
 SIR G. GREY  said, that on the day when this subject was before under discussion, his right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland stated so fully and clearly the reasons which induced the Government to oppose the second reading of the Bill, that it was needless for him to occupy the attention of the House long on the present occasion, particularly after the able manner in which the question had been debated by Gentlemen locally connected with Ireland, and after the very able speech of hon. Member for Dublin University, who had brought a great deal of practical and legal knowledge to bear on the subject. In one point he must concur with what had fallen from the hon. Member for Radnorshire, namely, that the more this question was
 1336 s s 1337 s s "Proposals in writing, or applications personally, will be received and attended to by Mr. John R. Price, Westfield Farm, Mountrath, who will be prepared to satisfy all reasonable tenants on the undefined and vexed questions of 'tenant-right and fixity of tenure,' by the only remedy calculated to remove the difficulty and perpetuate a good understanding between landlord and tenant; that is, by providing the fixed capital required for all permanent improvements, on certain just and equitable conditions, to be previously agreed upon; and by granting a substantial lease for twenty-one or thirty-one years, as the condition of the farm may require or suggest.—March 9, 1848." 1338 1339
 SIR J. WALSH  considered that the picture drawn by the hon. Member for Limerick of the state of society in Ireland, in consequence, as he declared, of the absence of a system of tenant-right, was most exaggerated. He differed altogether from the hon. Member in his calculation that the good landlord was the exception in the sister country; he believed that the fact was precisely the reverse. There was a great popular demand for an alteration of the law, a great cry for tenant-right, involving every shade of tenant-right, amounting at last to the total extinction of the rights of the landlord. Her Majesty's Ministers had brought forward a Bill on the subject, and it was immediately met by the hon. Member for Rochdale by a declaration that it was a concession to the landlords which had spread consternation and alarm throughout the whole of Ulster. That Bill altered all the subsisting relations of tenant-right. Then the hon. Member for Rochdale brought forward an antagonist Bill, which was met by the right hon. Gentleman (Sir W. Somerville) in a very able speech, in which he proved, unanswerably, that the Ulster tenant-right, if extended to the rest of Ireland, must prejudice the rights of landlords and the interests of tenants, and that the hon. Member had misunderstood the effect of his own Bill. The hon. Member for Rochdale met this objection by the proviso he had inserted in his Bill, recognising any established custom in any locality, and in the absence of it referring each case to arbitrators. This measure, therefore, only legalised the Ulster tenant-right, where it was already adopted by custom; but in the remaining three-fourths of Ireland all the rights of tenants and landlords would be, without any rule or
 1331 1332 desiderata
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  thought, that as the other Bill on this subject would probably go to a Committee, the hon. Member for Rochdale was entitled to a fair consideration now. He indulged in very little hope that there would arise from either of these Bills such a measure as would be likely to satisfy the people; and, indeed, in the circumstances in which they were placed by these competing Bills, the question raised by the hon. Member for Rochdale having been taken up by others with intentions very different from his own, and in the midst of the agitation which was now going on with respect to land in Ireland, it became very difficult even for those with the best wishes to do justice to the Irish tenantry to give at this moment an honest and conscientious opinion. The measure of the right hon. Gentleman was something like a connivance at fixity of tenure; and as he should be glad to see this Bill (the Outgoing Tenants Bill) sent to a Committee upstairs, he should now be very unwilling to vote against it, merely because to some portions of it he saw reason to object.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  had been asked by his constituents more than once what course he would take with regard to the case of Frost, Williams, and Jones; and his reply was, that if they would allow him to take his own course, he would do the best he could for them. In pursuance of that pledge, he now took the liberty to impress upon the Government how much the heartburning and ill-feeling might be removed by a display of clemency. The time chosen for the Motion was not a very happy one: a week sooner or a week later might have been better; but the sentence must eventually have the revision of the Government—and he should hope that, at
 1383
 MR. GARDNER  would support the Motion. He thought that the same measure of merciful clemency which had been exerted in favour of Papineau and the other rebels in Canada might be now extended to Frost, Williams, and Jones. This question came before them supported and recommended by the sympathies of a large portion of the people who were not represented within the walls of this House, and as such it would have his cordial support.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, whatever difficulty he felt in following the able and elaborate speech of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets, upon a subject with which that hon. Member had been familiar for many years, and to which the hon. Member had devoted a considerable portion of his life, that difficulty was considerably diminished by the nature of the Motion. When the hon. Member for Montrose had given notice of a Motion on the same subject, it was for an inquiry into the case when the Rajah was living. Such an inquiry was of a practical nature; and, if the late Rajah's advocates could have succeeded in convincing a Committee, and, through the Committee, that House, of his innocence, it might have led to his restoration to the rank and position he had previously enjoyed. Since the hon. Member for Montrose had given notice of that Motion, intelligence had been received of the death of the Rajah; and the Motion of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets was of a very shadowy and intangible character. The inquiry the hon. Member wished the House to undertake had lost its chief importance. There was another reason why he felt less difficulty in resisting this Motion. If ever there was a case to which the principle of  res judicata 1400 l 1401 1402 1403 1404 1405 1406 l l
 MR. STAFFORD  seconded the Motion, and stated that Mr. Clementson, the Deputy Sergeant-at-Arms, was unwilling to lose that opportunity of reminding the House of the length of his service. He had been Deputy Sergeant forty-four years. When Mr. Colman was appointed Sergeant, he was serving in the Peninsular war; and during that time Mr. Clementson performed the duties of the office. When Colonel Seymour was appointed, having been promised the office long before, Mr. Clementson for some time discharged the duties and received the emoluments of the office; and for the last year and a half the whole duty and responsibility had fallen upon him. It was with no wish to impugn the decision of those in whom the patronage of the place rested that Mr. Clementson wished upon that occasion to record the length of time he had had the honour and privilege of being a servant of that House. Mr. Clementson's friendship with his family began long before he could remember; and for that reason, as well as from a sense of his private worth, he had much pleasure in making this statement to the House. And how-
 1409 1410
 MR. C. MORGAN  said, it had been stated by the hon. Member for Nottingham that the object of Frost, Williams, and Jones, in going to Newport was to induce the magistrates to relax the severity of the treatment to which Vincent, who was then a prisoner in Monmouth gaol, was subjected. But if that was their object, it certainly appeared extraordinary that they should have chosen such an hour as two o'clock in the morning for their visit to Newport; that they should have been accompanied by armed bands of men; and that they should have prosecuted their journey on one of the darkest and most tempestuous nights that had ever been experienced in that part of the country. He could state, from his own knowledge, that during the period of Vincent's imprisonment, at Monmouth, he was allowed every indulgence compatible with his position. It had been stated by the hon. Member for Nottingham that a person wearing a glazed hat, who had frequently been seen in the neighbourhood of the hills previously to the outbreak, was a Government spy, who had incited the people to violence; but if there was any foundation for this statement, it was strange that the circumstance had not been urged in favour of the prisoners at their trial.
 MR. O'CONNOR,  in rising to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice, felt himself under peculiar difficulty, as he generally did, whenever he rose in the House to bring forward any Motion connected with popular movements. For the last fifteen years, both in the House and out of the House, he had boon connected with popular movements in this country, and, as a matter of course, a good deal of odium attached to his own character, and under no circumstances more extensively than in the present case. He was aware that the House had on a former occasion given this matter the best consideration;
 1370 1371 1372 1373 "That an Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that Her Majesty would be graciously pleased to extend Her Royal pardon to John Frost, Zephaniah Williams, and William Jones, and all other political Offenders."
 MR. O'CONNOR  was aware he was not strictly in order in addressing the House, but trusted for their indulgence while he remarked that the right hon. Baronet by the course he proposed would certainly be taking the people by surprise; for, he must remind the right hon. Gentleman, in 1831, when many of his Colleagues were in office, 150,000 men, having given notice of their intention at the Home Office, marched down and deposited their petition for reform; that in 1837 a procession of 100,000 men marched with the petition in favour of the Dorchester labourers; and that, very lately, a procession consisting of a very large number of sailors had accompanied a petition. Why, the persons against whom the notice of the Government was directed, had passed a resolution that every single man should himself be a special constable, and they had pledged themselves not only to preserve the peace themselves, but to take every individual into custody who violated the rights of property. It was not the intention of the people to come to the door of the House. They proposed to cross Westminster-bridge. There was no
 1355
 MR. FRENCH , in bringing forward the Motion of which he had given notice, was anxious as a matter of justice and courtesy, to leave the question as much as possible in the hands of the Member for Stroud. That hon. Gentleman had taken it up long since. Three years ago he had introduced a Bill for the reclamation of the waste lands in Ireland. Last Session he had a notice on the books of his intention to bring the same subject before the House. He had, in the present year, more than once made a similar attempt; and he had published a pamphlet for the purpose of calling attention to the public importance of a measure of the kind. He (Mr. French) should endeavour to confine himself to authorities untouched by the hon. Member; and leaving to him the evidence taken before the Devon Commission, content himself with calling the attention of Members to the reports of the Bog Commissioners, gentlemen selected by the Government of the day for their ability and practical experience; and to the recommendation of different Committees of the House of Commons, to show that what he sought for would be most desirable and remunerative. It would not be necessary for him to detain the House by any statement of the necessity at the present time of devising measures to improve the agriculture of Ireland, and to stimulate the industry of her people. The lamentable experience of the last two years had unfortunately made English Members as well acquainted with the wretched condition of that country as those who were constantly resident there—nor was he disposed to underrate the difficulties Her Majesty's Government had to contend with; but let the path be rough or smooth, they must tread on it; the attempt must be made; Ireland neither could nor should be suffered to remain in her
 1357 l 1358 "I am perfectly convinced that any species of bog is, by tillage and manure, capable of being converted into a soil fit for the support of plants of every description, perhaps the most fertile that can be submitted to the operations of the farmer. On the whole (he says) I am so perfectly convinced of the practicability of converting the whole of the bogs I have surveyed into arable land, at an expense hardly ever exceeding the gross value of one year's crop, that I declare myself willing to undertake the drainage and formation of the wastes in any piece of considerable extent for one guinea an acre, which is about seven years' purchase of the rent it would then afford." "That the reclamation of the bogs would, according to the estimates of the different engineers employed by them, return to the improver a permanent rent of from 10 to 15 per cent on the expenditure; and they go on to say, 'It is not on more theoretical speculation that these premises are rested; our engineers uniformly adduce the example of hundreds of acres actually improved within their respective districts to justify their estimates." "That it is not surprising that the project of improving Irish bogs should have occurred at different periods, both to individuals who had only their own profit in view, and to the patriots who were zealous for the prosperity of their country. Undoubtedly (he says) it is an object of the highest importance to the State, and particularly to this portion of the empire, because the mode of life is such in Ireland as would immediately be suited to the cultivation of the kind of soil which may be obtainerd by the first stage of improvement in bogs. Much of the cultivation amongst the great mass of the people in Ireland is carried on by the labour of men without the plough; the soil of newly-reclaimed bog would not, for some time, bear the tread of cattle, though it might be manufactured by the spade and shovel. He offers to reclaim 1,000 English acres for 7,800 l "The possibility of recovering the hog I of Ireland has long been the matter of parliamentary attention; it appears there are three millions
 1359 l s "When the immense importance of bringing into cultivation five millions of acres now lying waste, is considered, it can only be a subject of regret and surprise that no greater progress has been made in this undertaking. Were this work accomplished, not only would it afford a transitory but a permanent demand for productive labour, accompanied by a corresponding rise of wages and improvement in the condition of the poor—opportunities would be afforded for the settlement on the waste lands of the peasantry, now superabundant in particular districts. This change would be alike advantageous to the lands from whence the settlers are taken, and to those to which they are removed, and would facilitate the introduction of a comfortable yeomanry, and an improved system of agriculture into the country; the screw pressure of the clearance sustem would be mitigated, and the general state of the peasantry improved." 1360 1361 "1. That two Commissioners be appointed, who, with the Chairman of Board of Works, shall be the Commissioners for the purposes of this Act. "2. That such Commissioners should be enabled to appoint engineers, surveyors, and other officers. "3. That Commissioners should have power to make surveys and estimates of waste lands, and to take the same compulsorily under the provisions of the Lands Clauses Consolidation Act. "4. Commissioners to have power to reclaim the land so taken—to lay them out in farms of not less than ten, or more than 100 acres—with power to sell or let the same in perpetuity, or for a term of years. ".5. Right of pre-emption of the whole or part of such lands to the original proprietors. "6. Commissioners to have powers for the general maintenance of the works, &c., similar to those vested in the Drainage Commissioners. "7. Commissioners to have powers to issue debentures, limited in proportion to the value of the land, and secured thereon. The extent of such issue must be determined by experience. Taking the waste lands of Ireland alone as the basis, there is improveable for cultivation and pasture 3,755,000 acres. There is, probably, another million that might be planted. If the present value of these wastes be averaged at 1 s d l "8 Commissioners to have power to borrow
 1362 "Bank notes are now issued upon two bases;—
 
 "1. Government securities held by the issuing bank to a certain amount. "2. Bullion retained in the bank coffers. The proprietors of land in Ireland might, without any violation of principle, be enabled to hypothecate their lands to the Government for the purpose of their being made the basis for the issue of notes to a certain amount, which should be limited to a definite proportion of the value of the lands. "The plan might he made to work somewhat in this way:— "A proprietor possessing lands capable of improvement might be authorised to lay a report before the Board of Works, as is done under the present Land Improvement Act, setting forth the value of the lands, the nature and cost of the proposed improvements, and the probable profit. The Board should be required to investigate the facts, and if they should report that the improvements were feasible, and the statements as to value, &c., correct, the proprietor might then he authorised to apply for a loan to the amount of (say) a third of the existing value. "Say the lands were reported to be worth 15,000 l l "The debentures should be for sums varying from 20 l l "The Bank of Ireland should he authorised to issue notes upon the basis of land debentures, as the Bank of England now docs upon the basis of Government securities. "The working of the plan would then be in tills way:—the borrower would take his deben-
 1363 l l
 MR. THOMPSON  begged to take advantage of the question of adjournment to state, that in the course of the speech he had that night delivered, he thought he had substantiated one, at least, of the many charges which he had brought against Colonel Ovans in another place. The evidence he had adduced upon that charge was a specimen of the evidence he could bring forward upon every other charge. If
 1408
 MR. G. THOMPSON  rose to move—
 "For the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the conduct of the Court of Directors of the East India Company and of the Government of India towards the late Rajah of Sattara, and to report thereupon to the House." 1392 1393 1394 1395 1396 1397 1398 l 1399
 MR. AGLIONBY  considered the Motion vague in its phraseology. It differed from every Motion which had been made upon the same subject. Without entering upon the question of the guilt of those men, he would say that he thought it very meet and competent to the petitioners to pray for a remission of their punishment; he held the same opinion in 1846; and if the hon. Member for Nottingham would alter the terms of his Motion, and if he would specify the names of those parties for whom be would wish to interest the Royal prerogative, he was prepared to vote in its support.
 DR. BOWRING  said, in accordance with the wishes of large electoral bodies in the kingdom, of whose sentiments he was fully cognizant, he was prepared to vote for the Address.
 MR. SADLEIR , pursuant to notice, asked the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland, "whether he can state the probable number of persons who have died in Ireland, during the last twelve months, from starvation or from disease superinduced by an insufficient supply of the bare necessaries of life, and, if not, whether he can state the probable number of those persons who have died during that
 1356
 MR. J. WILLIAMS  seconded the Motion, observing that, if the Motion were not now granted, it would he only postponed, and would be ultimately forced from the justice of the House.
 MR. HUME  moved that the debate be adjourned till that day week.
 MR. HUME  wished to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the duties of the Sergeant-at-Arms attending on this House, and the salary, emoluments, and patronage of the office, with a view to the regulation of the same before the occupation of the new Houses of Parliament. He was sorry to find that the office of Sergeant-at-Arms had been filled up, for he had hoped that the hon. Gentleman who had been so long in the service of the House, and who had always performed his duties so efficiently as the Deputy Sergeant, would have been appointed to the vacant office, and allowed to terminate his life as the Sergeant-at-Arms. He thought that the Lord Chamberlain ought not to have the nomination.
 MR. HUME  had before expressed his opinion that this case had been dealt with in a manner contrary to the usual practice
 1381
 MR. HUME  submitted that it might be dangerous to interfere with the procession. He was not of opinion that the meeting together of a numerous body of persons—however numerous it might be—a million, for example—was illegal, so long as the people were peaceable and quiet. He was sorry the Government had taken up the matter so seriously, and advised them to rescind their determination.
 MR. P. SCROPE,  in rising to second the Motion for leave to bring in the Bill, expressed his regret at the little attention which the House had accorded to the exposition which the hon. Member had made of the benefits derivable from a measure having for its purpose the reclamation of waste lands in Ireland. He had taken the deepest interest in this question during the last twelve years. He had become convinced so early as 1835, when a Member of the Board of Works, that to ensure occupation and subsistence to the Irish peasantry, they would inevitably have to compel the reclamation of the lands now lying useless and uncultivated, while a fine population was idle, and therefore was starving; and in 1846, on the failure of the potato crop, he had again brought a proposal under the notice of the House very similar in its main provisions to the Bill which the hon. Member now sought to introduce. It had been said that the poor-law, now introduced into Ireland, would accomplish the object of providing employment for the ablebodied poor. But the mode in which the poor-law was administered in Ireland was not according to the principle adopted in England even. The poor-law here from the earliest times required that the poor who could not find work, should be "set to work." In England, however, almost all the ablebodied
 1364 "Promote emigration," said Mr. Sidney Hall, "from Galway town into the neighbouring wastes of Connemara—the hundreds of thousands of barren acres of the 'wild west,' which (to the eternal shame of their owners be it spoken) never yet sustained life in aught but the hare and grouse; but which, while they would largely repay cultivation, are sufficient to grow food for the whole unprovided population of your country—a country which some people, unthinkingly arraigning the wisdom of Providence, describe as over-populated, with its millions of acres waste." 1365 l s s l l s d s 1366 1367 l s "That nearly 200,000 families, comprising 1,000,000 of souls, might be permanently and happily provided for upon lots of eight acres of good, and twelve of inferior, waste land (farms, that is, of twenty acres the average each); and, if properly selected from the now redundant small farmers or cottiers, this would enable their holdings to be consolidated up to eight acres, thus providing a comfortable maintenance for 134,000 more families, comprising 750,000 more souls. By this at least 500,000 labourers will be abstracted from the now overcrowded labour market and land market; and the evidence leads to the conclusion that this can be done not only without loss, but with a very large permanent gain—raising the produce of the 3,755,000 acres of waste land, now not averaging 4 s l l l l 1368 l 1369
 MR. C. ANSTEY  begged to call the attention of the House to the question before it, which was that the debate be adjourned; and in doing so he begged to say, that if there was one Member who had more reason to fear the appointment of the Committee than another, it was the hon. Baronet who had just spoken; for if the Committee was granted, they would have to inquire not merely into the conduct of the accessories after the fact, but the principal offenders; and of these offenders the hon. Baronet was one of the most important.
 MR. WAKLEY  would not enter into the particulars of the case, nor was he going to say that these unfortunate men committed no offence; but he begged the House to remember, that had they been successful in their attempt, they would have been designated as heroes, and not as criminals; and that that House would be lauding their heroic conduct, as successful men had been lauded in other countries. All he desired to do was to draw the attention of the House to the state of feeling which was manifested upon this subject by the working classes in the country; the display of which occasioned some little uneasiness to Gentlemen upon the Treasury benches. [Sir GEORGE GREY: Not in the least.] The working classes had a right to feel deeply upon the matter; they were not properly represented in that House; and as the law at present stood, it was impossible for them to rectify that evil. These classes, comprising millions, to a man believed that Frost and his companions were illegally convicted—that opinion could not be shaken; even the hon. Member for Montrose, after all he had heard, strongly maintained the same opinion. Sir Fitzroy Kelly and the present Chief Baron stated that to be their belief; and they were all aware that there was a difference upon the subject among the Judges. Under these circumstances the working people of England besought the humane bestowal of the attention of the House on the case of these unfortunate men. Were they prepared to
 1382
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  approved of the proposition of his hon. Friend: he thought I it of the greatest importance that some means should be devised for the employment of those who were now receiving their livelihood from the rates.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  had formerly voted in support of a similar resolution, on the principle that it was not useful to prolong punishment, when there was sufficient proof of the power of the law to vindicate itself and to put down crime. It was the deep desire of the working classes that their pardon should he wholly granted; and he trusted that the Government would take their case into its favourable consideration.
 SIR D. DUNDAS  regretted that he had not been able to attend the House sooner. He entered only when the hon. Member for Finsbury was addressing the House, and he was surprised to hear him say, as if that were an argument to be addressed to the House, that the people of England—who they were he did not know—were dissatisfied with the verdict; and because the people were dissatisfied, therefore they, lawyers and men who were conversant with law, and who wished to live in obedience to law, and to the institutions of the country, should give way in a matter that they believed to be right—who knew that this question was rightly decided according to the law of the land, by which alone every man in the House and the country held what he had, whether it was life, or liberty, or property, or whatever else was dear to him. He was astonished that the hon. Member for Finsbury should in such a case lend the aid of his authority to such an argument. The hon. Gentleman was conversant with the forms of law—ay, with the substance of law—he administered the law in the way in which, by law, he was called upon to administer it; and he should therefore have been the last man, in any assembly, to tell an English House of Commons that because people were dissatisfied with a verdict, while he himself is not so dissatisfied—at least he did not understand the hon. Gentleman to say that he was so dissatisfied—therefore
 1384 Pœna ad paucos, metus ad omnes adveniat 1385 1386 1387 1388 1389 "1. A majority of the Judges, of nine to six, were of opinion that the delivery of the list of witnesses was not a good delivery in point of law. "2. A majority of the Judges, of nine to six, were of opinion that the objection to the delivery of the list of witnesses was not taken in due time." "3. All the Judges were agreed that if the objection had been made in due time the effect would have been a postponement of the trial to give time for a proper delivery of the list of witnesses." 1390
 SIR G. GREY : The hon. Member began his speech by disclaiming, with the natural indignation of a man to whom an unjust imputation has been attached, the charge of having been cognisant of those proceedings which led to the conviction of Frost and others—of having been a party to those designs which were developed in a treasonable attempt made to subvert the institutions of the country—and of having afterwards absconded and stayed away from the place of danger. [Mr. F. O'CONNOR: It was so stated in the press.] I never
 1374 1375 1376 "It has been proved in your case that you combined together to lead from the hills, at the dead hour of the night, into the town of Newport, many thousands of men, armed in many instances with weapons of a dangerous description, in order that they might take possession of the town, and supersede the lawful authority of the Queen, as a preliminary step to a more general insurrection throughout the kingdom. It is owing to the interposition of Providence alone that your wicked designs were frustrated. Your followers arrived by daylight, and, after firing upon the civil power and upon the Queen's troops, are, by the firmness of the magistrates, and the cool and determined bravery of a small body of soldiers, defeated and dispersed. What would have been the fate of the peaceful and unoffending inhabitants of that town, if success had attended your rebellious designs it is impossible to say. The invasion of a foreign foe would, in all probability have been less destructive to property and life. It is for the crime of high treason, committed under these circumstances, that you are now called upon yourselves to answer; and by the penalty which you are about to suffer you hold out a warning to all your fellow-subjects that the law of your country is strong enough to repress and to punish all attempts to alter the established order of things by insurrection and armed force." 1377 1378 1379 1380
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I do not rise to offer any opposition to the introduction of the Bill which the hon. Member proposes. I admit the importance of the subject, and that it is most desirable, by practicable measures, to facilitate the employment of the poor in Ireland; and I believe that means do exist for employing them on the soil of Ireland to a great extent. At the same time, to talk of waste lands in a country the whole of which is apportioned into separate estates, is using the word in a sense in which it is not used in relation to the colonial possessions of the Crown, where land is never appropriated. My noble Friend has promised to lay on the table a Bill embodying his views as to the best means of effecting an object so important in itself and so desirable. I am quite aware of the difficulties which exist in the way of the apportionment of property, and the great danger of aggravating the evil which it is proposed to diminish. I shall be glad if my hon. Friend will enable us to overcome the difficulties with which the question is surrounded. I understand that he does not propose to avail himself of the machinery of the Government, and a large staff of Government officers, and docs not ask for any grant of public money. To accomplish this object, I shall be glad to give him every assistance in my power.
 SIR G. GREY : With reference to what the hon. Gentleman has said about taking the people by surprise, I can only say that at the earliest moment at which the Government could enter into deliberation upon the subject after seeing the announcement of the meeting for Monday next, they gave directions for the notice to be issued to which I have referred, and which will be printed and in the possession of the hon. Member, I hope, this evening. That notice will contain the opinion of the law advisers of the Crown, without reference to precedent. I assure the hon. Gentleman I give him full credit for being the last man to encourage any persons to join in violating the law of the land.
 SIR G. GREY : Sir, in answer to the question of the hon. Baronet I beg to say, that now I hold in my hand a notice, published yesterday, signed by three individuals, one of whom styles himself "secretary"—as I presume, of the Chartist Association—in which notice it is stated, that a convention of forty-nine delegates, elected at public meetings held in different
 1354
 SIR J. W. HOGG  said, he was glad that the adjournment had been moved; but he hoped that in the meantime he might be permitted to remind the House that the disgraceful charges which the bon. Member (Mr. Thompson) had brought against Colonel Ovans were bare charges and no more. He begged the House to bear in mind also, that the charges were not new—that they had been preferred over and over again in another place, and repudiated by all the authorities at homo and abroad. The hon. Member (Mr. C. Lewis) had asked hon. Members to suspend their judgment. He (Sir J. W. Hogg) begged them not to suspend their judgment. He begged them to believe that a British officer, who had been declared innocent by competent authorities, both civil and military, at home and abroad, was unimpeached in his honour and character, until at least his guilt was demonstrated, and until
 1407 primâ facie primâ facie
 SIR J. WALSH : Seeing the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department in his place, I beg leave to ask the right hon. Gentleman, in the first place, whether Her Majesty's Government have received information of the intention of a body of persons called Chartists to meet on Kennington Common in very large numbers on Monday next, for the ostensible purpose of proceeding through the metropolis in procession, and of presenting this House with a petition in favour of what are called the six points of the Charter? In the second place, I beg leave to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether, the attention of the Government having been called to these circumstances, they are prepared to take those measures which may be necessary to secure the independence of this House from being overawed by any meeting calculated to intimidate it; and likewise, I will add, to protect the peaceable and loyal inhabitants of this metropolis?
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  replied, that the subject had more than once before been mooted, and on every occasion the answer had been that there were no means in Ireland of giving the precise information.
 ALDERMAN THOMPSON  said, the House would readily agree with the right hon. Gentleman when he stated that he did not propose any piece of patchwork legislation, because the right hon. Gentleman proposed to sweep from the Statute-book the whole of the navigation laws, except those which had reference to the coasting trade, where foreigners could hardly desire to compete with our shipping. The importance of the subject could hardly be overrated; for it was, in truth, one of the greatest national questions which had been discussed in modern times. He had no interest whatever
 36 37 s 38 s s
 MR. H. DRUMMOND : Sir, although unwilling at this late hour to prolong the debate, I desire to submit some observa-
 66 in toto 67 68 69
 MR. LAW : I rise to order again, Sir. The hon. Gentleman is not speaking to the question.
 MR. LAW : I rise to order, Sir: there is no question before the House.
 MR. SCOTT  fully concurred in all the sentiments which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House. What were the grounds offered to the House to justify their assenting to pass this suicidal measure? He would ask hon. Gentlemen who advocated it on the principle of free trade, whether the poor-law returns, or any statistics as to the state of the poor in the agricultural or manufacturing districts, were of such a character as to warrant them in saying that free trade had contributed to the happiness of the people? He denied that it had in any degree improved their condition. The evidence taken before the Committee of the House of Lords showed the building, manning, and victualling of British ships to be far more expensive than in foreign shipping. When the Committee appointed by the House of Commons had made no report of their opinion, and when the Committee of the House of Lords was still sitting, he had a right to assume that the
 70
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he had given
 9
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : What I read, as proceeding from Lord Clarendon, certainly alluded to the charge which was brought against the late Government, but it is not in any way adopted by Lord Clarendon; but knowing that a charge was brought against the late Government, both Lord Clarendon and myself were alive to the necessity of preventing any accusation being brought against the present Government for a similar cause. I do not mean in the least to deny or impute that the instructions were not identical.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I think the words of Mr. Monahan are very right and judicious, and I have no hesitation in adopting them.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Mr. Speaker, before we proceed to the business of the day, I beg to move—
 "That an humble address be presented to Her Majesty, to express the deep concern of this House, at the loss which Her Majesty has sustained by the death of Her Royal Highness the Princess Sophia, and to condole with Her Majesty on this melancholy occasion, and to assure Her Majesty that this House will ever participate with the most affectionate and dutiful attachment in whatever may concern the feelings and interest of Her Majesty and Her Illustrious House."
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I have received no information with respect to the last trial which took place. With respect to the two other trials regarding which the hon. Gentleman brought forward a Motion last week, I have here a letter from the Attorney General with regard to his instructions, in which he says—
 "In answer to your letter requiring my instructions relative to the course to be pursued by you in setting aside jurors on the part of the Crown in the case of 'the Queen  v 3
 MR. SPEAKER : There is the Address of Condolence.
 MR. SPEAKER : Members who have preceded the hon. Gentleman have spoken upon the subject he is referring to.
 MR. SPEAKER  begged to call the attention of the House to a circumstance which had occurred with reference to one of its Members. An hon. Member, who had been returned at the last election for the county of Oxford (Mr. G. G. V. Harcourt), had appeared at the table at an early period of the evening, and taken the oaths, but did not deliver in a paper with
 71
 MR. SPEAKER  having signified that no Motion was necessary,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was clear the penal part of the Statute did not apply to the hon. Member; but, if it was necessary, he would submit to the House a Motion upon it.
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  dissented from the principles of Mr. Mitchel as much as any man; but at the same time it was his belief that it was of the highest importance that if the Government had occasion to appeal to the laws of the country against those who opposed them, they should take care, for their own reputation, that the parties were tried by an impartial jury. He was bound to say, that after the letter which the noble Lord had read from Mr. Monahan, the people of Ireland would not consider that the jury had been impartially selected. Mr. Mitchel, after his conviction, had declared that 300 were prepared to do what he had done. The Government, therefore, would have to resort to juries again. In the letter which the noble Lord had read, it was said that every man professing repeal principles was to be struck off the jury. If it were necessary to strike off the list every man who was a repealer, it was impossible that Mr. Mitchel or any man who agreed with him could be tried by a fair and impartial jury. If the principle of Mr. Monahan's letter were to be carried out, it would be far better and more straightforward to abolish altogether trial by jury in Ireland.
 MR. HARCOURT  offered his thanks to the House for their courtesy. Having sat for more than forty years as a Member of that House without having had occasion to deliver in a qualification, and having at his last election delivered in his qualification as the eldest son of a Peer, he did not think it necessary to deliver in any other on his present election.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, this was a question in which the interests of all classes in this country were deeply involved. It not only embraced the whole subject of our colonial policy, but it was calculated to exercise a deep influence upon the power, greatness, and naval superiority of this country—that superiority which we had hitherto exercised over the other great nations of the world; and therefore it was that this question ought not to be discussed with any party or political feeling, or in that latter spirit which appeared to have animated the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He was perfectly ready to admit that the navigation laws were, to a certain extent, injurious to the trade and commerce of the country. All laws which had a tendency to restrict the free interchange of commodities between the nations of the world, must undoubtedly be so; and therefore it must also be admitted that harbour dues and lighthouse dues were, to a certain extent, injurious to trade and commerce. They tended considerably to increase the rate of freights. The lighthouse dues alone of this country amounted to a tax upon commerce of 400,000 l 51 52 53 "As it is impossible for the inhabitants of the West Indian colonies to continue the production of sugar and coffee upon such unequal terms and competition with foreigners, this association sees no other means left, unless efficient relief be at once afforded, than for the West Indian colonies to appeal to the Crown for relief from their unprofitable allegiance, in order that they may attach themselves to some other country, which will extend to them the protection which they are at present denied." 54 l l l l 55 "My Calcutta firm has for many years past been connected with the Continent, and I have, on several oceasions, had charters of foreign vessels offered me considerably under the rates which charters for English vessels were at the same time commanding. In fact, I have no hesitation in asserting, I could at any time have chartered an A1 foreign bottom for the round between Europe and Calcutta at 4 l s s s 56 57 58
 MR. H. BAILLIE  wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs a question with reference to the Spanish correspondence. The noble Lord had laid on the table of the House the correspondence from the Foreign Office, but he had omitted altogether the correspondence of the Spanish Government. It was commonly reported that certain charges and statements had been made by the Spanish Government against the British Minister. It was very desirable that the House should have the statements of the Spanish Government, if such statements had been made.
 MR. GRATTAN : Does the noble Lord say that every Roman Catholic professing repeal principles is to be excluded from juries?
 MR. GRATTAN : Allow me to say that my hon. Friend is quite mistaken in the Catholics, if he says that they cannot be got to convict. I believe it will be found that the Catholic juries are as honest as any of the Protestant juries. I have just
 7
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that when he introduced the question to the House the other night, he had an opportunity of so fully explaining the grounds upon which he was prepared to support it, that he was unwilling to present himself again to the
 27 28 29 s 30 31 32 33 "Do not suppose I am fighting for delay; nothing is further from my purpose. I know too well what is the real interest of those whose cause I am defending; and nothing should I regret more than that this question should he brought before Parliament, and that Parliament should not decide 'aye' or 'no' upon it. I know the evil of delay. It paralyses trade; and therefore, opposed as I am to the measure you have brought forward, depend upon it I will be no party to obstructing or preventing Parliament from fairly considering and definitely deciding upon it." 34 35
 MR. JAMES WILSON  would not follow the hon. Member into the discussion of extraneous matters, but would address himself to the Amendment moved by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, which raised the general question, whether the principles of free trade, which had been carried out by the House in respect to commodities, ought also to be applied to shipping? He was quite aware that a great authority had been quoted to justify, in the case of the navigation laws, an exception from those principles. But he thought, if hon. Gentlemen allowed him to make a few observations on this subject, he could show them that the remarks of Adam Smith did not apply to the case now before the House, especially after the experience they had had of the operation of free-trade principles during the last few years. Adam Smith, in referring to this question, freely admitted that even if it could he shown that ships could be built more cheaply in other countries, and that they could be manned more cheaply there than they could in this country, yet, if it appeared that British
 59 60 61 62 63 64 65
 DR. BOWRING  said, the worthy Alderman, like indeed every hon. Member who had spoken on the same side of the question, had made a very important concession, namely, that apart from the interests of the shipowners, the consuming community would be greatly benefited by the change in the laws, because he, with the other hon. Members, admitted that there would be a considerable reduction in the freight, and if so, there must be a proportionate reduction in the cost of the articles conveyed by ships. The worthy Alderman no doubt very properly attacked many countries that had not, as yet, adopted that wise change in the commercial system which we had lately legalised, and which the spirit of these times so loudly demanded. But he (Dr. Bowring) contended that in this question we were not to inquire into what other nations were doing; we were not to inquire whether other Governments were wisely or unwisely discharging the duties which were committed to their charge. All that we had to do was, to ascertain what were the best means for developing those immense resources which this country was allowed to possess. And he thought it really a disgraceful confession on the part of any one interested in the shipping interest of this country to aver, that with such a superfluity of capital and its consequent supply on such cheap terms, with such activity of intellect, with such large colonial possessions, with aptitudes of such varied character, with raw materials cheaper than in almost any other nation of the earth—still, with all these preponderating advantages, we should not be able to struggle with any other competing naval Power. If we could not compete, there must be some fault in our system; if, as the worthy Alderman himself (Mr. Alderman Thompson) had acknowledged, we could not meet successfully Norway, Sweden, or any of those other northern Powers, after all our long experience, and with all our great advantages, then there must be something in the legislation itself under which we lived which demanded an immediate change. Reference had been
 44 45 46 droit acquis; 47 48 49 "Believing that the influence of the navigation laws is all-pervading, your petitioners, in common with others favourable to commercial freedom, urge those important objections to the continuance of our present maritime policy. The representatives of the German Zollverein, the Hanseatic towns, and other foreign States, have expressed their readiness to forego their own privileges provided a system of reciprocity was established, and that similar advantages were conferred upon their shipping in British ports and harbours." 50
 MR. BRIGHT : It seems as dangerous to defend Ireland as to attack her. The hon. Gentleman has entirely mistaken what I said with reference to Catholics
 8
 MR. BRIGHT : I am not disposed to trespass for a moment on the attention of the House beyond the time so important a case as this demands; and by this time I should have concluded my observations if the hon. Gentleman had not interrupted me. I say that as the Government have shown a determination to enfore the law, I call upon thorn to show to the people of Ireland that, whilst the law is to be enforced, there is also mercy in this House, from which the law emanates. I am perfectly certain of this, that the people of England would go with very great unanimity in favour of overturning and abolishing one of the institutions of Ireland, which has been in past times, and is now, at the root of most of the evils that afflict that country; and in my opinion your first step should be to take away the Church in Ireland, the members of which you declare are the only class you can take for your juries, thereby excluding six-sevenths of the population of Ireland. Such a state of things is disgraceful to this House, and cannot much longer be tolerated.
 MR. BRIGHT : I say, Sir, while the Government have shown the power of the law and their determination—
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, it is quite evident from what has passed in this House of late, and from what has been said to-night, that it was the opinion of the Government that it was highly desirable that the trial
 5 6
 MR. HERRIES  rose to move the following Resolution, of which he had given notice:—
 "That it is essential to the national interests of this country to maintain the fundamental principles of the existing Navigation Laws; subject to such modification as may be best calculated to obviate any proved inconvenience to the commerce of the United Kingdom and its dependencies, without danger to our national strength." seriatim 10 "Her Majesty recommends to the consideration of Parliament the laws which regulate the navigation of the United Kingdom, with a view to ascertain whether any change can be adopted, which, without danger to our maritime strength, may promote the commercial and colonial interests of the empire." 11 12 13 14 15 16 l 17 18 19 "These parties, if they had been aware of this fact, that, by the abrogation of the navigation laws, you would cheapen freights from the foreign islands (where sugar was brought) to England as well as from the West Indies, they never would have thought of asking for it." 20 "The fundamental principle of the navigation laws is that of giving by law in our foreign trade a preference to British shipping and British seamen, so far as we can do so consistently with our engagements and relations with other countries; and of confining our domestic trade, our coasting and colonial trade, as well as our fisheries, exclusively to ourselves." "So far as exclusion is within our reach, that is, in the coasting trade, in the fisheries, in the trade between this country and our foreign possessions, we grant a strict monopoly to the British shipper. It is cur duty to maintain and enforce this monopoly, not for his special advantage, but for the public interest. It is our further duty to give him every legitimate countenance and protection in the trade of this country with other maritime Powers." "we are all agreed that our commercial marine is the foundation of our naval supremacy, and that the maintenance of that power is the paramount duty of those who administer the affairs of this, country." 21 "I am, however, at the same time bound to say that these regulations of the navigation laws were founded on the first and permanent law of every State, the highest ground of political necessity—the necessity of providing for our own state of defence; the necessity of being prepared to afford security to our various colonial possessions scattered throughout all seas; the necessity of protecting the different branches of our widely-spread commerce against all the dangers attendant on a state of war; and, lastly, the necessity of maintaining our naval ascendancy, and thereby sustaining the high station in the scale of nations which that ascendancy, more than anything else, has given to us. Entertaining these opinions, I am as ready as any man to say that it is our duty on all occasions to look to the peculiar nature of
 22 23 24 l l l l l l l l 25 26
 MR. KEOGH  observed, that he had not objected to striking off juries persons holding repeal principles when the question was connected with repeal opinions. His objection was, that Roman Catholics of the highest respectability and of great wealth in the city of Dublin, and in no way attached to repeal principles, but opposed to them, had been struck off the jury by the Attorney General. He had stated that of his own knowledge, and should be glad to know from the Government the reason of their being struck off.
 MR. KEOGH : Sir, I wish to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government. Is it a fact that on the late trial of Mr. John Mitchel for felony, every Roman Catholic was excluded in open court by the Attorney General, without any cause assigned? Perhaps the noble Lord will be able to state whether he has received any information as to a similar proceeding on the late trials of Mr. O'Brien and Mr. Meagher.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Sir, having heard the letter by Mr. Monahan with reference to the instructions given by the late Government respecting the selection of the jury in Mr. O'Connell's case, and believing also—although it is not quite regular that I should allude to it—that a similar reference, on a former evening, was made to this subject, on behalf of the late Government; and in justice to that Government, and with reference also to a point of fact, I may be allowed to assert, in the most positive manner, that the instructions given by the late Government, with reference to the striking off the jurors in Mr. O'Connell's case, were identical with the instructions made to Mr. Monahan given in the case to which the noble Lord has referred. The instructions were positive that no juror should be struck off that list on account of his religion, but that, whatever his religion might be, if he were tainted either by association or identity of communication with the opinions, with reference to repeal, entertained by Mr. O'Connell, then the power of the Crown to strike off jurors should be used. I assert most positively that the instructions are identical; and if it were necessary to go into detail, I could prove that ten Roman Catholics were struck off the jury in Mr. O'Connell's case—were struck off upon evidence that was satisfactory to the agent of the Crown that they were in political connexion with the Repeal Association; and on no occasion whatever was the power exercised with reference to religion.
 SIR R. PEEL : Perhaps, Sir, I may be allowed to second the Motion of the noble Lord. Every one acquainted with her Royal Highness will hear testimony that the influence of her kind and benevolent
 4
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : At present I have no such statements.
 MR. DUNCAN  could state that scarcely any question had attracted so much attention among the working classes in the district with which he was connected as the question now before the House. This was a question of life and death. It appeared that a large body of the industrious classes were frequently working 20 hours out of the 24; and he thought it was not an unreasonable request to ask the Government to grant a Committee to inquire into the grievances of which they complained.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had no great hope, more than his hon. Friend, of making this subject entertaining to the House. He quite agreed that the House was the guardian of the public purse, and that there was a considerable amount of the revenue which was not made the subject of a Parliamentary vote. It was, however, a mistake to suppose that this money was withdrawn from the cognisance of Parliament, since the public accounts were made out in such a way as to afford the means of investigation to any hon. Member who thought the inquiry called for. The late Earl Spencer, who had paid the greatest possible attention to the subject of finance, was of opinion that it would be quite impossible to carry out the recommendations of the Commission-
 131
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  asked the hon. Member whether he would support him in a Motion for doing away with that absurd and gross job, a sinecure of 2,000 l l 132
 MR. HUME  objected to the present mode of keeping the public accounts, as they only deceived the country. For instance, a sum of 7,000,000 l l l
 SIR G. CLERK  said, it might be imagined from the speech of the hon. Member for Montrose that no regular account was presented to Parliament, showing the total gross revenue, and the total gross expenditure; but the fact was, that a full statement on this subject was placed in the hands of hon. Members every year—in the month of March he believed—drawn up in such a manner as would satisfy any mercantile man. He would not say that the system at present pursued with reference to the public accounts was not susceptible of further amendment; but he certainly considered that it was not open to the objections which had been made by the hon. Member for Montrose. With regard to the question as to the payment of fees, he thought it extremely desirable that endeavours should be made to abolish the system of paying fees to public officers. He believed that that system had, to a great extent, been abandoned; but still there were some public officers whose emoluments were in a great measure dependent on
 133
 MR. V. SMITH  hoped the hon. Member would not press the Motion to a division. The subject was one of great importance, and well deserved the consideration of the House; but it was too much to expect that the nine resolutions involved in the Motion of the hon. Member would be all affirmed by the House, particularly as many hon. Members were not acquainted with the subject. To press the question to a division, would therefore defeat rather than promote the object which the hon. Member for Bolton had in view. The Chancellor of the Exchequer was desirous that all fees should be paid into the Exchequer. He therefore hoped the hon. Member for Bolton would not force those who were willing to adopt a great part of his plans to vote against the resolutions on the present occasion.
 DR. BOWRING  did not wish to embarrass the House by dividing on all the resolutions; he should content himself with taking its opinion on the first.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  felt himself in a sort of dilemma on this occasion; but the principle to which he always adhered was that obligations must be kept. In the course of the connexion he had had with the working classes, he had frequently had his opinion asked on subjects similar to that now under the consideration of the House; and his answer had always been—"I should be misleading you very much if I gave you the smallest reason to think that, in my judgment, you would receive any benefit whatever from the measures you contemplate. It is not in this way you are to be helped; but, inasmuch as you have strong opinions and desires on the subject, I will not oppose you. If the results are good, I shall be glad of it; if they are not, I shall regret it; but you must move on alone."
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL , after: what had fallen from his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department, announcing to the House that this subject had been maturely considered, and that a Bill was prepared, and would be introduced at an early period next Session, should not have ventured to trespass on the attention of the House if he had not been alluded to, both by the hon. Baronet the Member for Oxford University, and the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln, with regard to the opposition to which he had been a party when measures were introduced for the amendment of the ecclesiastical law. During last Session a question was put to him by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Dorchester, whether he was prepared, following up the course he had taken in opposition, to introduce any Bill on this subject? He then stated that his attention had been directed long before he was in office to this important question. He believed, if the matter were fairly and boldly grappled with, a measure might be introduced for the reform of the ecclesiastical courts which would be perfectly satisfactory to all parties. He was not now about to enter into the details of the proposed measure;
 123 bona notabilia; bona notabilia
 MR. BOUVERIE , after presenting a petition from Stockport praying for the abolition of the Ecclesiastical Courts, rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice on that subject. The Motion, he observed, was one of no little importance, inasmuch as it concerned a material branch of the administration of the country, which he thought he would be able to satisfy the House was at present a reproach and a disgrace to our law. He had endeavoured to frame his resolutions so plainly that no one could misunderstand their meaning, and so as to involve a strong and sweeping condemnation of the constitution and practice of the Ecclesiastical Courts of England and Wales. He proposed these resolutions to the House because he felt strongly impressed with the impolicy and wrongfulness of allowing abuses of this character, which had long been acknowledged and proved to exist, to remain unremedied, and because he saw no disposition on the part of the Government to endeavour to remedy them. There was no other practical course open to him to propose to the House. Inquiry was useless, because it was exhausted. All that could be done by inquiry had already been done. It would be perfectly
 101 102 103 "such canons, constitutions, ordinances, and synodals provincial, being already made, which be not contrariant or repugnant to the laws, statutes, and customs of this realm, nor to the damage or hurt of the King's Royal prorogative." nil "Are you of opinion that graduation at one of
 104 "Not, in my opinion, certainly; on the contrary, I entertain a very different opinion. I think that the profession has undergone great injury from being so close a profession, and being accessible to so few persons." 105 History of the Reformation "Our ecclesiastical courts are not in the hands of the bishops and their clergy, but put over to the civilians, where too often fees are more strictly looked after than the correction of manners. I hope there is not cause for so great a cry, but so it is; these courts are much complained of." 106 "That the civil jurisdiction of the ecclesiastical courts, especially in testamentary matters, proves almost daily a source of oppression and legal wrong to suitors. That your petitioners, in common with legal practitioners throughout the country, are often required to undertake all the labour and responsibility of civil suits, conducted in ecclesiastical courts, without being allowed to practise in such courts, or to receive any emolument for their labour, except by making separate bills; which to the suitors is the occasion of further expense, of great delay, and of increased vexation, loss, and other serious demage, which it is not in the power of your petitioners to prevent falling upon their clients." 107 v "I have often thought it a very great absurdity that a will which consists both of real and personal estate, notwithstanding it has been set aside at law for the insanity of the testator, shall still be litigated, upon paper depositions only, in the ecclesiastical court, because they have a jurisdiction on account of the personal estate disposed of by it, I wish gentlemen of abilities would take this inconvenience and absurdity into their consideration, and find out a proper remedy by the assistance of the Legislature." 108 "That no criminal suit or proceeding against a clerk in holy orders of the United Church of England and Ireland, for any offence against the laws ecclesiastical, shall be instituted in any ecclesiastical court otherwise than is hereinbefore enacted or provided." "Do you think it desirable that causes for defamation should be taken away entirely from the ecclesiastical court?—They are a very unpleasant description of suit, and I should think might be better settled elsewhere. "Practically speaking, do you believe they are productive of any good?—I should doubt whether they are." "Are your causes of defamation principally or altogether among the lower classes of the people?—Entirely. "Are they often contested, or do they give an affirmative issue to the charge?—Usually contested. The existence of those causes is a very great grievance." "Would there be any great disadvantage to the interests of the public if those causes were entirely suppressed?—I think it would be a great benefit to the public," 109 l s d l s l s d l 110 "The diocesan courts are exempt from some of the objections which may be urged against the peculiar jurisdictions: but there are many reasons derived from the state of these courts in the present time, and the importance of some parts of the business arising there, which induce us to think that the transference to provincial courts of the jurisdiction hitherto exercised by them would be a great improvement in the administration of the ecclesiastical law. In the course of our inquiry we became early convinced of the impracticability of having judges duly qualified, together with a competent bar and skilful practitioners, to administer in the diocesan courts the testamentary and matrimonial laws, which involve matters of such very high importance to the parties litigant and to the public." "He would not enumerate eases of individual hardship; but there were some which would make their Lordships shudder. He had always been accustomed to consider these courts as nuisances, and he had never heard in any other court of cases of such extreme hardship as he had known of in these." "Now, with respect to the administration of some of the ecclesiastical courts, he must own that his experience of some of those courts had not given him the highest reverence for their administration of the law, and he thought it desirable that those courts should be placed on a better system, and a better administration of justice substituted." "He had had a rather extensive experience with respect to them; and he would venture to say he never heard a case before any one of these diocesan courts in which the grossest blunders were not made.—As to the cases brought from the archdiocese of York before the Privy Council, he could say, and he appealed to his noble and learned Friend (Lord Brougham) if they were not full of the grossest blunders, and constantly followed by reversals? ['Hear!' from Lord Brougham."] 111 "The inconvenience of the jurisdiction of the ecclesiastical court has probably escaped the attention of the public on account of the small proportion of cases in which the validity of a will is disputed; but by the few persons who have had the misfortune to be involved in their proceedings, they are loudly condemned on account of the nature of their forms, their insufficient means of eliciting truth or doing justice, and their enormous expense. In the only two cases with the facts of which I am acquainted, 'Ingram  v v "Ask each witness, has not Mr. Nepean some, and what, family connexion, both with the proctors and counsel (or one of them) who are conducting this suit on the part of the producent, and with the judge in whose court it is depending; and upon your solemn oath has not the producent been buoyed or buoyed himself up (of course most fallaciously) wilh the prospect of its successful issue as resulting, or likely to result, from such connexion? Will you, upon your solemn oath, deny that you yourself have repeatedly heard, or have sometimes heard (or will you positively swear that you have never heard), the producent refer, either
 112 "All I can say is, that it is an unfortunate state of things, even if it occurred only once; but it is of perpetual occurrence; I see a phalanx against me which quite oppresses me. I have borne it a long time. " sub judice "But one of his letters seems to have been worse than wrong—it was indiscreet. He ventured—in the contemplation of his gloomy prospect—he ventured to express an apprehension that he did not stand a fair chance in the Court of Arches, constituted as it is, and considering who were arrayed against him. This was unwise, and he has smarted for it. It was no doubt the expression of very needless and unfounded alarm, for they are all honourable men; yet it is possible that the proceedings and judgment in this case may make converts to his opinion. Many and serious are the complaints that have been made of injustice arising out of the family combination. Throughout this case, as it has seemed to me, and I have watched it narrowly (of the judgment I shall have something more to say presently), the interlocutory decisions have been very adverse to Mr. Craig. Whether they were so rightly or wrongly I cannot decide; but whatever may be said either in or out of that corner of the metropolis which goes by the mysterious name of Doctors' Commons, courts of justice ought not to be family preserves." 113 vivâ voce vivâ voce 114 "This peculiar jurisdiction in respect to wills was an important cause of the insecurity of titles, and one of the most frequent and oppressive sources of expense on the alienation of real property." l 115 l l l 116 "That the Ecclesiastical Courts of England and Wales have been the subject of several public inquiries, which have shown them to be totally incapable of fulfilling the important functions they affect to exercise:—That these Courts have not only to decide questions concerning some of the most important civil rights of the subject, but they exercise a criminal jurisdiction, pretended to be  pro salute animœ
 MR. BOUVERIE : After what has been elicited from the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Depart-
 127
 LORD D. STUART  was willing to give his cordial support to a Motion which he thought the House would do well to agree to. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), who had opposed the Motion so strongly, seemed to think that the object of his noble Friend was to adopt the views which he justly said were most injurious, and which it had been attempted to introduce into France. The hon. Gentleman seemed to think the object was to raise the wages of the operatives. So far from this being the case, all his noble Friend demanded was a Committee to inquire into the social condition of those poor men, with a view to its amelioration. The right hon. Gentleman who had opposed the Motion on the part of the Government (Sir George Grey) appeared to think that Dr. Guy had exhausted the entire evidence that could be adduced on this subject; but he assured the right hon. Gentleman that, if this Committee were granted, other evidence of a most important character could be produced. It could be shown that the adoption of short hours would not tend to raise wages; that, on the contrary, a saving would be effected, because the quantity of flour which was now wasted in the process of manufacturing bread would be greatly diminished. He regretted extremely to hear the determination of the Government to refuse the Committee, for he was certain that the result would be to dissatisfy a large number of well-affected persons.
 LORD R. GROSVENOR , in rising to move for the appointment of a Select Committee to take into consideration the petitions of the master and journeymen bakers, presented by him to the House on the 3rd of April last, said, that, in order to explain his argument, he was obliged to lay down a general proposition; it was one which had been generally overlooked, by reason of the all-prevailing selfishness with which human nature was afflicted. If it were not for that failing, society would be carried on in a very different manner from what it now was. That proposition was, that all men, of all nations, were of one blood, and were all members of one great family; and that when one member of that family suffered, every member of that family, either directly or indirectly, suffered too. Now, if that were true of every individual relatively to the whole family of the world, with how much stronger force must it be true when it became a question of the suffering of a large class, relatively to the nation to which they belonged? If, then, he could show that a large number of persons—men engaged in the baking trade—were in a state of suffering, not from any partial or temporary cause, arising from their business, and which was likely soon to pass away, but from circumstances which had become normal as connected with the nature of their employment—he conceived he should have made out a case which the House could not lightly throw on one side. In order that the House might possess an outline of the case, he would refer hon.
 87 "That the great number of hours—amounting to between eighteen and twenty hours a day—during which the petitioners were required to labour, prevented them from obtaining any mental or moral improvement, or even domestic enjoyment; and that the system of overtaxed labour, and of the devotion of an unnatural number of hours to business, in a confined, heated, and unwholesome atmosphere, not only destroyed their health, but rendered them old in constitution before they arrived at the prime of life." 88 89
 MR. STAFFORD  had heard the speech of the right hon. Baronet with great regret, for although the skill with which he had met the arguments advanced in favour of the Motion might convince the majority of that House, they would not convince the majority of the working classes out of doors that Parliament had any regard for their interests. The petition was to be rejected upon two grounds: first, because the noble Lord did not propose any legislative remedy; and, next, because the petition was in some respects faulty. The  animus 93 animus s s 94
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  would have thought it a more satisfactory course if the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department had met the proposition of the hon. and learned Member for Kilmarnock—a proposition which he (Col. Sibthorp) would designate as another job—with a direct negative. He could not avoid thanking his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford for the course which he had taken on the present occasion. The right hon. Baronet at the head of the Home Department had said that he would bring in a measure to meet the evils of which the other hon. and learned Member complained; but he could assure the right hon. Baronet that he would be as ready to meet with him and his measure as ever he had been, and he trusted the right hon. and learned Attorney General would also act in a similar manner, and join him in defeating such a proposition.
 MR. ROCHE  said, that Mr. Mitchel had been tried, convicted, and sentenced; and he bad been treated with a degree of harshness beyond that which was usually applied to the commonest convict in Ireland. He had been hurried from his friends and family. He wished to ask whether it was the intention of the Home Secretary and the Government to carry out in its full rigour that disproportionate and unjust sentence?
 MR. HUDSON  considered that the people generally were well satisfied with the ecclesiastical courts, because appeals from them were very rare. He should not, however, oppose any Bill which did not recognise the principle of centralising wills in London.
 MR. AGLIONBY  took it for granted that the hon. and learned Member for Kilmarnock would pursue the course usually followed on similar occasions. Having received a few civil words from the Government, he would no doubt accept a few promises, and the whole matter would end in smoke. As he (Mr. Aglionby) foresaw, therefore, that he should have no opportunity of recording his vote, he wished to state openly what his opinions on the subject were. He agreed with every one of the propositions embodied in the Motion of the hon. and learned Member; and he should just like to know what would be got by avoiding a division. He believed, that unless the public forced measures on the Government, they never would proceed with them in the way which the national interests required. It would be better that the Bill spoken of by the Attorney General should be introduced during the present Session, because then it might be canvassed and discussed before the next Session of Parliament.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he had always thought that he best showed his respect for the working classes by refusing to join in any proposal that was calculated to encourage delusive hopes on their part. The question really before the House was, whether they would attempt by law to limit the hours of adult labour—not labour in factories, but labour in workshops, widely scattered; and any step, therefore, proposed to the House which would encourage the hope that such a thing was practicable, he would never fail to deprecate. He believed that it was possible, in the case of factories, to have inspection; but he would ask if it would not be intolerable and impossible in a free country such as this to apply to labour in dwelling-houses and workshops a minute system of inspection and revision, such as was found practicable in our factories. It would be utterly impossible; and, in his opinion, that objection was fatal to any system that included such interference between the employers and the employed. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Stafford) had spoken of the coalwhippers; and he was ready to admit that much good had attended the measure which had been carried with regard to that class of workpeople. But there was no analogy between the case of the coalwhippers and that of the bakers. There was no limitation of the hours of labour among the coalwhippers; but, being an organised body, who laboured in a limited space, they were easily subjected to inspection. The case of the bakers, however, was totally dissimilar, and could not be brought under the same rule. On these grounds he felt it his duty to oppose the Motion of his noble Friend.
 MR. HUME  was of opinion that no Committee ought to be appointed on any subject, unless the proposer of it was prepared to state definitively the object in view. If the inquiry was not to lead to some declaredly beneficial result, why should the time of the House be wasted in discussing whether it was advisable to grant it? Neither the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex, nor the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Westminster, had even hinted at the possible remedy which a Select Committee might recommend. The hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Milnes) had not ventured to suggest any remedy which it was likely a Committee would propose. That hon. Gentlemen had been lately visiting Paris, and he feared he had imbibed the principles and had become one of the pupils of Louis Blanc, as he appeared to be of opinion that matters of this sort ought to be discussed in Parliament. Look at, the condition of Paris—to what a condition was it reduced in consequence of wholesale interference
 96
 MR. HUME  expressed his concurrence with the resolutions proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Kilmarnock, particularly with the last of them. He wished the right hon. Baronet had allowed the resolutions to be affirmed; but it was satisfactory to find the right hon. Gentleman intimating a general concurrence in the opinions advanced by his hon. and learned Friend. He hoped that hon. Gentlemen who had come into the House since his hon. and learned Friend had delivered his speech, would read the details to-morrow, and see how important it was to put an end to family compacts or family parties in the administration of justice, and to the system of fees which prevailed in the ecclesiastical courts. There existed formerly separate courts in Scotland called consistory courts. A few years ago Parliament passed an Act by which all those courts were abolished,
 124
 MR. M. MILNES  could not help thinking that at this moment, when all subjects connected with the relation which labour and capital had to each other, were exciting so lively an interest in the world in general—when questions which they regarded as irrevocably fixed, were, by other persons, whose intellect they had no right to despise, and whose benevolence they had no reason to doubt, regarded at least, as ques-
 95
 MR. GLADSTONE  felt himself called upon to make a few remarks, more especially as allusion had been made to an Act which was supposed to form a precedent. He, for one, had taken great interest in the case of the coalwhippers, and was very far from repenting the course he had pursued with respect to that measure. The House would be very much misled were it to suppose that measure constituted a precedent for interference in the present instance. He should state very shortly what were the objects of that measure. A custom had grown up between the masters of coal vessels and the publicans, in that part of the city of London where the coalwhippers exercised their vocation, by which it invariably happened that the men whose services were necessary to discharge the coal ships were hired through the publicans. The publicans had come to be hiring agents. The consequence was the greatest demoralisation—a demoralisation which he should have said was complete, had it not been for the fact that the men were conscious of the servitude to which they had been reduced, and were unfeignedly anxious to escape from it. The Act did nothing to regulate wages or the hours of work; it did nothing towards the inspection of labour. All that the Act did was to establish an office and a public officer to control it; and it was required, under sanction of a penalty, that every one having a coal vessel to discharge should repair to that office for the purpose of hiring men. Even that provision was attended with subsidiary arrangements which were intended to exclude interference. Whatever might be the merits or demerits of that Act, it did not form a precedent. He wished to make this statement, because it was not desirable that the impression should go abroad that this House dealt unequally with different bodies of the
 98 99
 MR. W. P. WOOD  expressed his thanks to the hon. and learned Member for Kilmarnock for the service he had rendered, not only in his clear and temperate exposition of this case, but for his having obtained the assurance on the part of the Government which they had just received. It was deeply important to the best interests of that portion of the Church to which he belonged, that some steps should be taken at once to remove the enormous grievances existing in the ecclesiastical courts. He believed that the Church had suffered great damage by the existence of the miscalled ecclesiastical courts, or courts Christian, a still worse misnomer. It was therefore his anxious desire that the really spiritual jurisdiction of those courts should
 125 126
 SIR B. HALL  meant to support the Motion of the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex. Some short time since he had presided at a meeting attended by journeymen and masters, and perhaps the House would allow him very briefly to be the exponent of the principles he had heard from both sides. As far as he could learn, there was but one feeling among the journeymen—namely, that they were overworked, and that they thought inquiry ought to be made in order that Parliament might be induced to interfere in their behalf. The right hon. Gentleman had told them that this was a matter which might be advantageously referred to the Sanitary Com-
 97
 SIR DE L. EVANS  seconded the Motion. He know well, whatever might be the opinion of the master bakers as to the ultimate result, that they were all most anxious that there should be an inquiry into the subject, in order to put an end to the agitation that now prevailed respecting it. The noble Lord did not propose any alteration of the law; but showing, as he did, upon the evidence of distinguished medical men, that serious grievances did
 90
 SIR G. GREY  was sure that no apology was necessary from his noble Friend for the manner in which he had advocated the interests of those poor men whose petition he now desired to refer to a Select Committee; and he was also sure that there was no indisposition on the part of the House to listen to a statement of the grievances of the working classes, or to adopt any practical measure for their benefit, provided the House could see its way clearly to a remedy. In the present case, however, the strongest argument used by his hon. Friend who seconded the Motion was, that no attempt was now made to provide a legislative remedy, and that the petitioners only asked for an inquiry. He was extremely sorry to be compelled to oppose this Motion; but he did so not from any want of sympathy with these parties; but, in the first place, from the conviction which he felt that an inquiry into the allegations of this petition was not necessary; and, next, because he did not believe that the grievances of which the parties complained were within the reach of any legislative remedy. He had said that an inquiry before a Committee of the House was not necessary. He did not mean to dispute the allegations of the petition, though possibly some of them might be in some degree overcharged; but he did not rest his opposition to the Motion on that ground; and, therefore, for the sake of argument, he would admit them to be true. But he must remind his noble Friend that there had been presented to the House a paper to which he had himself referred, and which showed that no inquiry was necessary Two months ago he saw, in the presence of his noble Friend and of the hon. Member for Finsbury, a deputation of journeymen bakers; and in the conference which ensued there was a discussion upon the remedy for the evils and grievances of which they complained. He must say that there appeared at that time to be but little difference of opinion between his noble Friend the hon. Member for Finsbury and himself, as to the difficulty and the almost impossibility of providing any legislative remedy for
 91 92
 SIR G. GREY : I will say nothing whatever as to the epithets with which the hon. Member has thought proper to accompany his question. If I am to understand the question to mean "is the sentence passed upon Mr. Mitchel to be executed?" I have to inform the hon. Member that instructions have been given for carrying that sentence into effect.
 SIR G. GREY  did not intend to occupy the time of the House by following his hon. and learned Friend through the details of the speech which he had just addressed to the House. He certainly did not rise for the purpose of controverting those arguments which he had so ably urged, nor to contest those proofs which he had adduced to the House, and on which he insisted that there should be introduced some extensive change in the condition of the ecclesiastical courts of this country. He had had on more than one occasion an opportunity, of which he had availed himself, to express his views on this subject. He believed that the present state of the ecclesiastical courts justified most of the comments that had been made on their condition, and he was disposed to agree with very much that had fallen from his hon. and learned Friend. The object with which this Motion had been submitted to the House was stated by his hon. and learned Friend to induce the Government to take this matter up. His hon. and learned Friend had at the same time stated what was perfectly true, namely, that this subject was complicated in its details, and such as he, as an
 117 pro formâ 118 119
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  intended to support the Motion of the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex, on the ground that the House ought to be in possession of additional information as to the hardships of which these persons complained.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, the hon. Member for Kilmarnock might congratulate himself on the triumph which he had already gained without having taken a division on this subject. For, as in the case of the hon. Member for Cockermouth on a former occasion, so in the present instance, the object of the Motion had been gained even without a battle. He did not blame his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for any inconsistency in the course which he had adopted in the present instance, as contrasted with former proceedings; because he admitted that the right hon. Gentleman, in opposition and in office, had given his sanction to the abolition, or at least to a great alteration of the system, of ecclesiastical courts in this country. When, however, his right hon. Friend pledged himself and the Government to the introduction of a measure for remodelling the ecclesiastical courts of England and Wales, it was hardly necessary that he should remind the right hon. Baronet that he had undertaken a task which no preceding Government—however hardy in their attempts—had been able to accomplish. And in one word he could inform the present Secretary of State why former Governments had failed in this respect, and why his own attempt would also prove a failure. His right hon. Friend had attempted to take justice from the doors of every man in every part of the empire, and to centralise it after the modern fashion—not perhaps in Doctors' Commons—Doctors' Commons might be given up—but in London. A return had some years ago been obtained on the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Lancaster, their late Chairman, proving that there were at present throughout the country about 360 courts in which wills might be registered. Was there no practical advantage in that? And when the hon. Member for Kilmarnock told them that, under the present system, difficulty was occasionally experienced in tracing the wills of individuals, did he forget the advantage which the people in remote districts had of registering wills without being obliged to come to London for that purpose? Was it not advisable,
 120 Cheers viva; voce? l 121 l pro salute animœ 122
 LORD INGESTRE , though no follower of Louis Blanc, considered that he would be only advocating a just cause when he supported the Motion of his noble Friend the Member for Middlesex. There was a great readiness at the other side of the House to protect capital as against labour. The Government had shown themselves anxious, at the instigation of capital, to interfere with the navigation laws; but they had shown no such readiness to inquire into the grievances of which labour complained. He believed that the time of the House would not be wasted by the appointment of fifteen Gentlemen to inquire into the complaints of those poor persons.
 MR. ANSTEY  did not wish to occupy the House by entering into any premature discussion on those clauses which related to the Act of the 10th George IV. He hoped, therefore, that the House would not anticipate the discussion that would take place when they came to that stage of the Bill when the clauses referred to would come under consideration. He hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman who had moved the Amendment would not force the House into a discussion of a question which did not properly arise at the present moment. If, however, the hon. and learned Gentleman thought fit to divide the House on the Amendment, he (Mr. Anstey) should then give such an explanation of the 10th George IV. as would satisfy the House of the impolicy of the instruction. He now wished to know from the hon. and learned Gentleman whether he intended to divide the House on his Amendment? [Mr. LAW said that he was entirely in earnest, and intended to persevere.] He would then state to the House what was the effect of the hon. and learned Gentleman's Motion. He (Mr. Anstey) had never attempted to conceal from the House that by far the most important portion of this Bill was that which related to the penal clauses contained in the Act of 1829, commonly called the Roman Catholic Relief Act. His object was to repeal those penal statutes which were passed against a deserving class of religionists on account of their profession and practice of a particular form of religion. If, however, the House should think that the measure was too large, he was content to take such an instalment of the boon he sought, as the House in its wisdom might concede. He should, however, feel it his duty to revive, at some future period, a discussion on those clauses—he should press the consideration of them on the House and on the country, in every possible way, until this act of justice was done to the Roman Catholics. But he would not anticipate, at the hands of the House, such a slight upon the immense majority of the people of Ireland, whose loyalty Parliament were anxious to retain, as would be involved in the adoption of the Amendment. The result of it would be to leave one-third of the clergy and ministers of 8,000,000 or 9,000,000 of people in the United Kingdom still outlawed, and without any legal  status 136 status 137 138 139 non obstante statuto, 140 United Irishman, 141 à fortiori rectius istis, candidus imperti 142
 SIR G. GREY , after apologising for interrupting the hon. and learned Member, begged to suggest that he might defeat his own object by entering into a long discussion at that time, and he advised the hon. Member to defer any further observations which he might have to make until the House had divided on the Amendment before it. He was afraid that if the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Anstey) continued to discuss the merits of the Bill at present, he would be followed by other hon. Members, so that, in fact, no real progress would be made in the Bill that day. He (Sir G. Grey) could assure the hon. and learned Gentleman that he made
 143
 MR. LAW : I hope the hon. Member will not labour under the false impression that this measure will not be further discussed on the present question.
 MR. ANSTEY  said, he had understood it to be the wish of the House that the discussion should be taken then. He was very much obliged for the recommendation of the right hon. Baronet; but at the same time he felt bound, after what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Law) to say, that he could not now close his observations on the question until he had enabled the House to form some conception of the manner in which these religious orders had entitled themselves, not to persecution, but to complete toleration, if not protection, on the part of that House; at the same time he would promise the House not to repeat the observations which he was about to make when the Bill reached Committee. By such an understanding the right hon. Baronet must see that no time would be unnecessarily expended on the discussion of this Bill. In order to give the House some notion of the magnitude of the interest with which it was called upon to deal by this Bill, he would state to it as briefly as he could some of the statistics relative to the number, &c., of these religious orders in Great Britain and Ireland. In the first place (to begin with Ireland), he found that in the archdiocese of Dublin, at the beginning of this year, the number of the regular clergy amounted to 83; in Kildare and Leitrim the number was 10; in Ossory, 15; in Thurles, 15; in Cork, 22; and in several other dioceses the number was about the same. In Waterford and Limerick there were 14 regulars, and different convents, besides one abbey, which contained 100 members, of whom 14 were clergymen. That abbey, he need not remind the House, was the celebrated Abbey of Mount Melleray, one of the few institutions in Ireland, of that nature, which had done its best (and with great success) to supply that part of Ireland with the benefits of a paternal government and a resident proprietary. The members of that abbey had brought into cultivation 300 acres of land formerly supposed to be irreclaimable; they had
 144 145
 MR. NEWDEGATE  admitted that in the arguments which the hon. and learned Gentleman had advanced, there was nothing which was discreditable to him, entertaining the religious opinions he did; but he thought that the House ought to know fairly by whom it was that this question was urged, and under what authority it was proposed. The House ought not to he deceived by seeing a question of this kind in the hands of a private Member; but they ought to know the authority with which that hon. Member brought it under their notice. Now, it happened that, on turning over the pages of the  Roman Catholic Directory 146 "19th of February, 1848.—Thomas Chisholm Anstey, Esq., Barrister-at-law, made a Knight of the Order of St. Gregory, by His Holiness the Pope, as a mark of his approbation, and as a reward for his great services in the cause of the Roman Catholic Church, especially for his endeavours to obtain a repeal of the statutes imposing penalties upon Roman Catholics." Roman Catholic Directory 147 Breviary, Letters on the Church of Rome
 MR. ANSTEY  wished to refer to one or two points in the way of explanation. What he had stated was, that if the decision of the House was hostile to this measure, he should still persevere in the cause he had taken up; but that there were others who, for the worst purposes, would raise agitation of the kind he had adverted to. The hon. Gentleman had referred to a decoration which he had received from the Pope, by which he was supposed to have bound himself to the principles of a certain Pope, who emitted in his briefs highly anti-social opinions, such as that no faith was to be held with heretics. The hon. Gentleman, however, was wrong in his statement of the fact. The honour which he had received, and which he considered a great one, was the Order of St. Gregory the Great, the Pope who sent the first Christian missionary to this country, and not Gregory IX. The Pope who was the author of the decretals to which the hon. Gentleman had referred, came much later, and was not the Pope in whose honour this order was instituted. If the Pope in whose honour the order had been instituted emitted such detestable and antisocial opinions as the hon. Gentleman had spoken of, especially the supposed doctrine that no faith was to be held with heretics, he (Mr. Anstey) should have regarded the insignia of such an order as the greatest possible reproach.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  did not mean to say it was Pope Gregory IX. He adverted to the fact that it was Pope Gregory VII. who deposed the Emperor Henry IV., and he stated that the order of which the hon. Member for Youghal was a member was established in honour of that Pope who had deposed the Emperor, and also that the lessons used in the commemoration of his festival were of so objectionable a nature that they were suppressed in various
 155
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY  did not see the necessity that existed for dividing the Bill into two, which, indeed, he regarded as an uncalled-for obstruction to the measure, which had already passed half way through Committee. He wished to advert to one or two points alluded to in the course of these discussions. Reference had been made to the  Tablet Tablet Gazetta di Roma Times
 MR. NAPIER  thought it was essentially necessary to the fair discussion of this measure, that it should be divided into two parts. The Bill itself consisted of two distinct parts, and, with respect to
 156 157 158
 MR. FAGAN  agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. C. Anstey), that the clauses which he was desirous to expunge from the old Acts of Parliament were gratuitous insults to the Roman Catholic subjects of this realm; but he thought that that body had too many real and practical grievances to get rid of to trouble themselves much about obsolete clauses in old Acts of Parliament. He confessed, therefore, that although he was a sincere Roman Catholic, and anxious to repudiate every insult upon his religion, he was perfectly indifferent to the result of the measure as regarded these clauses; and that had the state of the law as regarded the regular clergy stood as it did in 1844, he would have felt and acted in reference to the clause in the Emancipation Act which it was now proposed also to repeal precisely in the same way as he did with regard to the clauses of the old Acts of Parliament. And why? Because up to 1844 that clause of the Emancipation Act was as obsolete in point of law and in point of fact as any of the old clauses to which he referred. Even before the Emancipation Act was passed, it was very well understood that that clause, though inserted to gratify certain parties in both Houses of Parliament, was to remain a dead letter; and, in accordance with that understanding, it had never yet been carried into effect. If it was not so, why did the Attorney General not carry it out, as he carried out the Act against political offences in Ireland? In 1844, however, the Charitable Bequests Act was
 159
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  thanked his hon. Friend the Member for Warwickshire for the very able, the well-reasoned, and very conclusive speech which he had addressed to the House. Before proceeding to notice either the speech of his noble Friend the Member for Arundel, or that of the hon. Member who had last spoken, he thought it right to state that in any vote which he was prepared to give on the present question, he did not feel himself called upon to give a preference to one division of the Bill over the other, as he could not regard either party with any favour whatsoever. He would, therefore, leave the hon. Member for Cork, who had just sat down, to settle accounts with the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite as to the merits of the proposed clauses. Whatever might be the value of the proposed clause in the eyes of its Mover, it was quite clear that objections were taken against it by parties who, should the clause pass, would be interested in its operation. With reference to the observation
 160 161 Tablet 162 Tablet 163
 MR. SHEIL  said, he would not occupy the attention of the House for more than three or four minutes; but he rose for the purpose of quoting a great authority in favour of the Jesuits, which might perhaps countervail that of the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin, and that of the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, which had been so much relied on. The authority he was about to quote was no less than that of Lord Stanley, who was one of the props of the corporation of the Church. Lord Stanley, speaking of the college at Stonyhurst, said, the Jesuits diffused there a useful system of education, and were of the utmost advantage to the neighbourhood. He contented himself with referring to the authority of Lord Stanley on this subject. [An Hon. MEMBER: When was that spoken?] In 1829, upon the very clause they were now discussing; but he did not think that that circumstance took away from the authority. Lord Stanley had had peculiar opportunities of knowing the Jesuits; he was Member for Lancashire, and Stonyhurst was not a very great distance from Knowsley. Under these circumstances he thought the authority of Lord Stanley was not inappropriate. With respect to the Jesuits, it was admitted that the clause was inoperative, and the consequence was that they maintained upon the Statute-book a stigma of no avail to themselves, but wounding to Roman Catholics. He thought it was a reproach to the English criminal law, and a scandal to the criminal code, that Jesuits coming into this country should be liable to transportation for fourteen years. He was, however, less solicitous upon that part of the Bill, and he believed that the Roman Catholics of Ireland were less anxious upon it, than upon that part which did inflict a practical grievance upon them—he meant in the exclusion of Catholics from the Lord Chancellorship
 164 "My dear Sheil—In reply to your inquiry as to the patronage of the Lord Chancellor in the Church, I can state to you that the Lord Chancellor of Ireland has not any patronage whatsoever except under an Irish Act, by which he is joined with the Archbishop of the province, the three chief judges" (one of whom, the Chief Baron, was a Roman Catholic), "and the Master of the Rolls, in the patronage of two parishes—St. Andrew's and St. Mark's, in Dublin. He has, in fact, no duty to discharge in relation to the Established Church save that of putting the great seal to the appointments made by the Crown, which being a matter of course"—let hon. Members mark these words—" I know of nothing connected with the office that ought to disqualify a member of the Roman Catholic Church from holding it; and I can sincerely add, that the Roman Catholic bar of Ireland has produced men abundantly qualified to do honour to the seals." 165
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  could not have mixed so long with Roman Catholic families and with Roman Catholic society—he could not have resided so much in Roman Catholic countries as he had done—without knowing and feeling that there was a most essential difference between the dead Papists of hooks and real live Roman Catholics. He certainly fully admitted the evils they had done in times past; but all whom he had the honour of being acquainted with—and he was intimate with many, and also lived not very far from one of the seminaries of the Jesuits themselves—were as harmless a set of persons as he ever knew in his life. But he rose specially to ask the right hon. and learned Gentleman who had just spoken, one single point. When on a former occasion he brought forward the instance of the cook-boy, as a proof of the obedience required by the Jesuits, it was said that it was merely the obedience that every one should observe. Fortunately for him, everything that he had said on that occasion had been exactly misrepresented in the public papers, and an attack was made upon him why he could he so foolish to talk about Roman Catholics, and not know perfectly well that there was no oath of obedience taken by the Jesuits that was not taken by every Roman Catholic? There was no distinction whatever, and he now held in his hand his own refutation. The hon. Member here proceeded to read a passage from some newspaper, and went on to say that he was quite willing to vote for every practical object to which the hon. and learned Gentleman had alluded. Let every Roman Catholic call himself what he liked—Jesuit or anything else. It was of no use to keep him out under one name, for he would change his name and come in under another directly. Parliament had no more business to make laws about Roman Catholic religious orders, than they had to make laws with respect to the Methodists or other Dissenting bodies.
 The EARL of LINCOLN  said, it would be perfectly easy to retain Derby in the schedule; but what possible object would there be in the inquiry if the writ were issued? The certain consequence of issuing the writ now would be, that the very parties that the Committee had informed the House were, not only at the last election, but at preceding elections, invariably paid in one shape or another for their votes, would of course take very good care that the next election should be perfectly pure, and at the inquiry that would take place it would be proved that one election had passed over with comparative purity; and yet the object of the inquiry would be to punish those very individuals they were now to exonerate and reward, by again allowing the exercise of their political privileges. He could not see how they could now issue this writ with consistency, after the statements that were made a short time ago. The right hon. Gentleman was now willing to consent to the issue of this writ, on account of the delay that had taken place with regard to the Bill of the hon. Member for Flint. He ventured, when this case was before the House on a former occasion, namely, seven weeks ago, to call upon the noble Lord at the head of the Government to bring in that Bill himself; because such a Bill in the hands of his hon. Friend must be prosecuted without any prospect—much less certainty—of success. He firmly believed that if they now issued this writ, the Bill of his hon. Friend would linger in its present state until the end of the Session, and the result of issuing this writ would be that they must issue all the others. He could not himself see that there was much distinction to be drawn between the cases of Yarmouth and Derby. In the case of Derby, nine acts of bribery were reported, which were considered sufficient for the Committee to report. The result of the inquiry might prove that Yarmouth was grossly guilty, and Derby comparatively innocent; but as the information before the House at present stood, no distinction
 176
 SIR J. HANMER  said that, after what he had heard from the right hon. the Secretary for the Home Department, he felt that the chance of his passing the Borough Elections Bill was very remote. If the House should issue a writ to a borough which was tainted by corruption, the main argument in favour of proceeding rapidly with his Bill, would be removed. He believed that he should have made some progress with the Bill in Committee, if, when he proposed that the House should go into Committee on it, the hon. Member for Lambeth had not made a long speech which nobody wanted to hear. This was not a fortunate day to propose the issuing of a writ for Derby, for had they not heard a case as great and as important as that of Derby reported to-day? The borough of Leicester had been found so utterly corrupt, that the Chairman of the Committee, in the discharge of his duty, recommended that case to the particular attention of the House. With respect to his Bill, he believed that if Gentlemen would meet it fairly it might be decided upon in the course of next week.
 MR. WILSON  begged to be permitted to trespass for a few minutes on the attention of the House while he offered an observation in reference to some remarks which he had the honour of making on the last night that the subject of the navigation laws was under consideration. He was as jealous as any man could possibly be of the credit and commerce of this country, and he should be very sorry if any act or word of his should be construed so
 180 "British ships, some of them twelve-year vessels, were lying in that port unable to get a charter, such was their character, or that of their captains, for carelessness and bad delivery of their captains." 181
 MR. MOFFATT , resuming the adjourned debate, said, he was decidedly of opinion that the repeal of the navigation laws would be beneficial to the country. There could be no doubt but that it would operate as advantageously as the various changes which from time to time during the last twenty years had been introduced into our commercial policy. Those changes were at first regarded with great uneasiness, but the result had proved that they had worked well, and that the tonnage of the British commercial marine, so far from having diminished, had most materially increased by reason of them. He was at a loss to account for the alarm with which the proposition for the repeal of the navigation laws was in some quarters regarded. Any apprehension that our shipping trade would be fatally injured by it, and that the ships of the United States would become formidable rivals to those of England, appeared to be very irrational. The House did not appear to he thoroughly aware of the nature of the competition into which we were called upon to enter, or of England's resources to sustain that competition. The commercial marine of Great Britain was the largest and most powerful in the world, and need not dread any rivalry. Its enormous magnitude could only
 183
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  said, the hon. Gentleman had, in the beginning of his speech, remarked somewhat severely on the conduct of captains of British ships; but, at the same time, the hon. Member had the candour to say those captains engaged in the long voyages were superior to any captains in the world. [Mr. MITCHELL: Not superior.] Well, equal to any captains in the world. But what did the hon. Member propose to do? He proposed to take out of the hands of the British people the long voyages, and leave us nothing but the coasting and fishing trade. The hon. Member went on to say, that gross injustice had been committed upon Canada; that the freight of flour from Montreal was 4 s d s d 201 202 l l l s d l s l l 203 204 "Therefore, as far as regards the struggle for supremacy in commerce, it is rather to our advantage to enjoy a free trade, while other countries are shutting their ports, so as to impede their own commerce, than that they should also adopt the same principles as we ourselves adopt?" "I am clearly of that opinion; at the same time, it is also my opinion that this country having always been looked to as a rule and guide in all matters of commerce, we should not be long flourishing, as I think we should under a system of free trade, without other countries being anxious to follow in the same course." "It would be better that all countries should be wise; but if all are not, I would rather my
 205 "Your view of the principle of protection to trade is, that the country which adopts it injures herself?—Yes. If we are in rivalry with any other countries who wish to maintain that principle, looking to no higher motives than self-interest, we are rather benefited than otherwise by their continuance of protection?—Certainly; if I ran a race I should like to see my opponent put weights in his pocket. You consider that when France imposes high duties upon raw materials, or anything that she requires, it is not to be regarded so much as injurious to us as to herself?—More injurious to herself than to any other country." "Is it not the fact that freights were extremely low for the three years ending with the year 1842?—It is the fact: partly, I have no doubt, referable to the navigation laws. Is it not the fact that since that period freights have considerably risen, and shipping has been again remunerative to its owners?—No doubt highly remunerative. May that be referred to the navigation laws?—That certainly is not referable to the navigation laws, which have not altered since the period to which you allude." 206 207 208 "In order to make myself intelligible, I will take an East Indian article, as rice, which I will reckon, on the average, costs in Calcutta, in English weights and moneys, about 5 l s l s l s l s l l l l l l s d s d s d s d s d s d s 209 210 "Crœsus showed Solon his wealth, and boasted of it; but Solon replied, 'If any other come that has better iron than you, he will be master of all this gold.' Surely at this day, with us of Europe, the vantage strength at sea (which is one of the principal dowries of this kingdom of Great Britain) is great, both because most of the kingdoms are not merely inland, but girt with the sea most
 211 "Is it your your opinion that the character of the English sailor has improved or deteriorated of late years—is he more reckless or less reckless than he was, or have his habits of sobriety increased?—Answer: I think he has improved and does improve in all these respects, and that the apprentice laws have done much towards effecting this improvement." 212
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I wish, Sir, to give two notices of Motions. The first is, of my intention on Monday next to ask for leave to bring in a Bill to alter the form of oath which is taken by Members on taking their seats in Parliament. The other is, that on Friday next I will move for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal so much of the existing law as makes it necessary to pay the assessed taxes before registration as electors for cities and boroughs.
 MR. STAFFORD  would ask how many Members who had read this petition from a town of 45,000 inhabitants, and how many who had not read it, were prepared to trifle with the privileges of 2,000 persons, representing the political power of that town? What would be the consequence of the proceedings of that House upon this subject if they withheld this writ? A. offered a bribe to B., and B. received it; C. petitioned against both, and all three were then disfranchised. That was the justice that that House was prepared to deal out. Why, supposing C. to have the average amount of common sense, he would of course be very unwilling to present a petition, enter into recognisances, and incur a large expenditure, when he knew that the result would be his own disfranchisement. Two were guilty, one was innocent, and the whole three were punished equally. Could that be called impartial justice? And yet it was the course adopted by those who considered themselves models of fairness. If the result of election petitions were to be, that all parties, whether guilty or innocent, were to be punished with disfranchisement, the natural result would be, that those who were innocent would rather allow corruption to go on, than take a step which must end in their own political destruction. Let them not, by refusing to issue this writ to a town containing a population of 45,000, establish for themselves a character for injustice and oppression. It was quite unreasonable that this writ should be suspended until the Bill of the hon. Baronet the Member for Flint was passed. That Bill had now been before the House seven weeks, and it had still to go through Committee, to go through a third reading, and to be passed by the other House; and if double the length of time that had already elapsed had still to elapse before those forms could be complied with, he asked the House where by that time would be the present Session? Time after time, and day after day, the glaring injustice they were inflicting on the constituencies of this kingdom should be brought under the notice of the country; and time after
 173
 MR. COLVILE  rose to move—
 "That Mr. Speaker do issue his warrant to the Clerk of the Crown to make out a New Writ for the electing of two Burgesses to serve in this present Parliament for the borough of Derby, in the room of the right hon. Edward Frederick Leveson Gower, whose Election has been determined to be void." 172
 MR. MUNTZ  was astonished at the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department. He could not understand why, when the people in every borough in the country were complaining of the corrupt practices that were carried on at the late election, the Government should come forward and throw their shield over the evildoers. The suspicion entertained by the people against the Government was not only very strong, but was becoming daily much more strong, and he would warn the Government that they must be prepared either to assist in effecting further social and political reforms, or give up the Government. It had been said that the freemen were chiefly the guilty parties at the recent elections; but he would ask whether the 10 l
 MR. G. R. ROBINSON  said, there never was a measure submitted to the Legislature, involving such serious consequences as the present, and of such momentous importance to the shipping and commercial interests of the country, so feebly supported, or submitted upon such inconclusive grounds, as the proposition of the Government for the alteration of the navigation laws. The right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Labouchere) appeared to lay great stress upon a petition presented
 184 185 186 "In the alliances of States, any more than in the friendships of private life, it was not among the duties incumbent on either to submit to unequal compacts; nor had it been held an offence against such duties that a nation, any more than an individual, should decline such uncompensated sacrifices." 187 188 An attempt was made to count the House out, which proved ineffectual 189 l l 190 191 Anatomy of the Navigation Laws l 192 Anatomy of the Navigation Laws 193 194 195
 MR. ROBINSON : It was his intention to address the House on the subject of the navigation laws, and he should prefer, unless the House should desire otherwise, to reserve his explanation until he had an opportunity of speaking on the general question. [" Go on."] Well, then, he bad to say that in point of fact, there was very little difference between the hon. Gentleman and himself. There was no difference of opinion at all as to the fact of such a letter or extract as that alluded to having been posted up at Lloyd's; nor could there be any as to the perfect accuracy of the quotation read to the House by the hon. Member. His denial was designed to refer exclusively to the inference which was sought to he deduced from the fact of there being eight first-class vessels at Rio de Janeiro which remained unfreighted, while foreign vessels were obtaining freights. The inference sought to be established, was that
 182
 MR. GOULBURN  was anxious to vindicate his conduct in respect to this measure from a suspicion of his being actuated by a desire to connive at corruption or bribery in the borough of Derby. That which influenced him in the matter was the opinion he entertained as to the dangerous power of the House in suspending the issue of writs. He could foresee a period when that power might be used to serve the purposes of a majority, and to the suppression of a free and independent opinion on the part of the representatives of the people. It had been said that there were many constituencies among whom practices similar to those prevailing at Derby were to be found. If that were so, the House would soon have petitions from those boroughs for the suspension of the
 177
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had observed that this was a question which ought to be decided on great and general principles, and with reference to the general interests of this vast empire. He altogether agreed with the right hon. Gentleman in that principle, though he very likely should differ from the right hon. Gentleman as to what he considered to be the general interests of the empire. The
 226 227 228 229 230 "Foreign Office, July 1, 1843.—I am anxious to obtain any information which your long experience may enable you to supply me with respecting the character and conduct of British shipowners and seamen"— "I am particularly desirous of gaining information in regard to instances which have come under your observation of the incompetency of British shipmasters"— "to manage their vessels and their crews, whether arising from deficiency of knowledge of practical navigation and seamanship, or from moral character, particularly want of sobriety; also to the different conduct of crews, according as they are commanded by good or incompetent masters—allowing, therefore, the advantage, us regards preserving the character of British seamen, of their being commanded by a class of persons who should combine, with skill in their profession, a knowledge of the means of properly maintaining authority on board their ships." "My object is to show the necessity for authoritative steps, on the part of Her Majesty's Government, to remedy what appears to be an evil detrimental to, and seriously affecting the character of, our commercial marine; and, therefore, advantageous to foreign rivals, whose merchant vessels are said to be extremely well manned and navigated." 231 "The observations I now make are solely with respect to this class (that is, the Newcastle, Sunderland, and London colliers), and taking them as a whole, I do not hesitate to say they are the most ignorant, illiterate, and brutal set to be met with in command of vessels belonging to a civilised nation." 232 "I beg to enclose you a most interesting document, with respect to the character and conduct of British shipmasters, in which I fully concur." "Vessels arriving from London and Liverpool are generally better navigated. The masters and men are of a superior class, and disorderly conduct is much less frequent on board those vessels than the others." 233 "That vessels belonging to the outports are better commanded and manned than those belonging to the larger ports, as there the owners have better opportunities of examining the characters of the masters and crews they employ." "Ships insured in clubs were commanded by men of more respectability, because mutual insurance makes them more careful as to what masters they employ." "The consuls only see the men when they are on shore, and there are many men who may indulge and break out on shore when off duty, but who may he good men at sea." 234
 MR. HUME  said, the hon. Gentleman assumed that, by refusing to issue the writ, they would he acting unjustly to their fellow-subjects. The fact was just the reverse. Certain corrupt practices had extensively taken place, and therefore it was but justice to the community at large not to allow those who had been guilty of those practices to continue them. Although the necessary course to be taken might be hard upon individuals, it was but an act of justice to the great body of the community. When the first writ this Session was moved for, he stated his views with respect to this matter, namely, that where a Committee of that House had investigated charges of bribery, and had called the attention of the House to the subject, a rule ought to be laid down that no writ should be issued for any borough before an inquiry had been instituted to ascertain to what extent the corrupt practices had been carried on; in order, if possible, to apply a remedy. Such was evidently the intention of that House in the rule which declared that any corrupt practices at elections were a breach of the privileges of the House. In conformity with that rule he still objected to their issuing any writ where the report of the Committee had expressly stated that the electors had been guilty of corrupt practices. The Committee reported in this case, that a certain number of individuals had been bribed, and that it was the custom in Derby, and observed at the last election, for a certain number of electors to be placed upon committees in order to be paid for their services. It was therefore the duty of the House to suspend the writ, in order to prevent these persons being guilty of a repetition of such practices. In justice to the country at large, and to uphold the Standing Orders of that House, he should certainly take the sense of the House against the issuing of this writ.
 MR. GIBSON  said, that the noble Lord who had just addressed the House, had in the latter part of his speech uttered loud lamentations on account of the great injuries which he seemed to think had been inflicted upon the great industrial interests of the country. The noble Lord said, that nothing could have been more unwise than first to strike a blow against the agricultural interests of England, then to inflict a deep injury upon our colonial system, driving it even to the brink of ruin. He would take the liberty of saying, that there was something more unwise still, namely, having got so far in the policy of free trade, now to remain where they were. Having exposed the colonial and the agricultural interests of this country to unrestricted competition, were they prepared to say that, with respect to shipping, they would now take their stand, and neither go backward nor forward? He presumed that they did not intend to go backward, for he had heard no proposition from any quarter which indicated such an intention. As they were not recommended to go backward, and as they could not stand still, he entreated them not to be deterred from pursuing a consistent course by any mistaken views of self-interest. He had often heard it stated by those who opposed unrestricted commerce that they did not object to free trade in the abstract—that they did not object to free trade if it were to be carried out in all things; but their cry was, "Don't make agriculture the sole object of your experimental policy." He did not then see the hon. Member for Essex in his place; but he felt confident he had often heard that hon. Baronet say—he would not undertake for the exact words, but the idea was this—that he did not object to the removal of restrictions, provided the principle were uniformly and
 213 214 215 216 217 218 219 220 221 222 223 "You have no mode of getting the men from the mercantile marine except by impressment; they will not volunteer. " 224 "I would, therefore, begin a reconstitution of the Navy with fixing the peace establishment; and the consequence of that would be, that a largo part—in fact, the whole force—would be trained men and able seamen, instead of being, as they are now, for the most part inexperienced in arms and in the art of seamanship; and having that basis of trained and organised men, the force might be expanded to a very great amount by the addition of landsmen and marines, without having occasion to resort to the merchant service for a single seaman even in the event of a war. It would be a great point to render the two services independent of each other; so that if a war should take place, the trade of the country might not be interrupted by taking the seamen employed in the merchant service for the use of the Navy." 225
 MR. MITCHELL  begged to be allowed to offer a few observations to the House, in reply to the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken. He had made so many assertions that it was really necessary that he (Mr. Mitchell) should make him some answer. The hon. Gentleman had undertaken to defend the character of the English captains; but as Chairman of Lloyd's, he ought not to have been ignorant of the facts respecting the bad care the captains took of their cargoes. The hon. Gentleman had expressed upon the subject an opinion directly opposite to that held by the whole of the underwriters of Lloyd's. He (Mr. Mitchell) was perfectly convinced the hon. Gentleman could not contradict the assertions which had been made. Two of the underwriters of Lloyd's had given evidence before the Committee of that House last year confirmatory of what he had asserted. As to the hon. Gentleman's denial of the affair at Rio, to which allusion had been made, it was well known that English ships were as well built—that they were, in fact, better built than most other ships, and they could therefore be insured on better terms than any other—but it was equally well known that the cargoes shipped in British vessels could not be insured on as good terms as those shipped in other vessels. The evidence on that point by those two underwriters of Lloyd's was very striking. One of these gentlemen (Mr. Cumming), who was one of the most eminent men in Lloyd's, mentioned a case strikingly in point. There were two vessels, one of which was English, the other American. They were both freighted with sugar, and insured at St. Petersburgh. The sugar on board the English ship was insured at 3 per cent; that on the American at 2¾: both vessels arrived at the same time. There was no claim made on the part of the American vessel; but the damage to the cargo of the English ship was so great that it nearly swallowed up the whole of the insurance charges. The information respecting the affair at Rio was communicated from a most respectable house in Rio to a most respectable house in London, by a gentleman who was not in any way connected
 196 s d s d. 197 s d s d 198 l l s s l s l s s 199 200
 MR. MITCHELL  had seen the original letter from Rio de Janeiro, to John Robinson and Son. It was a business letter, and contained this plain statement of facts: that there were at Rio de Janeiro eight British ships, which could not obtain cargoes, not because of any defect in the vessels, but because of the bad character of the English captains as to taking care of their cargoes, A gentleman who had arrived from Rio de Janeiro by the last packet corroborated the statement, and went even so far as to say, that most of the great mercantile houses in Europe had given general directions that English ships should not be chartered (so bad was the character of their captains) if foreign vessels should be procured.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  apprehended that the question before the House was not an inquiry into the extent to which corruption had existed at the last election for the borough of Derby, and at previous elections; but, whether the evidence which had been taken by the Committee, and referred to in the special report, was sufficient to justify them in suspending the
 174 175
 SIR J. C. HOBHOUSE : With extreme regret he had to state, in reply to the noble Lord, that Sir Thomas Turton, the Registrar of the Ecclesiastical Court at Calcutta, had been guilty of the offence imputed to him. The defalcations of the registrar, though not amounting to so large a sum as the noble Lord had stated, were still very large, and the securities he gave when he accepted the office, would, if applied to that purpose, go but a little way in malting them up. With respect to the noble Lord's second question, he was sorry to say he could not give him a satisfactory answer. The East India Company protested against the deficiency being charged on the revenues of India; and he feared his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer would protest against its being charged on the revenue of England. With respect to the third question, he had to inform the noble Lord that on receipt of the intelligence from India, he thought it his duty to consult the law officer of the Crown with respect to the punishment of the party implicated, in order to ascertain whether it would not be advisable to indict him; but the opinion of that Gentleman was not favourable to such a course. He (Sir J. C. Hobhouse) had informed the Government of India of the circumstance, and the authorities in that country were preparing a measure by which they would prevent the recurrence of any such delinquency.
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control if the reports which had appeared in the public papers to the effect that great deficiencies had been discovered to exist in the accounts of the chief officer of the Ecclesiastical Courts in India, amounting, it was said, to less than 100,000 l 171
 MR. GLADSTONE  spoke as follows: In proceeding to request the indulgence of the House while I endeavour to lay before them the view which I am inclined to take of this most important and by no means easy question, I can assure them that I shall refrain entirely from troubling them with figures and with particular details. Enough has been done and will be done by other Gentlemen, I have no doubt, in that form of illustration of the general argument; and I shall only endeavour to lay before them the grounds which have led me to the opinions that I have formed. The question which is at present under our consideration is not exactly whether we consider the plan of the Government in all its details, or even in its leading outline, to be the best plan that could by possibility have been adopted; the question fairly raised, as I think, by the Motion of my right hon. Friend (Mr. Herries) is, whether we are prepared, and prepared at this time, to make an extensive change, not only in secondary particulars, but in the principles of the navigation laws. To that question, thus fairly raised, I am ready to give a deliberate answer in the affirmative. Indeed, when I read the Motion of my right hon. Friend, I was afraid that many would have no difficulty in giving it such a construction as to make it—what I am sure he did not mean it to be—equivalent to nothing; because there are not many will say that there are no "proved inconveniences" whatever attending the navigation law, and that you cannot alter it in any particular—that you cannot scrape so much as a single filing off it, without so far "endangering our maritime strength." But that is not his opinion, and I am far from intending to charge him with it. I understand his description of the navigation law: it is quite clear and succinct; I understand his description to be, that the principles of the navigation law were these—that in your domestic trade and your colonial trade you should secure an absolutely exclusive right to the British shipowner; but that in your
 252 253 254 255 256 257 258 259 260 261 262 s 263 264 s d. s d. 265 266 267 brutum fulmen. de novo; res integra. bonâ fide, 268 269 270 271 272 273
 MR. HUDSON  said, if it was necessary for him to offer any apology for rising to address the House on the important subject then before it, it would be found in the fact of his having the honour of representing one of the largest shipping ports in this country. In the port of Sunderland, for which he was Member, out of a population of 70,000 souls, about 25,000 were employed in shipbuilding. He had listened to parts of the speech delivered by the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down with great satisfaction, for he thought the right bon. Gentleman assigned the best possible reasons why they ought to vote for the Amendment of his right hon. Friend the Member for Stamford, rather than with the Government. There was not one proposition submitted to the House by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Labouchere) with which the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had not found fault; and the right hon. Gentleman had also shown that it would have been much more desirable if by treaties they had paved the way for the adoption of this measure. He hoped, then, that by agreeing to the Amendment, the House would give Ministers an opportunity of carrying out the sound views so ably enforced by the right hon. Gentleman. The right hon. Gentleman, however, had gone on to argue that British shipowners would be able to compete with the Dutch, the Prussians, and other foreigners. From that he entirely dissented. Again, the right hon. Gentleman said, ships might be built at less cost in our colonies than at home; yet our shipbuilders were able to face colonial competition. It was true that ships might be built in the colonies for less money; but the timber was of bad quality and little durability, and this accounted for the fact of our being able to compete with the colonies. This, however, would not be the case when we came to compete with the Baltic shipowners, and encouraged Russia to build ships. He ad-
 274 l s. 275 276 277 278 279 280
 CAPTAIN BERKELEY  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down stated that if the members of the Board of Admiralty were not connected with the Government, they would, in all probability, give a very different vote from that which he expected they would give; but it was fortunate for him (Captain Berkeley) that he had already on a former occasion parted from his political Friends, because he thought different from them on a vital question connected with the manning of the Navy. He must say that he differed in opinion from a gallant officer (Sir J. Stirling) who had given evidence on the subject, when he said, that the manning of the Royal Navy should be totally distinct and separate from the commercial marine. He differed from him in this view, for he believed that the Royal Navy was dependent on the mercantile navy, and that the mercantile navy was dependent for its existence on the Royal Navy. It had been said, with regard to the apprenticeship system, that they re-
 281 282 l 283
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  entirely agreed as to the importance of manning the Navy with the hon. and gallant Member who had just addressed the House, and who had given the best proof of his sincerity in retiring from office when he could not hold it consistently with his opinions. But he would not join him in his condemnation of the registration system, which was most ably conducted by Lieutenant Brown, and afforded not only the machinery for carrying out the most valuable clauses of the Merchant Seamen's Act, but also the resources for putting into practice measures to obviate the necessity of impressment in time of war. For this last purpose it had been established by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon, and it would be madness to abandon it without a fair trial. He did not believe it to be unpopular with the best and steadiest men, who found security in it against oppression; but those, both masters and men, who from motives of self-interest or recklessness were indisposed to conform to the law, raised prejudices against it. The registration of seamen was intended to enable the country to dispense with impressment in time of war. There was a universal wish to do away with impressment, and Parliament was losing valuable time in not providing a substitute. Such a measure ought to originate with the Executive Government; but if none were introduced in the meantime by the noble Lord at the head of the Admiralty, who, he understood, was most anxious on the subject, he should feel it his duty next Session to submit a measure himself. The seafaring population being exempted from militia ballot, might be required by law to serve a number of years in the Navy at the discretion of the Crown,
 284 l l 285
 SIR A. HOOD  said that, connected as his family had been with the British Navy, he would be ashamed of himself if he did not stand forward in defence of the existing navigation laws, and offer his most decided opposition to the resolutions proposed by Her Majesty's Government. Those resolutions were an emanation of free-trade principles; and he looked upon the free-trade measures which had been already adopted, and the measure for altering the navigation laws contemplated by the Government, as Siamese twins. He was convinced that if the intentions of the Government were carried out, the results would be most injurious to the interests of the nation; and he must express his deep regret that free-trade principles had been upheld by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, who had done so much more for the country than had been effected by the noble Lord opposite and his Colleagues, by diminishing taxation, and consequently increasing the comforts of the poor. The hon. Member for Mon-
 286
 MR. J. CLAY : Although he would not trespass at great length on the attention of the House, yet he could not confine himself to the two abstract propositions within the limits of which it was the wish of the President of the Board of Trade to narrow this debate, for he could not separate any discussion of this question from the details which the right hon. Gentleman had given to the House some days back. He (Mr. J. Clay) had waited with much anxiety for these details, and had entertained a hope that they might be such as he could entirely support, in the belief that they would advance the general interests of the country, and be, to say the least, not detrimental to those particular interests which the navigation laws had hitherto been supposed to protect. He regretted that the present measure did not, to his mind, fulfil these conditions. As a free-trader, he could not for a moment advocate the protection of one interest at the expense of the rest: nor would he insist that, inasmuch as the commercial marine was the nursery of the Royal Navy, the navigation laws were a price which the whole nation paid for one one of the most important benefits—the national defence. Although he thought this argument was formerly a fair, perhaps a convincing, one, he considered it now no longer available, because the commercial marine only was, and only would be again, a nursery for the Royal Navy, through the means of impressment—a system he held in utter abhorrence, and to which he believed we never could again resort. Hon. Gentlemen opposite admitted that it was only, to be justified in cases of extreme necessity. He went further, and declared it impossible. The rights of the poor man in his labour, his only property, were now better understood; and he (Mr. J. Clay) believed that our very women and children would find resistance to the atrocities of a pressgang. He could no longer, then, be satisfied with the well-worn nursery argu-
 287 288 289 290 l l s d s pro tanto, 291 l. l. 292
 MR. NEWDEGATE  apprehended that the compensations held out by the hon. Member (Mr. Clay) to the shipowners were like the Stirling evidence—very short weight. Like that hon. Member, the right hon. Gentleman the representative of Oxford University (Mr. Gladstone) presented to the House the spectacle of a Gentleman thinking one way and voting another. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to feel painfully that, as we had injured the colonists by free trade, we ought for their sake to injure the shipowners. But if the measure before the House had done nothing else, it had gone a long way towards bringing many to their senses; and hon. Members on that (the Opposition) side, who had steadily maintained their
 293 294 l l l 295
 MR. WAWN  said: The right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford has stated that the shipowners of this country do not like reciprocity treaties. The hon. Member for Westbury has quoted the trade with the United States as evidence in their favour; but he omitted to state that the South Sea fishery has been taken from us by the Americans. Denmark has increased her tonnage since 1824 with this country 391 per cent, while our trade has increased only 200 per cent. Sweden and Norway have increased 40 per cent, whilst we have decreased 300 per cent. Prussia has increased 100 per cent: our trade has decreased. And where is the reciprocity in salt? Each successive Government has fallen short of its duty in not getting that grievance redressed. Since the treaty with Russia in 1842 the Russian tonnage has increased 168 per cent, and ours only 58 per cent. The shipowners have good grounds for complaining of the exemption in that treaty in favour of Russian vessels from navigation dues in Russian ports for the first three years. Then there is the Russian Company imposing taxes (I will not say legally) upon British ships. This ought long since to have been abolished; and an assurance ought now to be given to that effect. The British Government committed a great blunder in 1841, when it proposed to the House a duty of 20 s 306 307 "That a British ship engaged in foreign trade, and which shall have discharged its cargo at any port in the United Kingdom, shall not be compelled to take a pilot when proceeding in ballast to any other port of the United Kingdom." 308
 VISCOUNT INGESTRE , in a debate of such importance, and involving interests of such magnitude, would not have intruded himself upon the attention of the House, but for the connexion which he had with the Navy of this country; and he trusted that circumstance would plead his excuse for the few observations which he was about to offer. The first thing he wished to state was, that in a question of so much magnitude, and involving such mighty interests—involving the maritime supremacy of this country—a supremacy which had lasted for hundreds of years, and which had attained its zenith under the present system—the Government was bound, before they asked the House of Commons to alter the law, to show a case of urgent and permanent necessity for so radical and sweeping a change. But he had not heard a single sentence from any Member of the Government showing the urgency or necessity for such a change, nor, indeed, any just cause for the introduction of the present measure. Hon. Members opposite talked very largely of the defects of the present system. Why did they not point out these defects? They were bound to do so before they asked the Legislature to alter a system which had been identified with the maritime superiority of the country—in other words, with the existence of the country itself. Let those hon. Gentlemen put their fingers upon those defects, and he, for one, would be the first to assist in removing them. But surely it was not necessary, because a patient was ill, that they should give him a medicine which would kill him? He did not purpose to enter into any commercial or statistical details, and would only slightly touch upon the commercial part of the question. He
 309 310 311 312 Life of Lord Loughborough, Lord Chancellor, "June 28th, at twenty minutes past twelve, without previous notice, he moved 'for leave to bring in a Bill to suspend all exemptions from impressment into the Navy, together with the right of those impressed to sue out a writ of  habeas corpus 313 "The removal of commercial restrictions, while it would be of mutual advantage to the material interests of both countries, could not but give openings to still further relations of amity between them." "With such gratifying evidences of prosperity, and of the successful operation of the Revenue Act of 1846, every consideration of public policy recommends that it shall remain unchanged. It is hoped that the system of import duties which is established may be regarded as the permanent policy of the country, and that the great interests affected by it may not again he subject to be injuriously disturbed, as they have heretofore been, by frequent and sometimes sudden changes." 314
 LORD J. HAY  was sure that he should not in vain solicit from the House that indulgence which they never failed to extend to a Member addressing it for the first time, particularly as he intended to confine his observations to those subjects which were more immediately connected with the profession to which he had the honour to belong. His noble Friend (Lord Ingestre), following the example of every hon. Member who had spoken against this measure, bad limited his observations principally to the effect which it was calculated to produce on the naval power of this country. He was willing to concede to his noble Friend that the naval power of this and of every other country must depend upon the extent of its commercial prosperity; and if he could believe for one moment that this measure was calculated to destroy the naval power of England, it certainly should not hare his support. But he had come to a very different conclusion. He had considered this question in all its bearings, and he firmly believed that it was likely to arouse such an amount of energy and enterprising spirit in this country as would be most calculated to increase its wealth, and secure its naval supremacy. He had the honour twenty years ago, to sit in that House, and it was his fortune to hear now the very same argu-
 315 l l 316 317 318 Cheers
 MR. R. HILDYARD  regretted that he felt it his duty to oppose the Government. On those who introduced measures of this description lay the onus of proving the necessity which they said existed for such experiments. He could not but remark that of all the Gentlemen who had spoken on the other side of the House, not one of them had condescended to refer to the fearful amount of injury which would be inflicted on individual interests provided this experiment was made, and should turn out to be a failure. The right hon. Gentleman who had brought forward this question had stated that no less than 40,000,000 l 319 320 321 
 
 Inwards. Outwards. 
 British 88,390 Prussian 303,225 
 British 92,947 Prussian 241,892 322 pari passu 323 324 
 
 Inwards. Outwards. 
 British 118,095 Foreign 665,600 
 British 153,094 Foreign 743,433 325 and 326 "This is the moral of all earthly tales, 'Tis but the same rehearsal of the past; First freedom, and then glory; when that fails, Wealth, vice, corruption—barbarism at last; And history, with all her volumes vast, Hath but one page." Vestigia nulla retrorsum.
 MR. W. LASCELLES , Comptroller of the Royal Household, appeared at the bar, and read the following Answer from Her Majesty to the Address of Condolence presented to Her Majesty by the House on the death of the Princess Sophia:—
 "I have received with satisfaction the loyal and dutiful address of condolence the House of Commons has presented to me on the melancholy death of my beloved Aunt, the Princess Sophia, and regard it as a gratifying proof of their attachment to my person, family, and throne."
 MR. HAWES  had only just received despatches from the Governor of Van Diemen's Land, announcing the removal of one of the Judges of the Supreme Court; but the proceeding was taken under an Act of Parliament, and the Judge would be enabled to appeal to the Privy Council. It was no act of the Executive Government here, but the act of the Government on the spot. No accounts had arrived relating to any proceedings with regard to the removal of the Chief Justice. The despatches having only just arrived, and not having been, in fact, perused by the Secretary of State, he (Mr. Hawes) hoped to be excused saying more, or stating any opinion upon the circumstances.
 DR. BOWRING  had to present a very remarkable petition, written in the Dutch language, He had compared the petition with the translation which accompanied it, and he could vouch for the accuracy of that translation. The petition emanated
 250
 MR. ANSTEY  asked, whether the Government had received an official announcement of the removal of one of the Judges of the Supreme Court of Van Diemen'a Land, and of proceedings being taken by the Governor with the intention of removing the other; and, if so, whether the Government intended to order the restoration of Mr. Justice Montagu, and the discontinuance of the proceedings against the Chief Justice; and to lay the correspondence on the table of the House?
 MR. ANSTEY  gave notice that he
 251
 MR. THOMPSON  rose for the purpose of putting a question to the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department respecting an unhappy conflict which took place yesterday in the Tower Hamlets, between the police and some persons assembled to discuss political matters. He wished to ask the right hon. Baronet whether he had received any official information respecting those proceedings, and whether he was prepared to state on what authority the police, by violence, unprovoked, as he was informed, undertook the dispersion of the persons so assembled? He was informed that those persons who took an active part in the meetings enjoined the people to exercise entire forbearance, and he was further informed that, with respect to a large meeting in Bishop Bonner's Fields at three o'clock, and continued at five, it was commenced, conducted, and ended without the slightest interruption of the public peace—that the people who attended it were quietly returning to their respective homes—and that, after a large number of them had left the field, the police made an unprovoked attack on those who remained, and did considerable injury to many. He did not stand up there for the purpose of affirming or denying the statements made by persons who were on the spot; but, as a conflict had taken place between the police and the people, it was desirable that the House should have the benefit of any official information of which the Secretary for the Home Department might be in possession.
 VISCOUNT MAHON  said, that the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had concluded his speech by complaining of the violent personal attacks to which, as he thought, the noble Lord the Foreign Secretary had been latterly exposed. He (Viscount Mahon) should feel sincere regret if, in the observations which he was now about to offer to the House, a single word were to fall from him inconsistent with his respect for the noble Lord. He entertained that feeling of high respect for the noble Lord, on account of his eminent and undoubted ability, his long experience in public affairs, and the high post which he now for the third time filled. Neither was he insensible to the delicacy of the subject, and the apprehension of saying anything which might aggravate the difficulty of forming negotiations with a foreign and hitherto friendly Power. But the question having been brought before the House, he hoped he could, consistently with that feeling
 373 "The course pursued by the Crown is at variance with the general sentiments of the country. It would, then, be wise for the Queen of Spain, in the present critical state of affairs, to strengthen the Executive Government, by enlarging the basis upon which the Administration is founded, and by calling to her councils some of those men who possess the confidence of the Liberal party."
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The noble Lord who has just down has spoken so truly—he has expressed his doubts, where he has doubts, so candidly—his approbation where he can give it, so fairly—and his reluctance to agree to a vote of censure, in terms so becoming to the Members of this House—that I cannot refrain from at once rising to endeavour to give some information upon those points on which he is, as yet, uninformed. The noble Lord is willing to admit, and I think the great majority of this House must be willing to admit, that even putting aside the peculiar relations which subsist between this country and Spain, it is competent for one Government to give advice to the Government of another country. It may even feel at times bound to give advice with regard to its internal affairs. Provided that advice is conveyed in friendly terms, and it has a friendly object, there are few Members of this House who would deny there may be occasions upon which such advice may he given. Without referring to the innumerable examples which may be found where such advice has been given by persons of the highest authority in all matters of international relation, I will mention one case that I happened to be reading, I think not more than two or three days ago, with regard to the late events in Naples. A person of high authority sent for three of the foreign Ministers, informing them that tranquillity was restored in the capital. One of them, taking upon himself to speak on behalf of his Colleagues, the other foreign Ministers, said that their opinion was, that the time had come when their own conclusions should be considered by the Sovereign and by the Government. Who was the Minister that ventured, unasked, to give this advice to the Government of Naples? It was the representative of Her Catholic Majesty the Queen of Spain. Subsequent discussions occurred with one of the Ministers of the King of Naples, in which the
 379 380 381 "It began to be very probable that the Count Montemolin might show himself, supported by the Liberal party, and with the cry of the constitution of 1812—this was here canvassed on one side, a republic on the other." "In this state of circumstances I consulted my instructions. I had already acted upon them by giving friendly and intimate advice, without any effect being produced." 382 383 384 385
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I quite agree with the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, that while this House proposes to make inquiries into the proceedings at certain elections, and the Borough Elections Bill has been read a second time, it is advisable to suspend the writ for Horsham. At the same time I cannot say I think that a Bill of that nature ought to take place of every other Bill. I quite agree, that if only ordinary business were before the House, it would be quite right to take that Bill
 342
 LORD J. RUSSELL  answered, that his measure would apply to all Her Majesty's naturalised subjects within the realm; and he was not aware that there were many Mahomedans or Pagans in this country.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that he had discovered that it was not competent to him to introduce the Bill under the notice which he had given, but that it was necessary to go into a Committee of the whole House on the subject. It was his intention to propose, on Tuesday, the 27th inst., that the House should go into Committee of the whole House for the purpose of considering the oaths taken by Members of the two Houses of Parliament. He begged to remind the hon. Baronet, that in the year before last he stated—and he believed that he repeated the statement last year—that he was in doubt as to whether he should bring in a general Bill with respect to the oaths taken by Members of both Houses of Parliament, or whether he should introduce a Bill limited to the relief of members of the Jewish persuasion. He had tried the latter course; and the hon. Baronet appeared to think that he had sustained a defeat; but he did not think so, because he had been supported by a majority of that House. He now understood that some Members of the other House of Parliament entertained scruples with respect to the oaths which they were called upon to take, and particularly as regarded the oath of supremacy, because they conceived that the Pope had spiritual power in this realm. He, therefore, proposed to make the oaths more simple, in order that all Her Majesty's subjects might be able to take them; and he would call upon the House to resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House, for the purpose of considering the subject, on the 27th instant.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, when his noble Friend the Member for Sussex (Lord
 343
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, it would be difficult, in following the debate as hitherto conducted, for any one who had not been previously acquainted with what has occurred between this country and Spain, easily to conceive what really has happened. Is it possible to imagine that a gross outrage has been committed—a gross public outrage, and under circumstances of unprecedented flagrancy, upon an individual whom, both from the position he occupies, and the public estimation he has acquired, was one in whoso career, conduct, and treatment, this country must naturally feel a great interest? Would any one have imagined that a foreign country had dismissed the representative of the Queen of Great Britain almost ignominiously from its capital—that he had arrived here hurried and in haste—that the circumstances that led to this outrage had only transpired, originally, to the English House of Commons through foreign newspapers; that it was with the utmost difficulty any public notice of these events should have occurred in this House—the chosen temple of national rights and national honour; and that when at last, on an occasion most constitutional and legitimate, some notice is taken of it, the Prime Minister should tell us that negotiations are going on? Why, Sir, that is the great fault we find with Her Majesty's Ministers in the present state of affairs. I want to know, after this outrage has been committed, why a full and complete satisfaction has not long before this been exacted? I say this is a question totally independent of the policy of the Government, or the character of the English Minister. It is this primary condition which we ought to notice—it is this primary condition which we ought to demand to be fulfilled, before we enter into the question of the policy of the Government, or of the conduct of the Minister. We have been favoured with the reasons why the representative of Her Majesty was dismissed with shame and dishonour from the capital of Spain. The Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs at Madrid most graciously and courteously informed Sir Henry Bulwer that he (Sir Henry Bulwer) was abused in the Spanish
 386 387 388 389 390 primâ facie 391 392 393 "The recent fall of the King of the French and of his whole family, and the expulsion of his Ministers, ought to teach the Spanish Court and Government how great is the danger of an attempt to govern a country in a manner at variance with the feelings and opinions of the nation; and the catastrophe which has happened in France must serve to show that even a large and well-disciplined army becomes an ineffectual defence for the Crown, when the course pursued by the Crown is at variance with the general sentiments of the country." 394 395 396 "Our true policy is to maintain universal peace, and, therefore, non-interference is the principle—the great principle—which ought to be and will be heartily adopted by the present Administration." 397 398 399 400
 MR. DISRAELI  was of opinion, that the logical conclusion to be drawn from the speeches of the right hon. Gentleman and of the noble Lord was, that the House ought to issue this writ. After the speech of the noble Lord, in particular, the House could not hesitate to vote for the Motion. The noble Lord had told the House, without the slightest equivocation, that there was not the least chance of carrying the Borough Elections Bill this year. ["No!"] He had so understood the noble Lord. This being the month of June, and the noble Lord having alluded to two measures which the noble Lord considered of more importance, he would ask the House what prospect there was of any such measure as the Borough Elections Bill being carried this Session? Then the question which the House had now to decide was, whether there was a necessary connexion between inquiry into the proceedings at the election for the borough, and the non-issuing of the writ for Horsham. No doubt it would he most convenient to suspend the writ, and prosecute an early inquiry; but as that was impossible, after the statement made by the noble Lord, the more constitutional course would be to issue the writ now, and pursue the inquiry as early as possible. He ventured to hope that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Tamworth would adopt this view of the case, and vote for the Motion.
 MR. GORING  replied: The public would not fail to see that the Government voted
 344
 MR. GORING  said, that as the noble Lord at the head of the Government had not given any decisive answer to the question put to him, as to whether he intended to proceed on Wednesday with the Horsham Election Bill, and as the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department stated the other day, that if the House suspended the writ for boroughs until the Bill brought in by the hon. Member for the Flint boroughs had passed, they would vote for the indefinite suspension of those writs, he now thought it his duty to move that a new writ be issued for the borough of Horsham. He asked for the writ as a right, on behalf of the electors of the borough of Horsham; and he hoped that neither the noble Lord (Lord Lincoln) nor the hon. Member for Montrose would be guilty of so unconstitutional an act as to oppose the issuing of the writ for this borough.
 MR. URQUHART : In this discussion all that is of importance has been omitted. It is the meddling of England in the affairs of Spain which has been the source of the calamities of that country. If you would give me the time, I would prove it to you by the authority of the first of French statesmen, M. Guizot and M. Thiers. Since you will not give me that time, you must take upon trust what I assert to be their conclusion that the rivalries of England and France in Spain have been the cause of the troubles which have visited that country. Sir Henry Bulwer has only acted in conformity with this system, and in obedience to the instructions which he had received, and which have been ably directed to that same end. If you want additional proof to that which is afforded by the papers recently laid upon the table of the House, read the despatch of the 19th July, 1836, in which the noble Lord originated the quarrel between France and England on the subject of Spain, and there you will see that the representative of England was ordered, in a secret and covert manner, to foment the discontent and ill will which, by his instructions in 1848, he was openly to manifest. It is here no question of principles and doctrines, but one of act and purpose. [Mr. URQUHART here said he would move the adjournment of the debate, and silence being for some time restored, he resumed.] I told you upon a former occasion I should trust to events to justify my words and my warnings against your opinions and your indiffe-
 420 "The noble Lord has laboured, and with success, to upset one dynasty in France; that is what I predicted—that is what he has accomplished. The gulf into which he has dragged that dynasty was Spain; and no sooner had it fallen, than his joy broke forth, not in this House, but in his organ, and he exclaimed,' Pyreneas transit!' 421 422
 MR. BANKES  rose to propose the following Resolution, of which he had given notice:—
 "That this House learns with deep regret, from a Correspondence between the British Government and the Government of Spain, now upon the Table of this House, that a proposed interference with the internal concerns of the Spanish Government, as conducted under the authority and with the entire approval of Her Majesty's Ministers, has placed the British Government and our Representative at the Court of Madrid, in a position humiliating in its character, and which is calculated to affect the friendly relations heretofore existing between the Courts of Great Britain and of Spain." 348 349 350 351 "The Duke then spoke of the interior policy of the Spanish Administration, saying, that though it had demanded the new law, which might be considered one  ad terrorem 352 Clamor Publico 353 Clamor Publico 354 Heraldo "A single reflection suffices to dissipate those disquietudes, viz., the impossibility in which the English Cabinet is at this time to place itself in a hostile attitude with respect to the Continent; sapped by the Irish insurrection, which exhausts its resources, and requires the presence of a considerable part of its army; by the increasing deficit of its treasury; by the general discredit brought upon its policy by the manœuvres made use of in the affairs of Italy; by the suspicions which its friendly relations with the Court of Vienna infuse into all Europe; and, finally, by the Chartist party, which, although frustrated in its efforts up to this time, counts upon the indirect co-operation of the new Parliamentary faction led by Hume and Cobden, and which, without the least doubt, would avail itself of the difficulties which a foreign war would bring upon the Cabinet, to light up the flames of civil war in all parts of the United Kingdom." "Foreign Office, March 16, 1848. "Sir—I have to instruct you to recommend earnestly to the Sanish Government and to the Queen Mother, if you have an opportunity of doing so, the adoption of a legal and constitutional course of government in Spain." "The recent fall of the King of the French and of his whole family, and the expulsion of his Ministers, ought to teach the Spanish Court and Government how great is the danger of an attempt to govern a country in a manner at variance with the feelings and opinions of the nation; and the catastrophe which has happened in France must serve to show that even a large and well-disciplined army becomes an ineffectual defence for the Crown when the course pursued by the Crown is at variance with the general sentiments of the country. It would then be wise for the Queen of Spain, in the present critical state of affairs, to strengthen the Executive Government by enlarging the basis upon which the administration is founded, and by calling to her councils some of those men who possess the confidence of the Liberal party.—I am, &c. (Signed) "PALMERSTON." 355 356 357 "TO MT LORD ARLINGTON. "The Hague, June 17, 1670. "Monsieur de Witt returned yesterday. There is a violent humour run against him. But I sup-
 358 "TO DOS JOHN OF AUSTRIA. "Feb. 12–22, 1677–8. "The King my master hath often commanded me to complaine of the ill conduct of the Spanish Ministers in England (particularly of Salinas and Fonseca), which I am sorry to say hath not been amended by the Marquess of Bourgomaine. It is manifest that the interests of Spain in England have been very much prejudiced and retarded by their actions, and will be more so if there be not a speedy remedy. Above all, it will be requisite to avoid a course too often practised by them, namely, to discourse and reveal their private conferences had with the King and his Ministers to others who are not of his council, His Majesty having resolved never to treat or confer with any Minister of what Prince so ever that shall be detected in so doing; how much less will he suffer any to abide in his Court who shall so far presume to violate the laws of hospitality as to mislead and stir up the minds of people inexpert in public affairs, not only by revealing to them under false colours what sometimes passeth, but by re-porting for truth his own fictions and the pure inventions of malice, under the specious name of negotiation and discourses with the King and his Ministers—a seditious practice, which the impunity of some hath made an evil example, but will always prove destructive to the negotiations of such who use the same." "Order will go by this post to the Count of Egmont for his immediate passage into England in quality of Embassadour Extraordinary, without waiting for equipage which should follow him; Don John telling me that this expedient had been taken in complaisance to the King my master on the representation I had made against Bourgomaine. (Signed) "WM. GODOLPHIN," 359 "Sir—I have received your despatch of the 11th instant with its inclosures, and I have to instruct you to state to the Duke of Sotomayor, that Her Majesty's Government entirely approve the step which you took in making your communication of the 7th instant, and likewise of your note of the 12th. That Her Majesty's Government, however, are not at all offended, either by the sending back of your communication of the 7th of April, or by the angry tone and language of the Duke of Sotomayor's note of the 10th, however they may regret the existence of those feelings in the minds of the Spanish Government, of which the language of his Excellency's note and the return of yours were proofs. Her Majesty's Government, in making to the Government of Spain the representations, and in giving the advice, which your communication conveyed, were inspired by no sentiment but that of sincere friendship for Spain, and of deep interest in the welfare of Queen Isabella. They felt that in making that communication, they were performing a duty, and not taking any undue liberty; and therefore, at all events, it is a satisfaction to Her Majesty's Government to reflect, that although their counsel has been rejected, and their communication has been returned, the note has nevertheless been read, and the counsel has been tendered; and that whatever calamity may happen in Spain, Her Majesty's Government stand acquitted of not having done what they could to prevent it." 360 "With regard to the contents of the Duke of Sotomayor's note, Her Majesty's Government have only to observe, that if the right of Her Britannic Majesty to the Throne of the United Kingdom had been disputed by a pretending rival; if civil war had arisen out of such a conflict of claims; if the British Government had only a few years ago sent a special envoy to Madrid to solicit the assistance of Spain in order to place Her Majesty on Her Throne; if that assistance had been given, both morally by treaty engagements, and physically by military and naval forces; if the aid thus afforded by Spain had contributed in so essential a degree to secure the Crown to Her Majesty that it might with truth be said that, without such aid, Her Majesty would not now have been Queen of England—" "If, moreover, there still remained a pretender who asserted his right, and whose pretensions were backed by a large party in the United Kingdom; and if upon every symptom of danger from that pretender, and that party, the British Government was in the habit of reminding Spain of the treaty of engagements which she had entered into; was also in the habit of asserting that those engagements were still in force, and was continually claiming the benefit of the alleged existence of those arrangements; if all those things existed, and if the Government of Spain had, in a moment of general disturbance in Europe, warned the British Government of dangers by which, in their opinion, the security of Her Majesty's Throne was menaced—I think I may confidently affirm that under such circumstances any statesmen who might be Ministers of the British Crown, instead of sending back the note in which such represen-
 361 362 363 364 365
 MR. MUNTZ  wished to ask a question of the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs in relation to the recent oc-
 339
 MR. HUME  observed, that if he was surprised at the Motion for a new writ for Derby, he was much more astonished at the present Motion, Horsham having been reported against by the Committee on the ground that extensive treating had prevailed there. He hoped the House would not agree to this Motion.
 MR. HUME  could not understand how the Motion could be persevered in after the speech they had just heard from the noble Lord. Having been mixed up in that question in various ways, he (Mr. Hume) could not but state, that, having pressed for the documents which had been laid before the House, he approved most entirely of the conduct of Sir H. Bulwer, and that
 419
 MR. SHEIL : In the first notice which was given by the hon. and learned Member for Dorsetshire, he made a sentence in one of the letters of Sir H. Bulwer, the subject of inculpation. He has since changed his ground, and directed against the noble Lord his exclusive censure. In doing so, he has, I think, taken a just and creditable course, because my noble Friend does not shrink from responsibility; and for having introduced this subject into discussion, the noble Lord feels, I am convinced, thankful to the hon. and learned Member. The question—you perceive, Sir, that I am avoiding all prefatory prolixity—the true question is, whether Lord Palmerston was justified in interfering in the internal concerns of Spain, by the peculiar relation in which he stood towards that country. In order to appreciate it, a retrospect—and it shall be rapid—will be required. In the year 1834, the Spanish Government solicited the assistance of this country. The Marquess of Miraflores was sent as a special envoy here. That nobleman has written an account of his mission. He says, that Lord Palmerston had great difficulties to contend with: his earnestness in the cause of Spain, overcome them all. The preliminary articles in the Treaty of Quadruple Alliance were signed in the month of April, 1834, when Lord Stanley was in the Cabinet. The Marquess of Miraflores states, that their effect was signal and immediate. Don Carlos fled from Portugal. Lord Palmerston was not slow in availing himself of the right of interference given him by the treaty to obtain a mitigation of the horrors of civil war. It was hoped that the pacification of Spain had been accomplished: that hope was a delusive one. Don Carlos landed in
 366 367 "Her Majesty's Government are so sensible of the evil of interfering, even by friendly advice, in the internal affairs of independent States, that I
 368 "In this state of circumstances I consulted my instructions; I had already acted upon them by giving friendly and intimate advice without any effect being produced. It began to be very probable that Count Montemolin might show himself, supported by the Liberal party, and with the cry of the Constitution of 1812; this was here canvassed on one side, a republic on the other. Now, if the Pretender raised his banner, proclaiming constitutional principles, and we were called upon to support Queen Isabella, Her Catholic Majesty upholding military government, it would be difficult for us to support the military govern-
 369 "It was, my Lord, in view of all these various probabilities that I gave the sanction of your Lordship's name and of my own opinion to the advice I presumed to offer. It was not, that I am aware of, couched in improper terms; I did not, therefore, expect a violently hostile reply, or that the present Government of Spain would involve amongst Queen Isabella's enemies Her Majesty's Government, with more than the precipitancy with which it had included in this category distinguished and loyal Spaniards. The result shows I was mistaken." Heraldo 370 371 372
 SIR G. GREY  said, that if the hon. Member had given him notice of his intention to refer to the subject, he would have brought down to the House the documentary evidence which he possessed respecting the meeting, and which led him to believe that the meeting was one of a very different character from that which the hon. Member attributed to it. As to the authority under which the police were acting, he begged to assume to himself the whole of the responsibility. They were
 338
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, the noble Lord had stated that his object was to enable all Her Majesty's subjects to take the Parliamentary oaths; now he begged to ask
 337
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, there was upon the Paper a notice for the introduction of a Bill for altering the oaths taken by Members of Parliament, which would have been important if given merely by a private Member of Parliament—doubly important if given by a Member of the Administration—but which acquired pre-eminent importance when it proceeded from
 336
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  was understood to say, that it was a fact unprecedented in the history of England that such an insult as the expulsion of Sir H. Bulwer from Madrid had been offered to the Crown of England in the person of one of its representatives; and he believed it was almost unparalleled in the diplomatic history of Europe. The more immediate question under discussion, was not whether England
 401 402
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, I have heard with great satisfaction the noble Lord declare that it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to avow their public approbation of the conduct of Sir Henry Bulwer, and to adopt the responsibility for themselves of that conduct. I can assure the noble Lord, however, that in the speech he delivered he did qualify the approbation of Sir H. Bulwer's conduct, by stating, as he is represented to have said by the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, that the Government would assume the greater part of the responsibility for the conduct of Sir Henry Bulwer. The noble Lord's subsequent exclamation led me to think that he would adopt the more manly and more just course in this case, of adopting for the Government the whole of the responsibility, and identify themselves with Sir Henry Bulwer. Sir, I think it but just that they should do so. I think it the more incumbent on the Government now to adopt that responsibility, and to give it their sanction, because it appears recorded in these papers which have been laid before Parliament, that one of the causes assigned by the Spanish Government for removing Sir Henry Bulwer was this, that public opinion was adverse to him in Spain. [Several Hon. MEMBERS: In England.] In Spain. The public mind in Spain was excited, and the papers say, "How can we reconcile Spaniards to your maintenance as Minister here, when, in your own country, the Government gives you up?" Sir Henry Bulwer was placed in Spain not by the noble Lord, but by my noble Friend Lord Aberdeen, who preceded him. He was placed there not from any political connection, but he was placed there because my noble Friend thought that his past conduct in the profession which he had chosen entitled him to the favour and confidence of a Government from which he differed in political sentiments. Sir, my noble Friend thought—and thought most justly—that the diplomatic profession was not a profession which should be made subservient to the mere promotion of party feeling. My noble Friend thought that the diplomatic profession partook in some degree of the character of the naval or military profession, and that it would be unjust if a man, having entered into that profession, although politically connected with another party, yet proving himself worthy of the confidence of any party, was to be de-
 403 in extenso 404 "That this House learns with deep regret, from a correspondence between the British Government and the Government of Spain, now upon the table of this House, that a proposed interference with the internal concerns of the Spanish Government, as conducted under the authority and with the entire approval of Her Majesty's Ministers, has placed the British Government, and our representative at the Court of Madrid, in a position humiliating in its character, and which is calculated to affect the friendly relations heretofore existing between the Courts of Great Britain and of Spain." 405 406 407 recordatio ex probatio 408 409 410 dénouement
 SIR R. PEEL : The view I take with reference to the proceedings which the House should adopt in regard to these boroughs is briefly this:—An Act passed in 1842, making parties guilty of certain acts liable to the penalties of bribery. There were certain usages which had long prevailed, though not thought to partake of the character of corruption, but which this House decided to be corrupt, and at the instance of the noble Lord they proclaimed that these usages should cease, and that if they were continued, the parties who participated in them should be liable to penalties. I am sorry to find that this statute is inoperative. We see that notwithstanding the penalties which it threatens, these acts, these usages, do prevail. There is every reason to believe that the candidates themselves are not cognisant of them; but that it is local committees and local agents who commit these acts, and place the seats of honourable men in jeopardy,
 341
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I am very glad that my hon. Friend has put the question, which I will satisfactorily answer in a very few words. Of course I am aware that some most absurd, most false, and most calumnious reports have been circulated in Italy with regard to the conduct of the British Government in the recent events that have occurred in Italy, and with regard to the instructions which have been sent from Her Majesty's Government to the British representative at the Court of Naples. I have, however, great satisfaction in assuring my hon. Friend and the House that there is no foundation whatever for those reports. The British Government, though a party to the Treaty of Vienna, by which the settlement of the Italian States was effected, is not bound by that treaty to interfere in any manner with the events that are now taking place in those States. Although the British Government, as is well known, has been in ancient alliance and on friendly relations with the Emperor of Austria, yet it cannot but feel a lively sympathy in the endeavours—and I hope successful endeavours—which have been lately made in Italy, and by the people of Italy, to obtain for themselves free and constitutional Governments; but the natural and proper position of Her Majesty's Government with regard to the events now passing in those Italian States is, not to interfere in any way whatever. With regard to the events that have recently taken place in Naples, most certainly the reports which Her Majesty's Government have received concerning them induce me to believe that those events have been very much misconceived in their character. I have not yet proposed to lay any papers before the House; but inconsequence of what has passed, I undoubtedly will produce the account which has been received of those transactions from Her
 340
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I certainly concur in opinion with the right hon. Baronet, that if the hon. and learned Member thought it expedient to make this Motion, it is not therefore one which it is expedient for the House to agree to. The hon. and learned Gentleman, expressing a desire to vindicate the honour of this country, if it requires vindication, began by proposing to the House to affirm a resolution that this country is in a state of humiliation. That is certainly not a mode in which, in my opinion, his object can be accomplished. If the hon. and learned Gentleman finds fault with the first part of the transaction—namely, with the despatch which I wrote to Sir H. Bulwer, and which was sent by him to the Duke de Sotomayor, to that his Motion ought to have been directed, and upon that ground I should have been prepared, as I am, to meet him. First of all, I shall answer the question which he put to me as to who was to be reponsible for the approval given in two despatches of mine to Sir H. Bulwer. Sir, I have no hesitation in saying that I, and I alone, am responsible for an act of that kind, for a signification of approval conveyed to an officer of the department over which I preside; and if the House shall be of opinion that the approbation was improperly conveyed, and that instead of approving of the conduct of Sir H. Bulwer, it ought to have been censured, it is upon me, and me alone, that the censure
 411 412 413 414 415 416 417 418
 MR. H. BERKELEY  begged to ask a question of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department respecting the County Courts Act. It appeared that somewhere about 600,559 l 1,
 MR. VERNON SMITH  had observed sometimes, that there was good in the collision of contending parties, and that when, as in this instance, a House of some forty-one Members sat listening to that in which all agreed, the result was the expression of acquiescence, and nothing else. Not that he doubted that the Government would pay all the attention they possibly could to the subject. But the noble Lord had made to a certain extent, a specific proposal; he (Mr. V. Smith) only wished it had been more specific. The manner in which all these proposals for emigration failed was through large systems being brought forward in great speeches, and nobody attending to the details; the noble Lord had avoided that, and proposed a most excellent measure, selecting a very fit class of objects. Although the persons sent out from Parkhurst, after being subjected to discipline there, had been received with gladness by the colonists as the most acceptable parties that had arrived, it was objectionable that we should deal with persons who had committed crime in a manner for their benefit, which we refused to the virtuous population; the noble Lord had hit upon an excellent medium, for he would take persons who might almost be called undetected criminals—persons at least with all the elements of vice about them, but happily, in many instances, not having actually committed crime, and at any rate to be sent out, when educated and improved, untainted with the reproach of those who went direct from prison and under sentence. Whilst regretting that the noble Lord did not propose a specific address for a certain sum of money, he (Mr. V. Smith) considered that there was great advantage in such Motions as this, because, if they led to nothing at the moment, they influenced eventually the minds of men in authority. Let not the noble Lord despair, for though he might not at first achieve all the success his sanguine spirit might desire, he would ultimately attain his object. The circumstance which chiefly recommended the noble Lord's proposition was the absence of any magnificent schemes
 464
 VISCOUNT MAHON  rose for the purpose of noticing a remark made by the hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies, which was not only at variance with official records, but even with a statement made by himself a few nights ago. In a despatch, written by Earl Grey to the Lieutenant Governor of Van Diemen's Land, dated the 27th of May, his Lordship stated that the Government intended to apply to Parliament for a grant for the purpose of promoting free emigration to that colony. Upon reading that despatch, he (Viscount Mahon) asked the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hawes) what would be the amount of the grant to be proposed for the purpose alluded to in Earl Grey's despatch; and the hon. Gentleman answered 10,000 l l 466
 COLONEL CONOLLY  said, it was only just towards the Government to state that their regulations for sending young females to the colonies had been received in Ireland with the greatest satisfaction.
 MR. SCOTT  presumed that before long some measure would be introduced by the Government upon this important subject. A Government grant for emigration, instead of checking private enterprise, would call forth large exertions on the part of private individuals. He (Mr. Scott) had that morning waited upon the First Lord of the Treasury, by appointment, to submit to him a project for more extended emigration, with a view to relieve the great mass of suffering in this country; that project briefly was, that as of late Government had sanctioned a grant of public money for the drainage of superfluous water from land, so they should sanction a grant for draining the superfluous population off the land; the money would only be required, as in the other case, by instalments. At the opposite extremity of the world the demand for labour was exceeding the supply; and here in another part of the same empire we were suffering from just the opposite evil. The noble Lord (Lord Ashley), in referring to the Australian colonies, had understated the facts; he might have told the House that the food which would supply the thousands hero suffering from want of food was wasting for want of mouths; food which would meet the destitution of this empire was boiled down for the sake of a few pounds of tallow, for want of that labour which would render it available. Our emigration had proceeded mainly to the United States rather than to
 462
 LORD ASHLEY :  * * 430 431 432 433 "The parlour measures 18 feet by 10. Beds are arranged on each side of it, composed of straw, rags, and shavings. Here are twenty-seven male and female adults and thirty-one children, with several dogs; in all, fifty-eight human beings in a contracted den, from which light and air are systematically excluded. It is impossible to convey a just idea of their state—the quantities of vermin are amazing. I have entered a room, and in a few minutes I have felt them dropping on my hat from the ceiling like peas. 'They may be gathered by handfuls,' observed one of the inmates. 'I could fill a pail in a few minutes. I have been so tormented with the itch, that on two occasions I filled my pockets with stones, and waited till a policeman came up, and then broke a lamp that I might be sent to prison, and there he cleansed, as is required before new-comers are admitted.' 'Ah!' said another, standing by, 'you can get a comfortable snoose and scrub there.'" 434 "Such houses are the general receptacle of offenders. Here the common vagrants assemble in great numbers at nightfall, and, making the lodging-houses the common centre, traverse their several beats. I have no hesitation (says a public officer), in declaring my belief that the principal robberies have been concocted in a vagrant lodging-house, and rendered effectual through the agency of the keepers." "In a place where these public privies existed, scenes of the most shocking character were of daily occurrence. It would scarcely be believed that those public privies often stood opposite the doors of the houses; modesty and decency were altogether impossible." "These courts and alleys are in the immediate neighbourhood of uncovered sewers, of gutters full of putrified matter, nightmen's yards, and privies, the soil of which is openly exposed, and never or seldom removed. It is impossible to convey an idea of the poisonous condition in which those places remain during winter and summer, in dry weather and wet, from the masses of putrifying matter which are allowed to accumulate." 435 studiis florentem ignobilis otî, "They are emaciated, pale, and thin, and in a low condition. They complain of sinking, depression of the strength, loss of spirits, loss of appetite accompanied by pains in different parts of the body, with disturbed sleep. The depressed and low condition of health in which these people are always found, induces habits of interperance, unfortunately so common among them. The children are diminutive, pale, squalid, sickly, irritable; I rarely saw a child in a really healthy state." 436 "The boys had been sent out daily by drunken parents to beg and steal, being often cruelly treated if unsuccessful: others were employed in vending and assisting in the manufacture of base coin. … Another says, of 74 admitted this year between 8 and 14, known thieves, 16; beggars and hawkers, 27." 437 438 439 meum tuum 440 441 442 443 vexata questio 444 445 446 447 448 449 "The want of labour is by far the greatest impediment to the progress of the colony, either social or pecuniary. …. Four years have now elapsed, during which there has been scarcely any emigration. In the year 1844 there were about 1,400 people sent out; but, with that exception, emigration has been at a stand-still. The result is, that not only is labour extremely dear, but it is almost impossible to be got at all. The wool is worse got up, and everything but wool-growing is at a perfect stand-still from want of labour. I have no doubt that from Port Philip alone the value of the wool has been deteriorated to the value of 40,000 l "The colony will absorb many more than we could count upon for future years. At present there is not merely a want of the regular annual supply which is demanded by the annual increase of both sheep and cattle, but there is a deficient supply of three years to make up, Many colonists have not built houses, nor fenced paddocks, nor made any improvements, owing to the want of labour. I think that, if 8,000 statute adults were introduced into Port Philip just now, the whole of them would be absorbed at good wages, and with abundant rations; … and that for three or four years to come 4,000 or 5,000 might be received each year." "We can employ any species of labour, because shepherding is not an exhausting or fatiguing operation." "Many instances have occurred of the change of labourers into proprietors. I believe that, amongst steady and intelligent men to set up for themselves after from five to eight years of labour
 450 Times "You must strain every nerve to send us relief, for fully three-fourths of the 5,000 emigrants now coming out will be instantly absorbed on landing, for domestic servants in Sydney, Melbourne, &c." l l 451 452 "In compliance with the request of the Committee of the Industrial Ragged School, that I would inform them what had been the effect of the schools on juvenile crime, it affords me very great pleasure to say, that the number of commitments to prison, of boys of 13 years old and under, was about 50 per cent less in three months ended March last than in the corresponding three months of the last year; and that I think this most gratifying circumstance is mainly to be attributed to the influence of the ragged schools. It may be well for the public to know, that if 5 l l l. l l l l l l l 453 l l l l l "The Committee congratulate themselves and the community on the lightness of their labours. It is a remarkable fact that juvenile vagrancy has been entirely prevented, and juvenile delinquency greatly diminished, by the sole instrumentality of the schools of industry; and the Committee earnestly recommend the support of those crime-preventing institutions to the benevolence of the public. In every point of view, social,
 454 455 "That it is expedient that means be annually provided for the voluntary Emigration, to some one of Her Majesty's Colonies, of a certain number of young persons of both sexes, who have been educated in the schools ordinarily called 'Ragged Schools,' in and about the Metropolis."
 LORD ASHLEY , in reply, observed that the House seemed to think that he had acted exclusively when he proposed only to include the metropolis—it was through extreme caution. His object was to make an experiment, and supposing that experiment had succeeded, no doubt it would be extended. His object was to get in the thin edge of the wedge, and then it was his intention to drive it well up to the head. The Government and many hon. Gentlemen had come forward in so generous a manner to support the proposition, that he thought that if he attempted to divide the House, he should only take a hostile course, and convert into enemies many who would otherwise be coadjutors; he would, therefore, with the permission of the House, withdraw his Motion; but, at the same time, he would watch the Government with jealous care, and take the liberty, both in and out of the House, to jog their memories.
 MR. HAWES  explained that he did not confine his answer to Van Diemen's Land on a former occasion. The Government meant to apply the 10,000 l
 MR. HAWES  said, that the speech of the noble Member for Bath was characterised by enlarged benevolence and practical design. If the right hon. Member for Northampton had heard the speech of his right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Home Department, he could hardly have been so unjust as to cast a degree of suspicion on his motives, and on the declarations which he had made. He could assure the noble Lord that the subject had been a good deal considered since he put his notice on the Paper, and he and the noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Department, had held more than one meeting with the Emigration Commissioners with reference to it. It appeared to him that the proposition of the noble Lord was of a practical character, and capable of being carried into effect. It was undoubtedly true, that with respect to any scheme of emigration, the one thing needful was money. Give the money, and means would soon be found for spending it. He had stated on a former evening, that the Government intended to propose a vote of 10,000 l 465
 MR. ADDERLEY  could assure the House that a strong feeling was entertained in the country with regard to the importance of such measures as had been recommended by the noble Lord the Member for Bath. The workmen themselves, on whose behalf the noble Lord had appealed to the Government, felt the importance of instituting, by some means, a system of emigration. In the county in which he (Mr. Adderley) resided, Staffordshire, associations with this object had been formed by the potter workmen. Some time since associations were established for the purpose of organising strikes for wages; but the objects of these associations had been changed, and a system had been adopted by the workmen for assisting one another to emigrate to other countries. At present, however, this system of emigration was conducted in a very unsatisfactory manner; the persons who emigrated were exposed to every species of fraud; and unless the Government came forward to afford them aid and information in carrying out their views, he feared that these people would be thrown back upon the Chartist agitation to which they had in the first instance resorted. He believed, if this question was not immediately taken up by the Government, it would be taken up, though in a less efficient manner, by the very paupers.
 MR. HORSMAN  did not think that the noble Lord had any reason to feel the slightest disappointment from the manner in which Her Majesty's Government seemed disposed to meet his proposition. The only difference, indeed, between the noble Lord and the right hon. Baronet was, that the resolution did not go so far as the Government themselves seemed inclined to go. He felt bound to tender his obligations to the noble Lord for making the House acquainted with a portion of our own population, of whose condition the greater portion
 460 461
 MR. WESTHEAD  had a few days back received a letter, dated December, 1847, from Adelaide, South Australia, the writer of which stated that there was a great want of labourers in the colony, and that the farmers were paying 13 s. s 470 s
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  expressed his earnest opinion that a more solemn and important question than the one now under discussion had never been brought before the House. From the thin attendance of hon. Members, it was obvious how small was the consideration brought to bear upon the subject. Highly as he valued the exertions of the noble Lord, yet there was evidently somewhere or other an apathy that must be surmounted, and difficulties that must be overcome, which nothing but a zeal and an enthusiasm equal to that which animated the noble Lord's own breast could achieve. It was impossible to hear the speech of his noble Friend without arriving at the conviction that the facts he had described constituted the main evils that lay at the very bottom of society. To that statement no effective answer had been given. It was not sufficient for the Government to state that they were ready to do their best by the ordinary means and processes that were at their command. The noble Lord had shown that there lay at the bottom of society evils which not only tainted every class of the community, but which entailed, both locally and generally, an enormous expense upon the country. Even in a financial point of view some peculiar effort was necessary to remedy those evils; but much more was required. Unless some extraordinary effort was made, he was apprehensive that the crowded population which was now growing up would be fraught with vast mischief to the country. The education which they were now in a certain degree compelled to impart to the people, would only increase the evil, if by their exertions they did not make it an instrument of good. They could not prevent those classes deriving something from the
 468 469
 MR. SLANEY  had heard with great pleasure the address of the noble Lord and the statement of the Home Secretary, and hoped the noble Lord would take counsel of those who were desirous to carry out the object he had in view, and not press the Motion to a division. The same evils existed in other large towns as in the metropolis, and from the same causes. In regard, for instance, to the miserable lodging-houses that he had been referred to, he (Mr. Slaney) could state, that on going with a police officer into a court in one of our large towns, the officer said, of a lodging-house in it, that he had transported all its inhabitants twice over. Yet these were samples of the practical schools in which vast numbers of children were brought up. Our labouring population, from being two to one in the rural districts, as compared with the towns, had changed to the reverse proportion during this century, and these changed circumstances required altered regulations. We had begun sanitary regulations, which ought long since to have been carried out; and he trusted this Motion would lay the foundation of other measures of improvement. The humbler classes in our large towns required social regulations for their benefit, which would not trench upon property, but make it more secure—measures for education, measures for giving them facilities for investing as as well as gaining money, so as to insure
 463
 SIR E. N. BUXTON , after complimenting the noble Lord the Member for Bath for the able statement he had made, said it was impossible for any man to hold the situation he (Sir E. N. Buxton) had done for many years as treasurer to the London City Mission Society without being well aware of the truth of the statement of his noble Friend, and of the great necessity that existed for the attention of Parliament and the country being diligently and immediately devoted to the condition of that large portion of the population on whose behalf his noble Friend had so long and so meritoriously exerted his best energies. In stating the number of children at 30,000, he thought his noble Friend had rather under estimated their numbers. But his object in rising was to point out to the notice of the House a portion of the population of a different character to that to which his noble Friend's Motion more immediately applied. He had long been acquainted with the condition of the children of persons who were perhaps as poor as the parents of those that were sent to ragged schools, but who were of a more respectable character, and who, notwithstanding their poverty, strived to give their children some degree of education—he alluded more particularly to the neighbourhood of Spitalfields, where there existed schools, towards the expense of which the parents of the children themselves contributed. At one of those schools, with which he was himself connected, the amount received in 1843 from the parents of the children was 347 l l 467
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that it was
 456 457 458 459
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the matter was under the consideration of the Government, and he should shortly be enabled to state what would be decided as to the scale of fees.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  seconded the Motion. He felt it unnecessary to trespass on the time of the House, after the admirable speech which they had heard from his noble Friend. Had it not been for the views expressed by the noble Lord, and to the respect which the noble Lord, and any opinions emanating from him were entitled to receive from the House, he would have preferred that the proposed remedy should not be confined to the metropolis alone, but that it should be extended at once to all the large boroughs, as well as to the rural districts.
 SIR T. D. ACLAND  begged to express his share of the public gratitude for the part the noble Lord had taken with reference to this question, and his confidence in the assurance of the Secretary for the Home Department that he would give his best attention to the subject.
 MR. COLVILE  intended to propose an amendment in the first clause, with the view of raising the question as to retaining the fourth clause, which imposed certain restrictions as to the mode of killing hares. The hon. Member proposed that the words be loft out "by any means save as hereinafter excepted."
 MR. DRUMMOND  rose to oppose the Motion. A great deal had been said by hon. Members as to the modes in which hares might be killed. Some had spoken of killing them by snares. Some had spoken of killing them by guns. He wondered that no one had risen to point out the mode of putting salt on their tails. There was most certainly one interest, and one class not represented in that House; for much had been said against them, and nothing had been said in their favour—he meant the poachers. He had heard hon. Members also talk of the demoralisation of the system. He did not understand that. The poacher, in his opinion, was just a poor sportsman. If a sportsman had
 474 l
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  could not agree with the hon. Member, that the game laws should be abolished altogether; but, objecting as he did to the Bill then before the House, he would be prepared to oppose it on the third reading.
 MR. W. S. CRAWFORD  agreed with the hon. Member for West Surrey in opposing this Bill altogether. He regarded this Bill as a practical delusion. It professed to relieve farmers from the influence of the game laws; whereas in reality it gave them no satisfaction whatever. He considered that no real good would be done without the entire abrogation of the game laws.
 MR. ELLIOT  could not agree with the hon. Member who had just sat down, that the Bill would do no good. It would relieve small proprietors, whose estates were in the neighbourhood of game-preserving landowners; and it would also protect the tenants of other parties who were not game
 475
 MR. G. BERKELEY  begged to say, that there was a great deal of false sympathy with poachers. It had been proved, before a Committee on this subject, that there was scarcely a crime of which they were not guilty. If they abolished the game laws, they must have a Trespass Act, which would be ten times more stringent and ten times more unpopular than the game laws.
 MR. FOX MAULE  had entertained great hopes when this question was introduced to the House on three former occasions, that they would have discussed it free from all those feelings of party hostility which, though they once embittered the subject, he trusted were then fast passing away, and would never again be touched on in that House. It was not his intention to follow the hon. Member through all the subjects of recrimination which he had alluded to; but he must be permitted to point out how truly ignorant he was of all the grounds on which this question rested, and of the facts which had led to, and were connected with, the secession of which he had said so much. No man lamented those proceedings more than he did; but no "an would more firmly maintain that those who had separated from the Established Church of Scotland, did so because they had no other course to pursue if they meant to maintain faithfully the principles which they deemed to be right. With regard to the numbers that had seceded at the time of the first secession, they had been computed by the hon. Member at 292, whereas they were in
 483 Witness 484
 MR. SCOTT  lamented sincerely the introduction of the Bill then before them, for he thought that if the lauded proprietors were allowed to take their own course, a great deal of the angry feeling which now prevailed might by this time have altogether subsided, and all the sites at present refused by landlords might have been cheerfully conceded. There were very few cases in which the parties attending Free churches bad more than five miles to travel—a distance which any one acquainted with Scotland must know did not exceed the distance which members of the Established Church frequently were required to pass over. After what the House had heard with regard to the conduct of the Duke of Buccleuch, it was not necessary for him to trouble them with many observations upon that subject; he desired only to say, it would be no wonder if that noble person felt no small degree of resentment at the treatment he had received; for his proceedings had been illustrated by pictures, and he had been abused up hill and down dale. He, as well as the right hon. Baronet behind him, was glad to hear that the  Witness
 MR. COCHRANE  denied most emphatically that he had spoken disrespectfully of Dr. Chalmers. It was true that he had quoted from the evidence of Dr. Chalmers, and it was also true that he had spoken of him as a man: of high name and eminent position. Surely the right hon. Gentleman did not mean to advance such a doctrine as this, that, because Dr. Chalmers was unfortunately no longer in existence, he was to be precluded from referring to hi" evidence.
 MR. B. COCHRANE  felt, notwithstanding he was intimately connected with Scotland, that, representing as he did an English constituency, he ought to make some apology to the Members for Scotland for opposing this measure. He made that apology by quoting the words of Swift, "When the house is in danger of being robbed, the weakest of the family runs to stop the door." He, however, must add, that he felt imperatively called upon to take this step, for when this important subject was discussed the other day, no person made any objection to a measure which, he was sure, if they knew its true meaning and tendency, they would have opposed as strongly as he did. He thought, in a question of so much importance, it was essential to the proper consideration of the question, that the House, and particularly those hon. Members who had not paid much attention to the subject, should know what were the principles and opinions of those persons who demanded sites for their meeting-houses in Scotland. Members of the House, it might be, were not aware of the origin of the Free Kirk movement. Did they know that it only commenced in 1834, and that up to that time the question had created no interest since the reign of Queen Anne, when the law respecting the patronage of the Scottish Church was settled The House could not, however, be unaware that the Free Kirk of Scotland went first into the courts of law, and were beaten in the Auchterarder case; that they then appealed to the House of Lords, and that their Lordships also rejected their appeal. They admitted the jurisdiction of the courts by appealing to them; but when they were beaten, then the Free Kirk men turned round and said, "We will separate ourselves; we will secede from the Established Church." Had it been on a question of
 477 "We desire to acknowledge with heartfelt gratitude that the opposition to our cause has given way in many instances, in proportion as it was made manifest to all that the aim of the Free Church was directed not to the one third of any temporal establishment, but to the maintenance and extension of the spiritual kingdom of Christ; and we hope that these symptoms of growing liberality and kindness will be duly appreciated by all our people." 478 Witness "Who are revolutionists We would seriously warn the Duke of Buccleuch that intolerance like his, so associated with dastardly meanness, is of more revolutionary tendency than all the pike and powder speeches of Chartist orators. We would warn our aristocracy that they are creating the very dangers which they dread. If consciences are enthralled or debauched, mankind are debased and corrupted. It is to this that the labours of not a few lords and lairds are now tending. And what would be the result of their complete success? What but the outbreaking of this corruption—a foul flood, but mighty enough to sweep them and their coronets and their castles away. Would they be safe with serfs Let them remember the recent stories of the nobles of Gallicia. And let them read again the history of the "reign of terror," and ponder the social and internal history of France for the previous century." Witness: "In every case let the person and property of the hireling be sacred; whether he occupy the pulpit of Dr. M'Donald of Urquhart, or of Dr. Burns of Kilsyth, of Mr. M'Leod of Snizort, or of Mr. Stewart of Cromarty, let his person be as sacred as if the Court of Session had presented to the charge one of its red-nosed macers, or as if he were not the Erastian parson, but the constable, or sheriff officer, or thief-catcher of the district. But to his safety and his property let this sense of sacredness be restricted; let it on no occasion be forgotten that he is the person on whose behalf the proprietor is flagrantly oppressive and unjust." 479 "Let him be regarded as virtually the one excommunicated man of the district—the man with whom no one is to join in prayer—whose church is to be avoided as an impure and unholy place—whose addresses are not to be listened to—whose visits are not to be received—who is to be everywhere put under the ban of the community; and until the proprietor raises the siege of the Free Church on his part, let it be held imperative by the people that the siege of the residuary clergyman and the residuary church be kept up on theirs. There is to be a contest of wills in this matter; and there is standing equally legal for both the antagonist parties engaged in it. But while the people have justice as well as law on their side, our hostile proprietary have law only; and so, if the Scottish character has not lost its old characteristic firmness, if our Whiggism of the old school be still the old dour Whiggism—the Whiggism that has been rarely broken, and never once bent, the better cause in the end must infallibly prevail." Witness Witness Witness Witness "Even though, through our keeping by this principle, and proclaiming it everywhere, the Scottish Establishment, now the stronghold of that Erastianism which has driven us from its bowers, should be laid prostrate in the dust, and along with it the subsistence of all its dependent families; surely you cannot expect that the principle which we could not give up for the sake of our own livings, we must now give up and cease to act upon for the sake of the livings of other people. This were truly the ultraism of being righteous overmuch. It were
 480 "You say (was the question) that a restoration is possible Yes; but if I were to state the process, it would appear, I fear, so extravagant, that I have not the slightest hope of its being at present brought about. We must, of course, provide for the perfect integrity of our own ecclesiastical principles; and I do not see how that can be done, except by the Legislature adopting the Free Church as the Establishment, and then leaving us to deal with the ministers of the Established Church as so many ecclesiastical delinquents, who have forsaken their original principles. I dare say that we should be very mild, and indulgent in dealing with them, so far as was consistent with our principles. I state this in answer to your question; but at the same time I have not the slightest hope that it is a measure which will soon be carried out; though we would certainly treat those ministers in a way that would be attended with less severity upon them personally than our sufferings have amounted to. If there was such a resolution of the Legislature come to, I would venture to say that there should be no such thing as an instant deprivation of the emoluments of office of any individual, but they should be left to die out; and when a parish was vacant, it should be filled up by a licentiate of the Free Church; and in that way there would be a substitution of a church with its original principles for a church with its altered principles. That of itself, however, would not, I think, satisfy the Free Church now." "The same view of duty which led us to leave it (the Establishment) will also of course lead us to aim at the Overthrow of the Establishment that remains. Do you think it your duty to maintain, or if by lawful means you can, to subvert, what you consider the Erastian Establishment—I do not precisely know what is meant by lawful means. We feel that our position is one of submission to the authority which we respect, to revere the civil authority in this country, and we would not do anything against the Established Church that is not consistent with the laws of the country as they stand. We would do nothing of that kind; we entertain a high sense of the respect that is due to lawful authority as an appointment of God, and therefore we would refrain from anything upon which that construction
 481 "If the House of Commons is prepared to depart from those principles upon which the Reformation is founded, and which principles are essential to the maintenance of the civil and religious liberties of this country—whether it proceeds from the Church of Rome or from the Presbyterian Church of Scotland—nothing but evil would result; the greatest evil of which would be, the establishment of religious domination, endangering the religion of the country and the civil rights of man." 482 "The Puritan and Presbyterian seed Vie with hot haste to make religion bleed, To ruin Prelacy, their only creed: But since they from the Lord are so disjointed, Not to respect the edicts he appointed, How can they reverence the Lord's anointed?"
 MR. OSWALD : Sir, when this Bill was last before the House, I took the liberty of expressing my regret that so important a subject was discussed in the absence of almost every Member of the Government. I expressed still more regret that a vote should have been taken without any discussion. I trust that this latter circumstance may be pleaded as my excuse for going more at length into the
 487 Scottish Guardian, "It is somewhat curious to notice the chief ground of resistance to the Bill taken up oven by those who have no great love to the Free Church, namely, that if it had been a special measure, intended for their relief exclusively, they would gladly have supported it; but extending, as it does, to all dissenters of whatever denomination, they felt compelled to give their opposition to so sweeping a measure. We may, however, rest assured, that had the Bill been restricted to the case of the Free Church, many of these same parties would have been equally loud in denouncing the pretension of the Free Church in seeking to be placed on a different footing from other non-established bodies, and to get exclusive advantages which she would not concede to others, and in declaring, that though they might have considered favourably a general measure, they could give no countenance to such an exclusively sectarian Bill." 488 l l l l l l l s l l l l 489 l l l l 490
 MR. HUME , having always objected to interference with property, and to the introduction of Bills connected with religious matters, wished to state that he supported the present Bill for the sake of peace. If they were to have religious liberty in Scotland,
 498
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  remarked, that the Free Church had attained its present position without such an exceptional measure as was now asked for it; and he entertained no doubt that it would ultimately attain all that was desired without resorting to an alteration of the statute law of the kingdom in its special favour. The animosity which had existed on the Free Church question was now greatly allayed, and he thought that this Bill would tend to revive rather than diminish it. By this time those noblemen who had been alluded to would no doubt reconsider their determination, upon finding that this movement was no ephemeral burst of enthusiasm, but the true religious feeling of a large portion of the people of Scotland. When that fact was properly understood, those proprietors would no longer refuse sites. He had no objection to a measure giving to any body of Christian men a right of procuring sites for the purpose of worship; but he could not conscientiously give that special privilege to one body in Scotland only, merely because in the first enthusiasm of the division some persons might have behaved unjustly.
 MR. SPOONER  wished to explain why he intended to give a different vote on the present occasion from that he gave on the second reading of the Bill. When the Bill was brought forward no one opposed it; the House went to a division without a discussion, and there appeared to be a strong  primâ facie
 SIR W. VERNER  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether he had heard, and if so, whether the report was true, that John Mitchel, when put on board the  Shearwater
 SIR G. GREY 
knew only that Mitchel was placed on board the  Shearwater Shearwater
 SIR J. GRAHAM : At the outset of the observations which I think it necessary to address to the House, I must frankly say that I am compelled to enter once again into the discussion of this subject with more pain and regret than I can well describe. It is an important subject, but I have always regarded it as a painful subject; and, moreover, certain allusions have been made by my hon. Friend the Member for Bridport, which add very deeply to the pain I feel in approaching it. I cannot forget the circumstance, which my hon. Friend has brought to the recollection of the House, that in the Committee of last Session I was brought into collision, more or less hostile, with one of the most eminent men that Scotland has produced during the last century—I of course allude to the late Dr. Chalmers. Here I may be permitted to state, that from my earliest youth I had been honoured with the acquaintance and friendship of that great divine. I admired him as a great philosopher; I venerated him as the most successful champion of evangelical truth; and at no time of my life can I erase from my memory the obligations to him under which I conceive Scotland to lie. I was also brought into contact with another distinguished person, Mr. Spiers, the late Sheriff of Edinburgh—now also no more. And here I will read to the House a short passage from a sermon to which allusion was made in the examination of Dr. Chalmers before the Committee of last year. [The right hon. Baronet read the extract, which was to the general effect that Dr. Chalmers, a great man, and Mr. Spiers, an honest man, had happily gone from this con-
 493 494 495 Witness Witness 496 l 497
 VISCOUNT DRUMLANRIG  felt it was only due to his hon. Friend the Member for Bridport to say, that he had not understood his speech in the sense which had been attributed to it relating to Dr. Chalmers. He regretted very much—considering his hon. Friend had already had an opportunity of expressing his disapprobation of
 485 486
 MR. MILES  had listened to the speech of the hon. Member for Glasgow very atten-
 518 519 l l l l l l l l l l s l l s l l s l s l s l s l s s s d d l s l s l s l s 520 l s d l s d 521 "If protection were to be given to any branch of our shipping trade, it ought to be to that; but that he doubted whether the navigation laws gave any protection at all. He did not think that foreigners could compete with Englishmen in their marine."
 MR. CARD WELL  said, that the question which the House had now to decide was, not how far it should adopt the proposition of the Government—that question would be submitted on a future day—the question the House was now invited to decide was, whether or not it would consider the laws relating to the navigation of this country? At the commencement of the Session, Her Majesty, in the Speech from the Throne, recommended to Parliament the consideration of those laws; and, in an unanimous address, this House assured Her Majesty that it would take them into its careful consideration with a view to ascertain whether any changes could be effected in them without danger to the maritime strength, or prejudice to the colonial and commercial interests of the empire. Since that time documents had been laid upon the table from two of the most important countries with which we had commercial relations—Prussia and the United States of America, intimating on the part of Prussia, that the advantages which we now enjoyed in Prussian ports would be withdrawn unless we were prepared to give corresponding advantages to Prussia in our ports; and intimating on the part of the United States that they were prepared to make relaxations in favour of our trade, if we, on our part, were prepared to make corresponding relaxations to their advantage hero. There had also been laid papers before the House, in the name of several of our most important colonies, beseeching Paliament to consider the grievances under which
 538 539 l l 540 "In 1830 the British tonnage which entered our ports from all countries amounted to 87,281 tons. In 1835 it had increased to 529,922 tons. Upon these astonishing facts a Committee of Congress remarks, 'The existence of such a trade, under such circumstances, is a remarkable commentary upon the want of sagacity and foresight in the administration of our commercial concerns, and makes a powerful appeal to the consideration of Congress. The enterprise of this country is thus made subsidiary to the wealth, revenues, and navigation of the British colonies, and in the same degree prejudicial to our own, through the policy of our Government." 541 "You are aware that there have been very general complaints made by the parties engaged in shipping of the general distress in that branch of business? To what do you attribute that complaint chiefly, as you say that you yourself have been tolerably well off? " "There has been considerable stir made among shipowners with regard to the reciprocity treaties; but I am not aware of any trade that I have been deprived of, and I do not know in what instance I should be benefited by the abrogation of those treaties." "Would it not be a great relief to the English shipowner to be allowed to build his ships abroad?" "No. If I were allowed to build ships at Hamburgh or Bremen I would not do so, because I should still have to get certain descriptions of timber from different places. If I could have foreign timber at a low duty, I would sooner build in England than in any other quarter." "If the British navigation were all conducted in the very best description of ships, do you think we could possibly compete with nations whose ships were not so durable, but still capable for a time of doing the work?" "I find that we are beating them in many places where we enter into competition. The Americans are beating us in the bringing of cotton." "You stated that you do not fear competition from foreigners; do you find that in an indirect trade, for instance the trade between the Brazils and any part of Europe, our ships are able to compete successfully with foreign ships?" "The very low rate of freight from the Brazils of late has held out little inducement to go there; but British vessels of the first class are preferred, and in general from the Brazils and elsewhere compete successfully. If from Liverpool we have or-
 542 "Is not that a voyage which might just as well be performed by an American ship?" "Yes; no law of ours could prevent it." 543 ad valorem ad valorem 544 545 546
 MR. MOODY  confessed that, having heard such a variety of opinions expressed on this subject, he should not be surprised to hear any view whatever with regard to it supported by hon. Members. After having listened to all the arguments that had been adduced on both sides, he felt bound to give his vote in favour of the original Motion in preference to the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stamford. It appeared to him (Mr. Moody) that if the whole of the restrictions imposed by the navigation laws continued, there could not he any effective working out of the commercial measures of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth; but at the same time, he felt that they were quite at sea as to what the effect of the proposed alterations would be. They had heard the most diametrically opposite views expressed with regard to them by hon.
 522 523
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Gentleman must confine himself to the question.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  entirely concurred with what had fen from the hon. Gentleman opposite that this was not the proper opportunity discussing the details of the measure; should therefore abstain from going into those points which the hon. Gentleman had very properly reserved to himself to consider at a future stage of the discussion. That hon. Gentleman and other hon. Members who had preceded him in this debate, had gone at such length into the reasons for supporting the measure generally, and had stated so many facts and statistical details upon the subject, that it was unnecessary for him (the Chancellor of the Exche-
 547 548 549 550 551 552 553 554 555 556 557 558 559
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that early in the Session he had announced his intention of introducing a measure to remove some of the restrictions imposed by the existing laws of excise on the subject of spirits; and, having anxiously waited for an opportunity of doing so, he had not been able to obtain one until that evening. He would now state very shortly the object of the Bills which he proposed, with a view to their being introduced before Whitsuntide, so that an opportunity might he afforded to the parties interested of considering the details in the recess. He was happy to say, that the Bills consisted almost entirely of explanations of the existing laws, and on that account he hoped they would afford satisfaction to all immediately concerned. With regard to excise regulations generally, he would observe, that a return laid on the table last year, on the Motion of the hon. Member for Dumfries, showed to what an extent remissions in the excise department had already been carried into effect, He would state shortly that within the last few years the duties on stone bottles, starch, auctions, glass, vinegar, and tiles, had been repealed; while those on paper and on soap had been reduced. Very considerable relaxations had also been made
 560 561 d d 562 563 
 "1. That it is expedient to alter and amend certain of the Laws and regulations of Excise respecting the warehousing and removal of British Spirits in the United Kingdom, and their exportation therefrom to Foreign Parts, and the survey of dealers in and retailers of Spirits, and the sale and removal of Spirits by permit from the stock of such traders. "2. That an Excise Duty of five pounds five shillings shall be paid by every licensed dealer in Spirits for an additional License, authorising such person to sell by retail any quantity (the same not being less than one reputed quart bottle) of Foreign Spirits or Liqueurs not to be drunk or consumed upon the premises."
 MR. G. THOMPSON  desired to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether he was in possession of information from any quarter that, on Sunday the 4th instant, certain outrages were committed on peaceable, loyal, and unoffending individuals in the neighbourhood of the Tower Hamlets? He put this question because he had in his hand the testimony of more than 60 witnesses, all of whom followed decent occupations, while many of them were respectable inhabitants and shopkeepers in the Tower Hamlets. The testimony of these persons was consistent and concurrent, It
 503
 MR. G. THOMPSON  rose to put to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department the question of which he had given notice. He craved the indulgence of the House for one or two minutes, while he stated distinctly his reasons for putting the question which he should presently put to the right hon. Gentleman, and explained the nature of that question.
 MR. MACGREGOR  felt assured that the arguments which had been adduced against this proposal of the Government were at variance with all experience. Hon. Gentlemen had said, if the resolutions received the sanction of Parliament, the immediate consequence would be utter ruin to the shipping interests, and to the maritime power of this country. He had not the slightest doubt as to the error of such a prophecy. He had more scepticism as to the sagacity of those who indulged in such a prediction, than as to its being fulfilled. He had endeavoured to ascertain the leading and prominent facts as to the shipping interests of this and other countries; and he was satisfied that the result as regarded this country could not be such as had been described. He was satisfied, if the measure of his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade received the sanction of Parliament, that it, in connexion with the measures of free trade carried by the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel), would produce such effects as to render the ports, the docks, and the warehouses of the United Kingdom the greatest emporiums which ever existed of the produce of the whole world. The connexion between the present prosperity of our commerce and the navigation laws was most remote, and had as much to do with each other as the Nile had to do with the Pyramids of Egypt. As for the assertion, that the greatness of our Navy was owing to the existence of the navigation laws, he begged the House to remember that our Navy was the most powerful in the world long before those laws were enacted; and he believed it would been have just as powerful if those laws had never been carried. He would not go back to the time of Alfred; but in the time of Edward III. it was well known that our fleet took or destroyed 400 ships with 30,000 men on board. In 1416 also, the Earl of Warwick destroyed a powerful fleet on the coast of Holland. In 1545 also, Sir Edward Howard defeated the French fleet in the Channel with very great loss. He would not refer to the Spanish armada, and to other well-known occasions when our fleet manifested its prowess; but he might observe that up to 1653, our fleet was almost uniformly victorious. It should be recollected the navigation laws were proposed by Oliver Cromwell in 1651. About that period we were continually at war with the Dutch; and it was impossible
 515 516 517 Queen, Maria Somes Africane,
 SIR CHARLES BURRELL  next addressed the House, but in so low a tone of voice as to be scarcely audible. He protested against the measure of Her Majesty's Government as a most dangerous one. In the present state of Europe it was hopeles to expect anything like reciprocity.
 SIR G. CLERK  would support the Motion that the Speaker leave the chair for going into Committee to consider the present state of the navigation laws, and their effect upon the trade and commerce of the country. He was a Member of the Committee of that House which, during the last Session, sat on this important question; and the effect of the evidence on his mind was, that extensive changes and alterations should be made in the existing system of the navigation laws. If he were to vote for the Amendment, it would be equivalent to a declaration of opinion that there was nothing in the present state of the law which rendered it necessary to go into inquiry on that important point. He knew that his right hon. Friend (Mr. Herries) was not prepared to say that those laws required no alteration. He (Sir G. Clerk) believed that many hon. Gentlemen who would support the Amendment were not prepared to maintain the navigation laws as they stood at present. He thought the practical effect of carrying the Amendment would be to lead the country to think that it was the opinion of the House that no alteration should be made in those laws. Those who opposed the original Motion argued that those laws had for two centuries remained unchanged—that they had been the preservation of our country's greatness, and the cause of our naval supremacy. The real effects produced upon our system of navigation laws were to be found in the changes which had from time to time been necessary, in consequence of the altered state of our relations with the other nations of the world; such as the immense changes consequent upon the Declaration of Independence of the United States in 1783, the Declaration of the South American Colonies of Spain, &c. All these changes had rendered it incumbent upon us to take a different view of the question of navigation law. In addition to that, our increased intercourse with the other nations of Europe, had rendered great changes absolutely necessary. According to a law which was originally introduced in the time of Charles IL, all trade was prohibited with this country in foreign ships, unless the ships were of the same country as the goods which they carried. But since 1825 most important changes had been made in the law. The
 524 525 526 527 528 s d s l s l s 529 530 prestige 531 532 l l 533 "How is it then that you consider that a depression will follow from the opening of the trade generally?—Because the repeal of the navigation laws would he no reciprocity; if I had a ship loading in Canton, and an American had a ship there, he would come to London with his teas, but I could not go to Now York with mine, therefore there would he no reciprocity. If we had a fair competition upon principles of reciprocity, I should not be so much afraid of it. "If there were a free trade in shipping all over the world, you would have no fear of competition?—I do not say no fear, but not so much fear. "But would you have any fear?—Yes. "What amount of fear would you have?—It is almost impossible to say; every competition must injure the shipowner. If I had a ship loading in Canton, alongside of an American, if he could come to London he would reduce my freight; but if I could not go to New York, I could not reduce his; whereas if I could go to New York, I could reduce his as well as he reduce mine. "In case there was an alteration of the navigation laws of America, you would not object to an open trade?—I would object; I should not like it; but I would not be so much afraid of the competition in that case. "Do you think that it would be a worse state of things than the present?—I think it would. "But how is it that you obtain an advantage, because you enjoy a protection in respect of those countries with which you are on fair terms of reciprocity?—We do obtain an advantage; for instance, an American ship cannot go to Canton and bring teas to London, but I can go to Canton and bring teas to London." 534 535 536 in pari materia 537
 SIR GEORGE GREY : The hon. Gentleman having yesterday given me notice of his intention to ask me this evening if I had received from persons, residing in the neighbourhoods of Bethnal-green and the Tower Hamlets, complaints of unprovoked assaults committed on Sunday last, in those localities, by the police on peaceable and unoffending subjects, I have made inquiries into the matter, and I have come prepared with evidence respecting the conduct of the police, which I should have been glad to have submitted to the consideration of the House (had it been possible) when this subject was under discussion on a former occasion. But in the first place, I will address myself to the question of the hon. Gentleman; and I hope to be able to give such an answer as may prove satisfactory to the House. It is true that I have received from certain quarters some complaints respecting the conduct of the police on the occasion alluded to. I have received a letter dated June the 5th, Monday last, which conveys such a complaint. It has been addressed to me by a person signing himself W. Higgins, and describing himself as of Bonner's-field, Victoria-park, in which the writer states that in his opinion—an opinion which he assures me is shared by all who reside in his neighbourhood—the conduct of the police on Sunday last was the most brutal and barbarous that has ever been witnessed. There is a postscript to the letter, to which are attached the names of seven individuals, who bear testimony to the truth of Mr. Higgins's statement, So that, in point of fact, I may say that I have received a letter signed by eight persons, complaining of the behaviour of the police, I have, moreover,
 504 505
 SIR J. WALSH  said, that those hon. Gentlemen who had on that occasion inscribed free trade on their banner, had taken up a somewhat different position from that which they had previously occupied whenever subjects of that kind had been brought under the consideration of the House. On all former occasions when a great interest had been attacked in the name of free trade, whether the miners or the glove-makers, or the farmers, or the West India planters, the language held by those hon. Gentlemen was this—"Protection is altogether an abuse; protection to you is a wrong inflicted on the rest of the community. You have enjoyed a protection which has been a robbery on all other classes; we can no longer allow you to enjoy it. We hope that when you are deprived of a privilege which you have long been permitted wrongfully to enjoy, you will be able to support the competition to which you will be exposed. We do not wish to crush you to the earth; we shall be rejoiced to find that you will be able to withstand that competition. But we tell you fairly and frankly, that as you have no right to protection, so if you cannot withstand competition you must resign yourselves to absolute and irremediable ruin." It had, in fact, been hitherto laid down, that "buying in the cheapest market and selling in the dearest" was an unalterable principle, to which every opposing consideration ought to be sacrificed. But on the present occasion no such language had been held. Almost every Member who had addressed the House in
 511 512 513 514
 MR. COBDBN : The noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn has travelled through a wide field of topics; but I do not feel it incumbent on me to follow his example. The noble Lord and I start from totally opposite premises. He is for protection to all, or, in other words, he wishes to tax all for the benefit of all; I wish to tax none for the benefit of any. We therefore proceed from two opposite principles to the discussion of the question before the House. It is hardly fair in the
 614 l l 615 616 "That in consequence of the serious and unbecoming riots which had broken out last Sunday in more places than one, the masters of ships were desired to warn their men to conduct themselves with more propriety, and to caution them not to resist the soldiers or police." 617 618 619 Laughter 620
 MR. WILSON  rose for the purpose of correcting a statement of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He was quite sure that hon. Gentleman would not willingly misrepresent the statements of another; but in speaking of his (Mr. Wilson's) speech the other evening, wherein he referred to the amount of tonnage entered outward and inward in 1846, as compared with 1824, the hon. Gentleman said that he (Mr. Wilson) took in the latter year only the amount of tonnage entered outwards, while in the former he took the amount of tonnage both outwards and inwards. He begged to correct the hon. Gentleman in that assertion. If the hon. Member would refer to the Custom-house returns—not to those of the Board of Trade—he would find that he had in both cases referred to the aggregate amount of tonnage inwards and outwards. As the hon. Member stated he was anxious to make himself thoroughly acquainted with all the facts he mentioned, he (Mr. Wilson) could not but express his regret that he had not done so in the present instance.
 ADMIRAL BOWLES : It is always with reluctance that I take up the time of the House; but I trust I may ask for their indulgence on the present occasion, which is of too much importance to justify an officer of my rank in contenting himself with a merely silent vote: and differing, as I do, from Her Majesty's Government, it is my duty to state my opinion to them honestly and fairly. I believe, Sir, I shall best consult the wishes and convenience of the House by confining my observations to the naval part of the question, avoiding as far as may be possible a repetition of the arguments which have been already urged during this protracted debate, and addressing myself to the main question, namely, the effect which the proposed changes will have on our maritime superiority, and on the supply of seamen for the Royal Navy during war, or on any sudden emergency when this calamity may be averted by a rapid display of force. But, Sir, it is impossible to do this without pausing for a moment to ask the reason why measures of this extreme importance are thus urgently pressed forward at so late a period of the Session, and when au inquiry, left unfinished last year by this branch of the Legislature, is now in progress in the other House of Parliament. If Her Majesty's Ministers have no intention
 611 "Impelled by energy, and invigorated by the spirit of freedom in commercial transactions, my belief is that the colonists will gain and not suffer by this great change in our policy. I believe that the cultivation of sugar will be itself advanced to a greater extent when the colonists know that they must compete in the market of the mother country with the productions of other nations." "I believe they will ultimately triumph in the great experiment which we are about to try. With all that skill, energy, and power, which belong to the merchants and planters of those colonies, it will be a measure of benefit, and not of
 612 613
 LORD G. BENTINCK  resumed the Adjourned Debate on the Navigation Laws, and said: Sir, in asking the indulgence of the House while I make some observations on the great and important subject which is now under discussion, I would wish, in the first place, to proceed to remove some of those prejudices created against British shipowners, or rather, I should say, the captains of the British mercantile marine, by the hon. Member for Westbury (Mr. Wilson). It is not my intention to impute to that hon. Gentleman, who I regret is not now in his place, the slightest wish or desire to misrepresent the true state of facts as regards the captains of British merchantmen, whom he described as being unable to obtain freights from Rio Janeiro on account of the bad character which they bear for carelessness in the carriage or
 574 s s d s 575 Herald s d Golden Fleece s s d Hibbert s s d s 576 577 578 American Almanac l l 579 "The Chamber is inclined to agree with Lord George Bentinck and yourself that the repeal of the navigation laws is calculated to confer an equal benefit on our opponents and on ourselves, with this additional circumstance in favour of the Cuban planter, that much greater despatch is attainable there where slave labour ensures regularity in the crops, while in Jamaica the comparatively few vessels that now trade to the island are detained many months before a cargo is obtained. It is not unlikely, therefore, that the competition to be opened by a repeal of the navigation laws would be of more service to the Cuban than to the British planter." s 580 s s s s s 581 s s 582 s d s d "Under circumstances so invigorating, the extension of manufactures, navigation, colonial production, trade, warehousing, and emigration, together with their subsidiary employments, would be illimitable, and the social and material benefits accruing there from to this great and densely populated empire would be boundless; their effect might be truly compared to lessening the extent of the intervening seas and oceans, not only between Great Britain and surrounding nations, but between the former and her numerous colonies and dependencies." 583 "Many possess all the means of immeasurable wealth, but suffer only from the scarcity of labour, offering in their settlement the most bountiful and congenial fields for the enterprising capitalist, and a happy home, with employment, for any conceivable number of our industrious but unoccupied poor, who, by the repeal of the navigation laws would have much greater facilities of bettering their condition by emigration, instead of being maintained out of parochial and other eleemosynary funds in a hopeless and daily increasing state of destitution, the redundancy or the scarcity of labour being alike a great social evil, and demanding prompt and serious consideration." "By the discouraging and restrictive tendency of the navigation laws upon British commerce,
 584 l "Had not those navigation laws existed, those grievous social sufferings which for ages past have been periodically endured by our unemployed poor and their families would not have occurred; nor would those astounding annual sums which have been exacted for more than two centuries from the property of the country, added to the overwhelming amount subscribed in charity, making an aggregate exceeding the amount of the national debt, have been sunk in unproductive, unprofitable speculations, nor would millions have been spent in the punishment of crime; but much the larger portion of this money would have been more usefully employed at home, and would have fructified in the hands of the people." l 585 586 "I am bound to say that there have been very few quarrels of the people connected with these ships during all these fifty-nine years—there have only occurred two cases in which there was any occasion to send the parties up for trial. These parties were the captains and mates; and in both instances they were acquitted." "Consuls, by the nature of the situation in which they are placed, can only see the shady side of the proceedings on board of ships. It is their duty to record accidents that happen in vessels upon their voyage. The seaman has an arduous duty to perform—to war, as it were, with the elements, to contend against which requires, sometimes, almost superhuman exertions." "Shall a shipwreck or one dispute be made the grounds for the condemnation of this whole class? Scarcely twenty shipwrecks have happened in the Baltic within my experience, so that of the amount of the shipping which has passed to the Sound, scarcely twenty vessels have been lost out of 4,000 vessels that annually frequent these seas." 587 588
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I find myself relieved from the necessity of troubling the House at any length by the able speech which we have just heard. I am also relieved from that duty by finding that, after hearing in the course of the night various speeches of two hours' duration professedly directed against the measure of the Government, those speeches contain much in relation to other matters—much invective and sarcasm against individuals, but with respect to the proposition before the House, and particularly as regards a defence of the navigation laws, very little, if any, argument has been advanced. The noble Lord who opened the debate this evening entered into his own peculiar line of argument with respect to other measures of free trade. He spoke at some length upon measures not at all affecting the navigation laws; and, according to his view of foreign commerce, all the advantage of free trade goes to foreigners, and none to the people of this country. But
 665 666 s s 667 668 669 670
 MR. DISRAELI : As this is the last night of the debate, I thought it but fair to refer to evidence which, if not on the table of the House, ought to have been delivered. I will now read some questions put to Mr. Porter, and his answers:—
 632 "In a previous answer you give a statement of the progress of British shipping, and you show an increase in 1846 over 1821 of British shipping of 1,256,000 tons. You were led to the inference that there was a much larger increase in British tonnage than there was in American tonnage; but, if the Committee understand your statement now, the increase of the one is an increase upon the whole of the British tonnage, and the increase upon the other is an increase only upon a part of the American tonnage?—It is so. "Consequently those two are not to be taken as compared together as showing in any degree the comparative increase of British and American tonnage?—Certainly not. "Have you any means of making an addition with regard to the tonnage of the United States which may lead to a fair comparison with the statement in Return No. 1?—I am not sure that I have; I rather think I have, but I am not certain. "In the explanation given in your last examination relative to the return of protected and unprotected trades, you stated that if the tonnage to which objection had been made were removed from the unprotected and placed on the protected side, the result would show a greater advantage in favour of unprotected trade than was exhibited by the return in the form in which it was presented; you stated the proportions then were 99,82 per cent on the protected, and 219 per cent on the unprotected?—I have no doubt that is perfectly correct. "In the whole of that explanation comprised in your answers to questions 75 and 79, you deduced your conclusions from per centage calculations?—I did. "Do you think that is a fair mode of exhibiting such facts, or one that is likely to lead to just conclusions on such inquiries?—I must confess I am not very fond of using centesimal proportions, but I am driven to do so because other persons have more liking to them than I have, and I am called on to do it. I think the fair and proper way is to take the actual numbers. "You made a statement before the Select Committee of the House of Commons, did not you, throwing overboard centesimal proportions? Will you read your answer on that subject?—I say, 'I think there is a great deal of fallacy lurking under returns of the description you allude to. It is stated that there is a larger percentage of increase of foreign than of British tonnage. I think I remarked, in reference to one of the tables which I ventured to bring before the Committee, that it sometimes appeared that there was a percentage diminution in the proportion of British ships when there was an increase in the actual amount. It may be very well in a country which has 100 ships, when it gets an increase of 50, to state the increase at 50 per cent; but if a country has 1,000 ships, and there is an increase of 100, that is an increase of only 10 per cent. I think it involves a fallacy when you reason from the per centage,' "Will you explain to the Committee why, with a conviction that this mode of reasoning was fallacious, you employed it without explaining that possible fallacy in your last examination?—I drew up this table at the desire of one of your Lordships, and in the form that was required? "Is not the supposed correctness of that enumeration the main argument on which the writer of the article in the  Edinburgh Review 633 634 635 "Between the 1st of January, 1846, and the 30th of June, 1847, sixty-one ships cleared from London for Sidney, of which eighteen loaded cargoes home, and the remaining forty-three proceeded to other places in search of freights. Within the same period twenty-seven ships cleared from London to Hobart Town, of which fourteen loaded home, and thirteen left in ballast. Twenty-five ships cleared from London to Port Philip—twelve loading and thirteen leaving without cargo. And from November 21, 1846, to June 30, 1847, twenty-one ships cleared for Port Adelaide from London, of which seven only obtained cargoes." 636 637 638 "Wherever things would be cheap you think they would be sent to England, and you consider that would be a disadvantage to England?—It really is sometimes a great disadvantage to the merchant of England to have goods brought here that he has no reason to calculate upon. Within the last few weeks, to my great surprise. I must confess, and to the surprise of all of us in the City, it was stated that it was a grievance that certain cargoes of cotton which were turned aside from Havre because of the troubled state of France could not be brought into this country and sold for home consumption, but must be warehoused for exportation. At the time that occurred cotton was in a more depressed condition in this country than it had been for years. I received last week the cotton circular from Liverpool, in which the writer says that within the memory of man cotton has never been so low as it was that very week; and yet the merchants importing this cotton for the use of the Lancashire manufacturers were to have forced upon them a certain number of other cargoes upon which they could not by any possibility have calculated, and then it was said that the not being able to do this was a grievance arising out of the operation of the navigation laws." apropos "Are you as a merchant desirous of repeal, or an important modification of the principles of the navigation laws, as likely to conduce to the advancement of the commercial interest of the country?" His reply is—"I, for one, have no such desire whatever." Then, again—"What do you find the prevailing opinion with regard to the navigation laws in the city of London?" and his answer is, "that there is no desire for a change." 639 640 "Are not British ships able to import cargoes from all parts of the world into Prussia?—Yes; but it is of no use. Prussia has no ports to import into. There is one port, Pilau, with 11 feet of water over the bar. There is also Memel, but Memel bar prevents all ships from entering with cargoes. They load at the open roadsteads. They take in 50 or 100 load to keep them stiff, that is, upright, and then they go into the roads to fill up. At Dantzic they have only six feet of water over the bar, and have, therefore, made an artificial entrance, by which they go above the bar, and are enabled to take small vessels up to Dantzic. By this artificial entrance, a hole in the mud, they have 11 or 12 feet depth of water. "Although this law has existed for so many years on the part of Prussia, it has never been of the smallest use to us?—Never." "Has not Prussia threatened to withdraw the law if we do not repeal our navigation laws?—She has; but it is of no consequence, the thing is quite ridiculous. Would it be of the least importance whether that treaty of reciprocity with Prussia existed or not?—Not a bit. "Would it not be of importance if Germany were to follow the example?—That is quite another thing. If Prussia were to get possession of Hamburgh, which I suppose she is aiming at, and getting possession of the ports in the North Sea, that would be quite a different thing. To Cuxhaven they may get up the river with any draught of water; and then, if they could get possession of the Elbe, they would have the possession of the inlet into Germany," 641 "Are you aware that Prussia has given notice to the Government that she will impose the last-age or tonnage duty afresh?—Yes, I have heard so. "It is perfectly competent for the Prussians to do so, if they choose?—Yes; and I wish they had never been asked to take it off. They would soon have done it themselves. It would have drawn all their trade to Courland and Livonia. "Those ports are not accessible all the year round?—No; neither are the Prussian ports. "Stettin is?—No; there is very little difference in that respect. Memel and Dantzic and the mouths of the Oder are blocked up with ice in winter, perhaps not so soon as Riga." "Suppose that Prussia and the German League were to pass a navigation law against us, restricting us in all our dealings as we restrict them, could we go on then as we are?—Since we have established with Prussia, which we did in 1822, the Reciprocity Acts, I am not aware that Prussia has any grievance to complain of. "Are you not aware that Prussia has given us notice that she means to put an end to these reciprocity treaties, and to pass restrictions against our commerce, in retaliation for those which we have passed against her?—We receive timber in a Prussian ship at the same rate of duty that we do in a British ship. "You have not seen the letter of Chevalier Bunsen on the subject?—No. "Assume that they should pass these retaliatory acts against us?—I think we are quite competent to fight our own battles. "Should we be in the same position as we are now?—If we just maintain our own position, and continue as we are, we are able to do it against all the world, so far as the navigation laws are concerned. 642 "Then are the Committee to understand you to say we should not be in the same position we are now?—It is stated that Prussia proposes to abolish the Reciprocity Act, which Reciprocity Act was of her own seeking; she insisted that her timber should come in her own ships at the same rate of duty that it did in our own ships; we have conceded that; and, therefore, why she is to complain of the Act that established that perfect reciprocity I am not able to comprehend. "Can you state in what way she could retaliate?—I do not believe she has the power to do it. "What trade is there between England and Prussia in which she could retaliate to our injury?—None that I am aware of." 643 644 quâ New York Sun "A correspondent of the  Courrier des Etats-Unis 645 quies gentium sine artnis 646
 MR. DISRAELI : I remember that the noble Lord opposite used sometimes to tell us when we attempted to defend that cause of protection which we have not yet deserted, that we were reasoning in a vicious circle. The noble Lord was apt to say, "True it is that the interests you are now advocating may probably profit by the injury of another interest; that other interest may also, in its turn, by some exceptional legislation, profit at the cost of its neighbour; but you are, in fact, moving," as the noble Lord well expressed it, "in a vicious circle. Interest after interest receives an exceptional advantage, but the result is, when you go
 621 622 623 624 "If the navigation laws were repealed, of course you would repeal that part of them which prohibits English ships from navigating with less than three-fourths of English seamen? " "I do not much understand that question; but my belief is, that there is a fourth of foreigners allowed to come in an English vessel; but the English ships do not keep up that fourth, for this reason, that the sailors cannot agree: I have had a good deal to do with the management of my men in Lancashire." "I have fought several battles with my men. There are men there called 'Flints' and 'Knob sticks.' I have had sixty soldiers and three officers for nine months at my works, and I understand therefore a good deal about that, and when they are mixed together they do not agree." 625 626 627 628 "In the year 1847, 659 ships, amounting to 198,308 tons, cleared from Rio de Janeiro with cargo, of which were—British, 31,735 tons, and foreign, 166,563; total, 198,308 tons. Of the above 31,735 tons British shipping, 15,388 tons cleared for British ports and possessions, and 16,347 tons for foreign ports—total, 31,735 tons. Of the 659 ships cleared with cargo, 63,753 tons were American, 31,735 tons British, 14,547 tons Brazilian, 13,149 tons Danish, 13,738 tons Swedish, 13,407 tons Hamburgh, 11,283 tons Portuguese, 9,844 tons French, 6,959 tons Sardinian, and 6,409 tons Belgian; 13,484 tons consisting of Austrian, Spanish, Norwegian, Russian, and other foreign ships—total, 198,308 tons." 629 "A Statement of all the Ships which entered the port of Trieste during the year 1833, each assigned to its proper country. There came from— "The United States.—21 American, 6 Austrian ships—no British. "Sumatra.—2 American ships—no British. "Marseilles.—I French, 22 Austrian, 4 Neapolitan, 7 Roman, 4 Sardinian ships—but no British. "Bordeaux.—4 French, 1 Swedish ship—no British. "Spain.—9 Spanish, 1 Austrian, 1 Russian—no British. "Hamburgh.—3 Austrian, 3 Prussian—no British. "Holland.—2 Austrian, 1 Danish—no British. "Sweden.—2 Swedes—no British. "St. Domingo.—1British vessel, which has this vast trade all to itself. "Norway.—4 Hanoverian, 1 Danish, 1 Dutch, 1 British vessel. "Cuba.—6 American, 2 Spanish, 1 Belgian, 2 British. "Portugal,—7 Austrian, 2 Sardinian, 1 Danish, 2 British. "Gibraltar and Malta, our own possessions.—9 Austrian, 1 Roman, 6 British. "Brazils.—11 Austrian, 4 American, 3 Danish, 3 Spanish, 3 Sardinian, 1 Hamburgh, 1 French, 1 Neapolitan, 1 Swedish, 42 British," l l l l 630 "As he had shown that, when a strict monopoly was maintained (namely, from 1817 to 1823), the shipping trade was in a declining state, and that, immediately after the approach to free-trade principles, there was a rapid increase in the amount of tonaage, it would be admitted that there could be no doubt of the ability of British shipbuilders and British shipowners to compete with foreigners." 631 "With regard to our trade with the whole world, he found that in 1824 the tonnage of British shipping entered outwards was 3,291,000 tons, and the tonnage of foreign ships entered inwards 1,385,000 tons. It was true that in 1816 the tonnage of foreign ships had increased to 3,727,000 tons, but the tonnage of English ships had also increased to 8,620,000 tons."
 MR. SPEAKER  decided that the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire was in order.
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  objected to any reference to such a document, as out of order.
 MR. HUME  would not follow the noble Lord who had just sat down over the long course of arguments which he had brought before the House; but he was anxious, before this question was decided, to offer a few remarks, and give expression to opinions altogether different from those of the noble Lord. He believed he should be able satisfactorily to show in a few minutes that the object of those who advocated the repeal of the navigation laws was by no means to destroy the Navy or commercial marine of this country, but the reverse. There was no man in that House, not excepting the noble Lord himself, who was more anxious than he was to see that Navy and commercial marine in a state of prosperity; and he would venture to say that, long before the noble Lord raised his voice in favour of our marine, his (Mr. Hume's) opinion stood recorded as to the injustice which the Legislature had inflicted on that department of our commerce. And it was on that ground that he wished to bring-back the House to the subject really before it; for the noble Lord had introduced topics altogether foreign to the question then under discussion. He would not enter into a controversy with the noble Lord as to the accuracy of the figures of his hon. Friend the Member for Westbury (Mr. Wilson), or of his hon. and learned Friend
 604 605 606 607 608 609 610
 SIR R. PEEL  was met on rising by cries of "Divide!" The right hon. Baronet said: After the speeches made by the noble Lord, the hon. Gentleman who spoke last, and the other hon. Gentlemen who have addressed the House during this debate, anxious to explain the grounds on which their votes will be given, I do not make any unreasonable claim on the indulgence of the House if I ask leave to occupy a very much smaller share of your attention for the same purpose. If I could fully acquiesce
 647 Interruption 648 l 649 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 650 651 652 653 "Do you consider that the navigation law, as it now stands, affords adequate protection to British ships?—No, I don't think it does, because the principles upon which it is founded are entirely abrogated with reference to direct trade with all the countries with which we have reciprocity treaties." "I cannot consider that the navigation laws afford us much protection now; they are completely mutilated. Every reciprocity treaty has taken something away. I was not aware that there was so little left as there is. In fact, I consider the navigation laws virtually repealed now." 654 "That the declining quality and estimation of British tonnage, and the approaching decay and ruin of the British shipowner, may now be viewed as incontrovertible positions." 655 "I am sure that I do not exaggerate when I say that one-half of the capital embarked in shipping during the last twenty-five years has been lost, and that the other half, to a very great extent, is totally unproductive of profit. Indeed, so little is there left of the navigation laws, that I look upon them as virtually repealed." 656 657 s 658 s s s s s s s s 659 s s 660 s s 661 662 663 "These, it may be objected, are but vague and speculative improvements, which may never be realised. It may be so; but if I am called upon to point out specifically the precise mode and course of operations by which the benefits of this new system are to make their way into the West Indies, I have no hesitation to avow that I can do no such thing. Yet, in making this avowal, let me remind the Committee that in 1813, when, upon the renewal of the East India Company's charter, their monopoly of trade was greatly relaxed, the wisest and most experienced men in
 664
 The EARL of LINCOLN  said, it would be in the recollection of the House, that when the Bill was in Committee, he gave notice that it was his intention to move Amendments on the third and fourth clauses, and it was suggested that he should postpone them till the bringing up of the report. He begged now to state the reasons which had influenced him in abandoning that intention, and in making no opposition to the constitution of the Board which the noble Lord now proposed. He (Lord Lincoln) had always objected to the board as originally constructed, because he thought that not only its probable but its necessary tendency would be to extend the central authority to the details of local government in a greater degree than would be either advisable or palatable to the country at large. At the same time, he had expressed a strong opinion that it was necessary there should be a certain amount of central authority exercised by means of inspection, with a view to enforce activity where negligence existed, and to give advice where knowledge was wanting, so as to facilitate the operations which it was the intention of the Bill to effect. If the Bill had stood as when it was originally introduced, the objections he brought against that part of it would still have existed; and certainly, looking to the immense alterations which had been introduced into the Bill by the noble Lord on the various occasions
 690
 MR. HUME  thought it extremely desirable to make this Bill as popular as possible; but if the scale of voting adopted by the new poor-law were retained as proposed, great discontent would be caused. One great cause of the dislike with which the new poor-law was regarded in Middlesex arose from whole streets being swamped by the plurality of votes enjoyed by some of the owners of property. He hoped the Government would consent to give every individual ratepayer one vote only.
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  reminded the House that this point had been very fully argued and considered in Committee, and the House had decided by a very large majority that the present mode of rating should be retained. Apart from the reasons which might be urged in favour of the mode of voting provided by the Bill, he did not think it would be respectful to the House to cancel their former decision. Property was very largely dealt with by the Bill, and it therefore gave to owners and occupiers of property that protection for their proportionate interests which the plurality of votes was intended to confer.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  would strongly support the Amendment of the hon. and gallant Member for Brighton (Captain Pechell.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, his objections to the measure were not in the slightest degree of a personal kind, for he could tell the noble Lord the Prime Minister, and the right hon. Gentleman, that he wished all the inquiry which that Bill was calculated to give. He objected, however, to such a measure as this being brought in by a private individual under the sanction of the noble Lord the Prime Minister of the country, and yet who was not there personally to give his measure his support. "Conscience," it was said, "makes cowards of us all." Where, he asked, was the noble Lord? Was there any fear felt as to an inquiry into Horsham? Where was the Attorney General? Did his conscience smite him when he heard the name of Horsham mentioned, and had he fled from the discussion? The hon. Mover of the Bill (Sir John Hanmer) had formerly sat on that—the Opposition—side of the House; but now he had, cameleon-like, changed colour; but he once represented a place notorious for its corruption; and those, he said, who sat for dirty places should not seek to purify those more pure than themselves. As to this Bill it was one grossly partial in its operation; he complained of it on that account as well as of its inquisitorial character; for it went beyond the threshold of that which an Englishman once considered as his castle—a man's own home. By this Bill a man
 693 l
 MR. BANKES  had an Amendment to move, which in reality involved the whole principle of the Bill. The measure was a most serious one, and well deserved the attention of the House. He must confess that he had heard nothing to remove the objections which he had formerly urged against it. If there was no other Mode of preventing bribery, he could understand why it might be brought forward; but having seen the remedy proposed by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, he could only ask why that remedy was not applied? He objected to the Bill in the first place because it vested such large and extraordinary powers in the hands of those Commissioners. He did not suppose that they would not be fit and proper persons; but, exercising such functions, they ought to be not only honest, but, like the Judges of the land, above suspicion. Commissioners had been appointed under the Borough District Bill previously to the Reform Bill, and Commissioners had also been appointed to inquire into the Municipal Corporation Bill, previously to the passing of that measure. What was the result? In neither case was the result satisfactory. One instance which respected the first-named Commissioners he would mention. The Commissioners under the Borough District Dill recommended the disfranchising of Wareham and Dorchester. He (Mr. Bankes) strongly opposed that recommendation, and brought forward a Motion in the House to that effect, but it was lost by an immense majority. Such was the influence of the recommendation of the Commissioners. But ultimately those very boroughs were permitted to enjoy the franchise; because it was discovered that the statements which he had urged were perfectly true, and that the reports of the Commissioners, whether biassed by party or not, were at all events founded on error. The House might look upon the franchise of a town as a small matter, but those who possessed it did not view it in the same light. They regarded it as a dignity, as a high and important trust. It was desirable that they should continue so to consider
 695 696 697
 SIR J. HANMER  said, that the course which was now proposed to be pursued was the same which was adopted in the case of the borough of Sudbury. Upon that occasion the whole question was fully considered, and the noble Lord now at the head of the Government, and the right hon. Gentleman who was at that period at the head of the Government, expressed their opinion in favour of appointing Commissioners. At that time no objection was made, that by taking such a course it would be derogatory to the dignity of Parliament. Neither was it contrary to the opinion of the other House of Parliament. The Bill was acted upon, and when the evidence came before the House, Parliament was enabled to do that which the constitution and the interests of the public demanded with respect to that borough. The course now proposed was not, therefore, a new one. It was warranted by the conduct of the last Parliament; that it should be held up as derogatory to the House, seemed to him perfectly unreasonable. He did not think that these were the times, nor was this the day, when the House ought to run the risk of its being considered in the country that it had any other intention than that of pursuing a direct and stringent course to put down bribery and corruption. The hon. Gentleman had said, that although this commission was to be appointed by the Lord Chief Justice, still it would be considered to have a political bias. He did not know why that should be the case, but he would ask whether the Election Committees of that House were not accused of having a political bias? ["No, no!"] He begged pardon; he did not mean to impute such a bias, but must repeat that the Election Committees were accused of having a political bias. He remembered a notorious case—the borough of Nottingham, when an hon. Baronet was chairman of that Committee. That hon. Baronet was repeatedly and warmly accused of having had a very unjust political bias, and in consequence of that bias of having unseated a certain hon. Gentleman. The hon. Gentleman had said that the people took a pride in the exercise of the franchise, and that it would very much wound that honest and dignified pride which they ought to feel when they saw a Commissioner coming down to inquire what had taken place in their borough. He was certainly sur-
 698 699
 MR. ANSTEY  said, it appeared that the object of the present Bill was not what it had been originally stated to be by the hon. Baronet who had just sat down. It was no longer a Bill for the purpose of securing a judicial inquiry into the delinqencies of particular boroughs, but for the purpose of giving effect to the objects of the hon. Member for Montrose, who in a few days would bring forward a measure for the utter extinction of the small constituencies. According to the hon. Baronet, the dishonest voters and the honest were equally to blame—the former for their dishonesty, the latter for their negligence; so that, whether they belonged to the first or the second class, they were to be delivered up now to the discretion of some obscure and briefless barrister, and hereafter to suffer disfranchisement. This was the punishment the hon. Baronet proposed for those who, having tempted him and others to become candidates on former occasions, had not been able to ensure him and them
 700 701 702 703 in posse malum quia prohibitum malum in se 704
 MR. HUDSON  had been anxious to hear the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Russell) say something on this Bill; but he seemed to be enjoying a repose which, no doubt, he very much needed, and which he did not mean to disturb by anything he said relative to this Bill. He should have liked also to hear the Attorney General in reply to the speech of the hon. Member for Youghal, whose observations on the Bill were certainly such as to excite alarm in the minds of those who, like him, did not pretend to judge of the working of the law. They were about to direct inquiry into the conduct of certain constituencies; but the hon. Baronet who introduced the Bill had not gone into any detail as to the charges against those constituencies. He had never attempted to make out a case beyond that of a general one of corruption against certain constituencies; and the presumption on his side of the House certainly was, that the hon. Baronet was merely speaking from the experience he had obtained of the different constituencies he had himself represented. He had no doubt that, if he had told his own experience, he would have given them more information than they were likely to obtain from the Commissioner who was to be appointed, probably at a great expense, under the Bill. It would have been but fair if the hon. Baronet had told them some of the secrets of the prison-house. He had been on both sides of the House; probably he knew the secrets on that (the Conservative) side, and no doubt he had been let into the secrets of the prison-house on the other side. The hon. Baronet talked about purity; but all of them liked purity, and admired virtue in any shape. It was not possible, however, to obtain perfection in this world; and therefore, as practical men; they shut their eyes to many things they were unable to prevent. If a law could be so framed as to make every man honest, it would be very desirable to introduce it. Everybody knew, however, that such a thing was altogether impracticable; and that so long as the world existed, and the frailties of human nature were what they were, such purity was out of the question. The Bill of the hon. Baronet referred to certain boroughs; but no Member would venture to say that those boroughs were worse than others. They
 705 706 l 707 l l 708
 LORD J. RUSSELL  had hoped that the progress of the present Bill would not have been marked by any departure from the usual mode of carrying on business. He must own he had been disappointed, because, after the House had assented to the second reading, and had taken a further debate on going into Committee, after each question had been decided by a majority in favour of the Bill, and the House had gone into Committee to-night, they had had the whole matter argued over again—not with reference to the form of inquiry to be instituted, but on the question whether any Bill of this kind should be introduced at all. The hon. and learned Member for Dorsetshire argued the question very fairly on the second reading, maintaining that the House ought to make inquiry by a Committee as he (Lord J. Russell) had proposed in the case of Horsham. A great deal was to be said for that mode of proceeding. It was the least expensive; and both Houses of Parliament would have the whole evidence before them on the subject. On the second reading that was a fair question to place before the House. When the House had approved the principle of the Bill, it was not to be anticipated that on the first clause of the Bill in Committee, that discussion was to be recommenced. The hon. Member who had just sat down had used arguments directed rather against any kind of Bill such as that proposed by the hon. Baronet, than bearing on the first clause, which was now under consideration. The hon. Member had touched on some matters which did not seem worthy of notice. He could not see why any personal attack on the hon. Baronet should be allowed to enter into the question; and, regretting in common with the hon. Member, the absence of the noble Lord the Member for Falkirk, whose support in Committee he would have been glad of, he hoped the House would not consent any longer to argue on the general merits, whether a Bill of this kind should be introduced or not—whether the mode of proceeding proposed was the best or not—but would proceed to consider such questions as that on which the hon. Member had touched for two minutes in his speech—whether sums should be allowed for the prosecution, and not for the defence.
 MR. GODSON  wished to know whether the Government had obtained the sanction of the Lord Chief Justice to that provision of the Bill by which he was empowered to
 710
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  observed, that the Lord Chief Justice had given his sanction to the proposition that he should appoint such persons as Commissioners under the Bill as he might think fitted for the duty. In this respect the House was not parting with its jurisdiction, nor was the case of the election petitions at all analogous to the present. In reference to election petitions, the Committee was invested with judicial capacity to decide whether the person petitioned against was or was not a Member of the House; but under this Bill the Commissioners had no power to decide anything. It was a mistake to suppose that they were to disfranchise boroughs. The whole object of the Bill was to establish the most convenient and least expensive mode of collecting evidence, which the House was afterwards to decide upon. There was, undoubtedly, an apparent inconsistency in the Lord Chief Justice nominating in the first instance, and the Speaker afterwards. That arose in this way:—It was usual to name the Commissioners in the Bill, but it was thought that if that course were followed, objections might be taken that the parties named were selected for party purposes, and it was, therefore, deemed better to give the selection of the Commissioners to an individual who could not be supposed to be influenced by party motives. Consequently, the Lord Chief Justice was chosen for this duty, the Speaker not being desirous to perform it in the first instance.
 711
 MR. HENLEY  said, that as the noble Lord had complained of the desultory debate on the principle of the Bill, he would ask what occasioned that? Why, the lion. Baronet who had charge of the Bill had slipped in words constituting the mode in which these Commissioners were to be appointed, without one word of explanation, and totally contrary to what the House was led to believe would be the mode of naming the Commissioners; for the clause was printed in reference to Commissioners being named in the Bill. It was not until the Solicitor General was called up by the observations of the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Godson) that any explanation was given with respect to the new provision of the Bill. But on whose authority was it that the Solicitor said that the Lord Chief Justice consented to the arrangement? Did he make that statement on the part of the Government, and was this the Bill of the Government? It was a serious thing to determine whether they should mix up the Lord Chief Justice with the appointments of these persons, whom the Government, perhaps, had chosen beforehand. It had been publicly stated that one of the Commissioners was to be a particular individual. Had they taken means to ascertain whether the Lord Chief Justice would make that appointment? The only observation made by the hon. Baronet (Sir J. Hanmer) on the clause under consideration was, that he thought the House was going to take a very direct and stringent course of proceeding. He would show that this was the case. The power of naming the Commissioners was taken from the House, and then, by way of pretending to do a great act of justice, they said that they would give authority to the Lord Chief Justice to appoint these persons. Was this all? The next line gave the power of appointing additional Commissioners, in case the House should resolve that it was necessary to do so for
 712
 SIR G. GREY  would endeavour to answer the three questions which he understood the hon. Gentleman to have put. The first was, whether the Chief Justice had consented to nominate a particular gentleman whom he (Mr. Henley) had heard had been already selected for the office of one of the Commissioners? With respect to that question, he (Sir G. Grey) had to answer that no nomination had been made, and that if the clause was adopted, the Chief Justice would have the power of selecting any person from the bar of England for the office whom he pleased, without reference to any previous selection. The next question of the hon. Member was, whether in the event of the House resolving that, for the more speedy execution of the Act, an additional number of Commissioners should be appointed, the House was to appoint those Commissioners? He (Sir G. Grey) wondered that the hon. Member, who was usually so accurate, should not have seen that the House was not to appoint these Commissioners, but
 713
 MR. HENLEY  said, that what he objected to was the double mode of appointment, because by that means the House, in the event of any of the Commissioners not pleasing them, might keep forcing the Speaker to add to their number until they had got such as did please them.
 MR. ANSTEY  protested against the language held by the noble Member for London when he said that hon. Gentlemen had not addressed themselves to the question before the House. For his part he should not submit to such dictation.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  was of opinion that the hon. Member for North Northamptonshire would have done far better for the interests of those whom he represented, had he acquiesced in the proposal which he had submitted to him. He would then have spared the House much time expended in a rather profitless discussion. The statement made by the hon. Member who was Chairman of the Committee appointed to try the petition in the case of the Leicester election, and the wish which that hon. Gentleman expressed that the writ should not be issued until the evidence taken before that Committee should be in the hands of the Members, met his entire approbation, and he had no doubt that they would also command the approval of the House. He would take leave, however, to say, that so far from the suspension of writs being an unusual and unconstitutional proceeding, it was a proceeding in justification of which numerous precedents might be cited. So far back as a few years after the Revolution, that was to say in the years 1697 and 1698, in cases
 687 688
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The dismissal of the Spanish Ambassador from the Court of Her Britannic Majesty has resulted from a correspondence which has passed between my noble Friend the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and the Spanish Minister, and has not been the result of any recall from his own Government. My noble Friend will lay upon the table of the House additional papers, by command of Her Majesty; and the papers in question will relate to the dismissal of Sir H. Bulwer, as well as to the dismissal of the Spanish Minister.
 LORD J. RUSSELL , in reference to the notice given by the hon. Member for Northamptonshire of a Motion for the issue of a new writ for the borough of Leicester, appealed to the hon. Member whether he would proceed with his Motion after the notice which had been given by the hon. Baronet opposite, comprising all the cases of vacant boroughs?
 MR. STAFFORD  was not surprised at the appeal made to him by the noble Lord, after the unconstitutional course which had been pursued, and the inconveniences it had produced—inconveniences which had now become insufferable. He could not, after the plan which from the outset he had expressed himself determined to pursue, accede to the request. He felt bound
 682 683 684 pari passu s 685 "That Mr. Speaker do issue his Warrant to the Clerk of the Crown to make out a New Writ for the electing of two Burgesses to serve in this present Parliament for the borough of Leicester, in the room of Sir Joshua Walmsley, and Richard Gardiner, Esq., whose Election has been determined to be void."
 MR. FREWEN  opposed the Motion. The hon. Member who brought it forward had stated that he had no connexion with the town of Leicester, and the fact was no doubt as he stated. Had it been otherwise, in all probability he would not have submitted any such Motion. The House had yet to take into consideration the report of the Committee presented only a few days since, in which it was distinctly asserted that many cases of bribery had occurred in that borough. The question for the House was, whether they could entertain that report, and act as the Committee recommended or not. His family had been for some years connected with Leicester county and town, and he did not hesitate to say that it was one of the most corrupt places in the kingdom. In the year 1826 no less a sum than 66,000 l s d l
 MR. G. BANKES , not seeing the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs in his place, would ask the noble Lord whether the departure of the Spanish Ambassador originated from his dismissal by the Government of Her Britannic Majesty, or whether it was in consequence of an order of recall by his own Government, or from any other circumstance; whether any correspondence would be laid on the Table of the House with regard to his departure; and whether Her Majesty's Government would lay any further correspondence before the House relative to the dismissal of the British Minister from Madrid?
 MR. SEYMER , as Chairman of the Select Committee to which had been referred
 686
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  trusted his hon. Friend the Member for North Northamptonshire would not press his Motion to a division.
 MR. BERNAL  hoped the House would forgive him for declaring in the outset, as standing independent of all parties on this subject, that he would not bind himself by any such scale as that now proposed, or, indeed, by any scale whatever, whether coming from the Protectionist or non-Protectionist side of the House; but that he would now, as he had done over and over again, claim, on behalf of the West India colonists, the right to import their produce into the mother country free of all duties whatever. He had always advocated this claim; and so far as God gave him health and strength to maintain the position, he would contend, to the best of his ability, that the West India farmer had as good a right as the Scotch or Yorkshire farmer to import to this country the growth of his soil, free of all duties whatever. He only
 743
 MR. H. DRUMMOND  did not rise for the purpose of prolonging the discussion except for a moment. The hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, had said that it would be impossible to cultivate sugar by free labour, unless the number of labourers in the colonies was so large as to ensure their being had at a low rate. Now, he was persuaded that if they sent labourers to these colonies in their present condition, the result would be that they would settle upon the lands, and they would get no labour from them at all. He believed it was well known that the negroes could live perfectly well there upon 6 d
 MR. E. DENISON : The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cobden) had described an interview between a deputation from Lancashire and Yorkshire and the President of the Board of Trade, with respect to the state of the manufacturing districts, and had attempted to draw a parallel case between those districts and the West Indies. But there was this difference between them, that the legislation of the House with respect to Yorkshire and Lancashire had been entirely in accordance with the wishes of their inhabitants, and therefore those districts could not, with any justice, ask assistance from the House in any matters affecting the law; while the legislation adopted with respect to the West Indies had been distinctly opposed to the wishes of the people. In every resolution of the Committee over which the noble Lord (Lord G. Bentinck) presided, he had found a principle something similar to that laid down by the hon. Member who had lately joined the Administration, and who was a great authority on these points, when he declared in terms, "that if Parliament should agree with the opinion of the Committee, that it was incumbent on them to grant relief to the sugar growing colonies, it should be afforded at once." That, as he took it, was an admission that some compensation was due, in the hon. Gentleman's opinion, to the West Indies. With
 760
 MR. HUME  thought, after the proceeding of last night in the case of the borough of Leicester, when the hon. Member was only supported by five Members, after a long speech and a debate of nearly three hours, it really would be advisable to postpone the present Motion, at least till Monday, when the whole subject would again come on.
 MR. VILLIERS  said, that it was not to be considered as conclusive against the measure, that nobody seemed to agreed in approbation of it. It was a characteristic of the evidence given before the Committee, that none of the witnesses agreed as to the remedy to be applied. They all certainly admitted the great distress under which the colonies suffered, but they could not agree in any remedy by which that
 767 l
 LORD G. BENTINCK : I would much rather not have to address the House on this occasion; but as the West India mail is ready to go out to-morrow night, I think it necessary to remark that this measure, when it goes forth to the colonies, will carry dismay and despair to them, while, at the same time, it will cause regret to the minds of all those who lament to see the progress which the slave trade has made within the last two years. No measure like that proposed by the noble Lord opposite will be of any avail whatever in averting the ruin of the British colonies, and of the sugar plantations in the British possessions in India. What does it amount to? In amounts to this: that as regards the finer qualities of sugar, the position of the sugar planters is to he mended as regards the position in which they stood in the year ending the 5th of July, 1848, to the extent of 1 s d s s s d l l s 769 770 "A permanent gazette price of less than 30 s 771 d d 772 "We have received, he says, from other colonies very considerable details as to the state of those colonies, and the prospects of the agriculturists; but from Jamaica I can find nothing." "Until very recently I think there has been no such general despatch received; a despatch is now printing for this Committee, and I ought to add, that the Governor has been in the island a very short time." 773 "I wish to ask you how it has come about that those despatches, which were moved for on the 26th of November, were not laid on the table of the House of Commons until, I think, the 7th of February?" "All I have to say on the subject is this, that the despatches which were moved for were prepared for Parliament, and were ready to be laid on the table; but just before the meeting of Parliament fresh despatches of very great importance came to us. An effort was made to print them in time to deliver them with the others, but a delay arose over which we had no control, and that was the only cause of their being delivered a day but one after Parliament met." 774 775
 LORD G. BENTINCK : Yes, it was.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : In stating to the House the proposition which I made this evening, I ventured to ask the House to follow the course usual in cases of this nature—that of waiting to another day, and that only after two days' interval—before they gave an opinion upon the subject; but hon. Gentlemen have not adopted that course. My hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford, and the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down—each has made his comment with regard to the principle, and also with regard to the general purport and effect of the measure. Now, I must first take notice of what has been said by the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, because I think he has shown pretty clearly what is the nature of the debate, and of the decision to which this House is to come on Monday. He says, that the reaction which he prophesied in 1846 has come to pass; and he explained that reaction by saying that the new commercial principles received their completion in 1846, and now, in 1848, we were to witness their entire overthrow. He foresaw and predicted that the corn laws would be re-enacted—that new duties would be imposed—and that all those commercial principles which have received the sanction of this House during the last seven years are to be overthrown by the decision of Parliament in this and future Sessions. Now, I think the House may see from this what are the expectations of the hon. Gentleman, and with what views he will receive the proposition made by the Committee of which the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn was chairman. I had not a clear understanding, until I heard the speeches of the hon. Gentleman who spoke last, and of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stamford (Mr. Herries), what their object precisely was. I had supposed that they meant that there was to be a 10 s 786 s s 787 l l s s s 788 s s s s s s 789 "The effect of giving 10 s "It would raise the price of sugar 4 s s s "The effect of giving you a better price for your sugar, you think, would be that the labourers in the colonies would demand an increase of wages up to that point?" "Not only would they demand it, but the planters themselves would be disposed to give it; the planters are not free agents exactly, they are men with encumbrances, which they have to provide the means of diminishing if they can, therefore their great object is to make sugar at any cost; and that has been one of the great causes of the high wages. If all the proprietors had been on the spot, wages would not have been so high. But if the protection were to continue for a very limited period, I do not think that would have the effect of impeding a reduction of wages." s s s s s 790 s "I should be very sorry to see protection reenacted in this country, because I think the colonists would have no certainty that that law would not be changed in a year or two; there would be a perpetual struggle and perpetual uncertainty—there would be no security for capital—it would be only continuing an effort on the one part to maintain protection, and on the other to overthrow it, which is most injurious." s l s s 791 s 792 Ordered
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I will now, Mr. Speaker, proceed to make that statement which I promised to the House before the holidays I would make on this
 730 "Do you believe that the change of the sugar duties which took place in 1846 has materially affected the condition of the West Indies?—I entertain the opinion that much more has been attributed to that Act as regards the past than can fairly be ascribed to it. I hold that the Act having passed in 1846 it is impossible that there can have been any great accession of sugar produced hitherto in consequence of that Act; but I think, prospectively, it will operate most injuriously."
 MR. DISRAELI : Exactly so. The hon. Member being asked, I say, whether the Government was in possession of certain important information, gave the Committee to understand that it was not.
 MR. DISRAELI : Yes, but they were of little importance, and therefore they were not produced. Of course you had received despatches. We know very well that no packet arrives without bringing despatches of some kind from your colonial Governors, but the inference to be drawn from your answer is that you had received no despatch containing information of any importance. Now, the question is, whether the despatch of Sir C. Grey contains information which is likely to have influenced the decision of the Committee—whether it would not have been an essential and vital element of the decision at which the Committee arrived? I speak only from memory, as the hon. Member does; but I certainly recollect that the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge asked the hon. Member in this House, whilst the Committee was sitting, whether a despatch from Governor Sir G. Grey had not been received by the Government.
 MR. DISRAELI : I will not dispute the hon. Member's right to speak again upon the subject, though I think he has not bettered his position by his interlocutory observations. The hon. Member being a witness before a Committee, was examined with respect to certain information which was supposed to be in the possession of the Government of which he was the organ; the hon. Member evades the question, and chooses to conceive that it refers to some routine report.
 MR. DISRAELI : Does the hon. Member mean to say that the despatch of Sir C. Grey was presented to the Committee, or that it was not? That is the question.
 MR. DISRAELI : I was speaking from memory; but the hon. Member thought proper to appeal to the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge, whose answer has completely confirmed the accuracy of my recollection. If this had been the hon. Member's first Session in the House, what he has just done would not have much surprised me; but for a man of ability and considerable Parliamentary experience to wish the House to believe that a practised statesman, and a gentleman of great official aptitude like the right hon. Member for Cambridge University, would be perpetually asking him questions about a mere routine blue book, does, I confess, fill me with admiration. Could the hon. Member suppose that the right hon. Gentleman was so green a man as to ask about a blue book? I well remember that the right hon. Gentleman was always on the watch for the hon. Member about this matter like a hungry privateer on the lookout after a Spanish galleon. The countenance of the hon. Member, too, upon those occasions always betrayed considerable anxiety; and I cannot help thinking that if he had understood the right hon. Gentle-men's questions to refer merely to a blue book, he would have been much more at his ease than he seemed to be. But the question is, whether the statement of the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn is just or not? Was there a most important document withheld from the knowledge of the Committee, which, if produced, would have effected a considerable change in the opinion of the Committee? That is the question, and all that has been said on the subject within the last few minutes entirely confirms the statement of the noble Lord. Doubtless that is not the opinion
 778 779 780 781 782 sub silentio 783 784 785
 MR. HAWES : The despatch was not called for at the time.
 MR. HAWES  said, he felt called upon to address a few observations to the House in consequence of the attack which had been made upon him. He begged leave to state that no despatch of any importance had been withheld from the knowledge of the Committee. If any delay had taken place in the production of the document which had been referred to, he would make an inquiry into the matter, and would acquaint the noble Lord with the result. The questions put to him by the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge had reference solely to what was technically called the blue book; so, at least, he understood. That blue book he had not received to the present hour, and therefore he could not produce it before the Committee. As soon as the noble Lord moved for the despatches, they were put into the copyist's hands for the purpose of being printed; and, as far as he knew, no delay took place in laying them before the Committee. With respect to what the noble Lord said about the previous papers, there must, he apprehended, be some mistake. It was a question of dates, and he could not be expected to speak off-hand to it. He begged to state distinctly in his place in Parliament that he had no intention whatever to withhold information from the Committee; and further he believed that such a flood of information was never poured into a Committee on any previous occasion. Upon his honour he declared that he had no intention to withhold information from the Committee, and he was compelled to meet with some degree of indignation the unjust imputation which the noble Lord had thrown upon him. He would make inquiry into the matter, and take another opportunity of meeting the noble Lord on the subject; but again he must declare that he had no intention of keeping back information, in order to influence the decision of the Committee.
 MR. HAWES : The blue book was mentioned.
 MR. HAWES : No. The noble Lord will pardon me for contradicting him with the greatest possible courtesy; but the despatch was not called for, and my evidence shows that it was not. The noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn subsequently moved for a great many despatches, which were put into the printer's hands, and, as far as I am aware, they were printed as speedily as possible.
 MR. HAWES : The right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge is present, and I hope that he will put the hon. Member right upon this point. It is true that the right hon. Gentleman addressed several questions to me from to time, but they
 777
 MR. HAWES : I said that we had received some despatches.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am glad to have beard the views of the right hon. Gentleman before addressing the House, because, though we have heard a great number of Gentlemen on this question, we have been hitherto left without the slightest clue to any sort of remedy that it was proposed to apply, to meet the evils that are admitted to press on the West India colonies. My hon. Friend the Member for Montrose talked of a large measure and of large supplies of labour, but without telling the House what that large measure ought to be, or how the large supply of labour was to be obtained. We have had proposals on the part of the West India planters to enable them to buy slaves in the barracoons on the coast of Africa, on the understanding that they were to be set free on reaching the West Indies; but that is a measure which I am happy to say Her Majesty's Government will never consent to; for, whatever might be said to the contrary, there can be no doubt but that by adopting such a system, you would give a most direct encouragement to the internal slave trade of Africa. Whether my hon. Friend the Member for Montrose would go that length in proposing his extensive measure
 763 764 s 765 766 s s s l l l l l
 MR. HUDSON  had heard two or three assertions from hon. Gentlemen opposite which rather astonished him. He had been forewarned by the hon. Member for
 759 s d d
 MR. BAILLIE  thought the hon. Member for Manchester, who had just sat down, was the only Member of the House who would have had the audacity to assume to represent the great body of the people of this country. The hon. Member represented the cotton interests of Manchester, and had attempted to draw a comparison with respect to the legislation of this country for the cotton interests of this country and the colonists of the West Indies; but he (Mr. Baillie) would ask why the cotton of the Americans was admitted duty free,
 750 s 751
 MR. BARKLY  expressed his deep regret that the measures of the noble Lord were so utterly insufficient to avert the ruin now hanging over the heads of the West India colonies. Certainly he was not very sanguine as to the result of the noble Lord's deliberations on this subject; and therefore he, for one, was not taken by surprise when he heard that result announced. He was ready to admit that the distress in the West India colonies had been accelerated—probably, even aggravated—by the commercial distress experienced in this country; but he must say, that the measure of 1846 was one of the chief causes of that distress; it had certainly, if it did not originate, consummated the ruin of those colonies. The real object, however, they were met to discuss, was, how they could best, in present circumstances, legislate for the benefit of the colonies; and they had the evidence of the Select Committee lately appointed to guide them—a Committee presided over by the noble Lord the Member for Lynn, who, whatever might be thought of his politics by hon. Gentlemen opposite, was admitted by all to have conducted that inquiry with equal ability and impartiality. That Committee, after long and deliberate inquiry, had recommended an alteration of the differential duties to 10 s 744 s s l s s 745
 MR. GOULBURN : The hon. Member must have completely misunderstood the tenor of my questions. My object was to ascertain whether any information had been received from Governor Grey which could throw any light on the distressed state of the colony; and after the answers which I received from the hon. Gentleman, I must confess I was greatly surprised the other day at seeing in the papers presented to the House the important despatch of Sir C. Grey, recommending a plan for the relief of the planters.
 MR. BRIGHT  must protest against the assumption that no part of our dominions was suffering from distress, except the West Indian colonies. [ Ironical cheers from the Protectionists 746 747 s d d 748 l 749 Hansard s
 MR. HERRIES  said, the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government was placed in a very unenviable position, in consequence of the statement he had made to the House. A number of hon. Members had spoken, but not one of them approved of the noble Lord's proposition, or had given it his support. On the contrary, every one of them had intimated his intention of opposing it on some ground or another. After a Committee, conducted with such extraordinary ability by the noble Lord (Lord George Bentinck), had sat for such a length of time, and had produced such a mass of information as never yet had been laid on the table of the House on any one subject—after it had issued reports and come to resolutions and counter resolutions—the result was, that the Government brought forward a measure which did not meet one of the requirements which they had recommended, or the approbation of any one Member of the House. The noble Lord's proposition was no measure—it was a mere pretext for a measure; it was a mere attempt to get rid of a question surrounded, he admitted, by embarrassments, but deserving of earnest attention. The measure positively proposed no remedy for any one of the great evils which abounded in that most difficult and painful question. He could not help agreeing with the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, when he said he had heard with surprise the speech of the noble Lord on this subject. Bound up as it was with the consideration of the slave question, which had been treated in such a way, and which had been so complicated by our recent legislation, that instead of lessening we had aggravated its tremendous evils, it was to have been expected that the noble Lord would have said something at least in re-
 761 s l 762
 MR. HERRIES  expressed a hope that the Motion would not be pressed that night. Many Gentlemen wished to take part in the debate, and several were absent, not expecting it on.
 MR. J. STUART  must express his regret at the course the Government had thought fit to pursue on this subject. It was agreed on all hands that this was a question of enormous importance. He (Mr. Stuart) considered that the Government had acted most improperly in trying to force on the discussion of this subject, and begged to move that the Chairman do now report progress, and on that question he would divide.
 MR. HENLEY  could not but think the principles of morality advocated by the hon. Gentlemen opposite (Mr. Cobden and Mr. Bright)
 758 Hansard
 MR. HUME  must express his deep regret at the statement which had been made by the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell). Were he connected with the West Indies he should much prefer the existing Act as it stood; for the proposal of the noble Lord would only prolong a lingering existence, while at the same time it would occasion a loss to the revenue of this country. He confessed he could not understand how the noble Lord and his Colleagues, after protesting, as they had repeatedly done, that nothing would induce them to alter or meddle with that Act, could now come down to that House, and unblushingly propose an alteration almost equivalent to its repeal—for they might as well have proposed its repeal as the alteration they now proposed. He, therefore, must express his deep regret at the statement made by the noble Lord. It had been his (Mr. Hume's) intention last Session, and also again at the commencement of the present Session, to bring the question of the West Indies before the House—but upon grounds very different from those entertained by some of his free-trade Friends, who, in his opinion, took a one sided view of the matter altogether. His hon. Friend the Member for the West Riding had put, without hesitation, the manufacturers of Yorkshire and Lancashire on the same footing as the West India proprietors. Now, the fact was, that the one had abundance of labourers—more, indeed, than they could employ; and the others had too few, and were refused the means of obtaining more. The two cases rested upon an entirely different footing, because in Bradford and the other manufacturing towns there was no law in existence to prevent the manufacturers obtaining as many labourers as they pleased; whereas the West India proprietors had ever since 1837 been prevented by our legislation and Orders in Council from obtaining that supply of labourers which they so much required. He held upon the best principles of free trade that they were bound to give relief to the parties who were oppressed by our legislation. The course which the Government ought to have taken was to have added to the supply of labourers in our West Indian colonies, and to have given
 754 l 755
 MR. P. MILES  could not let that opportunity pass without stating his belief that the measure of Her Majesty's Government would not save the colonies. He had thought the Government would con-
 756 d d "It is sad and painful to behold men expecting ruin quickly to overtake them; it is perhaps sadder and more painful to see them struggling and toiling against adversity, but with their energies dulled, and their arms palsied, from the knowledge that their labours must be unremunerative, and that failure can be the sole result; it is most distressing to witness this, and at the same time to be aware that much of the misery from which they are suffering, and that which awaits them, is of a nature which they are unable to avert by any acts of their own. It is pitiable to witness a fine colony daily deteriorating; a land enjoying almost every blessing under heaven, suffering from a shock from which it does not rally; but the deepest pang of all, to an Englishman, is to see the hearts and the affections of a whole population becoming gradually alienated irom the country which he loves. It is impossible for me to express too forcibly the extent of the present distress. I could quote to your Lordship estates, as far as their soil is concerned, of great value, and giving previously to emancipation a large income, on which the whole of the redemption money was expended in improvements; which were entirely free from debt at that time, and which are now
 757 "A permanent  Gazette s d d Gazette s s
 MR. COBDEN : It was not my intention to take any part in the discussion of this question to-night, and I would not have risen but for the remarks of the hon. Member who has just sat down, with reference to my hon. Friend the Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright). He used rather a strong word when he spoke of the "audacity" of my hon. Friend. [Mr. BAILLIE: It was his own expression.] I was not aware that my hon. Friend had used that term. [Mr. BAILLIE: He applied it to the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford.] That is hardly a sufficient excuse, I think, for the hon. Gentleman in using the term in the way he did to my hon. Friend. But there was another allusion which he made to my hon. Friend, which I wish particularly to refer to. He described him as the representative of the cotton interest. Now, I am the representative of the woollen interest, an indigenous industry, of which there is no jealousy in this House, and which is honoured by the President of the other House sitting on the Woolsack. I am the representative of a, county which was eminent in the slavery movement. No one can deny that Yorkshire, by returning Wilberforce on antislavery grounds, and by becoming the headquarters of the slavery movement, was intimately connected with the cause of negro emancipation, and that its sympathies must naturally be in favour of the negro everywhere. Now, I unhesitatingly assert that nearly all the men who led the agitation for the emancipation of the slaves, and who by their influence on public opinion aided in producing that result, are against those hon. Gentlemen in this House who advocate a differential duty on foreign sugar
 752 753
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  could not refrain from expressing the great pain and disappointment with which he had listened to the speech of the noble Lord. He agreed with the hon. Baronet (Sir R. Inglis) in regretting that the First Minister of the Crown, when speaking of the operation of the Act of 1846, should not have taken notice of the fact that it had given the greatest possible stimulus to slavery and the slave trade; and he must also express the disappointment he felt that the noble Lord was not prepared to take a course which would be satisfactory to the merchants and planters connected with our West India colonies. He did not wonder that the noble Lord should have endeavoured to draw away their attention from the Act of 1848; but he should be able,
 742
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  would have thought it impossible, if he had not heard it, for such a statement to have been made by the noble Lord, without one passing reference to what he believed to be the deep-seated feeling of that House and of the country. The question before the House was not confined to the question whether the people of this country should have cheap sugar or not, but whether that sugar should be stained with the blood of the slave. He confessed that he had not thought it possible that the whole of that question could have been kept carefully out of sight. It was true that the First Minister of the Crown told them that he
 741
 MR. ELLICE  rose to call attention to the painful interest which the melancholy and unfortunate position of West Indian affairs had created in this country and in the colony. That must be his apology for interposing between the Motion of his noble Friend and the Speaker leaving the chair, in order that he might obtain from Her Majesty's Government some explanation of the views of policy they entertained with respect to the future management of those colonies. When the noble Lord the Member for Lynn originally gave notice of his Motion for a Committee of Inquiry into the state of West India Affairs, he then deprecated the delay that must take place between the colonists knowing what would be their fate—
 MR. ELLICE  begged to state, in reply, that his particular object in rising was to prevent the hon. Gentleman from moving his Amendment. It was of essential importance, before they were called upon to vote either for the Motion of his noble Friend, or for the Amendment of the hon. Baronet, that the House should have some explanation of the intentions of Her Majesty's Government as to the future state of the West Indies. The question already had been too much narrowed. He was not going into the consideration of the question of protection or the amount of protec-
 812 813 814 s l 815 816 l l l l l l 817 818 819 820 l coup de grace 821
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : It appears to me that the more regular course to have been taken would have been that the House should have gone into Committee, and there to have heard such explanations and defence of the resolutions to be proposed by the Government as we should have been prepared to offer. The hon. Baronet opposite, however, has not thought fit to allow that course to be taken; but has given notice of a resolution as an amendment on the Motion that the Speaker leave the chair. That being the course taken by the hon. Baronet, it seems to me that the only course the Government can pursue is, to hear the Motion of the hon. Gentleman, and then to enter upon a defence of the course of policy we propose to adopt. What the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Ellice) asks us to do is, to enter into a discussion and general explanation of our views now, before the hon. Baronet shall
 822 l l l s s l s s 823 s s s s d s s d s l l 824 "I do not believe that the merchants in this country, intelligent as they are, unless they go out themselves, know much of what is going on in the West Indies. My own merchants told me that they believed my estates were economically conducted. When I went out, however, I found they were not so. The attorneys are the head agents of the estate: the merchants simply see the plantation accounts. In the plantation accounts there is always one very large item, namely, labourers' wages; and I will tell the Committee some of the charges which I found were included in that item. There is an estate groom, for instance; then there is attorney's cook and attorney's groom, attorney's servant, attorney's washer, attorney's maid, minding attorney's pigs, minding manager's pigs, picking grass for attorney; besides which, there are manager's servants and overseer's servants. As far as I and the merchant could see, all those came under the head of labourers' wages." 825
 MR. HAWES  had to make a very short statement to the House in consequence of some observations which had fallen the other night from the noble Lord the Member for Lynn, the drift of which was to accuse the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Colonial Department of withholding a certain despatch from the Governor of one of the sugar colonies. He (Mr. Hawes) was examined before the West India Committee, he thought, on the 5th of May, and he then referred to a despatch from the Governor of Jamaica, which he informed the Committee would be furnished. The noble Lord had said that this despatch had been purposely withheld.
 810 "This is a copy of the despatch for which the Committee on West India distress have asked. We had a copy of the document which was required in the Votes of the House of Assembly. It was to be sent to the Committee to-day. Would it not be better to send instead a copy of this despatch, which is important, with the report and evidence which we have got now for the first time? There are two copies. And so it is desirable to send it to-day." 811
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I have listened. Sir, with great attention to the speech of the hon. Gentleman opposite, and also to that of my hon. Friend behind me, to understand what is the measure which the hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Pakington) would suggest that we ought to adopt, or what proposition, with respect to protection, he wishes to lay before the House as a substitute for the proposal of Her Majesty's Government. That he merely proposes to negative the proposition of the Government, and leave the existing law as it is, I conceive, considering the views he entertains, to be a thing impossible. But surely a fairer course than he has taken would be, to adopt the proposal of the Committee of which he was a member, which was composed of Gentlemen who no doubt paid great attention to this subject, and who have made a recommendation on the subject. That would have been a natural course to have taken; and that is the course which I understood him to indicate on a former night that he would take; but he has changed his mind; he now puts his Motion in a shape which he hopes will catch a vote or two, and he leaves the question as indefinite at the
 851 l 852 "The market of Hamburgh was open to the sugar of Cuba, and it would be found that the encouragement given by this country to Java was, in the Hamburgh market, an encouragement given to Cuba sugar. The distinction of free and of slave-grown sugar was a fallacy, by adopting which they might gratify their feelings, but they would not obtain their object." 853 "I believe in a great measure that it will make very little difference; but I do consider it will make a difference. I do not consider the difference will be very much if free-labour foreign sugar were to be admitted here, and slave-grown sugar excluded." 854 855 s s d 856 s d s l l 857 l l l l l l l l "Had the diminution of wages taken place in 1847 rather than in 1848, many estates now jeopardised would, perhaps, have escaped; for the crops were large enough to have given profit, had expenses of labour not absorbed it." 858 s "Supposing the colonies did believe that Parliament was able and willing to secure them a permanent protection of 10 s "Supposing we were to pass an Act to-day, increasing the protection upon sugar for the next three years, or to continue the present rate of protection for the next three years, and the news were to go "out to the island of St. Kitt's, do you believe that the immediate influence upon the rise of price consequent upon the passing of that Act, would have the effect of increasing the rate of wages?—Yes; I cannot take upon myself to say how far, but I am persuaded that a great proportion of the duty would be swallowed up in that way; it would raise the rate of wages, I am certain." s 859 s "The cost of that gang of slaves, which your father considered necessary to manage the estate, was as great as you would require to pay for free labour, according to the present current rate of wages, to cultivate that estate well from one end to the other at the present time?—Yes, if you could get the labour." 860 "There was a competition among the planters; the proprietors of large estates, or men who could command capital, gave high wages to a few labourers on purpose to get the labour, and they
 861 862 s s s s s s 863 s d s s s d s s s d s s d s s d s s d s d s s d s d s s s s 864 d s 865 866 s s s l s l l 867 l l l l l l l 868
 MR. K. SEYMER  observed, that hon. Gentlemen on that (the Opposition) side of the House had predicted all the evils which had ensued from the measure of 1846, but they were not in a position to propose a remedy. It was for the Government to do that, and they were now anxious to force upon the Government the reconsideration of the question. He thought that in a case of this kind they might fairly take the evidence of persons who were acquainted with Cuba; and it appeared from the statement of Captain Matson, who was at the Havana at the time the Bill of 1846 was passed, that the people of Cuba had previously been on the point of abolishing the slave trade, in consequence of the inconvenience they experienced from their exclusion from the British market. The largest mercantile house in the Havana had petitioned for the remission of slavery, on the ground that if slavery were prohibited, their sugar would be admitted free to the British market—the best market in the world. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated, that the high and extravagant wages paid in the West India colonies were attributable to the system of protection. He considered that a curious argument to be advanced by a free-trader; for he recollected the agriculturists in the west of England being taunted about the low wages they gave, and they were then told that protection had been of no use to the labourers. The colonists had been obliged to pay high wages in order to keep their estates in cultivation; and the protection they had enjoyed, though it might have enabled them to do this, had not enabled them to do more. He had always regarded this question as one of simple justice to the colonies. He conceived that the producers of sugar in our colonies had
 869 870 sang froid l l 871 872 873
 MR. HUME  confessed that though he was a free-trader in the fullest sense, he did not feel that he was obnoxious to the charges made against free-traders by the hon. Member who had just spoken. He agreed in much the hon. Gentleman had "aid as to the injustice done to our colonies, but he wished to show that free trade had nothing to do with the question. It was said the other night that free trade was got rid of, if once a differential duty were established; but he said, that free trade could only properly exist where the parties were in like circumstances, and where both parties were at liberty to apply the same means to the same end with equal facility. In corroboration of this opinion the hon. Member quoted the evidence of Mr. Deacon Hume, given before the Imports Duties Committee, of which he (Mr. Hume) was Chairman, to the effect that the British West Indies would, on equal terms, be able to compete with Cuba and Brazil. They were not, however, on equal terms, for the British West Indies were deprived of labour; and until they were placed on the same footing as Cuba and Brazil with respect to labour, it never could be said that free trade could exist. They ought not to compare this trade in sugar in the West Indies with the trade of Bradford, or of any other town in this country, because the circumstances were altogether different. In
 874 l l 875 876 877
 SIR E. N. BUXTON  rose to second the Amendment proposed by his hon. Friend, though, perhaps, it was possible that he might approach this subject with views not altogether identical with those which his hon. Friend entertained. He did not altogether agree with his hon. Friend, when he said that this country had committed an injustice against the West Indies in depriving them for two years of apprenticeship, and that upon that account we were bound to grant them increased protection. The fact was that the Government was originally opposed to that alteration, but the country found out, when it had given 20,000,000 l 844 "It is sad and painful to behold men expecting ruin quickly to overtake them; it is, perhaps, sadder and more painful to see them struggling and toiling against adversity, but with their energies dulled, and their arms palsied, from the knowledge that their labours must be unremunerative, and that failure can be the sole result; it is most distressing to witness this, and at the same time to be aware that much of the misery from which they are suffering, and that which awaits them, is of a nature which they are unable to avert by any acts of their own." 845 l l "It is questionable, under present circumstances, whether immigration can, or, if so, whether it ought to be continued; and it is still more questionable, if it be true, as I am informed, that orders have already been received for one-third of the estates in the colony to be thrown out of cultivation after the present crop. But if it is to continue, when is it to cease?.… To compete with the slaveowner, it is not only cheap but continuous labour which the planter requires, and of which he at present cannot be certain, but which he is obliged to use all methods in endeavours to obtain.… I would here call your Lordship's attention to the result of the policy which has been carried on, and how, by it, the finances of the colony have been reduced; how its means have been consumed in a most extravagant and but very partially successful system of immigration. To this has everything been sacrificed; and for the sake of getting an extended care cultivation, which is now on the point of being abandoned, all improvements, even the most important, have been neglected." l 846 "in consequence of their inability to pay, for the wages of numbers have been in arrears for a long time, as much as three or four months." "Jamaica certainly does not want labourers. There are some planters in this parish who own that labourers are not so much wanted as money. There are vast numbers of persons in this parish who cannot get work; many have to leave for other and distant districts to secure work, and in some places, where work is given the wages are not forthcoming. I could mention several cases in which labourers have had to wait weeks and months for their money." "It is frequently very difficult to arrive at the truth with respect to the differences which occur as to the nonpayment of wages, but cases in which there were strong reasons for supposing that the Coolies have not received the full amount due to them have come before me. I speak not of the present time, because the nonpayment of wages is now almost universal, from the inability of the planters to procure money." "As far as I could learn they had received neither wages, clothing, nor medical aid, and but the smallest modicum of food;—" "A stranger to the facts will hardly credit the negligence which has been manifested in this respect"— "The distress of some of the planters may, perhaps, cause the Creoles to hold back their labour for fear of nonpayment of wages." 847 "Eight estates had no Creoles in January; six had none in February; one had none in March, for want of means to pay wages." 848 "We regret to say that there are manifest tokens of the slavedealers again resuming their former practices, two vessels having been despatched, we are positively informed, for the coast, though we have not been made acquainted with their names. We do not therefore feel authorised to name them upon suspicions of our own, the two we suspect being cleared ostensibly, one on the 2nd of February for Barcelona, and the other on the 28th for New Orleans. We hear also, that two others have been sent direct to the coast from Spain. Respecting these movements, therefore, we have to exert our utmost diligence in obtaining proper information. If the present price of sugar continue, there will be such strong inducements for an extended cultivation, and in consequence such a demand for labour as will make the slavedealers and others run all risks whatever to supply it. The returns afforded the sugar planters now are such as to make us astonished that they do not draw even a greater number of persons to engage in its production." "We are credibly informed that no fewer than seven have lately sailed for that purpose, and that several others are fitting out. The great demand for slaves, in the present enormous profits to be derived by the cultivation of sugar, will of a certainty induce these parties to encounter every risk to obtain the labourers required, and a continued vigilance will therefore be necessary to defeat their practices, as heretofore." 849 …. "in effect No grace of heaven, or token of the elect." verbatim Times 850 "Mr. Calhoun replied: He had no doubt it was formerly the intention of Great Britain to abolish slavery everywhere, but since that time, there had been a momentous change of opinion and policy on the part of Great Britain. The whole Act of Abolition was now openly denounced in Parliament, and in language as strong as he himself had used. Great Britain was now resorting to the slave trade itself, as the means of promoting the prosperity of her plantations." "Great Britain, loaded with an unprecedented debt, and with a grinding taxation, contracted a new debt of 100,000,000 dollars, to give freedom, not to Englishmen, but to the degraded African. I know not that history records an act so disinterested, so sublime. In the progress of ages England's naval triumphs will shrink into a more and more narrow space in the records of our race. This moral triumph will fill a broader, brighter page."
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  rose to bring forward the Amendment of which he had so very reluctantly given notice; and he was rather strengthened than otherwise in his statements upon the subject by the speech he had just heard from the noble Lord. He felt how great was the task he had undertaken in casting himself, as a mere independent Member of the House of Commons, between the sugar-growing interest and the dangerous policy which Her Majesty's Government, he was sorry to find, were still disposed to persevere in—a policy which he was convinced would tend rapidly to the ruin and destruction of the colonists. He deeply felt how incompetent he was to undertake such an important task; but when he was applied to, as he had been, by those whose interests were involved, to bring the question before the House, he did not feel himself justified in allowing any private considerations to interfere to prevent him from giving them his assistance, how feeble soever that assistance might be. He was surprised, he should say, to hear from the noble Lord the charge that in moving the Amendment of which he had given notice, he was only seeking to produce embarrassment and delay. He assured the noble Lord he had no party motives whatsoever. He was actuated by no motives but the single-minded wish to rescue the colonies from the danger that hung over them; and he did not think that the shape in which he brought forward his resolution was open to the censure which the noble Lord had east upon it. He had altered the shape of that resolution, because, holding the opinion that Her Majesty's Government deserved it, he wished the House to pass a direct censure
 826 827 coup de grace "But I should deceive both him and the House, and, what is still more material, the West Indians themselves, if I led them to suppose that in consenting to the appointment of this Committee, Her Majesty's Government meant to imply the slightest doubt of the propriety of the course which they adopted in 1846, or the slightest intention of departing from the provisions of that Act. I think it but fair to all parties that this statement should be made as decidedly as possible, and as early as possible, because I believe that upon a subject of this description uncertainty is the worst of evils." "The report of the Committee which had been presented that evening, recommended, he was informed, that the differential duties should be continued for a certain period beyond that fixed by the Act of 1816. On that subject he could
 828 s s s s 829 s d d s s s s s s d 830 s s d s d s d s s s d s l s d l s d l s d l s l s d 831 l s d s l s d l s d l s d l s d l s d l s l s d l s d l s d l s d s d s d s d s d s d l s d s d s d s s d 832 l l 833 l "From 1838 to the present time, the vacillation of Parliament, the changes of legislation, and the departure from what was understood to be the system to be adopted during the time we laid out our money, and sent out our machinery, and carried on those works, has been such as to bring these enormous losses upon us, I beg distinctly to say, I do not attribute all the losses to the Act of 1846; but when we were getting out of our difficulties that Act of 1846 plunged us back again into them." s d l 834 l l s s "I think it right, however, to state, in general terms, that from all I learn, the cost of making sugar by free labour is greatly beyond the cost of making it by slave labour. My opinion is, that sugar cultivation by free labour cannot yet withstand competition on equal terms with slave labour, and that freedom should be nursed by protection for a considerable time to come. How long that time should be, your Lordship will understand that I cannot say. If there be no protection, the cultivation of sugar will be further given up in Grenada, and it will dwindle in all
 835 "The majority of the estates are heavily encumbered, and very few of the proprietors have capital at command; and the ruinous rate at which they are compelled to borrow, greatly augments the cost of production. I do not believe that, at the present prices, half the gross proceeds of sales are netted by the sugar grower, the larger portion being swallowed up by the duty and the merchant's charges for freight, commission, discounts, &c. The state of the market must regulate the profits and losses of the producer; and if that were to continue as at present, the culture of the cane must necessarily be abandoned, because, as I have before observed, existing prices do not remunerate him for his outlay." l l s d "Your committee submit that the question now left for the British Government to decide is, whether, putting the ruin of the colonists altogether out of view, the national interests will be promoted by annihilating sugar and coffee cultivation in its own colonies, the inevitable effect of which must be, and that speedily, to transfer to foreigners a high-priced monopoly of these articles in the British market." 836 s "It is pitiable to witness a fine colony daily deteriorating; a land enjoying almost every blessing under heaven, suffering from a shock from which it does not rally. But the deepest pang of all to an Englishman is to see the hearts and the affections of a whole population becoming gradually alienated from the country which he loves." "It is impossible for me to express too forcibly the extent of the present distress; but I will give an extract from a communication made to me lately by Mr. Rennie, the very intelligent manager of the Colonial Bank, whose acuteness in business, and whose disinclination to yield to difficulties, is exceeded by none in the colony, and who, from his position, is enabled to acquire a more intimate knowledge of the actual state of affairs than any other person:—'The position of the colony is at the present moment most deplorable; bankruptcy and want stare every one in the face, and an extensive abandonment of estates appears inevitable, after the present crop, unless bold and immediate measures of relief are speedily afforded. Real estate is now perfectly valueless, and cannot be realised at any sacrifice; money has disappeared, and credit is entirely at an end; mercantile engagements can no longer be met, and parties of the highest probity, possessed of ample assets in houses and landed property, are cruelly forced into insolvency, owing to the inconvertibility of real estate.'" Burn's Commercial Glance 837 l l l l l l l Economist 838 839 l l l l "You are of opinion, are you not, that the change in the laws of this country, admitting slave-grown sugar, has been one cause of very much stimulating the slave trade?—Very much: I was at Havana when the news arrived. "What was the feeling of the Havana?—A feeling of rejoicing universally; the price of slaves very much increased, and so did the price of land. I saw both British merchants, slave merchants, and some of my old friends the slave captains (that is, British merchants, Spanish slave merchants, slave captains, &c.), they all told the same story, and the latter spoke with great glee. "It was a day of jubilee there?—It was." 840 "Can you give the Committee any information upon the mode in which the slaves are usually packed in the slavers?—They are packed as closely as salt fish; they are doubled up and stowed as closely as they can in the night, when they are obliged to go below. "Are they in irons?—The men are generally in irons; it depends upon the part of the coast they are taken from. "The north coast is the most difficult, is it not?—Yes; in the Bight of Benin and Gallinas they are the most savage race. I have seen many cargoes from the neighbourhood of Congo go without any irons at all. "The ordinary practice is, is it not, that where a slavetrader calculates upon carrying 300 slaves to the other shore, he embarks 500?—Yes; that is for the purpose of putting them to the test. It is impossible for the most practised eye to tell a healthy from an unhealthy slave; but the trader reckons that during the first 48 hours those slaves that are unhealthy, and who would not stand the voyage across the Atlantic will sicken; and supposing the vessel will take 300, crowded, he would put 500 on board, making sure that during the first 48 hours they will be sufficiently weeded to leave a prime cargo. As the slave sickens during the first 48 hours, they leave him on deck, and give him nothing to eat, but let him die, and then throw him overboard. "As soon as they begin to sicken they are put on one side?—Yes; weeding them, as it is called. Those who get over the first 48 hours will go across the Atlantic; and perhaps but one of them dies in a week." "Can you account for their sickening and dying so very soon; if an European went on board however sick he might be he would not die so soon from going to sea?—It is the change and the effect of the crowding; they die principally from dysentery; they cannot be fed so well, their victuals are not cooked so well, and the weaker their constitution the sooner they sicken; in fact, it is the only means that a slave trader has of ensuring the taking a prime cargo across. Of course the sickly slaves would not die so soon if they had nourishment." "What seized vessel would they embark 500 slaves in; a vessel of how many tons?" "I took a vessel with 427 slaves on board, of 49 tons." 841 "What do you think would be the most advisable course to pursue with regard to Cuba?—Two years ago there was no such thing as a slave trade in Cuba; it is only within the last twelve months that there has been any slave trade whatever. "It is the alteration of the law that has produced it?—Yes; it is the alteration in the demand for their sugar. That has affected Cuba much more than it did Brazil, because they could not afford to carry on the slave trade; at Brazil they could, because they did it at so much less cost; they gave next to nothing for an old vessel, and very few hands could navigate her; while from Cuba it required a fine vessel, well manned, to take very few slaves. Eighteen months ago, I think for a year before that, there had not been more than one or two solitary instances of slaves being landed at Cuba. "In your opinion, the resurrection of the slave trade in Cuba is to be ascribed entirely to the stimulus given by the alteration in the laws admitting slave-grown sugar?—In Cuba I think so entirely." 842 843
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  rose to appeal to the right hon. Gentleman whether he would proceed with his statement, when he (Sir J. Pakington) had a regular notice on the Paper. He was not aware, when the right hon. Gentleman rose, that he was going to make a speech on the subject, and he now asked him to allow him (Sir J. Pakington) to move his Amendment.
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND :* I regret that the hon. Member for Montrose should have used expressions in the course of his speech calculated to lead persons to imagine that there is any direct connexion between the constitution of this House and relief from suffering of any kind which the public now endure; and it is from language of this nature that the people are always disappointed at the result of the discussions of such measures as that now under our consideration. I am also sorry that he should have based the necessity for the measures which he has proposed, upon the threatened disturbances on the 10th April, and given it as his opinion, that the agreeing to his plan would have been a better way of preserving the public peace than that which was adopted by Her Majesty's Ministers. It happens, however, that the preservation of the peace was entrusted to them, and not to him, and they were in possession of the necessary information to enable them to judge of which were the most
 * 907 Œdipus Judaicus 908 Ugolino s s 909 "But of all things let the people be true to themselves; let there be no dispute about mere words; for himself he had no hesitation in saying that he was a complete Chartist, nothing more nor less; but was that to prevent him from joining hand and heart in such a movement as this; laying aside minor differences for a public good? He believed they were all loyal enough. England had flourished under the system of a King, Lords, and Commons; and although, if he were going to frame a new constitution, he might be disposed to dispense with the King and the Lords, still he would rather endure such ills as those entailed, than fly to changes which might produce bloodshed, havoc, desolation, and misery. Let, however, the rulers of this country—the powerful in this country—remember that there was a spirit of endurance implanted by God in the heart of man beyond which he could not go. With a population on the verge of starvation, what safety and security are to be expected? What the limits of endurance are may not be spoken, even though they were known; but when the period comes that they are outstretched beyond their natural limits, farewell to the love of order which knits men together—ferewell to the ties of humanity. Let Lord John Russell beware of that hour. Great as are the evils we have to endure—great as are the wrongs of which we have to complain—let us all stand for 'peace, law, and order; not bating one jot of our firmness of purpose to obtain our just demands. We will adopt as our motto the three words I have just uttered to you; but if the time comes when the bonds which knit those together are rent asunder—if the Prime Minister and legislators hesitate too long—let it not be laid to our charge that we were the
 910 l l l s d 911 Dod's Parliamentary Companion 912 Cries of 913 Toute propriété est vol 914 quid quo 915
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Mr. Speaker, I rise thus early to address the House, because I think the House is entitled to an explanation from me of the views which I entertain, not only with regard to this Motion, but with respect to other propositions to which it is nearly akin, and from which I think—after hearing the speech of the hon. Member for Montrose—it can hardly be dissociated. I must be allowed to allude, as the hon. Member for Montrose has done so, to the petitions that have been presented to the House on this subject, and to what the hon. Gentleman has termed the general opinion that has been expressed by the people. Now, Sir, it does not appear that, except for the provisions called "the People's Charter," any large or numerously signed petitions have been presented to this House in the early part of the Session. With regard to the petitions which have since been presented, and to the meetings which have been held in order to support the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose, I may be allowed to notice two remarkable circumstances. The one is, that considerable pains have been taken to misrepresent a speech which I made some time ago, when the hon. Gentleman postponed his notice of Motion—it having been represented that in that speech I declared that the people wished for no reforms. I have seen this done with such care, that in some placards all the words I used implying my belief that reforms ought to be made, were carefully expunged, and in some cases asterisks were put in their place. What I said on that occasion was this:—"My belief is, that the middle and working classes desire that there shall be a gradual progress in reform; that this House should give its attention to the questions that are before it; and that in securing the peace and quiet of the country rests their true interest and prosperity." [Mr. COBDEN: No!] Of course I do not deny that which has been repeated over and over again, and which is made the staple of the charge against me—that I said that I did not believe the middle and working classes were in favour either of the People's Charter, or
 916 917 918 919 920 921 922 "The influence of the press, whether it be for good or evil, tells more rapidly and contagiously on the aggregate societies of towns, than on the inhabitants of country districts. Political unions, and all the devices which by means of combination give to men acting in concert a moral force greater than their actual numbers, tend to increase the influence of a manufacturing as compared with an agricultural population. Every consideration, then, derived from the nature of landed property—from its liability to the envy and rapacity of the many—from the position, habits, and characters of those who occupy it—enforce the policy and necessity of providing carefully and permanently for its protection." "It was with this object that in framing the Jury Bill I purposely called this class into increased action, and sought to familiarise them with the performance of civil duties, and to multiply their points of contact with the more intelligent inhabitants of towns. Granted that they are indisposed to innovation—that their disposition is to maintain things as they are—that they are governed by local ties and by personal attachments rather than by considerations of general politics—it is on that very account that I conjure you to extend their influence; they constitute the ballast of the vessel of the State. Beware how you heave it overboard under the fatal impression that it is a useless incumbrance, occupying space that might be more profitably employed. It may at times retard the velocity of your movement—it may make you less obedient to the sudden impulse of shifting gales; but this, and this alone it is that enables you to extend your canvass, and insures the steadiness of your course and the security of your navigation." 923 924 925 926 927 928 "Another alteration was the retention of the freemen, introduced in order to conciliate some who objected to the first Reform Bill, and obtain support to its second reading in the Lords. Here, again, was a change for the worse. If the freemen exercised the franchise corruptly, one of two courses should properly have been taken: the one to disfranchise them altogether—a proposal in which they at first seemed ready to acquiesce—the other, and perhaps the better course, would have been to have treated the freemen in the same spirit in which other rights had been treated. The freemen of old evidently represented the toil and the industry, the mechanical skill and the trading substance of the communities of our towns. They do so no longer. It might have been difficult, but it was not impossible, to make the freemen the proper representatives of one of the most valuable classes of the community—that of the industrious, intelligent, and able mechanics who abound in our great manufacturing and commercial towns, and some of whom only are now admitted to the right of voting. Such a change in the character of freemen would do much to purify our elections and strengthen the House of Commons." "There are doubtless many defects in the Reform Act which require to be remedied. The 10 l 929 930 931 932 "Like a great seamark, braving every storm, And saving all who eye it! " 933
 MR. B. COCHRANE  had to ask whether those workmen who had been turned out of France had received any compensation for the losses they had sustained by the seizure of the sums they had lodged in the French savings-banks? If they had not, had the noble Lord any objection to lay on the table the correspondence that had passed between him and the British Ambassador at Paris on the subject?
 MR. DISRAELI : * l * 945 946 947 l s d l s d 948 l l l l ad nauseam 949 posse comitatus 950 951 952 953 954 l 955 956 Laughter 957 Richards 958 959 960 l l 961 "Rhetor, grammaticus, geometres, pictor, aliptes, Augur, schenobates, medicus, magus." 962
 DR. BOWRING  asked the Master of Mint whether any progress had been made
 879
 MR. HUME  rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice, namely—
 "That this House, as at present constituted, does not fairly represent the population, the property, or the industry of the Country, whence has arisen great and increasing discontent in the minds of a large portion of the People; and it is therefore expedient, with a view to amend the National Representation, that the Elective Franchise shall be so extended as to include all Householders—that votes shall be taken by Ballot—that the duration of Parliaments shall not exceed three years—and that the apportionment of Members to Population shall be made more equal," 880 881 882 883 884 885 "We met to-day to prevent any outbreak against the peace by the Chartists. And what are they discontented about? Why are they desirous to break the peace? The answer was, 'They want to have a reform in Parliament; they consider they have a right, as Englishmen, to have a vote for those who make laws affecting their lives and property. They consider that those laws place them under contributions for taxation, and that they ought to have a voice in the representation. 'The question was then asked,' Are you contented with the House of Commons as it is? 'and the answer was,' No.'" 886 "I believe the present Bill to be a measure of conciliation; I believe that on its acceptance or rejection depends, on the one hand, tranquillity, prosperity, and concord; on the other, the continuance of a state of political discontent. And again, I believe that a change is necessary to infuse new vigour into the constitution, and to unite the estates of the realm in the bonds of a sacred and happy union, to make the House of Commons that which it was intended to be, and professed to be, and ought to be—a full, vigorous, and efficient representative of the people of England." "There being no certain custom nor prescription who should be electors, and who not, we must have recourse to common right, which, to this purpose, was held to be, that more than the freeholders only ought to have voices in the election, viz., all men inhabitant householders resident within the borough." "A general definition for purposes of enactment as to right of voting might be in some such terms as these:—'Every male person of full age, and not subject to any legal incapacity, who shall occupy any house or dwelling, the same being  bonâ fide 887 "Household suffrage in the borough of Pontefract was, that any person who had lived in town six months previous to an election, keeping house, was entitled to a vote. Rates and taxes formed no objection. 'Householders resident' was the distinguishing term. Non-payment of rates and taxes would not disqualify the voter." "Every Englishman is intended to be present in Parliament, either in person or by procuration and attorney, of what pre-eminence, state, dignity, or quality soever he be, from the prince to the lowest person of England. And the consent of the Parliament is taken to be every man's consent." "All persons rated to the relief of the poor for any property in the parish or township, all owners of property rated in the parish, and all persons who have been resident within the same for twelve months before the meeting, and have received certificates of such residence, or who, being so resident for twelve months, have at any time received certain certificates of education hereinafter named." "Whenever any question about elections was brought before the House, the inclination of the House of Commons always was to favour popular elections, observing that the more free they were, the more they were for the interests of the community. At this day, in many boroughs the election still remains popular, being exercised by all the inhabitants, except almsmen and such like." 888 "That it is undoubtedly desirable, for many reasons, that the collective body of qualified electors shall be as numerous as possible. To reach the numbers by whom the power ought to be exercised it must be distributed equally and impartially over the whole surface of the kingdom. What we want is a free House of Commons, and a real representation. Any measure of reform which does not really give and effectually secure hat object, is more than unprofitable, and the efforts to obtain it worse than thrown away." bonâ fide 889 890 891 "Your notice to bring before the House of Commons a Motion for a reform in Parliament, has met with my entire concurrence, from the conviction that the people are not fairly represented. Being a Kentish man, I will take for example the county in which I reside. Greenwich and Deptford return two Members; but Woolwich, a town nearly as populous as the aforesaid two places put together, has no representative. Graves-end, now a very populous place, has no Member, although Rochester, but a few miles distant, returns two, with a less population than Gravesend. Tonbridge and Tonbridge-wells, having a population of several thousands, likewise have no representative; neither has Faversham, Ashford, Tenterden, Cranbrook, nor Sevenoaks, although they are all places very numerously inhabited." "Of the cities and boroughs now sending two representatives each to Parliament, there are 15 with a population of upwards of 150,000; 16 of from 50,000 to 100,000; 27 of from 20,000 to
 892 "The metropolis, including all its Parliamentary districts, with a population of 2,000,000, is represented by sixteen Members in Parliament. The eight boroughs of Bridgenorth, Honiton, Harwich, Thetford, Richmond (Yorkshire), Totness, Stafford, and Lymington, with an aggregate population falling short of 40,000, return the same number of Members. Thus we have one group of Members, sixteen in number, representing 2,000,000 of people, and more property than is accumulated on any other spot, of equal dimensions, on the globe; and another group, consisting of the same number, representing less than 40,000 people, with but petty interests at stake, and all of them, so far as the franchise is concerned, under local influence." l s 893 s s s l l 894 l l 895 s "No doubt it is a rested right, but it is a right that differs in its character from the rights of property, and other strictly private rights. It is a public trust, given for public purposes, to be touched, no doubt, with great caution and reluctance; but still, which we are competent to touch if the public interest manifestly demands the sacrifice." l 896 "That this House, as at presented constituted, does not fairly represent the population, the property, or the industry of the country, whence has arisen great and increasing discontent in the minds of a large portion of the people; and it is therefore expedient, with a view to amend the National Representation, that the elective franchise shall be so extended as to include Householders—that Votes shall be taken by Ballot—that the duration of Parliaments shall not exceed Three Years; and that the apportionment of Members to population shall be made more equal." 897 "That every such person of full ago, and not subject to any mental or legal incapacity, who shall have occupied a house, or part of a house, for twelve months, and shall have been rated to the poor for that period, shall be registered as an elector; and every lodger shall have the right to claim to be rated to the poor, and after such rating and residence for twelve months he shall be registered as an elector." 898 899 900 901 902 "But what is the case at this moment? The whole people call loudly for reform. That confidence, whatever it Was, which formerly existed in the constitution of this House, exists no longer—it is completely at an end. Whatever may be thought of particular acts of this House, I repeat that the confidence of the country in the construction and constitution of the House of Commons is gone, and gone for ever, I will say more. I will say that it would be easier to transfer the flourishing manufactures of Leeds and Manchester to Gatton and Old Sarum, than to re-establish confidence and sympathy between this House and those whom it calls its constituents. I end this argument, therefore, by saying, that if the question be one of right, right is in favour of reform—if it be a question of reason, reason is in favour of reform—if it be a question of policy and expediency, policy and expediency are in favour of reform." "It will not be necessary on this occasion that I should go over the ground which has frequently before been gone over, for arguments in favour of a change in the state of the representation; but it is due to the House that I should state shortly the points on which the reformers rest their case. In the first place, then, the ancient constitution of our country declares that no man shall be taxed for the support of the State, who has hot consented by himself, or his representative, to the imposition of these taxes; the well-known statute  De Tallagio non concedendo "I ought to notice certain points which are looked to with great interest by the most zealous advocates for reform, but which are not included in the proposed measure. In the first place, the", I have to state that there is no provision in
 903 "There is another question, likewise, which has excited a vast deal of interest in the country, and of which no mention is made in this Bill—I mean the vote by ballot. I have no doubt the ballot has much to recommend it as a mode of election. More ingenious arguments never fell under my eye on any subject than I have seen in favour of the ballot"— "but at the same time, I am bound to say that I hope this House will pause before it sanctions the Motion which the hen. Member for Bridport is to make, and adopts the mode of voting by ballot." "I think, therefore, that they have a right to be believed, when they come forward with a measure of effectual reform, and say that they do not do so for any sinister purpose of their own. Interested as they are—all must be—in the future welfare and prosperity of the country, they do think that this measure will tend to promote that future welfare, and secure that future prosperity; and, above all, they do think that it is the only way calculated to insure permanency to that constitution which has so long been the admiration of foreign nations, on account of its popular spirit; but that admiration cannot be made to exist much longer, unless, by an infusion of new popular spirit, you show that you are determined not to be the representatives of small classes or particular interests, but that you will form a body which, representing the people—which, springing from the people—which, sympathising with the people, can fairly call upon the people to support any future burdens, and to struggle with any future difficulties you may have to encounter, con-
 904 l l l l l 905 906
 MR. SHEIL  admitted that there had been some delay connected with the coinage to which the hon. Gentleman referred. There was a Commission sitting at preseent, and till that Commission reported, it would be difficult to proceed, or to enter into any arrangement with the company called "Moneyers." So long ago as 1817, a contract was entered into with the Moneyers, by which a certain sum was paid to them; and if a new coinage was issued, it would be necessary to form with them a new contract. Till the present Commission reported, however, that contract could not be entered into.
 MR. W. J. FOX  could not but observe that the objections which the noble Lord had urged against the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose, referred rather to the details of the measure which that Motion indicated, than to the principle upon which it was founded. But those details were not now fairly before the House; and it was with a view to fix the attention of the House, if he could, to the great principle at stake in this matter, that he now ventured to offer a few observations to the House. He thought the noble Lord must have been pleased with the fair opportunity that had been afforded him of correcting any mistake in reference to his expressions on a former occasion. At the same time he considered the noble Lord to have been rather too severe on those by whom he thought those expressions were perverted. His own impression was, that the noble Lord meant to draw a distinction between fiscal reform and organic reform; that he was willing to see the former gradually progressing, but that he would resist the advance of the other in any way whatever. It must have been gratifying to the noble Lord to have the opportunity of telling the country that he was not opposed to further reform in the representative system; but it would have been still more gratifying to the country if the noble Lord had more distinctly hinted what the reforms were to be; what was the principle by which those reforms were to be guided; what would be their extent, and what their results. He confessed that from what the noble Lord had said, there was very little to guide them in their anticipations, and that little was of the most indefinite description. It merely amounted to this—that he would take the opportunity, from time to time, to disfranchise a man who should be guilty of bribery; or to admit a man to the franchise who should have acquitted himself well by making an accumulation in the savings' bank. The broad question of whether the
 934 935 l l l l l l l l l l l l l 936 937 Commentaries: "1. As to the qualifications of the electors. The true reason of requiring any qualification with regard to property in voters, is to exclude such persons as are in so mean a situation that they are esteemed to have no will of their own. If these persons had votes they would be tempted to dispose of them under some undue influence or other. This would give a great, an artful, or a wealthy man, a larger share in elections than is consistent with general liberty. If it were probable that every man would give his vote freely, and without influence of any kind, then, upon the true theory and genuine principles of liberty, every member of the community, however poor, should have a vote in electing those delegates to whose charge is committed the disposal of his property, his liberty, and his life." "We have not only one free agent, but there are in this country at least 1,000,000 of free agents—men perfectly free and independent, men who have no vote for a Member of Parliament, though they are anxious to acquire the right, and are in every way qualified to exercise the functions of electors." "Although it is a much disputed question, yet I believe that, in ancient times, every inhabitant householder resident in a borough was competent to vote for Members of Parliament." 938 l Chambers's Miscellany of Entertaining Knowledge d 939 s Knight's Life of Caxton M'Culloch's Commercial Dictionary s d s s 940 l Purgatory of Suicides Corn Law Rhymes 941 l 942 943 944
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  had to state, in reply to the question of the hon. Gentleman, that communications had passed some time ago between Lord Normanby and the French Government on this subject; and the French Government promised that the deposits belonging to English workmen should, if possible, be restored to them in full, though a different arrangement had been made with regard to French depositors. In these circumstances, the House would agree with him that it would be unnecessary to produce any correspondence till the result became known.
 SIR JOHN HANMER  was sorry to hear some of the expressions which had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, as he (Sir J. Hanmer) thought that the suspencion of these writs was a sort of recognisance entered into by that House, that they would proceed with the inquiries as proposed by his Bill. [Sir G. GREY: Cheltenham was not named in the Bill.] The reason of that was, that the Committee on the Cheltenham election had reported since the Bill had been brought forward; but the hon. Member for Montrose had given notice of a Motion to include Cheltenham in the Bill. He was of opinion that the House should adopt as an invariable rule, that whenever a place was reported upon for corrupt practices, a local inquiry should be instituted. He thought this should be the necessary consequence of the report, and there should in all instances be an investigation into the electoral condition of the place reported upon. He was alive to the evils which must arise from the suspension of writs without the fullest consideration. Nothing could be more unconstitutional; but in certain cases, like those which had recently occurred, he conceived the House was bound to suspend them. This proceeding was by no means unusual, and the noble Lord at the head of the Government had mentioned several instances of the kind which occurred in the reign of William the Third; but he (Sir J. Hanmer) could mention a case which occurred in the time of Charles the First, when Parliament was laying "the foundation of our constitutional liberties. "The circumstances were simply these:—A contest arose, in 1628, as to whether the Lord Keeper of the Great Seal or the Speaker of the House of Commons should issue writs in cases of vacancies in seats during the Parliamentary recess. Such a case then occurred, and the Lord Keeper issued a writ for the election of a new Member for Hertford; but the House, on its meeting, took up the question, and declared that the election was void, and suspended
 970
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  was aware that there was another Bill before the House, which, as far as the name went, was nearly the same as the one now under consideration; but the object of the two Bills was entirely dissimilar. The Bill to which he wished to direct the attention of the House was entirely confined to cases of tenants-at-will who had already expended money. The Bill of the right hon. Gentleman, on the other hand, was entirely prospective, and had nothing whatever to do with the object of the present Bill. He therefore, thought he could not do justice to the question, nor to the Irish people, if he abstained at the present moment from going into the discussion. He had some amendments to move in Committee; but he should not mention them now, because the present discussion would be upon the principle, and not the details, of the Bill. He was not surprised that Irish Gentlemen, looking at the whole of the circumstances which had been brought under the notice of the House in the various reports, should be in perfect despair when they attempted to effect any real benefit for the people of Ireland. At the same time, it might be some consolation and encouragement for them to remember that, although the proportions of good and evil were indeed different, nothing essential had taken place in Ireland which had not within his memory taken place in this country, and which by the exertions of those who had acted on sound principles had not been in a great measure remedied. It was necessary that English Gentlemen should understand that the words "landlord and tenant and labourer," did not in Ireland mean the same thing as here. [ A laugh 972 s 973 974 l
 MR. HERBERT , in illustration of the ignorance which English gentlemen laboured under with regard to the real nature of the case of Ireland, stated that lately an English secretary came over to that country. It appeared that he had received a letter from a gentleman in Drogheda, and his first question upon arriving in Dublin was, where is Drogheda? Now he believed that if the hon. Member for Stroud did them the honour to visit Ireland, his first question would be a similar one. He desired the House to recollect, that in Ireland, were land put up for sale, that the highest rent would be offered without the slighest reference to the value of the property. Such was the morbid passion of the people to obtain possession of land. By this proposed Bill the landlord would be compelled to pay for what was anything but an improvement—for what, in his opinion, was absolutely the reverse. And if the hon. Member would buy an estate in the south of Ireland, he would find many improvements made; and if he came over with the benevolent intention of paying for all such improvements, in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred he would return with his money in his pocket. In proof of the mischievous effect of agitation upon this subject, he had only to refer to the statement which had been made, that now the people would not be satisfied with that amount of tenant-right which would formerly have satisfied them. He did not think that he could, with any propriety, vote upon the question, should it come to a division, as he was a Member of a Committee upstairs to which a similar measure had been referred. And if English Members would come down and attend that Committee, they would see that Irish landlords were quite willing to grant all that was fair and just.
 COLONEL CONOLLY  condemned the interference of the hon. Members for Stroud
 985
 LORD CLAUDE HAMILTON : As there is a Special Committee at present sitting on this most important subject—a Committee composed of most intelligent Gentlemen, who, for many weeks, have devoted themselves to its examination, and have obtained a large amount of valuable evidence, I think it is hardly treating this question with the respect it deserves to introduce this Bill before the Committee have made their report, or printed their evidence. I should not, however, have addressed the House if the Member for Rochdale had not, on this and former occasions, assumed that he was the mouth-piece of all Ulster, and arrogated to himself the exclusive right to repsesent the views of the people of that province. Now, Sir, I beg to tell him that I consider this a somewhat singular assumption on his part, seeing that
 977 978 Tyrone Constitution 979 980
 MR. STAFFORD  rose to move—
 "That Mr. Speaker do issue his Warrant to the Clerk of the Crown to make out a New Writ for the electing of a Burgess to serve in this Present Parliament for the Borough of Cheltenham, in the room of Sir Willoughby Jones, Baronet, whose Election has been determined to be void." 967
 MR. MOWATT  hoped that before they came to a decision on the question, they would have some explicit declaration on the part of the Government. He had hitherto invariably voted in opposition to the proposition of the hon. Gentleman on the other side, thinking there should be an investigation into the cases brought under the consideration of the House; but at the same time, he felt they were every day getting into a more and more perplexed position. He hoped before the House went to a division, they would have some explanation from some Member of the Government. If he did not, he should vote for the Motion of the hon. Gentleman.
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, that there was another party to this question besides the landlords, and that was the party of the tenants. If the House would only consider what the condition of the tenants was, they would not wonder at the insecurity felt by the tenants of Ulster, or the dissatisfaction they felt at the present state of things, or their desire to have their interests put on a more permanent footing. The tenants might be dispossessed, by a short notice, of property that had been held by them for generations—property which had been looked upon as creditor and debtor property. They found that they held that property entirely at the
 983 984
 MR. C. ANSTEY  considered the principle of the Bill as most valuable, and suggested that they should go into Committee  pro formâ
 MR. W. FAGAN  said, the noble Lord had not the least justification for the attack he had made upon the hon. Member for Rochdale. The hon. Member was one of the largest landed proprietors in the province of Ulster, and upon his own property he practically carried out the principle of tenant-right, which he wished the House to adopt. The hon. Member for Rochdale was justified in saying, that the province of Ulster was in alarm concerning tenant-right; but he was glad that the
 981
 MR. FORBES  opposed this measure as tending to make an important innovation on the Reform Bill, and as being a virtual repeal of the ratepaying clause.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  thought it right, before the question of going into Committee was put, that the House should perfectly understand what was claimed from the House by this Bill. He would, however, in the first place, call the attention of the House to the numerous meetings that had taken place in Ireland connected with the subject of the tenant-right, because he believed that the public press of London had entered into a sort of combination to suppress the accounts of those meetings. He had seen no notice of them in the journals of this country, and thereby hon. Members of that House had had no oppor-
 975 976 l l
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  apologised for the measure being rather a homœopathic dose of reform, than, as the hon. Gentleman seemed to think, an important innovation on the Reform Bill. His bill only proposed to extend the time for the payment of rates.
 SIR G. GREY  rose in consequence of a question which had been addressed to him by the hon. Member for Stroud. He would take the opportunity of stating that the observation of his right hon. Friend, which had been so much commented upon, namely, that such a provision would subject the proprietors to repurchase their estates, only referred to the second clause of the Bill. He was surprised to see such a Bill in the hands of the hon. Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond), who had upon a previous night so eloquently denounced the French proposition,  Toute propriété est volée
 SIR GEORGE GREY  had been asked as to the course which Government intended to take on this subject. He could give no answer to the question. He believed it was the duty of each individual Member, upon a question of this kind, to follow his own course; and certainly, as a Member of
 968 969
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  thought that the House had been led away from the Motion of the hon. Member for West Surrey, by the address which the hon. Member for Rochdale had thought it his duty to make; he would therefore call the attention of the House briefly to the Bill of the hon. Gentleman. He had been in hopes, considering that there was a Committee sitting upstairs, and considering the provisions of the Bill introduced by Government, which, to a certain extent, were retrospective, that the hon. Gentleman would have responded to the appeal made to him by the Secretary of State, and have consented at present to postpone his Motion for going into Committee. But what was the effect of the second clause? If the House should agree with him in opinion as to the effect of that clause, it would be hardly necessary to deal with any further provisions of the Bill, but they might consent at once to the Motion to go into Committee this day six months. The effect of the second clause was, that the landlord was not to take possession until he had paid the tenant whatever sum he had paid in obtaining the occupancy of the farm. That was, in so many words, forcing the landlord in Ireland to purchase his property over again. Conceive a landlord who had been receiving a moderate rate of 6 s 982
 MR. MOFFATT  rose, and was about to resume the adjourned debate on the Sugar Duties, when
 Mr. STUART  thought it impossible
 1009
 MR. MOFFATT  thought it would be well for the House to consider, in the first instance, what would be the effect of the proposition of the Government with respect to the people of this country. The reduction of the duty on sugar to the amount of 1 s l l l l l l s s d s 1013 s s d s s s d s d l l 1014 l
 MR. F. MAULE  thought the course taken in moving the adjournment of the House altogether unprecedented. It seemed there had been a meeting of Irish Members with reference to the differential duty on spirits, when it was resolved that a certain question should be put to the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but no public notice
 1003
 LORD G. BENTINCK : I think that the House is placed in a very extraordinary position. It is proposed that we should go into Committee to consider a specified measure that has been proposed by the Government. [Lord J. RUSSELL: The sugar duties.] But half of that measure, intended to be a measure of relief to the West Indians, was the reduction of the duty on rum to the amount of 5 d quoad d d d The Chancellor of the Exchequer entered the House 1005
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I hope I may be allowed to explain what I said, because the noble Lord has in a strange manner so totally misapprehended me. I stated, that whatever proposition we should make should be made with a view to the public interests, and public interests alone. Then, he says, we "re making a bargain with certain Members with a view to secure their support. This is the direct contrary of what I said. I must, therefore, again repeat that, although there is of course the greatest secrecy observed with regard to measures to be brought before the House with regard to finance and trade, it is usual, after being brought forward, that the Government should hear different parties who may be affected, who have modifications and alterations to suggest; and I stated that my right hon. Friend had under consideration the statements made to him on the part of the West India body, the distillers, and others; and, as I have already stated, our decision on these points will be with a view to the public interests, not with a view to obtain the votes of any hon. Members.
 LORD J. RUSSELL , having entered the House, said: With regard to the question which has been asked, I have in the first place to observe, that it does not immediately affect the matter before the House, as to going into Committee on the sugar duties. It is part of the plan of which I stated the outline on Friday last. Some of the Members of this House, representing their constituents, have made representations to my right hon. Friend; I had some conversation with him on the subject yesterday; he then stated that he was not fully in possession of their views. I had some conversation With him again today, when he said he had this morning some further information as to the views those Gentlemen entertained, and that he had the question still under consideration. We were to have some further deliberation on the subject, and my right hon. Friend, as soon as he can inform the House, will state what are the intentions of the Government on that point. I suppose the hon. Baronet wishes, although this is not the regular time for making a detailed statement of the scheme, for the reduction of the rum duties. I am not prepared to make it now, and I do not think it would be quite fair to postpone the Committee on the sugar duties until an answer is obtained to the question put by the hon. Baronet. My right hon. Friend will be in his place shortly, and will then give his answer.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  would see after the division on the Motion of the hon. Member for Droitwich, if there were sufficient time to go through with the proposition as made; and, if not, he should then be prepared to accede to the proposal of the hon. Member for Liverpool; but not so as the matter stood at present.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Certainly I am not going to make any statement with the object of altering the vote of the hon. Baronet. We mean to make the proposition we think the best calculated to promote the interests of all concerned. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Droitwich has
 1004
 MR. DISRAELI : The right hon. Gentleman has no doubt given a simple and accurate narrative. It is said to be a matter of the greatest inconvenience, when changes are contemplated regarding trade, that Government should hold communication with the different parties interested—indeed, it is impossible to do that until Ministers have made the exposition of their scheme to this House. But Her Majesty's Government must recollect that they have had the opportunity of making their statement, and it is their fault if, after having made that general statement of their plan, they have not allowed the country a sufficient interval between the first exposition and subsequent debate, and they must take the consequences. I must assume that they did not require the opportunity of consulting Her Majesty's subjects, because
 1007
 MR. HAWES , in the absence of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, said he hoped the hon. Baronet would give notice of his question for tomorrow.
 MR. C. BULLER  was astonished at the declaration of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire that his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) had no right to resent or even to call for an explanation of the imputation which the noble Lord the Member for Lynn had cast upon the Government. Why, he (Mr. C. Buller) asserted that every Gentleman sitting upon those benches, and every one who had at heart the honour of the House, ought to resent such an unfounded imputation. The hon. Member for Buckinghamshire said that the imputation was directed against the Government as an administration, and not against its morality. But let him remind the House of what had really passed. It must be conceded that the noble Lord the Member for Lynn never minced his language for fear it might be said of him that he sinned against good taste; and the words of the noble Lord were, that the Government were making a bargain—a bargain, he must be allowed to add, of the basest kind—with the Irish Members, in order to get their votes on this question. He had the highest respect for the candour and straightforwardness of the noble Lord, widely as he differed from him in his political views; but the House would allow him to call its attention for a moment to the exceeding recklesness and unfairness of the noble Lord's charge. The statement made by
 1008
 MR. GORING  said, that in consequence of the vote which the House had come to yesterday in favour of issuing the writ for the borough of Cheltenham, he would now move that a new writ he issued for the borough of Horsham. It would be disrespectful to the House to take up its time by arguing the question after the vote of yesterday, and he trusted the House would not refuse to order the immediate issue of the writ.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  wished to say that there were points raised by the deputation, the first of which related to the differential duty. On that point his answer to the deputation was, that he would lay before his Colleagues the statements which had been made, and the arguments which had been employed. The other point was the allowance for wastage, and he had said that he was favourably disposed to the consideration of that matter, but that he could not give the deputation an answer upon it, until he had communicated with the Excise.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : When any proposal connected with either finance or trade has been submitted to this House, it is usual for the Government to receive any communications that may be made to them by parties more immediately affected by it. I yesterday received intimation from the hon. Baronet that a deputation wished to see me on the subject of the differential duty between rum and British spirits, and on another subject, namely, an allowance for waste in British spirits in warehouse; whether the duty would be taken when the spirits were taken out, instead of when they were in the warehouse? The hon. Baronet and five other Irish Members Waited on me this morning, and stated their opinion, formed on the information they had received from the Irish distillers, that the reducing the differential duty from 9 d d 1006
 MR. CARDWELL  feared it was not possible consistently with the rules of the House to wait until the House should have decided on the proposition now under its consideration. It was a fixed rule to take only one stage every day of a Money Bill. There were seven stages to be passed in that House. The Bill must then go to the House of Lords and afterwards obtain the Royal Assent. This debate was not expected to close to-night. Supposing it closed to-morrow night, there were seven more stages to pass in that House before they could send the Bill to the House of Lords. If the noble Lord waited the result of the discussion before deciding, he would find it out of his power to carry an unopposed Bill without a suspension of the Standing Orders altogether Unprecedented.
 MR. AGLIONBY  thought the time had come when the opinion of the House ought to be declared on the Bill of the hon. Member for the Flint boroughs (Sir J. Hanmer). Nothing was more inconvenient and inconsistent than for the House to order the issue of writs to certain boroughs on one day, and to suspend them in other cases on the next.
 MR. GOULBURN  did not understand that any imputation was cast on the Chancellor of the Exchequer for receiving the representations of those interested in this question. He knew very well that those who had to conduct public affairs frequently after the announcement of measures in Parliament had to consider the opinions of those interested in the proposed changes, and regulate their conduct accordingly; but the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) must observe that the question before the House was, in many respects, materially different from this. The question with which they had to deal was, how were they to afford direct relief to a suffering interest? and the Government proposed a plan of which one component part was a relaxation of the existing duties
 1011 d d d d d d
 MR. GOULBURN  should like to know, if the noble Lord had considered the proposition of the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Cardwell), as to the introduction of a temporary Bill for continuing and for limiting the period of the present sugar duties? They had lost so much time that night, that it was scarcely possible, with any activity on the part of the Government and the House, if the proposition of the Government was to be introduced in the shape of a Bill, that it could receive the Royal Assent before the 5th of July. The noble Lord was aware that there was an immense amount of foreign sugar at this moment in bond, and as his proposal was to afford relief to the West India interest, he would see that from 30,000 to 40,000 tons of sugar brought into the market at a reduced price must materially affect any measures of relief that could be proposed.
 Mr. LABOUCHERE  rose with great regret to prolong this discussion, which had lasted already a great deal too long; but the statements made by the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Stuart) were so extraordinary, that he could not help saying a few words. If the doctrine laid down by the hon. and learned Gentleman was to prevail, the whole course that every Government took in the discussion of complicated measures of trade must be entirely altered. He never recollected a large measure containing changes connected with the trade of this country being brought forward without the interests affected by those changes seeking an interview with the Government; and it was highly proper and necessary that the Government should not only receive representations from those
 1010 d d
 MR. JAMES WILSON  said, that he had listened with considerable interest and no little surprise to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman. When he (Mr. Wilson) heard the early part of that speech, he thought the right hon. Gentleman was disposed to vote for the general propositions before the House; but he then heard the grounds which the right hon. Gentleman stated induced him to take the course which he intended to follow on this question. The right hon. Gentleman objected to the course taken by Her Majesty's Government on this occasion. First of all, he objected to
 1032 s 1033 s s s s d d d 1034 s d s s d s 1035 l l l l l 1036 s d l l s d s d s s s s l s d l s l s 1037 1038 1039 A laugh "The question was asked of one witness, 'Were the expenses greater now than previous to the emancipation?' and the answer was, 'Yes, greatly.' He was then asked, 'Had not their revenue increased in proportion, in consequence of the rise in sugar in 1840, as compared with 1838 and 1839?' and he said, 'By no means, it was decidedly less in 1840.' The next question was, 'Do you consider that the increase of price had only the effect of raising the price of labour, and that it was but of little benefit to the planters?' and the answer was, 'Decidedly so.' Another gentleman accounted for the fact of wages having gradually risen instead of having fallen, to the continued competition for labour among the planters, coupled with the gradual rise in the price of sugar." s 1040 s d d d 1041 s s s s d 1042 s s 1043 1044 s d 1045 s s s l l l 1046 s d s d s d s d s d s s d s d s s d s d s d s d s d s d s d 1047 s d s d s d "From that abatement, compared with that of slave labour, it appears that the cost of free labour is about one-fifth more only than that of slave labour. One, however, of the principal proprietors of estates in the island who employ both free labour and slaves, says, that taking into consideration the feeding, the clothing, the interest on capital, the life assurance, and loss of time from sickness and other causes, he does not consider that there is any difference in any work done by slaves and free labourers, and that the cost of each will be about the same; and that was, where the proprietor paid the people employed by him 1 s d s 1048 1049
 MR. GLADSTONE : Although it will be my duty in the course of the remarks I shall have to make to the House to express my dissent in important particulars from the plan of Her Majesty's Government, and my inability to vote in its favour, yet I hope I can say nothing inconsistent with the admission I most frankly make, that I believe not only that it is with the most sincere desire to deal justly with the different interests involved in the present question that Ministers have brought forward their proposition, but that they have also had to treat a question of most extraordinary difficulty. I Wish to state so most
 1015 s s 1016 1017 l l l 1018 "It is my duty to declare my sentiments, and to recommend to you early and equal abolition of apprenticeship for all parties. Should your views be opposed to the policy I recommend, I would entreat you to consider well how impracticable it will be to carry on coercive labour; always difficult, it would in future be in peril of constant comparison with other colonies made free, and with those estates in this island made free by individual proprietors." 1019 1020 "He thought that in reality the only effect of this Bill would be to permit that atrocious trade, which had before existed, to be renewed under some circumstances or other; and although he had no doubt that his noble Friend the Secretary for the Colonies would endeavour to put an end to the evils of that trade by the appointment of agents and other means, he had the strongest doubts how far any sufficient regulation could be possibly effected." 1021 1022 s s 1023 s s s s s s 1024 1025 1026 l l l l 1027 toto cœlo 1028 s s s s l s s 1029 s d s s s s d s s l l l l 1030 l l l l l 1031
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  repeated that the votes of several Members would depend on the answer received; and they were unwilling that the debate should go on until they knew the whole scheme of the Government.
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  interposed, and, observing that no Cabinet Minister was present, moved the adjournment of the House. He had given previous notice to the Chancellor of the Exchequer that he should put to him this question, which it was most important should be answered before the debate on the sugar duties was proceeded with. The answer given would determine not only the votes but also the speeches of hon. Members.
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  wished to put a question to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, if that right hon. Gentleman had been in his place. The Irish distillers were dissatisfied with the arrangement whish the right hon. Gentleman suggested he was disposed to make with regard to the differential duty on rum. They would be content with a moderate extent of protection, and were not desirous of retaining the present rate of differential duty; but the question they were anxious to have answered was, whether it was the determination of the Government to adhere to the sum of 4 d
 Mr. HUME  would remind the House that the hon. Member had himself stated that corruption was now more rife, and bribery more unblushing than ever. Yet
 1081
 SIR J. TYRELL  had enjoyed the honour of having a seat in that House before the Reform Bill. During many weeks the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) dwelt on the great advantages which would accrue to the country when the Reform Bill passed. The hon. Member then occupied as large a space in the public mind, and occupied still more largely, if possible, the time of that House, in what he (Sir J. Tyrell) considered at the time very useless and hopeless prognostications on his part. The hon. Member had now come forward to get up a little measure of his own. He (Sir J. Tyrell) confessed that it was matter of comparative indifference to him what might be the details of the hon. Gentleman's measure. He had moved for a return from which it would be seen that the hon. Member for Montrose, though he assumed the peculiar guardianship of the public purse, had succeeded by "polishing the knocker" of the Treasury, in getting a place for one of his family which was worth some 500 l
 MR. ELLICE  appealed to the hon. Member for Essex, whether it was right to introduce this personal matter, with respect to the hon. Member for Montrose. He (Mr. Ellice) believed that the son of his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume) held and executed with efficiency an office of no great value in the public service. He believed that he had
 1082 A laugh
 Mr. P. BENNET  said, that having been a Member of the Committee on the Derby election, he begged to mention that there were 166 cases of bribery set down for inquiry, and that, after investigating the first ten, Mr. Wrangham, the counsel for the sitting Members, threw up his case. There was an unanimous feeling on the part of the Committee, that there ought to be an inquiry into the case.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that after the charge which had been made by the hon. Baronet the Member for Essex (Sir John Tyrell), he thought it necessary to say a few words in defence of the Government, as well as of the hon. Member for Montrose. The hon. Baronet had charged the Government with having proposed a useless commission for inquiring into the Mint, and with having appointed a relative of the hon. Member for Montrose to the situation of secretary. With respect to the first point, he (Mr. Labouchere) felt bound to say that, having once filled the office of Master of the Mint, he became convinced that that establishment very much required investigation and reform, and, accordingly, he felt it his duty to move for the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the subject. ["Question!"] He must say he thought it very hard that, after an attack had been made, it was not allowed to be answered. If hon. Gentlemen opposite had felt it to be their duty to call "Question" when the worthy Baronet the Member for Essex introduced this irrelevant matter, and travelled out of the subject before the House, it would have been much more to their credit than calling "Question" now. He felt that a few words were due to the hon. Member for Montrose. He had differed on many important subjects from that hon. Member. He had voted against him, he believed, as often as with him; but this he would say for him, that no individual that had ever sat in that
 1083
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I beg to say, that the measure proposed by the hon. Member for Flint (Sir J. Hanmer) has been supported by the Government. But owing to the opposition—I do not say the unfair or factious opposition—which the Bill has encountered, both on its second reading and in Committee, a great delay has taken place, and further delay will doubtless take place before the Bill can pass. I think, then, that it would be unfair towards the borough of Derby to insist upon completing the inquiry before the writ shall be issued; for it is obvious, I think, that as the matter at present stands, the inquiry cannot be completed till after the prorogation of Parliament; and, therefore, it would not be until next Session that any remedy could be applied with respect to this borough. I should certainly have hesitated in voting for the issuing of this writ if the House had not decided as they have done in the cases of Horsham and Cheltenham; but, having done so, it appears to me that the best course now to pursue will be for me to give my vote in favour of issuing the writ.
 MR. THORNELY  had a strong feeling on this subject with reference to the tribunal by which election petitions were tried. This was the first Parliament which had assembled since the passing of the Act of 1844 for the trial of controverted elections; and, though the country at large had little confidence in Election Committees generally, yet the experience they had had of the working of this Act had given uni-
 1084
 SIR R. PEEL : I stated on a former occasion that in my opinion it was the duty of the House to have postponed all other business until they had determined the course they should take with respect to the question of further inquiry into these cases. Now, I well know the important avocations of the noble Lord, and the extent of important business which presses upon the Government; but I still retain the opinion that it was the duty of the noble Lord to have made some proposition to the House, when there was such a multitude of instances of proved corruption brought under our notice, with a view of instituting some new inquiry. There might have been a Committee of the House, or a Bill might have been introduced, reciting in the preamble that many cases of corruption had been proved to have taken place, and providing that a new tribunal should be appointed for entering fully into the subject; and it is my opinion that if the Government had proposed that course the House would in one night have assented to it. [Lord J. RUSSELL: The debate on the Bill of the hon. Member for the Flint boroughs occupied three nights.] But I have had some experience in these matters; and I know it is a perfectly different thing a private individual bringing forward such a question, and a Member of the Government coming forward to make a proposal and saying, "If you object on the second reading to the principle of this Bill, you
 1085 "There were 160 cases brought before us; we took the first ten, and in every one of these instances the bribery was brought home. It was proved that 200 persons were brought into a room for the purpose of bribery, and those who could take a bribe did take it."
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, the report was presented on the 28th of March, and he would ask whether sufficient time had not elapsed to justify those who urged the issuing of this writ in supposing that the House was not prepared to make such inquiry as was now called for? The right
 1086
 MR. S. HERBERT  said, the hon. Member for the University of Oxford begged the question when he said that, because 160 persons were charged with bribery, they were going to punish the whole constituency. But what was asked for was not punishment in the first instance, but inquiry, with a view to punishment if the guilt were proved.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he had been sitting on an Election Committee for the last month, and he considered himself a victim of a system the most corrupt and frightful as respected an honest representation that could be conceived. He should not be expressing his opinion honestly if he did not say that the delay which had taken place as to the Bill of the hon. Member for the Flint boroughs, and as to this writ, was owing to the vacillating conduct of the Government.
 MR. COBDEN  said, if an hon. Member rose at a quarter to seven o'clock, he was put down by those who wanted to dine, and if he rose at ten o'clock, then he was put down by those who had dined. He agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Manchester in thinking that the noble Lord the Member for the city of London ought to have been in the House to prevent the writ for Horsham being issued; because the noble Lord had pledged himself to bring in a Bill to deal with that case, and if he had been there, he would have prevented the writ being issued. However they might deal with this question in that House, it would be dealt with out of doors on a much larger basis. This was part and parcel of an outward and visible sign of a system of corruption that prevailed, and was the reason why this question was treated with so much levity and party clamour. He held in his hand a petition signed by a respectable person, and every word in that petition he believed to be true, praying that the borough of St. Albans might be put into the Bill of the hon. Member for the Flint boroughs. The petition stated that at the last election the bribery was open and unblushing; that bad as it had been before, never was it so unblushing as on that occasion; that the two hon. candi-
 1087 1088
 MR. REPTON  bogged to be allowed, as the borough which he had the honour to represent (St. Albans) had been alluded to by the hon. Member for the West Riding, to state that, until he arrived at the hustings on the morning of the election, he never saw his hon. Colleague, nor had he held any communication either with him or any of his agents. If such an arrangement had been entered into as had been described by the hon. Member, he would deny in the most solemn manner that he (Mr. Repton) had anything to do with it, either directly or indirectly. If the facts were truly described in the petition, why had it not been presented earlier, so that the House might have referred, it to a Committee of Inquiry?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that as the hen. Member for Westbury had accused him in his speech last night of having been guilty of very great inaccuracy in stating the expense of raising sugar in Cuba and Porto Rico, he trusted that the House would allow him to explain briefly the grounds on which his statement had been founded. He had stated that the average cost of producing sugar in Cuba, Porto Rico, and Brazil, was but 6 s d s d s d d s 1091 s d s d s d s d s s s d s d.
 MR. JAMES WILSON  would not detain the House by entering again into all these details, but he thought that the hon. Baronet laboured under a misapprehension, when he talked of deducting the value of rum and molasses from the 8 s d.
 MR. PHILIP MILES  said, that the hon. Member for Westbury had only questioned
 1092 s s s d s d s d s d 
 
 Dollars. 
 Interest at 6 per cent 8,202 
 Maintenance of negroes, at 40 dollars each per annum 12,000 
 Depreciation of capital on machiery, 15 per cent on 18,500 dollars 2,775 
 Ditto on cattle, on 1,200 dollars, at 8 per cent 96 
 Ditto and mortality on negroes, 105,000 dollars, at 6 per cent 6,300 
 Dollars 29,373 1093 "The island of Porto Rico has about 400,000 inhabitants, of which 45,000 are slaves. There are 400 sugar estates worked, I should say by about 20,000 negroes, and they make 100,000 hogsheads of sugar which is yet manufactured in the most common way by cattle mills, and I do not think there are more than about 20 steam-mills in the island. They have likewise only few wind, and still less water mills. The larger estates can make sugar at about 60 to 75 cts. per 100 lbs., taking, of course, the amount for the molasses and rum (if they make any) against part of the expenses: but smaller estates, with perhaps not sufficient hands, or badly conducted, cannot do it at less than 1½ to 2 dollars, as there are many expenses which weigh heavier on smaller estates; but, of course, much depends on the situation of the estate and the fertility of the soil, and the manner in which it is taken care of, the canes requiring to be kept very clean of weeds and grasss." s s d s s d 1094 "Being determined not to allow ourselves to be drawn into any further advances, we have resolved to place and conduct the several accounts on the following footing, viz., we shall accept bills drawn for the current expenses of carrying on the cultivation of the estates to the extent of 8 l "With regard to our own properties, we wish them to be dealt with in one of the following ways, viz.:—1. To be let on a lease of three or five years to safe and responsible parties. 2. If it cannot be rented, then to be cultivated, the expense being limited to 10 l 1095 "The limits you have given for advances on shipments on sugar may enable the planters to sake off the crops now in course of reaping; but as the labour alone for a whole crop will come to more than our sugars are now realising, we apprehend that the further cultivation of these colonies must cease." "I beg you will distinctly understand that your reply to this must instruct me whether or not you intend to carry on. For my part, after perusing the comparative statements of stocks, consumption, and prices received by last packet, we have, I think, no chance whatever this year; and I must candidly tell you, that unless our produce is reduced to a nominal duty, I for one will stop cultivation altogether. This will be the last year for four estates out of five. As it is, many have not a farthing to take the crops off with, and I verily believe that the less sugar we make, the less we shall lose. Moreover, I very much doubt whether it would not be wise not to make a grain of sugar on Bellfield this year. It is hardly possible for any man out of Jamaica to conceive the distress of this colony, and I am quite aware that all the others, with probably the exception of Barbadoes, are in as lamentable a predicament. My efforts are perfectly paralysed—I have worked cheaper than any man in this parish or anywhere else, and now I am done up." "I am not aware whether any portion of the
 1096 l 1097 s d l 1098 s ad valorem 1099 1100 1101
 MR. HAWES  hoped that if he trespassed upon the attention of the House at somewhat greater length than usual, hon. Members would not deem him presumptuous in so doing, but would consider that in entering fully upon a subject so extensive, so full of details, and of such vast importance, that he was but discharging the duties of the office he had the honour to hold. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone) that one part of this question was of great magnitude and passing importance. He alluded to the present and future condition of the labouring population in the West Indies. If he thought the Bill of 1846, or any Act passed with regard to the growth of sugar, involved any permanent injury to them, he would most readily avow that opinion, and be as willing as any man to vote for the repeal or alteration of that Bill. But his firm belief, after much consideration, was, that the policy they had pursued of stripping the sugar trade of its protection, and the West India trade of all restrictions, was the policy most likely to promote the welfare of the labouring population of the West Indies. He thought, also, that if the statement of the hon. Member for Bristol were true, that estates would be abandoned in consequence of the Act of 1846, and the cultivation of sugar be diminished, a case would be made out for reconsidering the principle and the policy of that measure. But he was bound to say he could not come to that conclusion. He could not directly trace the present distress prevailing in the West Indian colonies to the Bill of 1846, consequently he was decidedly of opinion it was expedient to adhere to the principles of that measure, and gradually to emancipate sugar from all protection whatever, believing that unless the way was prepared for the increasing production of our colonies competing with the rest of the world, the time was not far distant, when, though fostered by protection, competition must be encountered, and as great distress would have to be met then, as that which existed at the present moment. The question might fairly be asked, what case there was for an
 1102 s s s 1103 s s 1104 "Although an abolition of the slave trade be an effectual, it is not the sole, means by which the West India islands may be ruined: the same object may be attained as completely, though with somewhat less rapidity, by encouraging the cultivation of sugar in the East Indies, where the fertility of the soil, the facility of immigration, the ease with which commodities are transferred by means of the existing inland navigation, the abundance of provision, the cheapness of labour, and the whole structure of society, give them an advantage which nature has denied to these islands. Every British merchant holding security upon real estates is filing bills in Chancery to foreclose, although, when he has obtained a decree, he hesitates to enforce it, because he must himself become the proprietor of a plantation, which, from fatal experience, he would rather shun. … Sheriff's officers are everywhere offering for sale the property of individuals who have seen better days, and who now must see their estates purchased for half their value, and less than half their original cost. All kind of credit is at an end. … If litigation in the courts of common law has diminished, it is from confidence having ceased, and no man parting with his property but for immediate payment or consideration. A faithful detail of the state of these colonies would have the appearance of a frightful caricature." 1105 "The condition to which this colony has been reduced has been represented by the Assembly in their memorial to Her Majesty of the 28th February: they state that the situation of the proprietary body has been more and more appalling, and that the abandonment of a great portion of the sugar cultivation must result. In almost every district the progress towards abandonment is manifest. The returns of the magistrates and other officers are most distressing, containing details of ruin perfected and peril impending." 1106 1107 s "You believe that it would restore confidence in the minds of planters in Trinidad if this country were to impose a protecting duty of 10 s s 1108 s s d 1109 s d "An abundant crop, it is true, the largest the island ever produced, has followed a very favourable season, and the additional labour supplied by immigration; but your petitioners assert that the expenses have augmented so greatly that all interested in the crop, except the paid labourers, are nearly without gain. The most favoured estates only, in respect of position, climate, and soil, and on which large outlays have been formerly made, have given a surplus over the expenses, and even those have barely yielded a moderate interest on the capital invested. The
 1110 "I must confess that the whole condition of the Mauritius at this day is an enigma to me. Not two years since it was formally declared in council that could the production of the island be fixed at 100,000,000 lbs. of sugar annually, it would have nothing to fear from the competition of slave colonies." "That since finding themselves in possession of estates, they have manifested a degree of activity and energy in their endeavours to extricate themselves from the legacies which the misfortunes of this colony have bequeathed to them;"— "and which have every prospect of success, provided cheap labour be not denied them, and with which, intelligently and scientifically directed, as well in the culture as in the manufacture of our staple, they will not fear, under the blessing, of Providence, to encounter the much-apprehended competition of India, or even of Cuba or Brazil." 1111 l s d l l l l l l s 18 1. 11 s d s 1112 1113 l l l 1114 l l s Berbice Gazette Trinidad Spectator Morning Journal of Jamaica 1115 Berbice Gazette Morning Journal 1116 1117 1118 "Have there been any beneficial industrial ordinances passed within the last two years, or previously, or have any beneficial ordinances of any kind been proposed from the colonies and disallowed?" "I am not aware of any." 1119
 LORD G. BENTINCK : Sir, if it should be necessary for me to ask for the indulgence of the House for some time, I trust the great importance of the subject with which I have to deal, will be my excuse for asking for that indulgence. But, Sir, I rejoice to think that the comprehensive speech of my hon. Friend the Member for Droitwich has so completely given the history of the evidence that has been taken before that Committee of which I had the honour to be the Chairman—the speech of my hon. Friend was so comprehensive and so perspicuous—that a great part of my "occupation is gone," and I am saved in a great measure from going into many details which my hon. Friend has made so clear to the House. The hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, who has just sat down, has done nothing, and I think has forgotten nothing, since he was a party to the introduction of the Act of 1846, nor since on the last day of the late Parliament in this House he taunted me, and called my attention to the manifest prosperity of the Mauritius, and assured the House and me, in these remarkable words, "that competition was all that was necessary for the benefit of the British Sugar Planting Colonies." It was on the 23rd of July, 1847, that a few minutes before the last Parliament was prorogued, the present Under Secretary for the Colonies said—
 "The noble Lord might rest satisfied that a system of free trade and open competition would be most beneficial for all parties concerned—that it would lead to a greater economy in production, be the means of embarking more capital in the growth and manufacture of sugar, and tend to the general prosperity of the whole population." l 1123 l l l l l 1124 s s s l s l l l l l l l 1125 s s l l l l l l l l s s l l s
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHE-
 1126 : Will the noble Lord allow me to state how the matter stands? The case is simply this; As soon as the duty on sugar is 12 s d
 LORD G. BENTINCK : Well, as it appears from the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman, that the reduction is not to take place until the year 1853–54, there is no necessity to discuss the question now; but otherwise, I believe, there would be no difficulty in still continuing the permission to have sugar used in breweries. Now, Sir, I come to the end of the period; and I will take the supposition that there would be that increase in the consumption of sugar consequent on the reduction of duty which has been foretold in that paper edited by a Member of the Government, and may be looked on as their official  Moniteur s l l l l l l 1127 s s s s d s s d 1128 "Did not Sir William Gomm make some estimate of the value of the crop?—He did; that is the crop which I speak of which has arrived and been sold. Sir William Gomm writes from the Mauritius on the 6th of March, 1847:—'The balance of revenue over expenditure of 1845 was 16,816 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1129 s d l s 1130 s s s s d s d s s 1131 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1132 l l l l l 1133 Cheers, and a laugh "From all that I have witnessed, and from the statements which I have received, my original opinion that a strict Government surveillance
 1134 * * * Bangalore l Bangalore 1135 Bangalore l l 1136 "The despatch arrived on the 27th of March. On the 27th of March, he (Mr. Hawes) could state that it reached his hands with a minute, which was to the effect that 'this is a copy of the despatch for which the Committee on West India Distress have asked.' We had a copy of the document which was required in the Votes of the House of Assembly. It was to be sent to the Committee this day." "Would it not be better to send instead a copy of this despatch, which is important, with the report and evidence, which we have got now for the first time? There are two copies, and so it is desirable to send it to-day."
 [Mr. HAWES : The two copies alluded to were of the report, and not of the letter.] I understand it to be the report. The statement of the hon. Member then went on as follows:—
 "That reached his hands from the Secretary of State with the words, 'I agree with you that this despatch ought to be given at the same time as the report and evidence to which it refers.' He (Mr. Hawes) added, 'I agree;' and on the 30th of March his noble Friend made a minute to this effect—' This may be laid before the Committee, as suggested.' As the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn stated that the despatch had not been laid before the Committee, he (Mr. Hawes) had thought it necessary to make inquiry on the subject, to show that it was the intention of his noble Friend (Earl Grey) and himself that it should be communicated."
 [Lord J. RUSSELL and Mr. HAWES : Hear, hear!] I wish to know whether the hon. Gentleman denies the correctness of this report? If the House will listen, it will see whether I am incorrect in my description of the Colonial Office, notwithstanding the equivocal cheers of the hon. Gentleman and the noble Lord. The report in the paper then proceeds:—
 "He (Mr. Hawes) was told on the 28th of
 1137 "The despatch required some attention to have his noble Friend's intention carried into effect. When it was returned to the department, they omitted to act upon his instructions. It must be said In their defence that the mass of papers and pressure of business offered some apology for the omission; but what he was most anxious to state was, that here was a most decided intention manifested on the part of his noble Friend (Earl Grey) and himself, to have that despatch communicated to the Committee. He thought that the House would be satisfied that he had set that point at rest." "Can you explain the reason why we have no accounts in the papers laid before Parliament, for Jamaica, of the character of those from other colonies? " Cries "I imagine you allude to the blue book, to the annual account from Jamaica." "There is no account of the state of the island, as in the other eases? " "That is generally comprised in the annual report called the blue book. The fact is that we have not received it." "Does not the Governor write despatches to the Colonial Office on the subject of the state of
 1138 "Yes, certainly; but I am not aware of any despatches from him of any importance, which have been withheld from this Committee." "We have received very considerable details as to the state of these colonies, and as to the prospects of agriculture; but from Jamaica I can find nothing of the kind." "Until very recently I think there has been no such general despatch received—that despatch is now printing for this Committee; I ought to add that the Governor has been in the island a very short time." "There is a despatch, but still not of the nature to which the right hon. Gentleman alludes; however, whatever we have will be furnished." 1139 s s d d s d d s s "A permanent  Gazette s d d 1140 Jamaica Despatch "Whatever may be our opinion of the present Ministry, and incapable as we believe their representative here to be, we cannot bring ourselves to the supposition that any set of men intrusted with the government of the empire would dare to disregard the well-authenticated distresses of any portion of the Queen's subjects. In what light those distresses have been represented by Sir Charles Grey, or what his representations of the condition of the colony may have been, we are unfortunately ignorant. Mr. Labouohere officially declared in the House of Commons that the Government had received no despatches from Jamaica explanatory of its political and social condition.
 1141 "We have but one word to add to these most unwelcome truths. The worst enemy the country can have is the man who attempts at the present moment to misrepresent the condition of the colony, or to conceal the alarming state of depression to which the unfeeling policy of the British Government has reduced it." non mi ricordo 1142 "At plantation 'Friends' the method of manufacturing sugar, by what is called Bradbury and Evans's patent, continues in operation with the most satisfactory results. The produce of this estate realised in England, so lately as October last, over 20 l l "I am at a loss to know why machinery of this kind, or, what is stated to be as good, the vacuum pan process, is not adopted generally. It may be said that some proprietors are too poor to make the outlay of money which the machinery costs (from 1,000 l l 1143 "The cessation from labour at the present moment is partial. Many of the Creoles have returned to their usual occupation on estates; but while the average of produce throughout the province is 1 or 1¼ hogshead per acre, it will be very difficult to compete with slave sugar. The crop of last year would have been remunerating had the prices kept up; that of Berbice as large as during slavery, but little profit has accrued. The difficulty of the planters is "now increased by their not being able to raise money even on their sugars. The failures in England have so shaken credit, that good (apparently) bills are refused, for fear of the person on whom they are drawn failing in the interval of their becoming due." 1144 "County (late Colony) Berbice, British Guiana, 16th March, 1848. "My Lord—We have just seen a newspaper containing a synopsis of a speech purporting to have been delivered in the House of Lords by your Lordship, on the 7th of last month, in a debate on a Motion on the state of the West Indies, introduced by Lord Stanley, in which is the following passage: 'But he contended, the system of cultivating and of manufacturing sugar in the West Indies by the intervention of agents (the proprietors residing in England) must be abandoned; and where estates had been cultivated by resident proprietors, they had been profitable.' We take the very first opportunity of stating to your Lordship, that if your Lordship entertains such opinions as are attributed to you in the above paragraph, they are, as far as this portion of the West Indies is concerned, not founded on fact, but on a misapprehension of the real state of things existing in this colony. At the termination of the apprenticeship, there were in cultivation in this country thirty-seven sugar estates, about the same number of coffee states, and two or three cotton properties. The cotton plantations have been long abandoned; and of the coffee estates four only are in existence, miserable remnants of that once-productive and valuable cultivation; of these four estates, two are in the hands of resident proprietors, the other two are owned by parties in England. Of the thirty-seven sugar estates, five had been abandoned; of these, four belonged to resident proprietors, and only one to an absentee. The remaining thirty-two estates have been kept in cultivation, at an enormous sacrifice of capital, in the expectation that a protection against slave-grown sugar would be continued until a sufficiency of labour could be introduced to enable the proprietors to conduct them with some profit; of these eighteen are in the hands of resident proprietors or lessees; one has just been taken from its resident proprietor, and sold at execution sale; the remaining thirteen belong to absentees, and are managed by agents; and we are not aware that there exists any difference in the condition of these properties; if there be any, it is in favour of estates of absentees, who have had more money to expend on improved machinery, and otherwise, than the resident proprietors; but even in their case, as your Lordship, no doubt, well knows, the result has been so ruinous, that they have resolved to abandon their property rather than throw away another farthing upon it. It therefore appears, that out of thirty-seven sugar estates in Berbice, twenty-three (or about 62 per cent) have been, and are, cultivated by resident proprietors or lessees, and only fourteen (or about 38 per cent) by the agents of absentee proprietors; and we again assert that we are not aware of a single estate cultivated by a resident proprietor which has been profitable." 1145 "In reflecting on the depressed state of affairs in this colony, and on its prospects, which become daily more gloomy, I have endeavoured to discover whether some relief might not he afforded, some alleviation found, whereby the burden which now weighs down the planter might be lightened. It is sad and painful to behold men expecting ruin quickly to overtake them; it is perhaps sadder and more painful to see them struggling and toiling against adversity, but with their energies dulled, and their arms palsied, from the knowledge that their labours must be unremunerative, and that failure can be the sole result; it is most distressing to witness this, and at the same time to be aware that much of the misery from which they are suffering, and that which awaits them, is of a nature which they are unable to avert by any acts of their own. It is pitiable to witness a fine colony daily deteriorating; a land enjoying almost every blessing under heaven, suffering from a shock from which it does not rally; but the deepest pang of all, to an Englishman, is to see the hearts and affections of a whole population becoming gradually alienated from the country which he loves. Suffering from such feelings, I have deemed it my duty to suggest a plan which might afford some temporary relief: which, having been adopted for the benefit of other portions of the empire, might fairly be applied to this; and which, having been proposed for them by Her Majesty's Government, and having received the sanction of Parliament, has all the weight of their authority to support it. Did I not see a prospect, I think a better one than in any other in the West Indies, of getting this colony through the present crisis, I should not venture to propose that advances should be made; but looking to the fertility of its soil, and the almost certainty of favourable seasons, I believe that with assistance, there can be little doubt of its ultimate success. But to be enabled to carry on the cultivation there is an absolute want of money, and there is no probability of any being advanced by capitalists. The question, therefore, is, shall the cultivation be allowed to cease, and the estates to go to ruin? for neglect for a very short time in this climate ensures ruin; or shall
 1146 "I could quote to your Lordship estates, as far as their soil is concerned, of great value, and giving, previously to emancipation, a large income, on which the whole of the redemption money was expended in improvements—which were entirely free from debt at that time—and which are now mortgaged almost to their full value, and their proprietors—resident Creoles too—from being in good circumstances, reduced to the last extremities. In these cases, the want of labour at a lair rate has been the chief cause of their embarrassments; they surely have some claim for assistance from the mother country. I am aware of the difficulties of the Imperial Government; it is furthest from my wish to add to them; and I only offer the subject of a loan for the purposes stated above, as a suggestion which may be feasible, and which would he most acceptable." "Moreover, under the present grave circumstances of Europe and the world in general, I would add, that, if the power of England and her interests are to be maintained in this portion of it—and I think they are worth maintaining—it would not be impolitic that some sympathy of a practical nature should be shown, and as early as practicable, by the mother country." 1147
 LORD J. RUSSELL  rose and said: If the House intends to finish the debate tonight, I will certainly proceed to address it; but if the House intends to adjourn the debate, seeing that so many Members are unaware of an intention to divide, I shall not address it. I would rather wish at this late hour not to address the House; but I expected some one would move the adjournment of the debate when the noble Lord (Lord G. Bentinck) sat down. I had in that case resolved to take the opportunity of saying a few words on the attack which the noble Lord has made on my noble Friend the Secretary for the Colonies. Perhaps similar attacks will be made on Monday evening, should the adjournment now be moved; and I shall then take the opportunity of replying to such, should they be brought forward.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  again rose. In replying. Sir, as far as I can, to the charges which the noble Lord has brought against my noble Friend the Secretary of the Colonies, you will first permit me to say that there is nothing in the character of my noble Friend—there is nothing either in his public or private life—to jus-
 1148 1149 "I imagine you allude to the blue book—to the annual account from Jamaica." "There is no account of the state of the island, and in the other cases? " "That is generally comprised in the annual report called the blue book. The fact is, that we have not received it. "Does not the Governor write despatches to the Colonial Office on the subject of the state of the island, besides that one particular paper, in the course of the year?—Yes, certainly; but I am not aware of any despatches from him of any importance which have been withheld from the Committee? " "We have received from other colonies very considerable details as to the state of those colonies, and as to the prospects of agriculture: but from Jamaica I can find nothing of the kind." "Until very recently I think there has been no such general despatch received." "That despatch is now printing for this Committee; I ought to add, that the Governor has been in the island a very short time." 1150 1151
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir. I cannot help thinking that had the noble Lord who has just addressed the House been silent—had he left the debate to terminate as it seemed about to terminate; or, if he had intrusted its future destinies to the volunteer who suddenly rose up to move the adjournment, both the reputation of the Secretary of State for the Colonies and the reputation of the noble Lord would have suffered less. The House can judge whether the noble Lord the Secretary of State has been vindicated with much success. The noble Lord has chosen his own battle-field. The debate might have been adjourned; he might have met the statement of the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn—he might have met any statement which had been brought forward evidently with so much consideration, and which was supported, let me remind the House, right or wrong, with so much detail, and with so much testimony—the noble Lord, in the legitimate method, might have taken the opportunity which was offered to him to meet it in the regular course of the debate, and he might have made an answer to the statement of my noble Friend, and he might have confuted him, if it were in his power to confute him. I admire the ardour of a man who cannot he restrained when he feels it is in his power to fulfil a great duty. But then let me remind the House that the condition of such conduct is that the duty shall be fulfilled. Has the noble Lord said anything which ought to influence the opinion of the House upon this subject? The
 1152 suppressio veri ipse dixit 1153 1154
 MR. LABOUCHERE : Mr. Speaker, I certainly do not rise because I think that any defence, either on my part or on that of any other person, is necessary for my noble Friend the First Lord of the Treasury from the attack which has been made upon him. But, Sir, the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord G. Bentinck) thought fit, in the course of the speech he has addressed to the House, to contrast my conduct with that of my noble Friend Lord Grey, and my hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies (Mr. Hawes), and to state that he believed if I had been placed in the same circumstances in which they have been placed I should not have acted in the same manner. Sir, it is less in justice to my noble and hon. Friends than to my own feelings that I rise to declare that I cannot accept that compliment from the noble Lord. I have acted for many years with my noble and hon. Friends; I know them well in public and private life; and I should be ashamed of myself if I shrank from declaring my conviction that they are as incapable as any men alive of acting in the manner imputed to them by the noble Lord. What, in reality, was the imputation? It is not that in the discharge of his public duty my noble Friend committed any error or mistake. No; the charge was one which ought surely not to be made against any man, much less against any man holding the position, and, I will say, holding, what is much higher, the character of my noble Friend, Lord Grey: it was this, that he wilfully and designedly committed a fraud upon the House
 1155 1156 primâ facie
 SIR E. BUXTON : I was a Member of the Committee referred to, and I was present during the examination of Mr. Hawes. It is quite unnecessary for me to go through the details of the evidence upon which this charge is sought to be established. I can of course give only my evidence rather in the character of a juryman than of a witness; but I must say that I believe the charge which the noble Lord has brought forward against the hon. Gentleman to be wholly, entirely, and utterly without foundation. Having voted against the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade through the whole course of this question—having reasons of my own for supporting the West Indian interests—I think it would be most unjustifiable for me to sit quietly by and hear the charge made without at least stating my firm conviction of the innocence of the hon. Gentleman. When I read the charge in the
 1157
 MR. ANSTEY : I rise to notice one point in the defence of the First Minister of the Crown, which seems to have escaped the attention of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire. The noble Lord seems to rest his defence of the noble Earl that the course taken upon this occasion has been in strict conformity with former precedent. Now, on Tuesday next we shall feel it our duty to show that the complaints from the colonies of neglect and want of attention to their interests depends very much upon this circumstance. We shall feel it our duty to show that the Colonial Office, for seven years confessedly, but as I believe for many more, has been nothing but a sink of corruption and abuse.
 MR. HAWES : I cannot allow this discussion to terminate without saying a few words. The noble Lord has twice brought forward charges against me which it was utterly impossible for any one to meet without previous notice. The first charge I met by stating here in my place that no despatches had been withheld from the Committee. The first time the House met afterwards I stated in my place that the despatch of the 27th of March was minuted by one of the gentlemen of the Colonial Office as an important despatch, and as one which ought to be communicated to the Committee. It was also minuted by the Assistant Under Secretary of State to the same effect. I minuted it to the same effect the same day. We all made the same minute on the same day, that that despatch ought to be laid before the Committee; to which my noble Friend the Secretary of State on the 30th added his minute to the same effect. The noble Lord's first shabby imputation I met thus with a distinct explanation. The noble Lord now pursues the same course, bringing a charge against me without notice on Friday night, so that I cannot meet it before Monday. The noble Lord, knowing that it is impossible for me, in respect to charges of this kind, to meet them without documents and dates, again selects Friday night—to fling abroad his calumnies till Monday, and on Monday I will state the truth to this House, But that is not all.
 1158 Interruption Interruption Fidus Achates 1159
 LORD G. BENTINCK : I shall not bandy from one side of the House to the other charges of falsehood; but this is what I say, and charge the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies with, on evidence which I laid before the House in substantiation of the charge. I said that if these minutes and memorandums were not got up subsequently to his examination of the 5th of April, he was troubled with the shortest memory since the days of green-bag notoriety, when Theodore Majocchi gave his answer of  Non mi ricordo
 MR. H. BAILLIE : I wish to put a question to the hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies with respect to this celebrated minute. The hon. Gentleman states that the words of the minute are, "that it ought to be referred to the Committee." I wish
 1160
 MR. HAWES : In answer to the question put by the hon. Member, I have to say that the words on the minute are, I think, "that it should be referred to the Committee which is now sitting," without any reservation or qualification whatever. With respect to the question put by the right hon. Member for Cambridge University, and which the hon. Member has referred to, I think that all those questions were asked after I had been examined before the Committee; and after the arrival of the packets at that time the question was asked. The question, therefore, was answered with reference to the arrivals by those particular packets which had arrived. That despatch, I concluded, was sent to the Committee, of which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge was a Member; and I concluded he was in possession of that despatch. I answered, therefore, the question simply in reference to subsequent arrivals; and there has been some confusion thrown over this matter by the first question of the right hon. Member for Cambridge University referring to what is called the blue book, giving a general description of the colony. You will see that the answer had reference to that, and shows that I put that construction on it. I answered both in reference to the arrivals by those particular packets I have alluded to, and in reference to what is called the blue book.
 MR. MILES  was quite sorry so much warmth had taken place about the charge against the Colonial Office. He cared not whether by Earl Grey, the hon. Gentleman opposite, or the clerks under them, but the fact was, that a despatch necessary to be laid before the Committee before they came to an adjudication, was suppressed—that the despatch was in their possession on the 27th of March—that on the 5th of April
 1161
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The hon. Gentleman who has just sat down says it will not do to throw the fault on the clerk; but what if it happens that the duty of transmitting the despatch to the Committee rested with the clerk, or some subordinate person in the department? Now, in matters of this sort, it is as well to be correct; and I think one hon. Gentleman stated a few minutes ago, that my hon. Friend had said, when examined before the Committee, that he was not aware that any despatch, of the nature of that which was under discussion in the Committee, had been received in the Colonial Office. Now, in point of fact, that is not the answer which my hon. Friend gave. [Lord GEORGE BENTINOK: I read the answer.] If the noble Lord will allow me, I will prefer reading the answer again; the House should, as often as possible, know the exact words that were used. Something turns on the particular expression. The question is—
 "Does not the Governor write despatches to the Colonial Office on the subject of the state of the islands, besides that one particular paper in the course of the year?—Yes, certainly; but I am not aware of any despatches from him of any importance." "We have received from other colonies very considerable details as to the state of those colonies, and as to the prospects of agriculture; but from Jamaica I can find nothing of the kind." 1162 "We have received from other colonies a very detailed agricultural account of the state of those colonies as to the prospects of agriculture, but from Jamaica I can find nothing of the kind? " "Until very recently, I think there has been no such general despatch received." 1163 "I ought to add, that the Governor has been a very short time in the colony. There is a despatch, but not of the nature to which the right hon Gentleman refers; however, whatever we have will be furnished."
 MR. HENLEY  observed that the Prime Minister had referred the whole matter to the head of the Colonial Department, and expended a great deal of virtuous indignation that any Gentleman should think that the noble Lord had done anything wrong. But that did not exactly answer. Then came the Under Secretary for the Colonies, who entered into a regular disquisition on the question; but neither was that attended with any satisfactory result. The noble Lord at the head of the Foreign Department then dived to the bottom of the Colonial Office, and could think of no better expedient than that of fixing on an unfortunate clerk, on whom he threw all the censure for neglecting to send up the despatch. The noble Lord then quibbled about questions and answers; but the whole matter, after all, was a very simple one. It was easy to bandy angry expressions from one side to the other; but, after all, the question was one of facts. How did the questions and the answers to them hang together? The Under Secretary for the Colonies first told the Committee that there was no despatch of any importance that had been withheld. But then in answer to
 1164
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  only wished to make one observation. The noble Lord the Foreign Secretary had read very glibly the questions, but he had hesitated at the answers, and he was not surprised at it, because the answers were in direct contradiction to the statements of the hon Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies. The Under Secretary had stated that it was the fault of the clerk in the Colonial Office that the despatches were not laid before the Committee; but the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs read the answer of the Under Secretary before the Committee, from which it appeared that, instead of saying the clerk had not laid the despatch before the Committee, or that he was not aware that the document had not been laid before the Committee, he stated that the document was in preparation, thus showing that he must have known that the document on the 5th of April was not before the Committee. The noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs then charged the Committee with negligence in not taking care to ascertain whether the despatch in question had been produced, because the Under Secre-
 1165
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  observed that the answers of his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies were, if read in a fair spirit, quite consistent. In point of fact, no despatch that had been received had been withheld.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHE-  1076  regretted that he was not able to answer the whole of the question which had been put by his hon. Friend. It was necessary to make a reference to Ireland with respect to at least one of the cases, but for that there had not been sufficient time. The first case mentioned by the hon. Baronet—that of Mr. O'Neil—he believed had been very correctly stated. With regard to the application for a second instalment, to which reference had been made, he had distinctly to observe, that in no case was a second instalment granted till it was ascertained by an inspector, sent for the purpose, that the first instalment had been laid out in the terms of the Act. So soon as it was found that the money in this case had been misapplied, a second instalment was refused, and legal proceedings for the recovery of the money were raised against O'Neil. On receiving this intimation, O'Neil offered to commence the works and to provide the money for that purpose; and the great object of the Board of Works being to secure employment for the people, and not to expend money in-legal proceedings, they had not persevered in those proceedings. The hen. Baronet had asked whether or not the works had been commenced; but to that question he was unable to give an answer. He would make inquiry, however, into all the circumstances. With regard to the next case, that of Lord De Freyne, and what took place between him and his  employés
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Since last night I have had an opportunity of laying the matter before my
 1080 d d d
 MR. FRENCH : If any departure from the provisions of the Act, which he very much doubted, had taken place at all, it had occurred without the knowledge and without the sanction of Lord de Freyne. The moment he learned it was alleged that the provisions of the 29th Section had not been complied with, directions were sent to the contractors that the orders of the Board
 1077 l l
 SIR B. HALL  referred to a notice which he had given the other evening, and said, that in pursuance of that notice he wished to put a question to his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the subject. On the 10th of June, 1847, an Act of Parliament was passed, by which 500,000 l l 1075 l l l
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  wished to take that opportunity of putting a question which he had brought last night under the notice of Her Majesty's Government. His object simply had been to inquire whether the right hon. Gentleman intended to adhere to the differential duty on rum originally announced on the part of Her Majesty's Government, or whether, in accordance with the wishes of the deputation, the right hon. Gentleman was prepared to adopt a differential duty more favourable to the interests of the home distiller. He begged now to repeat the question which he had put yesterday.
 MR. BERNAL  was deeply impressed with the importance of this subject, and was only sorry that it should have become one that engaged the attention of the House almost periodically, he might say perennially. He was almost sick of thinking upon the subject, much more of expressing any opinion upon it. But they had it before them, and were bound to deal with it in a spirit of impartiality, honesty, and sincerity. There were several kinds of adversaries—there was the open adversary, the concealed adversary, and the dubious adversary. He could not class the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down under any other category or description than that of an open, and, he trusted, a sincere, adversary. He had known the hon. Gentle-
 1226 d l 1227 A laugh Magna est Veritas et prœvalebit 1228 said the hon. Member, slightly kicking a large volume that lay at his feet 1229 usque ad nauseam l l 1230 1231 l l l l 1232 l l 1233 from an hon. Member from Scotland 1234
 MR. GALLAGHAN  was understood to express no disinclination towards the Government proposal so far as regarded sugar, but to reserve his opinion with respect to the proposed alteration in the differential duty on rum, which was a very different matter. The hon. Member urged the claims of the Irish distillers to that consideration and justice to which they were so fairly entitled.
 MR. HAWES : Before the Order of the Day is read, I am anxious to make a statement to the House, in accordance with the pledge I gave to the House on Friday night, in order to enable it to judge of the
 1169 1170 1171 Times "Mr. Goulburn inquired, whether any advice had yet been received from Jamaica, giving an account of the state and prospects of that island? "Mr. Hawes was sorry to say, that the Government had not yet received what was called the blue book, and had only general accounts from the island." 1172 "If these minutes and memorandums were not got up subsequently to his examination of the 5th of April, he was troubled with the shortest memory since the days of green-bag notoriety, when Theodore Majocchi gave his answer of  Non mi ricordo "That he (Mr. Hawes) could not on the 5th of April recollect, notwithstanding these separate discussions on the subject of that despatch, and its importance, that any important despatch, or that any despatch connected with the agricultural and social state of Jamaica, had been received. That is the charge I make against the hon. Gentleman; and I care nothing whether he makes his defence against the one or the other of the horns of the dilemma on which I place him, and from which he cannot escape." "Can you explain the reason why we have no accounts, in the papers laid before Parliament, of the character of those from other colonies?" "I imagine you allude to the blue book, to the annual accounts from Jamaica." "There is no account of the state of the island, as in the other cases?" "That is generally comprised in the annual report called the blue book, and that has not been received." "Does not the Governor write despatches to the Colonial Office on the subject of the state of the island, besides that one particular paper in the course of the year?" 1173 "Yes, certainly; but I am not aware of any despatches from him of any importance"— "There are despatches, but I am not aware of any despatches from him of any importance which have been withheld from the Committee." "We have received from other colonies very considerable details as to the state of those colonies and as to the progress of agriculture; but from Jamaica I can find nothing of the kind?"—"Until very recently" (I said) "I think there has been no such general despatch received; that despatch is now printing for this Committee, I ought to add that the Governor has been in the island but a very short time." "That is preparing, is it?"(and I answered)" There is a despatch, but still not of the nature to which the right hon. Gentleman alludes; however, whatever we have will be furnished." d 1174 "With respect to the cost of cultivation, an examination of the tables will show that the stated general average of the cost per hundred weight rests upon a basis which makes it a very unsafe criterion in many respects, and in none more so than as the criterion of a general average rate for the wages of agricultural labour." "This is a report (meaning the report of the Legislative Assembly) for a copy of which the West India Committee have asked. We had a copy in the Votes, which was to have been sent to the Committee to-day. Would it not be better to send instead a copy of this despatch, which is important, with the report and the evidence, which we have now got for the first time? There are two copies. And so it is desirable to send it to-day." "I conclude that you will agree with me that the despatch ought to be given in at the same time as the report which it enclosed." 1175 "This may be laid before the Committee as suggested; but it also requires to be answered with some care." 1176
 LORD G. BENTINCK : Sir, I am sure that everybody who has listened to the hon. Gentleman must be perfectly satisfied that his statement of the minutes upon that despatch is perfectly correct. But, Sir, the hon. Gentleman has not made out any case to show that the Colonial Office did not withhold the information from the Committee. I made two distinct charges: one was, that the Colonial Office had systematically kept back the information which Parliament ought to have been in possession of in February, and which the Committee of which I was the Chairman ought to have been put in possession of in the course of their inquiries. The other charge I made against the hon. Gentleman was this—that, in his evidence, on the 5th of April, he displayed a very short memory in all those memoranda and in all those discussions which had taken place with respect to this despatch. Well, Sir, I confess, for one, that I am still more surprised, even after the statement the hon. Gentleman has made to-day, that he should have given the answers which he did give before that Committee; because, though it is true that, in the course of his evidence, he said that he was not aware of any important despatch that had been withheld from the Committee, yet the inquiry of the right hon. Gentleman, a Member of that Committee (Mr. Goulburn), went distinctly to the character of this very despatch, which the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary, in answer to my last question, distinctly stated was not the character of the despatch which was then in preparation. But, Sir, let there be no mistake. Having reminded the House of the evi-
 1177 "I imagine you allude to the blue book—to the annual account from Jamaica." "There is no account of the state of the island, as in other cases?" "That is generally comprised in the annual report called the 'blue book,' and the fact is, we have not received it." "Does not the Governor write despatches to
 1178 "Yes, certainly; but I am not aware of any despatches from him of any importance which have been withheld from the Committee." "We have received from other colonies very considerable details as to the state of these colonies, and as to the prospects of agriculture; but from Jamaica I can find nothing of the kind;" "Until very recently I think there has been no such general despatch received; that despatch is now printed for this Committee. I ought to add, that the Governor has been in the island but a very short time."
 MR. HAWES : That had reference to the blue book, following upon what I said about the annual account.
 LORD G. BENTINCK : But the matter is put beyond all doubt by the answer to my question. I said, "That is preparing, is it?" The answer was in the affirmative—
 "There is a despatch, but still it is not of the nature to which the right hon. Gentleman alludes; and whatever we have will be furnished." 1179 Jamaica Dispatch "Whatever may be our opinion of the present Ministry, and however incapable we believe their representative here to be, we cannot bring ourselves to the supposition that any set of men entrusted with the government of the empire would dare to disregard the well-authenticated distresses of any portion of Her Majesty's subjects. In what light those distresses have been represented by Sir Charles Grey, or what his representations of the condition of the colony may have been, we are unfortunately ignorant." "Mr. Labouchere officially declared, in the House of Commons, that the Government had received no despatches from Jamaica, explanatory of its political and social condition. The matter lies between the two official gentlemen. Either one has grievously misstated, or the other has withheld the only service that could be hoped for from him—namely, a true detail of facts. We have reason to know that steps have been taken to find out where the fault lies, and we have already ox-pressed our belief that important despatches were purposely kept back by Government. What those despatches may be the future alone can disclose." Jamaica Dispatch "Mr. Goulburn wished to know why Jamaica had been omitted in the statement of affairs of the several West India colonies, which had been laid before the House; and also if there would be any objection on the part of the Government to lay the last despatches before the Committee?"—Mr. Labouchere said, as the right hon. Gentleman had the kindness to give him notice of his intention to put this question, he had applied to the Colonial Office on the subject, and was enabled to state that the reason no blue book respecting Jamaica had been laid on the table of the House was that none had been received." "With respect to the latter part of the right hon. Gentleman's question, he had to say that no despatch had been received giving any general account of the state of Jamaica; but as soon as such document was received it was the intention of his noble Friend the Secretary of State for the Colonies to communicate it without delay to the House." 1180 "With regard to the state of Jamaica, he stated, that among many documents that had passed through his hands connected with the state of the colonies, he was very much struck with one received the other day from a number of planters in the western part of Jamaica, in which they stated, that they had invested capital to the extent of not less than 142,000 l "The manufacture was one of the nicest kind,
 1181 "Now, we are resident proprietors, and all of us, with one exception, have purchased and leased our properties since the Emancipation Act. It will be evident from the facts stated, that we cannot cultivate for another year; indeed, we have not the means, unaided, of taking off the present crop, and the British West India merchants are now unable to assist us, and of course disinclined, where there is no hope of profit, or even of recovering their advances. If we, being proprietors and lessees, living on and managing our own properties, brought up to tropical agriculture, and availing ourselves of every practical improvement, have only such a result to exhibit as is set forth in the statement of these facts, the inference is conclusive that the position of the absentee proprietor or mortgagee, represented by paid agencies, is still more deplorable. It is evident, that unless some mode of suppressing slavery and the slave trade more effectual than that hitherto pursued be adopted, and without immediate aid, in the shape of money loans, sugar cultivation, upon which 300,000 of the emancipated negroes are wholly dependent, must cease in Jamaica. But our object in submitting these facts to your Lordship is to enable you to draw your own inferences, and suggest your own remedies, and we beg you will consider our desperate position as an excuse for troubling you with the statement." 1182 "I think it my duty to mention that the low price to which sugar has recently fallen in the London market, without any corresponding reduction of duty, really threatens with ruin many of the planters who have latterly been struggling hard to keep their heads above water; and that I perceive indications of a movement within the island to support, in the next Session of the Imperial Parliament, the party which asserts the principle of protection. It is not unlikely that, with this object in view, there may be an effort of the planters' party in the House of Assembly here to delay the annual revenue bills and the principal business of the Session of the island Legislature until after Christmas. My utmost efforts and most studious endeavours will be employed to persuade them to the most temperate and salutary course of action. But I cannot deny that, whilst corn and cotton are imported into the United Kingdom duty free, the duty of 14 s Gazette 1183 "With respect to the introduction of emigrants, 500 or 1,000 emigrants in each year can have no perceptible effect on the price of labour, and unless that is remedied, and that quickly, I do not see how the cultivation of sugar can be carried on with any prospect of success. I can assure your Lordship the is addressing Earl Grey), that I have it on the best authority, that even under the most favourable circumstances the price of sugar will not pay the cost of cultivation, and that the distress that consequently exists in this colony has never been equalled." "I have already mentioned to your Lordship the distress existing in this colony, and which is increasing daily, and amounts to an unprecedented stagnation of business, cases of which are brought to my notice constantly. For instance, an estate having a promise of a much larger crop than had ever previously been produced, being almost abandoned for want of the necessary labour, and those instances are frequently most distressing." "I have also stated that the chief cause of this, although it may to a certain extent be attributed to the state of the money market, is, that the price of sugar will not repay the cost of production;" "I do not hesitate to express to your Lordship my conviction that if this colony is not to be left to subside into a state of comparative barbarism, which would result from the ruin of its larger proprietors, some more than ordinary relief is necessary to support the contest which, in common with the other British colonies, it is engaged in; and, circumstanced as it is, I believe it is incapable of competing in the British market with the produce of slave-labour countries, unless the advantages of free trade are conceded to it as well as Its disadvantages, and I will add, that the relief
 1184 1185 pro formâ 1186 "I have thought it right to forward to your Lordship as early as possible a return, showing the probable state of the treasury of this colony on the 1st of April next. It has been made with as much accuracy as possible. It shows that at the end of the quarter there will be a defalcation of 6,253 l l l l l l l l l l l l "It is absolute necessity which alone induces me to trouble your Lordship with that statement; but it is quite clear that either some assistance in aid of the revenue must be found, or else that a general reduction of salaries must at once be effected; for after the month of August the receipts begin to diminish, and continue to do so up to December. I am not aware whether any portion of the sum of 200,000 l 1187 "In my despatch, No. 72, of the 11th September last, I apprised your Lordships of the disastrous state to which adverse circumstances had reduced this one flourishing settlement; and I deeply regret to observe that Mr. Baynes's report, now submitted, is not calculated to convey a more favourable impression than I was myself led to form during my recent sojourn in the island." "The estates of the late Mr. Dudley Semper, which, estimated as all the properties were at the time of their valuation, at scarcely more than half of their value, are rated in the levy bill at 27,700 l l l l 1188 l l l s d l l l l l l l s d "Small as that sum is, there are only eight estates of the thirty-nine in the island on which the labourers are settled with punctually." "Not less than seventeen sugar estates have during the course of the last year been either thrown up, or the cultivation on them has been greatly reduced." "In this island, in which I believe wages have long been below the rates of other colonies, being only 5½ d s d l s proximi longo intervallo "until, in fact, the wages of the free labourer shall be reduced to a par with the necessary subsistence of he slave." 1189 1190 1191 d d d s d s s 1192 s s s s d d s 1193 1194 "A refined policy ever has been the parent of confusion, and ever will be, so long as the world endures. Plain, honest intention, which may as easily be discovered as fraud will surely be detected at last, is, let me say, of no mean force in the government of mankind."
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I cannot but think that my hon. Friend is entitled to an answer to the questions that he put to the noble Lord; and I rise for the purpose, not of inflicting a long speech on the subject of despatches of September and October last from Governor Higginson, but, if possible, to get the noble Lord to answer the questions that my hon. Friend has put to him. The noble Lord, as I understood him, originally said that a despatch had been kept back from the Committee of which he was Chairman; and the hon. Gentleman then came down and read certain minutes from the Colonial Office, directing that that despatch should be laid before the Committee on the 30th of March. On Friday night last the noble Lord said that those minutes must have been concocted; and he ended his speech with the words that he has just now again quoted from Mr. Burke, to the effect that fraud will always in the end be detected. My hon. Friend, in answering this charge, produced certain minutes; and the noble Lord, in reference to them, says that, "if these minutes and memorandums were not got up subsequently," that is, if they were not a forgery—if they were not a fraud—on the part of either Mr. Cox, Mr. Hawes, Mr. Elliot, or Lord Grey—
 "If they were not got up subsequently to his examination of the 5th of April, he was troubled with the shortest memory since the days of green-
 1195 Non mi ricordo Non mi ricordo 1196 Non mi ricordo
 MR. DISEABLI  rose to address the House, but was met with loud cries of "Question!"
 MR. SPEAKER : There is no question before the House upon which the hon. Member can address it.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I had hoped that my noble Friend (Lord G. Bentinck) had spoken long enough to convey to this House his meaning, and that it was unnecessary that he should rise again. If the noble Lord has not conveyed what he meant to convey to the House, he may despair of doing so in any future address. I wish to make an explanation in the first place with respect to the Under Secretary for the Colonies. When I said on a former
 1197 1198 s 1199 1200 "A very great change was going on in the West Indies at the present moment. Among many documents which had passed through his hands connected with the state of these colonies, he was very much struck with one which he had received the other day from a number of planters in the western part of Jamaica, and who stated that they had invested capital to the extent of not less than 142,000 l "So far from believing that the prospects of Jamaica were bad, he was not aware of any part of the British dominions in which there was so favourable a prospect for the investment of capital at this moment as in Jamaica." 1201 "My Lord—We pray your earnest attention to the following facts:—We, the undersigned, are the owners of 19, and the lessees of 13 sugar estates in the west end of the island of Jamaica, on which properties we employ daily an average of 2,898 labourers, who represent families numbering 14,490 people, lately redeemed from slavery. Our sugar estates, 32 in number, are expected to make this year 2,796 hogsheads of sugar, and 1,354 puncheons of rum, which will cost us, by accurate computation, 60,315 s s d l l maximum l l s d l s d l s s l l l l "It will be evident from the facts stated that we cannot cultivate for another year; indeed we have not the means, unaided, of taking off the present crop." l "And the British West India merchants are now unable to assist us, and of course disinclined, when there is no hope of profit, or even of recovering their advances." "If we, being proprietors and lessees, living on and managing our own properties, brought up to tropical agriculture, and availing ourselves of
 1202 l 1203 "It must be conceded that, for obvious reasons, free-grown sugar can never yield so lucrative a return as that produced by foreign slaves." 1204 1205 1206 1207
 MR. V. SMITH  thought the House had some reason to complain that the hon. Gentleman who had just set down, and the noble Lord, should have deviated so much from the original discussion of the evening, viz., the personal charges brought against Members of Her Majesty's Government. He contended that the commencement of this debate was the statement made by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hawes) on a purely personal question; and it was solely because it was a personal question that he was permitted to proceed. But how had the noble Lord and the hon. Gentleman opposite met that personal question? It was of immense importance that that House should preserve the dignity of their debates; and if charges were brought against a Member, and especially against a Minister of the Crown, it was the duty of the House to institute inquiry into those charges—to acquit the individual charged if found innocent—or to take steps against him if the charges were borne out. The noble Lord (Lord G. Bentinck) had not denied the utterance of the words used by him when he charged Gentlemen in the Colonial Office with concocting a minute. If there was meaning in words, the noble Lord had charged Mr. Cox and Mr. Elliot, as well as Mr. Hawes and Lord Grey, with having concocted a minute; in plain words, the charge was one of forgery. The hon. Member for Buckinghamshire said the noble
 1208
 Sir J. PAKINGTON  thought the right hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat, and the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) who spoke earlier in the evening, were attempting to divert the House from that which seemed to him to be the real ques-
 1209 1210
 Sir G. GREY : It is with considerable surprise that I have heard my hon. Friend, who has just addressed the House, charge us who sit on this side with having attempted on this occasion to divert the attention of the House from that which is the real question before it. What is the real question? My hon. Friend, feeling that a charge had been brought against him by the noble Lord, deeply affecting his personal honour, called upon him either to prove or to withdraw it. The noble Lord seems astonished that my hon. Friend should consider the charge he made to affect his personal honour, because he now says the charge he alleged was political and not sordid fraud. As far as affected his honour, the result has proved that the charge of fraud was utterly unfounded, and I believe it was never entertained by any man; still the hon. Gentleman rose to defend himself against the Imputation, partly by a temperate, clear, and expressive
 1211 1212 Hansard
 LORD GEORGE BENTINCK : Sir, if I may be allowed to judge by the expression of feeling on the morning of Saturday last, I do not believe that the feeling in this country, more especially the feeling in this House was, that the character of the House was damaged so much by what proceeded from this side of the House as from what fell from the noble Lord at the head of the Government. Sir, having said thus much, I return to the subject of this night's discussion, and I repeat now, what I said upon the morning of Saturday last, and
 1213 1214
 MR. HAWES : Then I beg the noble Lord's attention. The first time that I knew that the directions upon that despatch were not fulfilled, and that the despatch had not been laid before the Committee, was when the noble Lord mentioned it in this House, and I did not know it before.
 LORD G. BENTINCK : Then I ask, when did the noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Office know it? [Mr. HAWES: At the same time.] So when this House passes a unanimous resolution that the Colonial Office shall send copies and extracts of despatches from the colonies, does neither the Under Secretary nor the Chief Secretary of State condescend to pay any attention to the order of this House? The hon. Gentleman tells you that the first time he knew of this mistake was when I mentioned it in the House. Why, that was after the despatch was printed, and three weeks after it could have been of any use. How was it that the hon. Gentleman and the noble Earl did not know it? Why, there is but one answer to the question. Either he does not select the despatches, or else he must have known it if he did select the despatches, he cannot help having known it, for it is arranged the first despatch in order. There can be no doubt on the mind of any man who understands anything of evidence, that the first paper set apart was that very despatch on which it is noted in the margin that its enclosure was sent to the Committee, and which we are told, and all believe, was bedizened and emblazoned over with the minutes, first of Mr. Cox, who at once said that it was a most important despatch, and ought to be before the Committee; next with an endorsement by some other gentleman in the office to the same effect; thirdly, with an endorsement by Earl Grey himself; and finally, by the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of State. Therefore, when that despatch came before Lord Grey again, on
 1215 1216 in formâ pauper is offence
 MR. CHARTERIS  had come down to the House expecting to hear the charges which had been preferred by the noble Lord (Lord G. Bentinck) substantiated or retracted. He must understand, from the manner in which the noble Lord had expressed his concurrence in certain statements which had been made, that he had retracted the charges in so far as the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hawes) was personally concerned; but he was sorry that the noble Lord should have made his retractations so unhandsomely. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hawes) came out of the ordeal without the slightest imputation upon his honour; but had he (Mr. Charteris) preferred a charge against any hon. Gentleman which he felt bound to retract, he would have done it in another manner than that adopted by the noble Lord. He was prepared to give the noble Lord credit for the industry and zeal with which he had sifted the question; but he regretted that that zeal and industry had not been displayed in a less offensive and less objectionable manner.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken seemed to labour under the impression that charges ought to be retracted which had never been made. The right hon. Gentleman (Sir G. Grey) had expressed his regret that the Opposition side of the House was not headed by a man of great weight in the House, and whose influence with his party was such as to restrain any unseemly ebullition which might otherwise break forth. This was the strongest complaint which could be conceived to come from that right hon. Gentleman when his own
 1217
 MR. G. THOMPSON  observed that this was not a question affecting alone one particular interest—the interests of the West Indian proprietors. It necessarily embraced those great principles of political economy which had been so frequently debated in that House, and which had been recognised as the soundest and safest basis for our future legislation in reference to matters of commerce. Upon our decision also of that question depended the condition—moral, social, and material—of those who
 1218 l 1219 1220 1221 1222 d d Growler 1223 particeps criminis 1224 l l l 1225
 MR. B. OSBORNE  wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs two questions of which he had given notice. The first was, whether there was any recognised channel in this country through which the Spanish Government could send its communications to the Foreign Office? And the second was, whether the noble Lord was prepared to advise the Crown to abide by the articles of the Quadruple Treaty as regarded Spain?
 SIR J. GRAHAM : Sir, although I have for some time wished to make a few observations on this subject, I was desirous not to obtrude my opinions upon the House; and I hope on that ground the House will exercise forbearance towards me, while I state very shortly my reasons for the vote I am about to give. I have listened with great attention to the remarks of the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down. I have listened to him on account of my great respect for his abilities, and also on account of his position as a distinguished Member of the West India body in this House. I can assure him that I did not join in that mirth which accompanied the statement of his vote; but I attempted in vain to discover what are the remedies which he, with his great knowledge and experience, would suggest to the House. I can also assure my hon. Friend that I entirely concur in the sentiments with which he commenced his speech. I think the subject we are now discussing is most important, that it is surrounded with many difficulties; and I agree with my hon. Friend, that, characterised as it is by its importance and its difficulty, it must be decided, if it be decided upon sound principle, with reference to the interests of the entire community. I agree also with my hon. Friend, in deprecating the introduction of bitterness into this discussion. I think that any feeling of that kind would most unworthily accompany anything which falls from me, and that anything like taunt and sarcasm from me would be peculiarly misplaced. For it is not denied that the West Indian interest are a suffering interest, and I agree with what has fallen from my hon. Friend that this commercial empire is under immense obligations to the West Indies with reference to its commercial and mercantile importance. I must again advert to the difficulty I have had in listening to the speech of my hon. Friend, to know what are the remedies which, from his judgment and experience, he considers
 1235 l 1236 1237 1238 s 1239 s s s "The high rate of wages, the insufficiency of the labour given, and the want of a steady command of it by the planters, are, in my apprehension, in a great measure attributable to those duties, which, by maintaining artificial prices of sugar, have induced the planters to compete with each other in the labour market, and produce in their turn artificial wages of labour. In point of fact, by leading the planters to expect prices for their produce which have not been realised, and thus inducing them to raise wages beyond their proper proportion to the market value of sugar, I believe the system of protection to have been seriously injurious to the cultivators of sugar. It is by reducing both prices and wages to their natural amount, that I hope to see the cost of production brought to its due proportions, and a sound basis established for that energy, enterprise, and improvement, by which the cultivation may be again rendered remunerative," s 1240 l s d s d s d s "That any change in the present duties on sugar which is not in accordance with the resolutions which have been reported to the House by the Select Committee on Sugar and Coffee Planting in the present Session, will be insufficient to avert the ruin with which the sugar-growing pos-
 1241 s s s 1242
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The relations between the two countries being suspended, there is only a consular organ remaining on each side as the channel of any communication. With regard to the question of the Quadruple Treaty, I am sure the hon. Member must feel that is a question which cannot be answered in one word. That treaty was made under peculiar circumstances and for peculiar purposes. It was made for the purpose of supporting, on the one hand, the rights of the Queen of Spain to the Crown of Spain; and, on the other hand, for the purpose of assisting the Spanish people in maintaining their independence and constitution against what was thought to be a party supported by the means and assistance of foreign States. All I can say is, that Her Majesty's Ministers will never be a party to proceedings, treaty or no treaty, which shall have for their object to enslave any nation whatever upon the face of the earth.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, the House must allow him to state that, during the number of years he had had the honour of occupying the chair, he did not remember any occurrence of this kind; and, without referring to those authorities from which he might derive information on the subject, he was totally unprepared to say whether a similar case had ever before occurred.
 COLONEL CONOLLY  had resisted the measure in its former stages, and the more
 1302
 MR. STAFFORD , adverting to the notice of Motion of the hon. Member for Portarlington, for the issuing of a writ for the election of a Member for the borough of Sligo, which notice, in consequence of the House not meeting yesterday, had become a dropped notice, said, that previous to and at the commencement of the present Session, any hon. Member might have moved for the issuing of a writ as a matter of privilege without notice; but in consequence of a Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose, every Member was now required to give one day's notice of any Motion he intended to bring forward. The hon. Member for Portarlington had complied with this rule; but he did not think that rule, respecting dropped notices, applied to a case of privilege; and, therefore, he was of opinion that the hon. Member for Portarlington might make his Motion now, notwithstanding the House did not meet yesterday.
 MR. GORING  thought that the hon. Member for Youghal (Mr. Anstey), before he called their attention to the obsolete statutes referred to in this Bill, was bound to prove that the Roman Catholic religion was changed, and that the animus which was formerly displayed against Protestants no longer existed. He ought to show that denunciations such as those contained, for example, in the bull In  cœnâ Domini, 1292 "Nothing of what has been regularly defined ought to be retrenched or changed or increased; but that all should be preserved incorrupt both in meaning and expression." In cœnâ Domini, "It being our will that this our present process, and all and everything contained in this letter, shall continue and be in full force until another similar process be drawn up and issued by ourselves, or by the Roman Pontiff for the time being." 1293 Satires 1294 Moral Theology Roman Catholic Calendar "The Congregation of Rites allowed the cause of his beatification to be brought forward in 1796, and on the 14th of May, 1802, decided that it might be safely proceeded with, the Cardinal Reporter having declared that the theologians who had examined his manuscripts and printed works had found nothing censurable in them." Roman Catholic Calendar "On the 18th May, 1808, Pope Pius VII. confirmed the decree of the Sacred Congregation of Rites, which declared that all the writings of St. Alphonse, whether printed or inedited, had been most rigorously examined according to the discipline of the Apostolic See, and that not one word had been found  censurœ dignum, voce concordi, unanimi consensu, una voce, unanimiter. Moral Theology Times 1295 1296 Tablet "We believe the difference between the 'dead Papists of books,' and the 'real live Roman Catholics' to be very slight; and that the difference, if any there be, is in favour of the 'Papists of books.'"
 MR. GORING  regretted his inadvertent departure from the rules. The Roman Catholics had no right to complain of obsolete statutes remaining on the Statute-book when there was a law also remaining on the Statute-book by which divines were made liable to the penalties of a  prœmunire, 1297
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the important fact must not be lost sight of, that the first question they would have to consider on going into Committee was an Amendment to be proposed by the Attorney General, the effect of which would be rather to conceal than to amend the proposition of the hon. Member for Youghal (Mr. C. Anstey), whose purpose was to admit in this country the authority of the Pope, to be enforced with the sanction of English law and of the English Government. Although the principle of the Bill had been fully discussed, yet he did not think that the objection formerly raised by the hon. Member for Midhurst (Mr. Walpole), to the repeal of the 13th of Elizabeth, was fairly met by Her Majesty's Ministers; for he had certainly hoped that they would have insisted that that particular statute should be exempted from the list of Acts proposed to be repealed. He wished, therefore, to impress upon the House, that the Amendment which the Attorney General was to move on going into Committee, would not meet the emergency of the case, and that it was necessary to take a review of the whole question now, before they went into Committee, when it would not be compatible with the practice to do so. Let him remind the House of the conditions upon which the Pope, when he ascended the chair of St. Peter, recommended allegiance to those sovereigns who acknowledged his authority. In his encyclical letter he said—
 "Have a care to impress upon their minds the obedience and subjection which are due from a Christian people to princes and powers, teaching according to the apostolic precept that there is no power but from God, and that those who resist the power, resist the ordinance of God, and purchase to themselves damnation. And, therefore, that this precept of obeying the lawful authorities cannot be violated by any one without sin, unless indeed anything be commanded which is opposed to the laws of God and of the Church." "We trust that the princes, our dearest sons in
 1300 Idem, Idem. Ibid 1301
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Gentleman is taking a course not in accordance with the rules of the House.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that all Motions for new writs were formerly matters of privilege, and therefore had precedence of any other business; but the House had waved that privilege by requiring a previous notice of any Motion founded on a special report by an Election Committee. Now, the question raised was, whether a dropped notice respecting such a Motion was required to be renewed? The rule of the House with regard to dropped notices was this—that where they contained any matter that was not debateable, hon. Members might move them at the time the notices of Motion were read; but where the notices contained matter that was debateable, the practice of the House was to put off such notices until the other notices had been disposed of.
 MR. SERJEANT TALFOURD  regretted the course which had been taken by the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Goring). All the topics which had been introduced as obstacles to proceeding with this Bill on the present occasion, had been very fully discussed on a previous day in the admirable speech of the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst (Mr. Walpole). The House having affirmed the principle of the Bill on the second reading, a long discussion having taken place on the question of going into Committee, and the House having, when in Committee, arrived at a decision in which he most heartily concurred, that the Bill should be divided into two parts, he did confess that it appeared to him to be a factious course now to raise another discussion upon the principle of the Bill upon going into Committee on the present occasion. He was prepared to join the hon. Gentleman opposite in voting against that part of the Bill which went to disturb the great settlement of Catholic emancipation, without, he believed, doing any real good to our Roman Catholic fellow-subjects, whilst it would create the greatest irritation among the Protestants of the kingdom, who were justly excited by the pretensions to domination put forward by the Roman Catholics. He sympathised with them on that point; but he did not think it fitting to obstruct the progress of the Bill by discussing
 1299
 MR. FORBES  objected to going into Committee, and he hoped his hon. Friend (Mr. Goring) would press his Motion to a division. Differing as he did from the object of this Bill, he should feel it to be his duty to give it his most decided opposition. It was all very well to talk of the grievances to which Roman Catholics were subjected by the provisions of the Act complained of; but it was well known that under that Act no proceedings had been taken against any Roman Catholic ecclesiastic whatever. Besides, he was not prepared by a side wind to repeal that provision of the Act of 1829 which had been introduced as a safeguard to the Protestanism of this country.
 SIR G. GREY  said, it would be very inconvenient, if not contrary to the rules of the House, to go into the discussion of the Amendment at that moment, before the House was in Committee.
 SIR G. GREY : I am anxious to make a brief statement to the House in justice to some naval officers, who feel themselves aggrieved by statements affecting them which have appeared in the public papers, and have been made the subject of a question in this House. I refer to the officers of Her Majesty's ship  Shearwater 1290 Shearwater Shearwater
 SIR G. GREY  said that, in consequence of his attention having been called to this subject by his hon. Friend, he had felt it his duty to ascertain the state of the law as it applied to the question of these Derby sweeps. It appeared, by a decision of the Court of Queen's Bench in 1845, that it was held that a Derby sweep was a lottery, and, therefore, illegal. They were prohibited by the 42nd of George III., c. 19; by the 10th and 11th of George IV., c. 13; and he apprehended that they were included and prohibited by the 6th and 7th of William IV., c. 66. Under these circumstances, a communication had taken place between himself and the Board of Taxes, and he held in his hand a letter from the solicitor of that board in which it was stated that it was the intention of the Excise Commissioners to submit certain of the advertisements to which his hon. Friend had alluded to the Home Office for its determination. He (Sir G. Grey) had not yet received those advertisements; but when he should have received them, he would give the matter every attention.
 SIR. H. WILLOUGHBY  did not see the hon. and learned Attorney General in his place, though the hon. and learned Gentleman had an Amendment to propose. If the House went into Committee, what would be the state of the question? The hon. and learned Gentleman's Amendment would fall to be considered; but he was anxious to point out to the hon. and learned Gentleman that the Amendment would not attain its object, as there were other bulls not included under its terms. It was a question with him whether the discussion should be persisted in; and he thought the absence of the Attorney General afforded a sufficient reason for postponement. How was legislation to be effected by the provisions of the present Bill? There were no fewer than eight statutes lumped up in a mass, which it was proposed to repeal, "so far as affected Roman Catholics." If there were any disabilities, real and tangible, which affected Roman Catholics, he would be ready to assist in removing such disabilities. But he would defy the noble Lord the Member for Arundel to point out any penalties on Roman Catholics imposed in any of the Acts enumerated which had not been repealed by some subsequent statute. The hon. and learned Member for Youghal had entered the field, indeed, rather late, because, by the 7th and 8th of Victoria, cap. 102, and by the 9th and 10th of Victoria, c. 59, all disabilities and punishments established in the first six Acts were altogether removed. The first clause did not deal fairly and candidly with the House, because it assumed that pains and penalties existed which in reality had ceased. Then the statute of William III., which related to the oaths taken by barristers, had been altogether repealed by an Act of George III. If the hon. and learned Member for Youghal proved that the penalties of the 1st of Elizabeth, c. 1, existed, he (Sir H. Willoughby) would not continue his opposition. He trusted the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Depart-
 1298
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, he had been to consult the highest authority as to the forms and usages of that House. From what he had heard, he (Sir R. Inglis) believed that, although precedents might be found for the Speaker giving a casting vote, there was (as we understood) no precedent for such a course being taken by the Chairman of a Committee. He thought that the discussion on this Bill ought not to be continued, after the proceedings which had taken place.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  some weeks ago had placed in the hands of his right hon. Friend certain advertisements for raising what were called "Derby sweeps," and, believing fully that there was hardly any proceeding that produced more demoralisation among the people, he at the same time gave his right hon. Friend notice that he should ask him, first, whether, according to his own view, and in the opinion of the law officers of the Crown, such practices were illegal; and, secondly, if they were illegal, whether he was prepared to take any measures to
 1291
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  apprehended that a resolution of that House would be recognised by the subsequent passing of the Bill which had been founded upon it. The rule would be this—if the House of Commons resolved that a given duty should be imposed upon goods before they were entered for home consumption, it was fairly to be presumed (and the practice proceeded upon the presumption) that the House would pass a Bill founded upon that resolution; and, as the Bill related to a matter of money, it was not supposed that the other House would interfere with the resolution. The Government would therefore give an order to officers to act on that resolution. He admitted that an action would lie; but before it would be ripe for investigation the Act of Parliament would have received Her Majesty's assent that from and after the 5th of July such and such duties should be levied, and that would be a perfect answer to the action.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the ground of that decision was in truth a confirmation of the view he took of the present case. The case to which the hon. Member referred was one in which an action was brought against the custom-house officers for refusing to allow corn to enter for home comsumption without payment of any duty whatever; and for this simple reason—a resolution having passed that House during the Administration of the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir R. Peel) for an alteration of the duties on corn, a mistake had occurred in drawing up the resolution, by which an interval of one day was allowed to elapse between the expiry of the old duties and the imposition of the new, and the Government having levied duty upon corn entered on that one day, were obliged by the court to refund it. If
 1317
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  was met by shouts for a division. He said he apologised for venturing to address the House at so late an hour. In his defence he could merely state that he had risen to endeavour to catch the Speaker's eye every time an opportunity afforded itself from the commencement of this debate—that he had endeavoured, on the last night of this debate to move the adjournment, but he was unsuccessful. He therefore hoped the House would allow him to make a few observations. He would not go, or attempt to go, into the details of this question. Every Member who had spoken upon it had admitted fully and entirely the existence of great depression in our West Indian colonies; and the only question that had been raised was the character of the remedy proposed for that distress. It had been stated that absenteeism, and negligence, and want of energy, might be among the main causes of that distress. But his right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge had so fully answered those allegations, that he (the Marquess of Granby) would make no observations upon them. But there had been another cause assigned for that distress, namely, the commercial depression which had recently befallen the empire generally. He had no hesitation in saying that the distress of the West Indies was attributable to the derangements caused by the Act of 1846. He wished to know how it happened that whilst the price of our West Indian sugar had fallen 13 s s "Perhaps some part of it (the reduction in price) is to be attributed to the monetary crisis?" "Were it so, that would have affected the estates in Cuba as much as it has done ours; but such does not appear to be the case. The acts of the Legislature affected the price of our sugar much more than they had that of slave countries." 1380 "That if the protective duties levied upon foreign sugar were now to be increased, and the price of sugar in the British market were in consequence to be artificially raised, the efforts now being made by the British planter to lessen the cost of his sugar by a reduction of wages and other means of economy, would be impeded, wages would again be raised in the colonies, and the cost of production increased." s d 1381 s s s à fortiori s
 LORD G. BENTINCK : Sir, I will take this opportunity of putting a question to the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, to the noble Lord at the
 1309 Hansard "He wished to know why Jamaica had been omitted in the statement of the affairs of the several West Indian colonies laid before the House; and also if there would be any objection on the part of the Government to lay the last intelligence from Jamaica on the table?" "That, as the right hon. Gentleman had had the kindness to give him notice of his intention to ask the question, he had applied to the Colonial Office on the subject, and was enabled to state, that the reason no blue book had been laid on the table respecting Jamaica was, that it had not been received." "Owing to the ample information which had been forwarded by Lord Elgin, Earl Grey [he believed this should be Sir Charles Grey, not Earl Grey] had stated he could add nothing to the sources of intelligence already opened by the noble Lord. With respect to the latter part of the right hon. Gentleman's question, he had to say, that no despatch had been received giving any general account of the state of Jamaica; but, as soon as such a document should be received, it was the intention of the Secretary of State for the Colonies to communicate it without delay to the House."
 LORD G. BENTINCK : The right hon. Gentleman will have an opportunity of explaining to the House what he did say. My question goes to this—I ask the right hon. Gentleman how he reconciles the answer I have read with the fact that the Colonial Office was then in possession of despatches which had subsequently come before this House? The first of these despatches is dated the 25th of March, 1847, and the second the 21st of September, 1847, and which states—
 "That the low price of sugar in the London market threatens many of the planters with ruin, and that there are indications of a movement in favour of a return to the principle of protection." "A merely formal address, consisting only of empty civilities, of commonplace recommendations, would have been received with disgust and impatience, and would have been a vacuum into which all the better feeling of the moment would have outpoured itself in reply. Deeming it right, therefore, to speak to the purpose, the only safe course was to speak plainly, and with the most perfect truth and entire sincerity, for the accomplishment of which I require to be allowed a certain degree of fulness, and perhaps prolixity. There is not a word of what I said which was not meant to express my real sentiment." "Your memorialists are reduced to the greatest distress, and pray your Majesty's interference in their behalf, to prevent the utter annihilation of their property, and their being driven forth from the colony they inhabit, penniless, and without a home." "Your memorialists most respectfully submit, that should this ruinous state of affairs continue a few months longer, the whole of these properties (once giving a large income) must be thrown up, and your memorialists reduced to beggary and ruin.  * * * 1311
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Perhaps I may be permitted here to observe, that the statement which the noble Lord has made as that delivered by my right hon. Friend, is not a correct statement of what my right hon. Friend said.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, this House has a great question before it, worthy of all its attention. This House has to consider whether, viewing the peculiar state of the West India colonies, and the distress which has prevailed and does prevail in those colonies, it will go into Committee to consider whether it will make any alteration in the duties imposed by the Act of 1846. I avow, Sir, that after hearing this very protracted debate, I feel confident in the opinion I gave before—that, by inter-
 1382 s s s s 1383 1384 1385 l 1386 s 1387 s s s s s s s 1388 s d s s d s l l l 1389 s 1390
 LORD J. RUSSELL  observed, that the hon. and learned Member opposite had been heard through most of the observa-
 1393
 MR. NEWDEGATE,  seeing the right hon. Baronet the Chairman of the Committee on Commercial Distress, in his place, wished to know whether it were true that the Committee had refused or intended to refuse to examine as witnesses Mr. Alison, Sheriff of Renfrewshire, and Mr. Blacker, an Irish gentleman?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said that one report had been made to the House.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  wished to know whether the refusal of the evidence of those gentlemen was previous to that report being made?
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Gentleman could not put the question.
 MR. SPEAKER : But not the evidence.
 MR. SPEAKER  remarked, that the hon. Member's question referred to some part of the proceedings of the Committee not yet reported to the House.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the noble Lord must confine himself to the question he had to put, and to such statements only as were necessary to make the question intelligible.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that there was only one course open. The Government were endeavouring to pass the resolution as fast as possible, so that it might be reported to the House forthwith. In cases where duties were lowered on the one hand, and raised on the other, the duties were taken under Treasury orders when the resolution was reported to the House.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had already answered the hon. Gentleman. The question was, in fact, whether foreign sugar now in bond and cargoes afloat, to use the technical expression, were to be admitted at a duty of 18 s d s d s
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  observed, that it was perfectly true the course described by the hon. Gentleman had been taken on the corn duties. The general rule of acting on the resolution of the Committee had been stated on that occasion; but a departure was proposed in that case from the general rule. The same rule was followed with respect to all the customs articles in 1842.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that the Government would simply not allow the goods to be entered.
 MR. URQUHART,  at the present stage of the debate, would only make a few observations on a subject respecting which every hon. Gentleman would be expected to give an account to his constituents. He would, therefore, merely state in a word why he could not give his support to the proposition of Her Majesty's Government. Although he was no advocate of protection, yet he did in his conscience believe that this was a case in which the protective principle should operate. He believed that the only effectual method of restoring prosperity to our colonies was to reduce the duty on our colonial, and increase that on foreign sugars. Unless that were done promptly, a vast portion of the human race on whose amelioration Great Britain had expended so much thought, labour, and treasure,
 1379
 COLONEL DUNNE,  in reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Youghal, denied that any compromise had been entered into at the interview of the deputation of Irish Members with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, which took place some days since.
 MR. HUDSON  recollected when no duty was payable upon corn for a day or two; and that the decision of the court in a case in which it had nevertheless been levied was, that not only the duty should be refunded, but all loss and detriment suffered by the party should be made good by the Government also.
 MR. MUNTZ  wished to be allowed to say a few words in explanation of the vote he intended to give; for he had voted with Her Majesty's Government on the Bill of 1846, and he was now about to vote against them. He had voted for the Bill of 1846 because he considered it was a settlement of the question. He voted for it on the principle of freetrade also, because it was alleged that if it were not so settled it would be impossible to effect an arrangement with Brazil. He would not, therefore, vote for the disturbance of the settlement until the freet-rade question were proved to be either right or wrong. But the present was not a question of whether free trade was right or wrong, or whether they were to have slavery or to give up their colonies. Her Majesty's Government proposed a question which arranged nothing. It was a measure which attacked everything and settled nothing. It despoiled the revenue, and it did not improve the condition of the planter. It was opposed to the principles of free trade, and it did not give protection. At the end of six years, the planter would be just as forward as he was now. It was a mere question of whether they would kill him at once or bleed him to death. Now the Motion of the hon. Member for Droitwich would put an end to the question proposed by Her Majesty's Government; and for that reason, and that reason alone, he would vote for it. But he would not be obliged on that account to vote with him on any other measure he might subsequently propose, either for a 10 s
 MR. ROBINSON  wished to know, supposing any importer refused to pay the higher rate of duty, if this measure had not passed into a law, what means had the Government of enforcing payment?
 MR. BARKLY  was prepared to meet during the debate the usual fate of those who held moderate views on a subject on which conflicting opinions run high. He expected to be reproached by his West Indian friends for making admissions calculated to damage their cause when called on to give evidence before the Select Committee on Sugar and Coffee Planting; and on the other hand to find hon. Gentlemen opposite quoting just so much of that evidence as suited their purpose, leaving the reservations with which he gave it, and the remedies he urged, entirely out of view. The noble Lord at the head of the Government (Lord J. Russell) was pleased to say he attached much weight to the opinions so given; and to complain that instead of supporting his measure, he was their strenuous opponent. Now he thought nothing could be more dissimilar than the measure which he had ventured to suggest to the Committee, of a system of protection for a limited period, and the tinkering up of the Bill of 1846—for he could apply no other term to it—which was now proposed by the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government. He believed that relief could only be afforded to the colonies by giving them effectual protection; and he was content that that protection should only be continued until the colonies were enabled
 1328 1329 s s 1330 "It is not by putting one set of authorities against another that I hope to see Jamaica happily governed, but by general harmony and co-operation; and by a cessation and oblivion of those distinctions which arose out of a struggle that no longer exists. I see no reason to apprehend oppression from regarding the local justices as on the same footing with the stipendiaries." 1331 naïvely "The hardest kind of work formerly imposed upon the labourers is now performed by machinery." l 1332 l l l 1333 cadit quœstio s ad captandum 1334 1335
 MR. BARKLY  observed, that the present sugar duties might expire before the resolution now under discussion could go through Committee, and a Bill founded on it be passed. He begged to ask whether the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had taken the circumstances into his consideration, and what course he proposed to adopt?
 MR. GOULBURN  said, the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down began by adverting to the proceedings of the Committee of which he was a Member, and he stated that the report of that Committee, in recommending a 10 s s s s 1345 1346 "He came there because he felt for the distress and poverty which was prevailing to so fearful an extent around him. Once this land was the abode of peace, plenty, and contentment. Now, whichever way he turned, he saw nothing but the gaunt spectres of distress, misery, and ruin. If he conversed with the merchant, once wealthy and prosperous, he could only hear language of mourning, lamentation, and woe. If he turned to the middle classes, who once lived in a state of humble but happy sufficiency, he there found distress, poverty, and sorrow; if he regarded the labouring classes, he there found thousands destitute of employment, their children crying for bread, whilst they had it not to give them. That very morning his servant informed him that a gentleman wished to speak to him. He went to his back piazza, and saw a person as respectably dressed as himself, the only difference being that he were white instead of black. He requested to be permitted to speak a word in private, and then, whilst tears of bitter anguish filled his eyes, he told him that his family were perishing for want of food—that he had one child at home dying, whilst the others were crying out for food. Gentlemen—said the reverend speaker—I knew that man; three years ago he was a respectable trademan, whose credit would have been good in this city for 1,000 l 1347 "Again, look at the hundreds, and he might say thousands, of poor labouring men in the city who were out of employment, and, as a matter of course, in the greatest distress. He needed not to remind the meeting that the position of the working men in our towns was very different to the position of the labourers in the mountains; there they may by failure of cultivation lapse into a state of semibarbarism, but they could never be starved; the country labourer could pick the fruit which grew in rich spontaneous luxuriance on the trees: he could dig his yams, and cut his plantains to eat; he could go to the spring and obtain water to drink; he could pick up wood to dress his food; but here nothing is to he obtained without money; he cannot get a yam, cocoa, or plantain, no, not even a mango, without money; he cannot obtain a shed to shelter him from the burning sun by day, or the unwholesome dews of night, without money; he cannot get a stick of wood to boil his pot, nor even a drop of water to cool his parching tongue, if he had not money. All this suffering, all this privation and misery, had been for months accumulating, and was now being endured in this city; and it was only because the people were most submissive, patient, and enduring, that they had borne so much with so much silence—only because they were amongst the most loyal of Her Majesty's subjects, that some outbreak had not before now attested the depth of their miseries." 1348 s s s d 1349 s d s s d 1350 s d l l 1351 l l "Two years ago there was no such thing as slave trade in Cuba; that it is only within these last twelve months that there has been any slave trade whatever." "Yes; it is the alteration in the demand for their sugar that has affected Cuba much more than it did Brazil; eighteen months ago, I think for a year before that, there had not been more than one or two solitary instances of slaves being landed in Cuba." 1352 s d s 1353 1354 "That it is incumbent on Parliament to grant relief to the sugar-growing colonies, and it should be afforded at once, and in such a way as to be made directly and effectually available to the actual planters themselves." "Especial attention should be had in affording such relief to the necessity of placing the colonies in such a position as will ultimately enable them successfully to compete with the cheapest sugar-growing countries." 1355 "That when the rate of wages shall be fairly adjusted to the altered state of the market, and such an efficient control obtained over the labourers' exertions as competition for employment in a sufficiently supplied labour market is likely to afford;" 1356 caput mortuum s s d l 1357 l s 1358 s 1359
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that, although a Member of the Committee which sat for so many weeks upon Sugar and Coffee Planting, and unwilling to give a silent vote, it was not his intention to trespass upon the House at any length. He was the more willing to take this course because the subject had been so fully discussed that it was unnecessary to do more than just glance at some of the arguments which had been urged. He could not, however, avoid stating his belief that no Committee of that House ever conducted its inquiries with a more sincere and single desire to arrive at the truth upon this important subject, than the Committee on Sugar and Coffee Planting. Casting aside all personal and party objects, they were determined to do what they thought the best for the important interest now suffering such extreme distress. It was impossible for any one to listen to the statements of great public and private distress in the colonies without feeling sincerely anxious to contribute to relieve them; and however much the Committee might have differed as to the course it was their duty to recommend to the House, he was satisfied every Member was animated by a desire to apply some practical remedy to the appalling state of things that had been proved to exist. But he could not say the result of the deliberations of the Committee was so satisfactory as their manner of conducting the inquiry. If Gentlemen would look at the resolutions finally adopted, they would find little in them, except the recommendation, which was arrived at by a very narrow majority, of a differential duty of 10 s dolus latet in generali- 1336 bus s 1337 s s 1338 s s 1339 s 1340 1341 1342 1343 bonâ fide 1344
 MR. LABOUCHERE : The noble Lord has thought fit to inquire what were my reasons for not having taken part in the discussion which occurred on Monday night? I did not understand him to make any attack upon me on that occasion. With respect to my statement of the 8th of February, in making that communication I was only acting as the organ of the Colonial Office when I responded to the question of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Goulburn); and when the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies, who is necessarily cognisant of the circumstances of the case, was present in the
 1312 Hansard; Times Times "Mr. Goulburn remarked, that reports had just been presented to the House from all the colonies except Jamaica; he wished to know the reason for this omission, and whether a report was intended to be presented from that colony; and also whether there would be any objection to lay on the table the latest intelligence from Jamaica?—Mr. Labouchere had made inquiry at the Colonial Office, and found that the reason why no blue book from Jamaica had been laid on the table was that no such document had been received thence. Owing, he believed, to Lord Elgin having sent very ample information while he was Governor, and Sir C. Grey having only very recently arrived there, it was probable that there was no further information to be supplied at present. With regard to the question, whether any further despatches from Jamaica would be laid on the table, he had to state, that though there was no despatch from Jamaica with any general account of the island, there were some despatches from that and some other West Indian islands which it was the intention of the Secretary of State for the Colonies to lay on the table without delay." à fortiori 1313 1314
 MR. BRIGHT  understood from what the right hon. Gentleman had said, that whether a duty was raised or lowered, the new duties could be taken on the report of the resolution. When the corn duties were before the House, the question being one of protection, that course was not taken; and it seemed to be then held that such a course should be reserved for cases where the question was one of revenue. The present question was not brought forward with a view to improve the revenue; and he did not think it desirable to take that course which was not observed with respect to corn. He wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he had made arrangements with the very numerous parties who had cargoes of foreign sugar coming into the country, which cargoes were on their way, and which they expected to have entered after the 5th of July, at a duty of 18 s d 1315 s d
 MR. BRIGHT  wished to know if the Government intended to make any arrangement by which parties bringing in sugar under the expectation of entering it at 18 s d s d
 MR. R. C. HILDYARD  wished to ask the Attorney General, if a party tendered
 1316
 MR. ANSTEY  said, that he had frequently attempted to catch the Speaker's eye during earlier periods of the debate, and if he were to be prevented from a hearing then, he should move the adjourn-
 1391 Ironical cheers England, Ireland, and America, by a Manchester Manufacturer 1392 "We are on the verge of an inevitable combibination of commercial necessities that will altogether change the relations in which we have hitherto stood with our colonies. The new world is destined to become the arbiter of the commercial policy of the old." "At the end of this period, if not long before, the monstrous impolicy of sacrificing our trade with a new trade of almost boundless extent of rich territory in favour of a few small exhausted islands, will cease to be sanctioned by law." "that the markets of the West Indies must be placed in the same predicament as if they were not part of Her Majesty's dominions; and where would be the semblance of a plea for putting ourselves to the expense of governing and defending them?" "When the sugar and cotton duties are equalised—when the East and West Indies are lost—we shall be able to reduce the charge of the Navy and Ordnance, amounting to 14,000,000 l Considerable interruption
 MR. ANSTEY  did not know what the noble Lord would have. He had been so much interrupted, that he found a difficulty in commencing or concluding a single sentence. He had borne the interruptions to which he had been subjected with great patience; and if the noble Lord was not satisfied with those interruptions he did not know what he would be contented with. His hon. and gallant Friend had understood him; he had not made any charge. He had simply said that he, as an Irish Member, lay under the imputation that such an offer had been made, and therefore that he felt it incumbent on him to repudiate it. A Member of the deputation communicated to the other Irish Members information which left a different impression upon his mind from the statement they had just heard. ["Name!"] There was no occasion for him to name; the hon. Member was present, and could speak for himself. He (Mr. Anstey) had not been present at that conference; but he had heard a somewhat different account of it from another Member of the deputation, who said, on returning, "Let us leave it entirely to the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He is in our favour, and he will impress our case favourably on his Colleagues, but do not mention it in the House, lest the West Indian Gentlemen should find out what is in reserve for them."
 MR. ANSTEY  continued to say that the avowed object of the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire, and of the chief supporters of the present measure, were those set forth in the passages he had read. That party were of opinion that the monstrous impolicy of sacrificing our trade with the American Continent, in favour of a few small islands of exhausted soil would soon be generally recognised; that we must cease to trade with them exclusively, and then no semblance of a plea would be left for putting ourselves to the expense of governing and defending them; that the Canadian monopoly must yield to the claims of the United States and the Baltic trade; that the same system must be extended to our Eastern possessions; and that when the colonies and India were lost we should be enabled to reduce the charge for our Army, Navy, and Ordnance, amounting to 14,000,000 l 1394 1395 1396
 MR. FORBES  seconded the Motion.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that with the exception of his hon. Friend the Member for South Essex (Sir E. N. Buxton), who spoke with hereditary zeal and talent on the subject, and the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. G. Thompson)—he might also refer to a speech from his hon. Friend the Member for Droitwich (Sir J. Pakington)—hardly any hon. Member had uttered a word which had reference to the great question so directly involved in the subject before the House, as to be really, in his opinion, inseparable from it. He meant the slave trade and its abolition. The hon. Gentleman the Chairman of Committees had paid him an unintentional compliment when he said that he almost looked at every question as if it had some connexion with the slave trade. He certainly should always watch every subject which appeared to have reference to that great sin and great crime: and it was because be felt that the sugar question was directly connected with the slave trade that he now desired to address the House. His complaint was, that this question had been hitherto discussed with reference to
 1318 1319 1320 1321 "The large share of the national attention which the slave-trade question engaged in 1788, has since been occupied successively by the various topics of the day; and such strange and interesting spectacles have been exhibited at our very doors, as to banish from the minds of most men all recollection of distant wrongs and sufferings." 1322 "If they want slaves, they can easily make up some offence against their neighbours, and burn the town, and capture the inhabitants, which is the usual way in such cases. From frequent intercourse with captured slaves, in every case where I have conversed with them"— "they have been persons captured in war, the town has boon surprised, and burnt down, and they have been taken." 1323 1324 Fifty Days on Board a Slave Vessel; 1325 Salvator l "The question which he had to ask himself was this—whether he could consent to give such a stimulus to slave labour in Brazil, as would be afforded by throwing open the markets of this country to the produce of their slave labour?" Hansard "Her Majesty's Government would never be a party to any proceeding—treaty or no treaty—the object of which was to enslave any nation on the face of the earth." 1326 l 1327 l
 SIR R. PEEL : Mr. Speaker, I should most imperfectly express my feelings if, in the course of the observations I am about to make, I were to come to a conclusion, or even to utter a word, which should appear to imply indifference to the condition of our transmarine possessions. With the depressed condition of our colonies—with the difficulties and embarrassments of those who are immediately connected with them in various relations, I feel the deepest sympathy; and sorry should I be justly to incur the reproach directed by the hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. H. Inglis) against some, that they are disposed to prefer mere pecuniary and material interests to the higher considerations of public policy which are interwoven with this great question. I consider it would be utterly inconsistent with the spirit by which a great empire has been founded—utterly inconsistent with the spirit by which a great empire can be maintained—were we now, in a time of colonial depression and distress, to enter into cold calculations whether it is for the pecuniary interest of this country to maintain our connexion with the colonies. I repudiate all such considerations. I remember that those colonies have long been identified with us—I recollect that they stood by our side during the great
 1360 1361 1362 1363 1364 1365 l 1366 d d d 1367 "The British shipowner is protected by the navigation laws, and compels your memorialists to pay a freight nearly double the amount they would pay if they were permitted to ship in other vessels. A large amount of American shipping leaves the island of Jamaica in ballast, and but for the protection afforded to the British shipowner, your memorialists would obtain their staves, provisions, and other American commodities at a cheaper freight, as well as transmit their sugar and rum." "The repeal of the navigation laws will be of no benefit to us; the producers of sugar in Cuba and Brazil will derive greater advantage than we shall from the repeal of those laws." 1368 bonâ fide l l 1369 1370 "—Hane veniam petimusque damusque vicissim." 1371 l l l l 1372 s s s s s s 1373 s d bonâ fide s s "With respect," said my hon. Friend, "to the amount of protection that it would be desirable to reimpose, the opinion of my friends both at home and abroad is, that the sugar cultivation will not be maintained generally in the colonies, unless at least a protection of 10 s 1374 "With respect to the other colonies, I think its effects would be more disastrous in the end. I have not now been in Jamaica for more than eight years, and the accounts given to me of the state of the island represent it to be in a much worse condition, not only than it was then, but than the rest of the West Indies—almost in a hopeless state; therefore I do not wish to damage their chance of obtaining additional protection by anything I may say. I believe that it would be of assistance to the present proprietors of Jamaica if they got such a protection as that; but if it had the effect of increasing the production very largely, and bringing a large quantity of produce from India, the Mauritius, and other colonies, it would not permanently benefit even the island of Jamaica; it might benefit the present proprietors, who might perhaps get out of their properties with a sacrifice. My own feeling is, that there must be a protection, and for the next two years at least. Nothing less than the amount named would be sufficient to restore confidence, and to induce capitalists here to support the cultivation of the West Indies; it would be quite two years before any reduction in the cost of growing our sugar could be made by the importation of fresh labour. If sugar were raised 4 s s 1375 s s 1376 s s d 1377 "Are the Overseers of estates obliged to go armed? " "Yes, I believe, invariably. The overseer had his cutlass and his dagger, and he had three bloodhounds at his heels close by him. I understood it was the custom of the island that no white man belonging to an estate would go anywhere unarmed. They would not go on foot to any distance; but on horseback they have always their pistols besides." 1378 "No matter in what language his doom may have been pronounced—no matter in what disastrous struggle his liberties may have been cloven down—no matter what complexion incompatible with freedom an Indian or African sun may have burnt upon his brow—the time is fast approaching when his soul shall walk abroad in all her native majesty, when his body shall swell beyond the measure of the chains which burst around him, and he shall stand redeemed, regenerate, and disenthralled by the irresistible genius of universal emancipation."
 SIR J. HANMER  had been told within the last few minutes that they might expect a new petition from the borough of Horsham. He could not understand the distinction which some Gentlemen drew between the guilt of treating and bribery. The one as well as the other caused the loss of a Member's seat; and that was a thing which Members ought to take into their serious consideration. He was the less inclined to pass by treating as less worthy of punishment than bribery, because he entertained the opinion that the law with regard to treating was ridiculous and absurd: and he saw no chance of its being altered until the House had made inquiries into the particulars of those elections which had been declared to be void in consequence of treating. He should vote for the suspension of the writ till the evidence had been laid on the table of the House.
 MR. BRIGHT  said that he rose for the purpose of moving an Amendment to the resolutions submitted to the Committee by Her Majesty's Government, and he would commence by saying that, though this question of protection to the West India colonies had been debated for so many nights, the real question which the House had to consider, had, in fact, not been debated at all, except incidentally. The discussion had been between the Government, who were in favour of some increase of protection, and the hon. Gentlemen opposite, who were in favour of a very large increase of protection; and the arguments, both of the Members of her Majesty's Government and of hon. Gentlemen opposite, had been, in his opinion, entirely condemnatory and destructive of the proposition which the noble Lord had introduced to the House. The conclusion which he drew from the speeches of hon. Gentlemen opposite was, that the distress in the West Indian colonies was so great—and he would admit that it was great—that the measure proposed by the Government could not be productive of any sensible relief; while, from the speeches made on the part of the Government, and especially from the speech of the noble Lord, and that of the hon. Member for Westbury in particular, he found that they relied on arguments which had convinced him that whatever distress existed in the West Indian colonies, it could not be relieved by any measure of protection. There was one thing that must have struck every Member who had listened to the past debate, and that was, that throughout one great party had been entirely forgotten, while abundance of sympathy had been expressed on behalf of
 1415 1416 l l l l 1417 1418 l 1419 l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1420 s s 1421 s d s 1422 "We are suffering here from the depreciation in produce, and particularly from want of specie. We very much require another bank here, as the Colonial Bank is refusing now to buy the beet bills of exchange upon bill of lading attached, and therefore there are no means of raising money upon the produce shipped. We have now very near 10,000 hogsheads cleared out, and I think this crop will be nearly as good as last year's, but planters will have to import coin from England in return for their produce, to enable them to pay off their labourers, for in the island there is none. The Americans have carried away the few dollars that were left." "I quite agree with you, that under the new system of things the West Indies can never again prosper until they are released from the tyranny of the absentee mortgagees, their exactions in the shape of interest, commission, freight, and other charges, being truly ruinous and oppressive. In addition to the above, there are several other ways by which absentee proprietors are injured—I might say plundered—by the mortgagees at home, which are even worse than high interest or exorbitant commissions. The mortgagee in England is at the same time a shipowner; he sends a ship out to his planting attorney with positive orders to fill her up from A, B, C, D, &c, and sail upon a certain day. The attorney writes to the overseers, giving them orders to put the mills about, as he expects 100 casks from each for the  Lady Sarah Bayley supersedeas 1423 s d s s s "Another serious oppression is the enormous amount of taxation, which, unless the Crown interposes, I see no hope of getting reduced, for if the House of Assembly pass a Bill reducing the expenditure, it is sure to be thrown out by the Council, every member of which, with one exception, is a placeman." l l l l l 1424 "That British plantation sugar, averaging in May, 1846, 36 l s l s s s s 1425 in articulo mortis 1426 l l l l l "Lord J. Russell said, that the question proposed by the hon. Gentleman, as to the intentions of Government, was rather vague. He could state, however, that it was not the intention of the Government to make any change in the Act of 1846, with the view of increasing the amount of the differential duties, or continuing them for a longer period than fixed by the Act." s "That your Committee find, that of all the West Indian colonies, Barbadoes, from the circumstances of her position, with a population more dense than that of China—driven in a great measure to the necessity of industry from the island not producing food enough for the subsistence of its people—is still unable, even with the nominal protection now existing of 6 s 1427 l l l 1428 l l l Oliver Twist 1429 s s s s s s s d s s d s d 1430 l l l l l l l l l 1431 s s s d l s d s s d s "I at present know of orders for twenty-three cargoes of foreign sugar, based on the certainty of a reduction of 1 s d 1432 "I have no doubt there are orders out for fifty, sixty, to eighty cargoes of foreign sugar, based on foreign duty being 18 s d "You are aware that we are within two or three weeks of the time when foreign sugar was to be reduced 1 s d s s d 1433 l l 1434 l s s s 1435 "To leave out all the words from the word 'that' to the end of the first proposed resolution, in order to add these words, 'it is not now expedient to make any alteration in the Sugar Duties Act of 1846.'"
 MR. G. BERKELEY , in rising to give his decided opposition to the Amendment of the hon. Member, thought it would become him to say a few words in defence of the planters and owners, whose interests had been lost sight of, and whose characters had been attacked by the hon. Member. That attack was most unfair; and he should be able to show the House that they were not at all in the position which had been so insultingly described by the hon. Member. But the hon. Member had a great habit of attacking anything for which he had not a fancy; he ran tilt at any measure, whether he understood its intricacies or not—and that was the opinion which the hon. Member's friends entertained of him. He would tell the House the opinion of the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire (Mr. Cobden). On
 1436 l 1437 l l l l l l l l "I am sorry I am not able to realise your wishes for better news. Truly has Mr. Barkly (the hon. Member for Leominster) described the state of your once splendid, property as being in a dreadfully neglected condition. A like description would answer for full half the colony; and even in the immediate neighbourhood of George Town, the abandonment of estates is fast becoming general, the cultivated ones being rapidly given up. The colony is certainly in an awful condition. I fear that many other proprietors must be added to the list, wherein your name occupies so predominant a place, of once wealthy owners of estates ruined by cruel legislation." 1438
 MR. BAGSHAW  had told the noble Lord (Lord G. Bentinck) what would be the result of his Committee, and he was not, therefore, surprised at the present proposition of the Government. For his own part he was opposed, not only to the recommendation of the Committee, but also to the scheme of the Government, and the Motion of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bright). He believed, that if they gave the British agriculturist of the tropics the same protection which they gave to the British corn-grower in this country, that he would be able to grow sugar profitably; and at all events, as a free-trader, he would ask for no other protection. He was quite aware that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Tamworth had said, that by any measure of protection which they
 1439 Friend of India l l l l l l l l 1440 1441 s s s
 MR. J. TOLLEMACHE  very rarely indeed troubled the House with any observations, and it was with great reluctance that he did so now; but as his evidence before the Committee had been referred to by more than one Gentleman, he begged to say a word or two on that subject. He Would not weary the House by going over the various points on which he gave his evidence, and which had been gone over by the noble Lord (Lord G. Bentinck), to whom the country was under great obligations for the manner in which he had treated this question. He could say, with truth, that in giving that evidence his anxious desire was to present a candid and fair statement, and to withhold nothing from the Committee, not even that which he knew would be agreeable to those Gentlemen with whom he differed on the subject of free-trade opinions. He was most anxious that the Committee should be afforded every opportunity of arriving at the truth, and at sound and correct opinions; and he was also anxious that those West India proprietors who resided in this country should be made acquainted with the manner in which he had reduced his expenditure in the West Indies. He told the Committee that he had found in the West Indies a bad and expensive system prevalent; and that if the West India proprietors would act vigorously in reducing their cost of production, they could effect much. He told them he had succeeded in doing so to such an extent as to reduce his cost of production from 17 s d s 1442 s 1443 s s s s 1444
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I think the Committee are indebted to the hon. Gentleman in the chair for having called upon the hon. Member for. South Cheshire (Mr. Tollemache), who has just sat down, and of whose speech I am sure it is no undeserved compliment to say that it wholly confirms the effect which I am sure his evidence would produce upon the mind of anybody who would read it. The hon. Gentleman has given some most valuable and straightforward evidence before the Committee so ably presided over by the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord G. Bentinck), and has laid before the public many truths of the highest importance to be known. For my own part, differing as I do in some respects from him, I can assure the hon. Gentleman that no opinions have been expressed by any Gentleman which, in my judgment, are entitled to more consideration than those which he has now placed before us. But both he and the hon. Gentleman who spoke immediately before him, have advocated the principle of a permanent protection to the West India sugar. In this respect I differ with both those hon. Gentlemen, because, even in the report of the Committee itself, it is shown that the Members of it looked to a cessation of protection before any long period. The recommendation of the Committee was, that a certain amount of protection should be afforded for a term of six years. In the resolution moved in the Committee by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge, it is stated that it was to the power of limiting the expense and the amount of production by which the West India proprietors may be able to compete with foreign producers, that they must look for ultimate prosperity to the colonies, rather than to protecting duties. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Tarn worth pointed out last night that which is notorious to all persons conversant with the sugar interests of the colonies, that, even when those colonies enjoyed by law the monopoly of the market in this country, a very slight production beyond that which this country could consume brought them into competition with foreign-grown sugar in the European markets; the effect of which was to produce a very considerable reduction in the price of the sugar market, not only on the Continent, but in England also, and great suffering was consequently
 1445 1446 1447 1448 s s l l pro tanto l l l l l l 1449 
 
 First loss on Lord G. Bentinck's proposition £960,000 
 First loss on the Government scheme 240,000 
 Showing a greater loss under the former of 720,000 
 Deduct the loan 500,000 
 Entire loss £220,000 l s s 1450 
 
 1847 288,975 tons 
 1842 193,422 tons 
 Showing an increase in five years of no less than 95,553 tons. l l 1451 l l l l l 1452 l l l l l l 1453 l l l 1454 l l l l
 MR. HASTIE  said, it appeared to him that, in abandoning that system of protection which had prevailed in this country for the last two hundred years, they ought to proceed with caution, and give the parties interested timely notice of the changes they might propose. He might, as a specimen of what had been done by hasty legislation, refer to the cotton manufacture once so extensive in India, and to the measures which, by stopping that manufacture, had been productive of vast injury to the native manufacturers. Great commercial changes should always be conducted with the utmost caution. He wished the House to understand what was at present the exact position of the West Indian colonies, as importers and consumers of British manufactures, as compared with Brazil and Cuba, in the same character. He would first take the average yearly consumption of our manufactures in the British West Indies during the last seven years, and then the quantity consumed in the same period by Brazil and Cuba. In this way the House would be able to judge of the value of the colonies, and the caution which they ought to ex-
 1455 l l l l l l 1456 s d
 MR. CARDWELL , as one of those who anticipated at the time of the passing of the Bill of 1846, the consequences which it would inflict on the West India colonies, and the results to which it would lead as connected with the slave trade, had come down as a spectator to-night, curious to see how the hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the author of the measure, would defend himself against the taunts of his Friend and patron the hon. Member for Manchester. The right hon. Gentleman had not indeed gratified his curiosity in that respect. The right hon. Gentleman took some credit for his great openness to conviction, expressed his opinion that it was an element of statesmanship not to adhere inflexibly to unbending principles, but to give way to qualifying circumstances, and to arrange the measures to be taken according to the altering circumstances and pressure of the times. But how the circumstances of the West Indies had altered since the 8th of February, or since the 30th of May, so as to require a revolution in the legislation to be applied to them, the right hon. Gentleman left the House to conjecture. Still, however, the right hon. Gentleman had made a speech more interesting than could be any series of Parliamentary repartees dealt out to the hon. Member for Manchester; the right hon. Gentleman had, in fact, given them a second budget; and not only that, but he had admitted that the second budget was not satisfactory, and solemnly promised us that at a very early opportunity we should be treated to a third. Now, he understood why the right hon. Gentleman, although not prepared to give us the whole of his budget, did not think that he ought to allow this debate to go on without shadowing out some indications of it. The right hon. Gentleman was bountiful in dealing with the budget of 1854; and in proposing to deal with the consumption of sugar, which was now upwards of 300,000 tons, his proposition was to remove from that consumption in 1854 no less a sum than 4 l l 1457 l l l l l l 1458 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1459 l l l l l l l l l 1460 "During the time you were on the coast of Africa, was the slave trade diminished or increased? " "To what circumstance do you attribute the increase?—I have spoken to Spanish and Portuguese captains, and they have told me that the increase is to be attributed to the extra demand for sugar in England. "You understood that the slave trade received a stimulus in consequence of an increased demand for sugar?—Yes, from Brazil." 1461
 MR. JAMES WILSON  declared that he would not have risen to address the House had he not been called upon by the Chairman to do so. [ Cries of 1462 1463 1464 s d
 LORD NUGENT  would state very shortly the reasons which would influence his vote on this subject. He had listened with great attention to the whole of this debate, and to the opening statement of the noble Lord. He was anxious that the considerations which would govern his vote should not be misunderstood, for he could truly say that he never came to one with more pain; but would add that, under the impressions he had always held on the great question of free trade, and on the immeasurably greater one of what was owed to the effec-
 1465 1466 1467
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  wished to make a few observations on the Motion of the hon. Member for Falmouth to report progress. He (Lord John Russell) hoped that the House would consent to divide on the Motion of the hon. Member for Manchester that night, and resume the consideration of the resolutions next day. He begged hon. Gentlemen to recollect the position in which they stood. He had made his statement with respect to the sugar duties so far back as the 14th of June. The question had been much debated since, and it was of great public importance that the resolutions should be agreed to and reported be-
 1468 s s d
 COLONEL PENNANT , as one of the Members of the Committee, begged to corroborate the statement of the hon. Member for Northallerton as to the impression on the minds of the Committee that the evidence afforded no proof of such I general corruption as to warrant the suspension of the writ,
 MR. STAFFORD  rose to move that a writ be issued for the election of a burgess to serve in Parliament for the borough of Sligo. The House had ordered the evidence taken before the Sligo Election Committee to be printed; but he did not see that that should form any reason for
 1410 "That Mr. Speaker do issue his Warrant to the Clerk of the Crown in Ireland to make out a New Writ for the Election of a Burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough of Sligo, in the room of Charles Towneley, Esq., whose Election has been determined to be void."
 MR. NEWDEGATE  supported the Motion. It would be unfair to take advantage of the mistake of the hon. and gallant Member for Portarlington, who had been led to believe that it was according to the established practice of the House that no writ should be issued until the evidence was printed; whereas the practice of the House during the present Session could scarcely be said to have been established at all, writs having been issued in almost every possible way. The only thing that seemed to be established was, the office of suspender-general, which had been assumed by the hon. Baronet the Member for the Flint boroughs. It appeared to him to be ridiculous to suspend writs in cases where the Committee had decided that the evidence involved no matter which would justify disfranchisement; and if the House really wished to deal with this class of be roughs on some comprehensive scheme, like that proposed by the hon. Member for the Flint boroughs, it would be far better that the boroughs so to be dealt with should be represented in that House, and there would thereby be some security that they would receive fair play.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, there was no accusation in the report of the Committee against the borough of Sligo; and he conceived, therefore, that he might move the writ at once. He heard afterwards, however, that it would be more consonant with the forms of the House that the evidence should first be moved for; and therefore he altered his Motion to the effect that the evidence should he printed. He felt that there, as well as in the case of the English Members, the suspension of the writ was exceedingly inconvenient.
 MR. BANKES : With respect to the present question, it appeared that the hon. and gallant Member for Portarlington (Colonel Dunne) had moved for the evidence under an error. That evidence was not moved for by the Chairman, or any Member of the Committee; but the hon. and gallant Member for Portarlington, not being well acquainted with the forms of the House, and having the intention to expedite the issuing of the writ, moved that the evidence be printed, which, instead of forwarding his object, had proved the only obstacle to it. Under these circumstances, it was very hard that the Sligo constituency should suffer.
 MR. HUME  was sorry the hon. Gentleman should have proposed his Motion, apparently in contravention of the rules of the House. ["No, no!"] He had never known an instance in which a Motion had been made for the issue of a writ for a borough where any Member had in the meantime proposed that the evidence taken before the Election Committee should be printed. The hon. Member for Portarlington had moved that the evidence be printed in the present case, and this was not the time, therefore, for issuing the writ.
 MR. HUME , after the statement that had been made by the Chairman of the Committee and the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, would not persist in opposing the Motion.
 MR. SPOONER  hoped the writ would be issued without waiting for the evidence.
 MR. ANSTEY  had supported the Motion for issuing the writ in every other case, and would do so in this instance also. He was glad the hon. Member for Montrose had intimated his opposition to the Motion, and so indicated an intention to diminish the representation of the small constituencies. The fate of Sligo would hereafter be that of Youghal and every small borough.
 MR. WRIGHTSON , as Chairman of the Committee on the Sligo Election, begged to state that the inquiry did not impress the minds of the Committee with the idea that the House would ultimately decline to issue a writ for the borough of Sligo. It appeared to him that the evidence had most unnecessarily been ordered to be printed, for when they had got it, he did not believe it would have the least effect in inducing them to suspend the writ. He should certainly vote for the issuing of the writ himself; but, at the same time, as the evidence had been ordered to be printed, and as other Members had not had the same opportunity of knowing the facts as the Committee had, it would be the most correct course for the House to delay taking any further step in the matter till the evidence was printed.
 SIR G. GREY  said; the simple question was, whether a Motion having been made that the evidence be printed, and it being probable that that evidence would be forthcoming in two or three days, it would not be better to wait till the evidence was in the hands of Members, than to follow the course proposed by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Stafford), and issue the writ now. He
 1412
 SIR R. PEEL : There certainly does seem some inconsistency in ordering the evidence to be produced, and then not waiting until that evidence is produced before issuing the writ, because the ordering of
 1413
 VLSCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, in reply to some questions put by Mr. Urquhart, that the hon. Gentleman had stated that, by the additional article the British Government were to furnish the Spanish Government with arms and ammunition; but there was a distinct agreement entered into afterwards between the Spanish Government and the British Government that those supplies should be paid for; and a return was made several years ago stating
 1414
 MR. H. DRUMMOND  thought that if the result of this protracted debate should be the final settlement of the question, they certainly would not have spent so many wearisome evenings in vain. But he very much doubted, indeed he was as certain as he could be of anything, that the question would not be settled by that night's decision, and that whether, in the year 1854, or at any other period, they would be as far from any final settlement as they were at the present hour, according to the course they were pursuing. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon (Sir J. Graham), and the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxford University (Mr. Gladstone)—two Gentlemen to whose opinions the House naturally and deservedly paid the highest deference—declared at the outset of their observations, that they were in considerable difficulty from the complex nature of the case, and the many interests that were involved in it. And their opinions were fully justified by the debate, for one hon. Gentleman had treated it as a free-trade question, another as a slave-trade question; others had treated it solely with reference to the West India planters, and no one had as yet given them a single clue by which they could unravel its great perplexities. The West Indian interests had had a great advantage this time—for they had the benefit of the consummate abilities and the great exertions of the noble Lord the Member for Lynn; and certainly at no time had those interests in that House been so well or so ably sustained as upon the present occasion. But hon. Members were in this perplexity, that on both sides of the House they were afraid to carry out their own principles. It was, indeed, a question of free trade; but the only light they had got upon it—the only direction, the only hint almost they had received—was that contained in the recommendation of the Committee, which was not a very novel or generous expedient, it being merely the taxing of one portion of the public to pay another—a system which rejoiced under the name of protection. By such a mode, indeed, Paul might be protected, but how Peter was to be protected he did not know; and any protection which was not a protection to all the subjects of the Queen equally, was a project which that House ought not to sanction. They were afraid to carry out their free-trade principles. They wanted to bring political economy into the general government, and they thought that a political economist
 12 13 enfrancesados l 14
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, that the hon. Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond) had spoken of the compensation to the West Indian interests as being altogether inadequate; but in his opinion a more liberal and more just amount of compensation was never given by any people. He would contrast it with the resolution come to by a neighbouring nation lately, that the slaves in their colonies should be at once emancipated, and that the amount of compensation to be awarded to the planters should be entrusted to the national honour, and to the Assembly of the people. There was no compensation of 20,000,000 l 15 16 l 17 s "The undersigned, in a petition to your honourable House, bearing date the 28th of January, 1848, showed that Her Majesty's Government had evidently miscalculated the rate of distinctive duty in 1846, when 7 s s s s s s s s 18 s 19
 The CHAIRMAN  read the Resolution. On arriving at the part of the Schedule imposing a duty of 13 s
 MR. VILLIERS,  as he was a Member of the Committee to which the hon. Gentleman who just sat down had referred, thought it incumbent on him to make a remark upon the hon. Gentleman's speech, particularly as he had said that this reaction might be traced to false representations. The hon. Gentleman had asked the House to support the Motion now before it, on the authority of the report of that Committee, and on the ground that the Committee was composed of a large majority of what are called "free-traders." That would certainly be a sign of reaction, and a startling fact to go forth to the world; and he was sure the hon. Gentleman would thank him when he told him that it was impossible to state anything more distinctly inaccurate than that. Why, the noble Lord (Lord G. Bentinck) was allowed to have his own way. ["No!"] He meant to say the noble Lord was the person who urged upon the House the appointment of the Committee. No other person seemed to take any interest in naming the members, and there were on the Committee ten protectionists and five free-traders. ["No!"] He repeated, there were upon
 76 s s s s s s
 LORD GEORGE BENTINCK : At this late hour of the night, I will not trouble the Committee, except absolutely to answer the questions that I have been challenged to answer. There were on that Committee of fifteen—the names of which Committee were settled between the hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Treasury on the part of the Government, and myself—but three Members, who voted in this House against the Act of 1846, namely. Sir John Pakington, Mr. Philip Miles, and myself. There were on that Committee of Members who voted in favour of the Act of 1846, five Members—Mr. Labouchere, Mr. Goulburn, Mr. Milner Gibson, Mr. Charles Villiers, and Mr. Ewart. There were of avowed free-traders, whose opinions on this subject were not known when the Committee was formed, and who did not vote either one way or the other, with respect to the Act of 1846—many of them not having been in Parliament at that period—Mr. Cardwell, Sir Thomas Birch, Mr. Henry Hope, Mr. James Wilson, Mr. James Matheson, and Sir Edward Buxton. The resolution of the Committee, which was eventually carried, was proposed by Sir Thomas Birch, the Member for Liverpool—the free-trade Member for Liverpool. And I appeal to the Secretary to the Treasury whether Sir Thomas Birch was not the Gentleman regarding whom, between him and me, there was the greatest struggle whether he was to be put on the Committee or not; and whether it was not by the special desire of the Secretary of the Treasury, speaking on behalf of the Government, that Sir Thomas Birch was ultimately placed on the Committee? The only other Gentleman on the Committee was a Gentleman who had not been in Parliament before, and whose opinions on this question had never been tested in any way, or in any speech in the House or out of the House—I mean Lord George Manners. Nor, Sir, I have stated fairly the composition of the Committee; and I appeal to every Gentleman in the House, under these circumstances—there being on that Committee of fifteen Gentlemen but three Gentlemen whose opinions were known on the subject of the Act of 1846, as having voted against that Act, and only one other Gentleman on the whole Committee who was supposed to favour the opinions of the Chairman—whether there ever was a Committee more fairly constituted, and whose judgment and whose decision, if it should prove, as it eventually did prove, in favour
 78
 MR. B. COCHRANE  trusted the House would suffer him to explain the principles on which he intended to act. It was the principle which he thought ought to influence the Imperial Parliament in dealing with an imperial question, namely, good faith and just dealing to our follow subjects. Guided by it, be would support the Amendment of his hon. Friend. The House might now feel it convenient to disclaim protection to the West Indies, and at the same time protest against the slave trade; but they ought to recollect that up to 1807, not only did the Parliament of this country sanction the slave trade, but positively enacted it; and in the reign of George II. a monopoly of it was given to the Queen Dowager, and to the Duke of York. Up to 1807, he repeated that the slave trade had been recognised in the most unequivocal manner by the Parliament of England, which, in making grants of land in those colonies, guaranteed that the proprietors should keep a certain number of slaves. The hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Thompson) put his argument in a curious point of view. The hon. Gentleman said, "Suppose a man was constantly in distress, and always applying to you for small sums of money, which only served ultimately to cause his ruin, would you go on giving him money still?" But the hon. Gentleman ought to have completed the simile. Suppose it was by the advice and under the control of this so-called "benefactor," that this man was involved in ruin, and that, when he was utterly cast down, he went to this "benefactor," who had, through him, earned a character for philanthropy, what would be said if this "benefactor" merely replied, "Oh, my friend, it is true we have made a great experiment at your cost, but I cannot now give you any help; you have got into a 'mess' through me, and you may stay there?" Hon. Gentlemen opposite were flirting with philanthropy and free trade. The hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire said both were
 20
 MR. OSWALD  had heard nothing from Gentlemen opposite connected with the Government that could induce him to give his vote in favour of their measure. He had generally been in the habit, when the Government brought forward a question of difficult solution, of waiting till the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Tamworth gave his opinion; and he had done so in this instance; but he must say that in nothing that fell from that right hon. Gentleman had he found more reason for supporting the measure than in what had fallen from the authors of it. The right hon. Gentleman stated, that if they voted for the former Amendment of the hon. Member for Droitwich, they would, by so doing, declare that the measure of the Government was very inadequate and inept. Now, it was just because he thought that was the proper character of the measure that he voted in the minority. The right hon. Gentleman said, he could not agree to give protectiion to the West India interest; but what had they in the measure now brought before the House by the Government, if they had not increased protection for that interest? They proposed to increase the protection by departing from the Act of 1846; and therefore they had incurred the censure which the right hon. Gentleman cast upon any measure that involved protection to the West Indies. In 1846, he (Mr. Oswald) voted for the measure which the Government then brought forward; but he must confess that he did so upon inadequate information. He did so before they had obtained that mass of information which the
 42 s 43 Economist "the Legislature of this country, in compliance with the demands of public opinion, imposed serious restrictions not alone upon the supply of free labour, but also upon the conditions on which it could be engaged, which tended in a very great degree to disturb the labour market, unduly to enhance wages, to promote habits of indolence and irregularity on the part of the working population, and entirely to destroy that wholesome and valuable check which competition alone can place upon the habits and demands of a free labouring people." "This was the obvious consequence of undue restrictions on the supply of labour, aggravated by the increased competition on the part of the planter, stimulated as he was by high prices and protection." 44 45
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I can assure the Committee that I shall not break the rule that has been generally observed, namely, that of addessing it but for a few moments. With respect to the two positions which are taken by the noble Lord—first, with regard to the revenue; and, secondly, as to the extensive nature of the proposition of the Member for Droitwich, I should say with respect to the first objection of the noble Lord, that I do not consider, from the experience that we have had this year of the noble Lord's calculations with regard to the revenue—his opinion upon that head should be of vital importance in the present discussion. I cannot accept the fears which he has so easily implied as to what must be the consequences of the proposition of my hon. Friend. I imagine its effect upon the revenue will be
 66 s 67 s l 68 s s s s 69 s s 70 l l Magna Charta 71 72 Commercial Glance l l 73 l l l l l 74 s s 75
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : As it has been my duty, on more than one occasion to address the House on this subject, I trust the hon. Gentleman who has just spoken will not think me guilty of any discourtesy if I abstain from following him into the discussion of those topics which have been raised in former debates, and to which on former occasions I have adverted, and if I confine myself to the consideration of the views which have been stated by the hon. Gentleman who moved this Resolution as an amendment on the proposition of the Government. I shall also follow the example of the hon. Gentleman in confining myself to the question as it has now been brought forward; because I entirely agree with what has been said as to the infinite value of time in this matter. The proposition of the hon. Member for Droitwich is to reduce the duty on colonial sugar from 14 s s s s s 46 s l l l 47 48 l l l l l l l 49 50 l 51 s
 MR. CARDWELL,  in the absence of his right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Goulburn), wished to state what was the precise position of his right hon. Friend and himself on the Committee; and it was only fair that he should be allowed an opportunity of doing so, because certainly the noble Lord had not conveyed a fair impression of what their views on the Committee were. They placed on record their belief of the distress which existed in the West Indian colonies—of the causes which led to that distress—of the degree to which that distress had been aggravated by the Act of 1846—of the reasons why, in their opinion, protection was not, from its nature, a satisfactory means for the permanent improvement of the West Indian islands—and then, being invited by the Government to leave to them the selection of measures for promoting permanently the interests of the colonies, they moved an amendment to the effect that a measure of temporary protection was not to be considered as excluded; but, in the absence of any knowledge of what permanent measures the Government intended to propose, they thought that the Committee could not suggest the amount of temporary encouragement that would be necessary, and they absented themselves from the last division, when a specific measure was proposed, because they thought that, in the absence of all knowledge of what the permanent measures would be, they were not in a position to propose temporary measures. And, with their views of the manner in which the revenue might be affected by a resolution for temporary protection, they thought that they would not be justified in coming to any other conclusion. s
 MR. ROBINSON  was anxious to explain the grounds upon which he had on a former occasion voted against the proposition
 37 38 l l l l "A men convinced against his will, Is of the same opinion still;" 39 40 41
 MR. GODSON  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Northampton (Mr. V. Smith) had stated, that when emancipation was carried, no bargain had been
 25 26 l s d l s d l l 27 s s s s d s s d s d s d s l s 28 "They had no expectation of the price of sugar being improved except by having the English market opened to the produce of the island, where, if this could be effected at a rate even of 50 per cent above the duty on English colonial sugar, still they should obtain for their produce double the amount they can obtain at present." "The production of 1847 has far exceeded that of any previous year, and the prices obtained by planters have been so highly remunerative, that they are enabled to adopt every means for the further extension of their crops." "During the past year the prices of sugar in our markets were supported at high rates, with but slight and temporary fluctuations, notwithstanding the large crop. This was mainly owing to the unprecedentedly heavy shipments to the United States and to Great Britain, aided by a well-sustained inquiry from Spain, with a fair demand from other parts." s d s s s s d s s s s s d 29
 MR. SPOONER  said, that as he had voted for the Bill of 1846, he wished to explain the reasons which induced him now to vote for the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Droitwich. Before, however, entering upon that subject, he must be permitted to say that his hon. Friend had acted wisely, before making his present proposal, in ascertaining the sense of the House upon the measure submitted by Her Majesty's Government; for, on looking at the division list, it at once appeared that it was condemned by the House, though it happened to be carried by a small majority. The noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) smiled at that statement; but he would tell the noble Lord it was party alone that had given him that majority. It was to party alone that he was indebted for his miserable majority of fifteen. And he further told the noble Lord, there was not, in the whole annals of Parliament, a single instance of a Government forcing on a measure involving such great
 21 22 23 l l s l l 24
 MR. MANGLES  had supported the measure of 1846, in ignorance, as he must admit with regret, of the effects
 33 l 34 "Have you considered at all the cost at which Africans might be imported if there was no interference on the part of the Government? I think the Africans might be imported at a very cheap rate. I will only state what occurred to myself when Lord Grey's despatch came out. I went to tile Colonial Office to inquire if a vessel I had sailing then might (tall at the coast of Africa for negroes. I did so, not on my own account, but on the account of a resident proprietor who was I very anxious to get some. From the Colonial Office, however, I could get no satisfactory answer; and it finally ended in my being told that they had taken two ships up, and they did not intend to allow any more. I could have done it that week, but I could not have done it since. The cost of getting those Africans would have been very small. I do not believe that it would have been a fortnight's longer voyage for the vessel to have gone round there than to have gone direct: the vessel had her supplies, and had plenty of room for the immigrants." 35 l l l "That the immigrants who return from the Mauritius are generally averse to show their gains. Those, however, who had returned by the last two ships, besides ornaments, clothes, &c., had, on an average, brought in money rupees 124, although most of them had remained in the island considerably less than five years, and had on that account to pay for their passage back." "That he had known but few, and they were those who had brought back neither money nor character, express themselves dissatisfied with the Mauritius." 36
 MR. T. BARING  said, that having taken part in a former discussion on this subject, and having then expressed a strong opinion, which had been strengthened by what had occurred since, that a great alteration in the Bill of 1846 was necessary, he was anxious to state the view he took of the measure which the Government had submitted to the House. He would much rather not enter into any discussion of the question of free-trade measures, not that he would shrink from expressing his opinion upon that subject; not because he should hesitate in saying that everything that had occurred and was occurring had confirmed him in the opinion
 60 61 s s d s s s 62 Economist s l s s s s d s d s d Times 63 s d s 64 d 65
 MR. M. GIBSON  said, that as a Member of the Committee which inquired into the alleged distress in the sugar and coffee-growing colonies, he was desirous of making a few observations, and they should be but few, on the question now before the Committee. His hon. Colleague (Mr. Bright) had submitted a Motion on Friday night on which he should have wished to address the Heuse if an opportunity had been afforded him; but he would not now, as that was not the question immediately before hon. Members, draw any comparison between the measure of Her Majesty's Government as a whole, and the law of 1846 as it stood on the Statute-book. He would simply express his regret that Her Majesty's Government had thought fit to depart from the law of 1846. He had been in hopes that the law of 1846 was a final settlement of the sugar question, and that the House would never be called on again to discuss the sugar duties with reference to any other question than the revenue of the State. He contended, that when the House of Commons went into a Committee of Ways and Means, they had nothing to do with sugar-growing countries, or the profits of particular interests, and that the only thing they had to consider was, in what manner they should levy a duty which was adequate to the necessities of the public revenue. And yet what had this debate been about? For one word that had been spoken about the revenue of the State, there had been ten uttered about the necessity of providing a revenue for individuals. It was a monstrous thing that they never could discuss the question of raising a tax upon the people, without encountering some proposition for transferring a portion of that tax into the pockets of some section or other of the community. He was prepared, notwithstanding, to meet the case on the grounds alleged by hon. Gentlemen opposite, in reference to the distress of the colonial in-
 52 Cheers in formâ pauperis 53 s s s s s s 54 l l s d s s l l l 55 l l l l l l s d s d s d s s s s s l l l s d 56 s d s s s s d l l l 57 58 59
 MR. M'CULLAGH  thought that the claim for relief on the part of the West Indies, which was founded upon the acknowledged existence of severe distress, was in every point of view more deserving of legislative consideration than that which rested upon the narrower ground of an alleged breach of compact. Many who denied altogether that any bargain had been made or broken, were not unwilling to enter frankly into the question of what the colonies really required, and what aid this country could reasonably be asked to afford them. For the system of policy which would sever liabilities and obligations, among the different communities subject to the same Crown, he had no respect or sympathy. So long as they bore a common allegiance, and adhered to the fortunes of the same empire, he considered that each had in times of unforeseen calamity or unavoidable distress a right to claim from the Imperial Legislature peculiar care, and succour in its time of need. On the other hand, it must be admitted that in all such cases grounds as clear as they were Special ought to be stated; and if in the present instance it had been shown that the claim of the West Indian proprietary was novel or unprecedented—that their misfortunes had arisen from different causes from any which had affected their condition before—or if they had proved that they had done all that in them lay to wrestle with the evils they complained of—he should have felt much more hesitation as to the vote which he was about to give upon the question. But it was difficult to distinguish the distress that now prevailed from that which Parliament had in former years been called on to relieve, so far as its great and leading features were concerned. In 1807, a Committee of the House reported that the West Indian planters had submitted to them ample evidence to show that they were upon the brink of ruin—that estates must go out of cultivation, for that sugar was produced at a loss—and that all this had arisen from the loss of a monopoly they had previously enjoyed, and their inability to compete with foreigners. There was no question about free labour then, for slavery was at that
 30 31 32 d d
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in explanation, what he intended to state was, that though the Committee had recommended a differential duty of 10 s s
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  had omitted to state that, in the event of the Committee adopting the resolution which he had pro-posed, for reducing the duty on colonial sugar from 13 s s s
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  rose to bring forward the Amendment of which he had given notice, the effect of which would be that from the present time there should be a differential duty of 10 s 5 s s s 6 s s s d s d s s s s 7 s s s l s l 8 l s l s l l l l l l l 9 l l l s A laugh 10 s s "That after the words 'muscovado, or any other sugar not being equal in quality to white clayed, for every cwt.,' instead of the words 'thirteen shillings' the words 'ten shillings' should be inserted."
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  was anxious to explain what were the real objects of the Bill before the House, which it was clear were not understood by the hon. Baronet, nor were its provisions duly appreciated by him. In the first place, he wished for one moment to make allusion to the complaint of the hon. Baronet as to the introduction of certain clauses in the Bill at a former stage of its progress, without explanation. He was sure, when the circumstances were explained, no censure could be passed on the Government for having introduced these clauses into the Bill. When this was done at a very late hour of the night, he was anxious to enter
 94 pro formâ 95 bonâ fide 96 97 98 99 100 101 102 l l l l l l l 103
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  stated that Government had no authority to interfere in the matter. It rested in a great degree with the inns of court; but many of the recommendations of the Committee would require to be effected by legislation. Before or during the inquiry before the Committee, some of the inns of court here had established lectureships at a considerable expense, and there had been conferences of the different inns with the view of arranging some uniform system of education and admission to the bar. He was unable to state whether anything had been done by the King's inns, Dublin.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  stated that no such intention existed on the part of Government. At the same time, it was one well worthy of consideration. If the hon. Member should introduce any Bill on the subject, he would be happy to give him any assistance in his power.
 MR. VERNON SMITH , who rose amidst loud cries of "Divide, divide!" did not consider it decorous in the hon. Member for Sunderland, considering the peculiar position in which he stood, to make himself so conspicuous among those who seemed determined to interrupt every one who spoke in favour of a measure for placing some check on railway companies. He saw opposite to him a large number of Gentlemen connected with railways—there were enough of them on the opposite benches at that moment to form a provisional Committee. No doubt those railway Gentlemen would be glad to get rid of the Railway Commission altogether. It might be easily understood that they would object to every measure of railway supervision that could be proposed. He hailed the accession of the hon. and learned Member for Dorsetshire to the ranks of those who advocated economy, and hoped that they might have the benefit of his assistance on other occasions. He admitted that at present there was not enough work for the Railway Commissioners; but he submitted that this was not the time for the hon. Gentleman to press forward his Bill. The whole of the Miscellaneous Estimates had been submitted to a Committee of which he had the honour to be chairman. This subject had been discussed by the Committee, and resolutions had been passed by the Committee relating to the Railway Commission; and he therefore thought that it would be as well that the House
 124
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL , before the House divided, wished to state how far he agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman who had brought the Motion forward, and with the right hon. Member for the University of Oxford. He agreed so far with them as to think that the Railway Board, as at present constituted, had more persons belonging to it at high salaries, than was necessary for the business there was to do; and that unless some arrangement was made for other business to be attached to it, great alterations ought to take place before the next Session of Parliament, by means of which there would he considerable reduction. But he did not agree with the right hon. Gentleman in thinking it was quite sufficient to have persons with low salaries, and then say they had secured a good department. His opinion was, that if they did not wish to have an effectual supervision over railways, it would be better not to place any persons whatever in that position. Such a course would be perfectly intelligible; leaving to Committees of the House of Commons, or the House of Commons itself, all the necessary regulations. But it was better to have persons with salaries proportionate to
 125 l l 126
 MR. FREWEN  observed that there were not forty Members present, and the House adjourned at a quarter before Eight o'clock.
 MR. FREWEN  objected to the House proceeding with a Bill of that importance, while so many were absent attending Committees who were anxious to take part in the proceeding.
 MR. URQUHART : Sir, I rise to move—
 "That, interference in the internal government of other countries is detrimental to the interests, and derogatory to the honour of this country, as well as to the interests and honour of the countries in behalf of which such intervention is assumed to be exercised. "That this practice of intervention has led to or excused the increase of the military and naval establishments, and thereby of the public expenditure, to the great oppression of Her Majesty's subjects, and particularly of the class which depends on daily labour for daily food." 128 129 130 l
 MR. BANKES , in reply, said he proposed to repeal this Act, and give the noble Lord the power of bringing in such an Act as be required.
 MR. BANKES  rose to ask for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal the Railway Commission Act. He said it had been asserted by more than one of the present Ministers that the House of Commons were entirely to blame for all the extravagances of the Government. He, therefore, thought it was time for the House of Commons to redeem their character in some respect from such a charge, and to exercise, for the future, a greater degree of vigilance than hitherto. He was not, however, prepared to admit the charge to the extent to which it had been made. He did not deny that suggestions might have been made by private Members of the House, which proved very valuable to the Government;
 111 l l 112 l l l l s 113 "The present board of Commissioners of Railways was instituted under an Act which was passed at the end of the Session of 1846, in compliance with the recommendations of Committees of both Houses of Parliament. By this Act the powers which had been previously exercised by the Railway Department of the Board of Trade were transferred to the Commissioners, and additional powers of inquiry were given in ease of re-
 114 115
 MR. HAMILTON  said, the second question
 110
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he had given notice of two questions which he was desirous of asking the Attorney General upon subjects of considerable importance. The first related to the present defective state of legal education. The House would recollect that a Select Committee, presided over by Mr. Wyse, sat upon this subject for a period of three months in the Session of 1846. They examined the highest authorities connected with the universities and the legal profession, and the result was, a very able report prepared by Mr. Wyse, containing a number of recommendations for the improvement of legal education. One of these recommendations was, that delegates be invited to meet from the inns of court in this country, from the King's inns, Dublin, and from the society of solicitors, Dublin, and that communication he had with the universities on the subject. The question he had to ask was, whether any steps had been taken by Her Majesty's Government, or by the inns of court, or the King's inns, Dublin, to give effect to any of the recommendations with respect to the improvement of legal education contained in the report of the Select Committee, presented 25th August, 1846?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that though the subject was a very dry one, he hoped the House would favour him with its attention for the very short time that he intended trespassing upon them. He was not disposed to underrate the importance of questions of economy in that House. He admitted that it was the duty of that House to economise the public money in every manner that it could be saved consistently with the public interests; but at the same time he thought the House and the hon. Gentleman must admit, considering the necessity of a superintendence over railways, that there was a consideration more important than the saving of money involved, namely, what system of superintendence were they to adopt. As to the question of economy, he thought that the hon. and learned Gentleman had not stated the question quite correctly. The expense of the present establishment of Railway Commissioners, after deducting the salary of the Chief Commissioner, which was not intended to be applied for, would be 10,700 l l l 116 117 118 119
 MR. NAPIER  would not attempt to reply on behalf of the legal profession; but as a Member of that House he hoped that
 104 Dublin Gazette 105
 MR. GLADSTONE  regretted Her Majesty's Government should have adopted a view of this question at the present moment so materially different from that which they had expressed upon former occasions. Upon a former occasion they admitted the Railway Commission had been instituted at great expense, in the expectation of new duties being provided, which new duties had never been provided; and they now admitted that, so taken, the case was complete. But what did they do, notwithstanding that admission? They met the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Dorchester simply upon the question of time. It had been stated that when the Commissioners presented their report they would give their own views as to their future course, and then the House would be in a position to decide as to the other duties to be imposed upon them. Well! they had reported—and to what effect? Why, they positively had not reported in favour of extending new duties to their Board! The whole idea upon which the Commission was founded thus vanished into thin air. There was not the slightest notion in the report of those duties being committed to the Board, which the House intended when they appointed it; and but for the contemplation of which additional duties, the House would never have dreamt of appointing the Commission. Yet the House were now invited to leave the question in the hands of the Government, who promised it should receive careful consideration. Certainly it was not the way to look their constituents in the face, when they were told on all sides of the vast expenditure of the country, and of the necessity for economy, to continue a Commission which cost so large a sum in comparison with the services rendered. He held the first report of the Commissioners in his hand, from which it was evident that to all practical purposes they had themselves abandoned the notion
 120 l l 121 "A private of the Sappers and Miners, travelling on the Caledonian Railway on detached duty connected with the Ordnance survey, and having with him certain surveying instruments weighing less than 50 lbs was charged for them as for a quarter of a ton of public stores, the Caledonian Railway Company's Act containing a clause authorising the company to charge for a fraction of a quarter of a ton as for a quarter of a ton. The Commissioners being disposed to think that articles of this kind could not be considered as forming' part of the soldier's 'personal luggage,' and therefore could not be included in the half-a-hundred weight which each soldier is allowed to take with him free of charge; they considered that, whether the weight of the personal luggage which the soldier had with him was less or greater than 56 lbs., these instruments were liable to be charged for separately as 'public baggage or stores,' at the rate of twopence a mile." d l 122 "That the Caledonian Railway Company were not justified in charging for the surveying instruments as for a quarter of a ton, but were entitled only to charge for them according to their actual weight, at the rate of 2 d d 123 l
 MR. W. MONSELL  said, that, as the morning sitting had very nearly come to a conclusion, he would not trespass long upon the patience of the House; but he must observe that he thought it would be exceedingly unfortunate if it should go forth to the country that any considerable number of the Irish Members coincided with the views of the hon. Baronet the Member for Clare (Sir L. O'Brien), and of the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier), for whose opinions he (Mr. Monsoll) generally entertained the highest respect, but with which, so far as the subject now before the House
 106 onus probandi 107 108 bonâ fide 109
 SIR LUCIUS O'BRIEN  trusted to the indulgence of the House while he made
 88 89 l l l s s s 90 l l l l l l 91 92 l l l l l l 93 l "That it be an instruction to the Committee on the Encumbered Estates (Ireland) Bill to extend its operation to England and Scotland."
 SIR D. NORREYS  hoped his hon. Friend the Member for Rochdale (Mr. W. S. Crawford) would not persist in his Motion, He believed that some Bill of this kind was necessary to enable them to get through their business. The system of Parliament taking up in one Session the business which had been left undone in a previous Session was not new. It had already been in operation for several years in the French Chambers, and had been found to be productive of great advantage.
 VISCOUNT MAHON  was quite ready to refer this Bill to a Select Committee. But, notwithstanding his great respect for his right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge, he could not go along with him in several of the objections he had stated to this Bill. He thought it was liable to some objections; but he considered that the general principle well deserved the attention of the Committee. He was strongly impressed with the advantage of the Bill in a case like this: Suppose a Bill to be supported by a majority of that House, but resisted pertinaciously by a small and determined minority. There might, of course, be great delay in passing such a measure, owing to that opposition; and, consequently, it might not reach the House of Lords till a late period of the Session. If the House of Lords, owing to its reaching them at so late a period, should throw out the Bill, there would be a great loss of time occasioned even to the House of Commons by its reintroduction into that House in the succeeding Session, because the minority might recommence their opposition, and endeavour to defeat it again by renewed dis-
 137
 SIR J. GRAHAM  would state very shortly the course which, as an individual, he intended to pursue in reference to this Bill. In a former Parliament, as well as during the present Session, he had taken the liberty of stating fully to the House the objections which he entertained to the principle of this Bill. Those objections remained unaltered, and, he believed, unalterable, He did not think that any modification the Bill could receive in Committee would remove the objection which he felt to its principle. Moreover, he did not think it expedient, considering that the House, after a full discussion on a former occasion, had decided in favour of going into Committee on the Bill, to obstruct the Speaker's leaving the chair, and to prevent those who were in favour of the measure from changing it as they thought fit. He believed that the Bill was resisted generally by the Established Church of Scotland, and he had reason to believe that it was resisted also by all the Dissenting bodies in Scotland, with the exception of the Free Church. He certainly would take no part in the discussion in the Committee, but should reserve any observations he had to make till it came out of the Committee in its amended form, when he would be prepared to resist its further progress at a subsequent stage; believing that, in addition to the support of the Estab-
 138
 MR. ELLIOT  said, that as that clause at present stood, it would allow the members not only of every Christian congregation, but of every association whatever, who chose to take a religious form, to compel landlords to sell their land on which to build their places of meeting. Now, he wished to move an Amendment confining the operation of the measure to the relief of the parties at present labouring under the grievance complained of. Now, what was that grievance? That grievance was a single grievance, confined to a limited number of persons in certain localities. It was not a grievance which was suffered by the whole Free Church, or anything like the whole Free Church. It was confined to some twenty or thirty congregations, composed of some 12,000 or 14,000 persons. But the grievance was nevertheless a great and intolerable grievance, and one which called loudly for redress. That grievance had been represented to the House by their own Committee as an intolerable grievance; and in the present state of things it was actually dangerous to the health both of the ministers and of the congregations who were exposed to it. Through the winter and summer these congregations were at present compelled to worship in the open air, or, at any rate, under very insufficient covering—exposed to frost and cold and heavy falls of rain. He appealed to hon. Members how they would feel if they and their families were obliged to attend public worship under these great hardships, and if they had no remedy but that of absenting themselves from public worship altogether? He thanked God that his countrymen, under no hardship or deprivation, would do that. They would go to a place of worship even if they had to stand up to the knees in snow, and if they had no more comfortable place to go to. Every Member must see that that could not be done without very great danger to the health of those congregations; and it was impossible but that already many persons should have fallen victims to the refusal of these sites. This ease was different from anything that could happen in England or Ireland, for in Scotland there were in the hands of a few proprietors properties that more resembled
 139 "To leave out the words, 'the members of any religious congregation in Scotland,' in order to insert the words, 'any congregation or congregations of the Free Church of Scotland."
 SIR B. HALL  wished to call the attention of the House to the course which had been pursued with reference to this order, which related to what was asserted to be a very important question—the repeal of the Union. That subject was brought before the House on the 11th of April by the hon. Member for the city of Limerick (Mr. J. O'Connell); and, after the speeches of that hon. Gentleman, of the Member for the county of Limerick (Mr. W. S. O'Brien), who seconded the Motion, and of one or two other hon. Gentlemen, the debate was adjourned. Now, those hon. Gentlemen had since absented themselves from the House; they had shown no further interest in the matter; and he thought the House
 142 143
 MR. REYNOLDS  must confess that there was much truth in the observations of the hon. Baronet. He begged to thank that hon. Gentleman for exculpating him (Mr. Reynolds) from any blame in relation to this matter. The reason his name had been connected with the various postponements of the debate was, that he had moved its adjournment, and had therefore a sort of official connexion with the question. He (Mr. Reynolds) wished to state, not only for the information of the House, but of the public, who felt much interest in this important national question, that he condemned the hon. Member for the city of Limerick for choosing the occasion he selected for bringing the subject forward. He (Mr. Reynolds) and several of his hon. Friends had remonstrated with that hon. Gentleman (Mr. J. O'Connell) against bringing the matter forward at that time. They stated that upon that Wednesday there would not be sufficient time to discuss the question; indeed, the hon. and learned Member's own speech occupied four hours, and the House on Wednesday could spare only six. It was impossible for him (Mr. Reynolds) to bring on the Motion on any of the other days for which it was fixed; and now it was half-past 4, and the House must rise at 6 o'clock, and not more than three Repeal Members were at that moment in the House. [ Cheers 144
 MR. KEOGH  looked upon the discussion throughout as a mere pretence. The quarrel between the hon. Gentlemen was "a very pretty one as it stood," and he was not inclined to interfere; but he was not at all disposed to join in exculpating the hon. Member (Mr. Reynolds). He (Mr. Keogh) happened to be in Dublin when that hon. Member, in his place in another Parliament—Conciliation-hall—informed his admiring audience, that there was to be found upon the repeal benches of the British House of Commons a greater amount of political rascality, a greater amount of political profligacy, than in like proportion had ever disgraced the sacred benches of Conciliation-hall. It was difficult, therefore, to blame hon. Members for not being in their places, to hear perhaps similar language applied to themselves. But there was another reason for not exculpating that bland demagogue the hon. Member for Dublin ["Order!"]—well, then, democrat ["Order!"]—he (Mr. Keogh) would apologise if he had used a word that was not consistent with the rules of the House—at all events that bland popular orator, bland only in that House; that was the only place where he had heard him speak in such mild and complacent language. When the hon. Member went back to Ireland for the recess, the first thing he did was to denounce his own supporters, and to say, "I give you notice that on the 31st of April—on the 31st of May, no matter what business may be on hand, no matter if I should be engaged in the Herculean labour of defending my seat, I will bring on the question of repeal. "Said the hon. and learned Member for the city of Limerick, "I was always for taking an opportune time; my opinion is, that we should keep this awful,
 145 "Against drinking let the drunkard rail, let Crockford's Club preach against gaming, but lot not a Whig Government complain of agitation." bonâ fide
 MR. KEOGH  would second the Motion for the adjournment of the House, in order to have the opportunity of saying a few words in reply to the hon. Member for Dublin. He seemed to have touched a sore point when he spoke of Repeal Members receiving comfort and consolation from the Treasury benches. When he made that allusion, it was not his intention to infer that any broad pieces had been disbursed to those Gentlemen, although since he last addressed the House an extract from a paper had been placed in his hands which went into some details respecting pounds, shillings, and pence; but he would not road it, because he had not touched upon the topic in his original observations. The
 148 149
 SIR G. GREY  said, that he would not have interposed between the hon. and learned Gentleman and the hon. Member for Dublin, who seemed to be very equally matched, had it not been for the very uncalled-for and unprovoked course which the hon. and learned Gentleman had taken in bringing a charge against the Government, supported by the most meagre evidence. The hon. and learned Gentleman referred to a vote which he (Sir. G. Grey) dared say was given on good and sufficient grounds. [Mr. KEOGH: I did not say that the vote was given, but tendered.] He would take the hon. and learned Gentleman's statement to be correct, for he was bound to give credence to what a Member stated of his own knowledge; but the hon. and learned Member was not justified in founding upon the fact of a vote having been tendered for the hon. Member for Dublin a wholesale charge against the Government of throwing all their power and influence into the scale in favour of repeal candidates. The solution of the hon. and learned Gentleman's conduct was, perhaps, to be found in this circumstance—that, however solicitous he might have been to obtain the influence of the Government at his election, he found that they would not give it to him. He could only meet a general assertion by a general denial; and, in support of his denial, he might refer to the determined opposition offered to the election of his right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland by the members of that body to whom the hon. and learned Gentleman said the Government afforded comfort and consolation. Let the hon. and learned Gentleman bring forward and substantiate, if he could, a distinct charge against the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland; for to that nobleman the charge referred, because it was well known that the Irish elections
 150
 SIR G. GREY  thought it unnecessary to read the Bill a second time at that moment, because the House had already assented to the second reading of another Bill in which the ease of Horsham was dealt with.
 MR. GREENE  considered that as this Bill (which came down from the House of Lords) had not yet been explained to the House, it would be necessary for him, in now moving that it be read a second time, to state in a few words the nature of the measure. It was notorious to the House, that the prorogation of Parliament put an end to every proceeding in either House of Parliament, and that, at whatever stage a measure might he when the prorogation took place, the whole of the stages of that measure must be gone through if it was again introduced in the subsequent Session of Parliament. They were also aware that, of late years, the greater portion of their business, and very frequently the most important, was postponed till a very late period of the Session—so late that, on many occasions, it was found necessary to drop important questions altogether; while the House of Lords either found it impossible to get through the Bills that came before them, or did so with a degree of rapidity that ought not to exist. In 1844 the number of Bills that were brought up to the Lords from the Commons were—in March, three; April, one; May, ten; June, nine; July, fifty-two; and, on the four last days on which the House sat, in August, twelve. In 1854 there were 155 Bills brought into the Commons; and 130 Acts of Parliament passed, of which 21 originated in the House of Lords, and 109 in the House of Commons. Of 91 Bills sent up from the Commons in 1845, and printed, excluding those which the Lords did not think of sufficient importance to print, there were sent up in February, one; in March, five; in April, twelve; in May, four; in June, nine; in July, fifty-nine; in August, one. So that of the Acts which were sent up to to the House of Lords in 1845, sixty-three, or nearly one-half, were so sent up within the last six weeks of the Session. In 1846, 149 Bills were brought into the Commons; of 117 Acts which were passed, 12 originated in the House of Lords, and 105 in the House of Commons; 79 were printed, and of those, 15 were sent up in July, and 36 in August. In those two months 51 Bills were, in all, sent to the House of Lords, and passed into law. In 1847,159 Bills were brought into
 132 "Of course it would be difficult for him to be aware what the progress of those Bills would be; but he thought it probable that they would occupy so much of the time of the House, that it would be difficult to expect full attention in that and the other House of Parliament to the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill. Her Majesty's Government were perfectly prepared, if there had been time, to proceed with that Bill; but they could not think that at this late period of the Session the Bill would receive the full consideration of the House of Lords, even if it should pass this House. " "I regret to find, on a view of these measures, that several of those which yet remain to be discharged, and that must and ought to be discharged, are very important. The entire number of Bills amounts to between fifty and sixty." 133 "Under the present custom of Parliament most Bills must originate in the Commons. At present their Lordships' time was wasted in the early part of the Session, and everything was crowded on together when a majority of their Lordships had left London, and when, even if they were all present, they would have no time to bestow for the consideration of the measures presented to their notice." 134
 LORD J. RUSSELL  concluded that the hon. Gentleman who had moved the second reading would at all events refer the Bill to the Select Committee which it was proposed to appoint on the business of the House; that whether the House agreed or not, though he presumed they would, to that Committee, the hon. Gentleman would propose that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee, and would nominate the persons whose names now stood in the Votes. Like the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, he should refrain from entering into any of the considerations which the Bill involved. There was one question, however, as to acting by Resolution or by Bill, which was of considerable importance, and to which he should briefly advert. He believed the House had an inherent power of making resolutions by which the House could agree at a single reading to a Bill which had been passed in a previous Session of Parliament, and the House of Lords had agreed to. There was nothing in the first, second, or third reading of a Bill which was binding upon the House by Act of Parliament, or which they had it not in their power to change. He thought, therefore, that they could by resolution declare that, instead of three readings, they should have only one reading, which should be conclusive. Such would be the effect of the Bill as it stood, because it was proposed, not that the House should be bound to assent to what it formerly agreed to; but that every clause of a Bill might be reconsidered in another Session, if it were not passed in the same Session in which it was introduced. But as to doing such things by resolution, he saw considerable objection. It would be altering the whole usage of Parliament by resolution. If there were to be a Bill, it ought to be a temporary Bill, for otherwise very great inconvenience would be experienced; and it would rather embarrass legislation than assist it, were they to adopt a mea-sure which they had not the power of al-
 136
 MR. GOULBURN  felt that great part of the objection he had to this Bill was removed by the proposal to refer it to the Select Committee which it was intended to nominate on the business of the House, because when the question came before the Committee there would be an opportunity
 135
 MR. CRAWFORD  objected entirely to the Bill. Instead of facilitating, it would greatly retard public business. He should therefore feel it his duty to take the sense of the House against it, and to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 MR. VILLIERS  said, that as he had only risen to say a few words on the question before the House, be would not at that hour of the night follow the hon. Member for Warwickshire into another question which be had proposed to him to consider; but as it was his intention to vote for the resolution of the hon. Member for Montrose, though he did not agree in all its terms, and still loss with all the reasons that had been assigned in its favour, he wished to explain the grounds of his vote. He was sure that the hon. Member for Montrose would forgive him for differing with him in this respect—since, he told the House that the Gentlemen who had met at a club to prepare his resolution for him, had all differed among themselves upon the most important part of it, namely, the qualification of the voter. [Mr. HUME: They agreed upon household suffrage.] Yes! They agreed upon household suffrage, but they all differed as to what household suffrage meant, and claimed the right upon that occasion, to put their own construction on the words. Now this was what he (Mr. Villiers) proposed to do by the resolution itself, and he should vote for it, less for the specific proposition it contained, than as a means of recognising by this House the policy of widening the basis of the representation, and protecting the voter in the exercise of his privilege. He believed that this was a policy that it would be desirable to adopt, and very unwise to resist: the suffraffe had been argued in this country by high authority, to be a right, and if so, be did not see, when it was earnestly and honestly demanded, on what principle it could he refused. He did not of course mean to advocate any violent change in our constitu-
 223 224 225
 MR. S. HERBERT  would not, in the discussion of a question affecting the character of the House, and the competency of carrying on the public business, add to any charge that had been brought against it, by unnecessarily extending the speeches in its debates. His only object in speaking at all was to express his wish that his vote should be considered as distinct from the votes of those who were of opinion that the representation of this country was perfect, or that it was impossible to make any improvement in it. H was unnecessary for him to go at any length into the question, it having been already so ably argued, and by none more powerfully than by the noble Lord at the head of the Government. It was with great satisfaction that he heard the noble Lord give up the doctrine of finality. It was also with pleasure that he heard the noble Lord state that he did not approve of uniformity of suffrage. Now, the object, or rather the necessary accident, of all representation being to secure good government, it first became them to inquire how far the present system was calculated to carry on the business of the country; and whether or not, under the present system, the different classes of the people enjoyed a sufficient share of the representation. Believing that the representation was not sufficiently varied, he
 214 215 National l ateliers gens d'armes s d 216 217
 LORD D. STUART  expressed his gratification at finding that the doctrine of finality was repudiated by all parties. He thought the number of petitions presented to the House, and the number of public meetings held in favour of the proposition of the hon. Member for Montrose, and the total absence of any demonstration against it, ought to satisfy the House of the great and general feeling existing out of doors for measures of reform. The noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) in his speech appeared to deny that a man had a right to the franchise.
 218 219 220
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  felt they had reached a period of the Session at which it was hardly to be expected that the measure brought forward by the hon. Member for the Flint Boroughs could be carried forward successfully. He would, however, take the question into the hands of the Government, and propose what he should think the fitting course for the House to pursue. Next week he would state what
 156
 MR. STAFFORD  had to move—
 "That a New Writ should be issued for the Borough of Leicester, for the Election of two Burgesses to serve in this Present Parliament for that Borough, in the room of Sir Joshua Walmsley and C. Gardner, Esq., whose Election had been declared void." 154 "That it appeared to the Committee that the system of bribery and corruption carried on at the last election for the said borough of Leicester, was such as to demand the attention of the House." 155
 MR. NEWDEGATE  was understood to deny the assertion of Mr. Osborne that the Agricultural Association had been agitating the country by the means of hired lecturers, and to retort upon the hon. Member for Middlesex the determined attempt made by the League two years since to disfranchise the county voters, when no less than 23,000 notices of objection had been served by that body, and when they
 222
 MR. URQUHART : The question of Reform comes before the House in 1848 in a different shape from that in which it came before it in 1830. It was then a speculative question; we had no results to guide us; we had merely evils pressing upon us for which we sought a remedy. Amongst the remedies proposed, one was selected as the best; but at best it was an experiment. The question now comes before us with the addition of practice and experience, and rather in the shape of a failure of the remedy than in that of a cure for the disease. Unless the remedy had failed there would be no case at all. We have had sixteen years of a Reformed Parliament: the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose is its condemnation. It has produced no fruits. We have therefore mistaken our way: the failure of a measure from which such enormous results were expected or apprehended, is the greatest lesson that has probably ever been read to a people. It has been read to us in vain. I will not follow the speakers who have preceded me into any abstract question of right—into any theory of representation—any calculation of property or population. I will look to practical results, and in those I will content myself with taking the case as stated by my hon. Friend the Member for Middlesex who opened the debate this evening. Replying to the arguments of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, he has shown that, instead of alleviating the burdens of the people, the Reformed Parliament has increased them; he has said, that "in a financial point of view, the present House of Commons is utterly useless. "This is his argument for a new Reform. Could more sweeping condemnation be pronounced? That is what I came here prepared to prove. My hon. Friend has relieved
 196 197 Tempora mutantur 198 "We are bound then, in the circumstances of the country, to reduce our expenditure, not by 17,000,000 l l "A country must be mad which in a state of peace should go on from year to year consuming its income; and that it was the duty of the Legislature to look forward in time of peace to a possible state of war, and so to reduce the expenditure as to leave a considerable surplus for the reduction of the public debt." "As the duration and magnitude of the astonishing exertions made by this kingdom during the late war must mainly be attributed to the pecuniary resources then brought into operation, which could never be more justly deemed the sinews of war than during the whole course of that eventful contest; so these can be renovated and strengthened in no other way than by retrenchment and economy during the opportunity afforded byaveturn of peace," "That to provide for the exigencies of the public service, to make such progressive diminution of the national debt as may adequately support public credit, and to afford to the country a prospect of future relief from a part of its present burdens, it is absolutely necessary that there should be a clear surplus of the income of the country beyond the expenditure of not less than 5,000,000 l l 199 l l l "With respect to the Army Estimates, I have to inform the House that Government have under present consideration the propriety and practicability of effecting a considerable reduction in that branch of the public service; in fact, they propose to reduce gradually the Army, so much as to have no more than 50,000 troops in pay." 200 201 "It will be strange indeed, if in a reformed Parliament—in a Parliament whose reform he to the last opposed—the Member for Tamworth should achieve that which in an unreformed Parliament with all his influence and all his plausibility Lord Castlereagh was not able to accomplish." l l l l l l l l 202 l l l l l 203 204 stare super vias antiquas "That experience has shown that change in the constitution of Parliament has failed to obtain the ends for which it was desired, and with which it was originally conjoined—non-interference and retrenchment."
 MR. O'CONNOR : Having been connected for many years with the larger question which had been incidentally brought into the discussion of the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose, he thought he might claim the indulgence of the House while he gave his opinion on the question before them. He might have risen under greater difficulty than he now experienced, if it had not been for the admission of the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), in expressing his determination to resist the proposition of the hon. Member for Montrose. It was an admitted fact, that every new political party, every new political question, had to go through a certain ordeal. The promoters of every new political question were first laughed at and scoffed at, then they were reviled and persecuted, then the principle was considered, then it was deliberated upon and discussed, and then it was legislated upon. Now, he confessed he felt greatly relieved from embarrassment when he found the noble Lord declaring in the speech he had delivered on this subject, that he preferred the odious principles of Chartism to the minor principles of the resolution of the hon. Member for Montrose. It gave him and those who had laboured with him a guarantee that he had not laboured in vain. He felt that the speech of the noble Lord, although made on the Ministerial side of the House, was intended for a book of reference when he should change to the other side. The hon. and learned Member for Reading (Serjeant Talfourd) had delivered a speech on this subject which had been called an able, a poetical, an astounding, an astonishing speech. For himself, he had been most struck with the ignorance which had been displayed by the hon. and learned Member. The hon. and learned Gentleman had rested upon three points. He had referred to the case of the artisan in his attic or cellar, incapable of supporting his family, and had asked—would you trust that man with a vote? In answer to that he would say that if the want of that vote disabled that artisan from supporting his family, or if in his opinion it placed him in that situation, he was the very man whom he would enfranchise. The hon. and learned Member had also asked them—would you enfranchise the ignorant people of the country? That was precisely the argument which was used in 1780, when Charles James Fox and the
 209 210 211
 MR. MUNTZ  thought, that though several Gentlemen had spoken in the course of the evening, the subject had been very much shirked. The question really was, whether the House fully, fairly, and honestly represented the people; and, if not, whether the plan proposed would place the House in the position in which it ought to be? Hon. Members were certainly mistaken if they thought the people were of opinion that they were represented in that House. It had been said, indeed, that this was a nursed agitation, not spontaneous or natural, and that it ought to have come from the people, and not to have been sent to the people. Now, as far as he (Mr. Muntz) knew, it was spontaneous. He had made no communication to his constituents upon the subject; but the communication came, in the first instance, from them to him. Before he knew what the proposal of the hon. Member (Mr. Hume) was to be, they stated to him what their plan was, and it precisely agreed with the plan now proposed. [ A laugh 221
 MR. SEYMER , as Chairman of the Select Committee, felt as strongly as any one could, the inconvenience which had arisen by Motions of the kind under consideration. He had come down determined not to oppose the Motion for the issue of the writ; but the hon. Member for North Northamptonshire, in moving for it, had given such a flowing description of the corruption of the borough of Leicester, that he now felt in a position of great difficulty. The want of some comprehensive measure to meet all these cases was felt on all hands. The law was at present in a most unsatisfactory position. If the House was of opinion that the writ should in the present case be issued, he would not oppose it.
 MR. HUME , in reply, could assure his hon. Friend who had just sat down, he was altogether mistaken in supposing that there had been a difference of opinion as to the point to which he referred. A difference of opinion had existed as to the extent to which the suffrage should go. His hon. Friend was also under a mistake in supposing that the ballot would be a remedy in the present state of the representation. He (Mr. Hume) had stated that he considered the extension of the suffrage the principal point, but that it must not be separated from the ballot; he considered all to he necessary in order to insure to the people an efficient reform. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Wilts had told him to consider what was passing in France. Why, he proposed this measure because he was anxious to prevent matters from coming to the same point as in France. Deny the people this measure, you injured them; injure them, and you cause discontent, and when discontent was excited, the Government was
 226
 MR. L. KING , as a new Member, begged, for a few moments, the indulgence of the House he would not take up the time of the House by replying in any way to the hon. Members the mover and seconder of the Amendment; he would only say, that there appeared to be a general feeling that that Amendment was ill-timed. He thought that the hon. and learned Member for Reading (Mr. Serjeant Talfourd), in the course of his remarkable and eloquent speech, had entirely forgotten on what principle the Reform Bill was supported and passed. He had always understood it to he this—that as great complaint existed that great masses of the people, who contributed largely to the exigencies of the State by the payment of taxes, and by the consumption of articles that were
 206 207 208
 MR. OSBORNE : * * 157 158 159 l l l l beau ideal l l l s d s d s d s d s 160 l s d s s s s s s s 161 l "That no House of Commons will deserve the confidence of the people until the right of suffrage be extended to all householders paying taxes and parochial rates—until each Member is chosen by a proportionate number of electors—until the duration of Parliament is materially shortened—and until each elector, without hope or fear of private 10 s "The opinion of the wisest man in the world, Jeremy Bentham, was in favour of this proposition." l 162 l l l "Those who would gain the votes of British tribes, Must add to force of merit force of bribes." 163 l l l 164 165 l "It is no part of the constitution of the kingdom that a qualification shall he required; nor is it a part of the consequences of the Revolution. It was introduced by a bad Parliament, now held in no great esteem, for the purpose of defeating the Revolution and excluding the Protestant succession to the Crown." stare super antiquas vias Parliamentary Com- 166 panion attachés 167 "The constitution of this House, instead of being settled, inviolable, and invariable, was a
 168 * "He spoke of the middle classes—of the thousands and tens of thousands of the middle orders of the State, the most numerous, and by far the most wealthy class in the country; for all their Lordships' castles, manors, funds, and acres, if brought to the hammer, and sold at fifty years' purchase, would kick the beam, when counterpoised by the wealth of the middle classes, who were the depositaries of sober, rational, intelligent, and honest English feeling; they were not to be browbeaten by classic quotations, and, as for an epigram, they cared for it as little as a cannon-ball; they were grave, intelligent, and rational people, who long considered a subject before they made up their minds upon it: he did not believe any thinking man could dream of the possibility of carrying on any Government in spite of those middle classes." * 169 "The knights are dust, Their good swords rust, And their souls are with the saints we trust." 170
 MR. COBDEN  said: I rise under great disadvantages to address the House after the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just sat down; and the difficulty of my position would be very much increased if I were called upon to address myself to this question in the manner, and with the eloquence and fancy, by which his speech has been distinguished; but I make no pretence to follow in such a track. I cannot help observing that the hon. and learned Gentleman has not given us any facts as the groundwork of his reasoning. There is one statement, however, made by the hon. and learned Gentleman on which the opponents of ray hon. Friend the Member for Montrose seem very much to rely. The statement to which I allude is to this effect—that the wishes of the country are not in favour of the change which my hon. Friend proposes. That assertion, as we all know, was made by the noble Lord the Member for London. Now, it must be generally felt that this statement is of more importance than any other that has been uttered upon this subject. I am ready to admit that there is a diversity of opinion amongst the unenfranchised classes as to the nature and extent of the reform which they demand; but I will put it both to the noble Lord, and to the hon. and learned Gentleman, whether they mean deliberately to tell this House that the great
 182 l Daily News 183 184 l 185 186 187 188 l l s s 189 l l Dodd's Parliamentary Companion 190 l l l l 191 l 192 193 194 par excellence 195
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  would only detain the House for a few moments while he stated his reasons for not supporting the new Reform Bill, while at the same time he was not opposed to measures of general reform. He would not go into the question in detail; but he would say that his objection to the resolution was the fundamental one, that no ground had boon established to authorise the formation of a new reform league, or to sanction the agitation which it professed to create in the country. In discussing questions involving organic reform, they were bound to consider whether there was any grievous evil to be removed, and whether there existed any large popular demand for that removal. He did not think that the Motion
 212 tabula rasa 213
 MR. ANSTEY  would second the Amendment as explained by his hon. Friend, though there was a mistake in its wording, which would be rectified by substituting "desirable" for "desired." He could have wished to see the hon. Member for Montrose follow out the views indicated by the Bill for the better administration of rates and taxes, which the hen. Member some years ago proposed. It was a remarkable fact that a measure of reform much more extended in its character than that which was finally adopted, was brought before the Grey Cabinet at the instance of the late King; but it was cut down by the noble Lord. It was with great delight
 205 et dona ferentem "The examples held forth to us by the Americans of strict economy, &c., and of other public improvements, may, and indeed must, he emulated by the Government of this country, if the people are to he allowed even the chance of surviving a competition with that republican community. If it he objceted that an economical Government is inconsistent with the maintenance of the monarchical and aristocratic institutions of this land, then, we answer, let an unflinehing; economy and retrenchment he enforced— ruat cœlum
 MR. SERJEANT TALFOURD  said, though he was reluctant to intrude upon the attention of the House on subjects so momentous as those which the question brought before them, yet there were some circumstances attending his connexion with those by whom the measure was brought forward which made him still more reluctant to give a silent vote. At an early period of his life he felt an ardent sympathy with political reform—he sympathised with any and with every success in those measures for which the hon. Member for Montrose was so honourably distinguished—and therefore he could not offer, as he must do, an earnest and decided opposition to the resolution which that hon. Gentleman had placed before the House—he could not repudiate that picture in little of a revolution
 171 172 173 174 175 "By household suffrage I do not mean any man who holds a house, but any body that a house holds." 176 177 178 Purgatory of Suicides 179 "The way of ancient ordinance, though it winds, Is yet no devious way. Straightforward goes The lightning's path, and straight the fearful path Of the cannon ball. Direct it flies and rapid, Shattering that it  may My son! the road the human being travels. That on which blessing comes and goes, doth follow The river's course, the valley's playful windings, Curves round the cornfield and the hill of vines, Honouring the holy bounds of property! And thus secure, tho' late, leads to its end." 180 181
 SIR JOHN HANMER  expressed his cordial gratification that the noble Lord had taken the question into his own hands, and that they might look forward to see it fairly dealt with.
 MR. FREWEN  opposed the Motion. He thought it would lower the character of the House to refuse a writ one day and grant it on the next.
 MR. HUME  begged the House not to agree to the Motion. The hon. Member for North Northamptonshire had said a few days ago that if there was any chance of an inquiry taking place, he would not press for the new writs, and now that inquiry was promised he pressed for them.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  thought that House the worst possible judge of its own proceedings. Unless the tribunal in election cases were removed from under the jurisdiction of the House, they would never have purity of election.
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  said, that he had heard of large, very large, sums of money having been paid at the last election for the city of London—sums as large even as 2,000 sovereigns having been paid at a time. He had had a Committee of 13 non-electors; and one gentleman sent them a present of 65 l l
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  thought the course the House were pursuing with regard to these writs contrary to the spirit if not to the
 242
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : With regard to this Motion, it appeared to him that the House having already decided at least twice that the writ should not issue, he thought that they ought to proceed according to precedents, of which they had so many, and defer issuing the writ until some fixed day, when hon. Members would be prepared for the consideration of the question. Unless this course were adhered to, the decision of a House of 300 Members, when a writ was refused, might be reversed on another day when there were not 50 Members present. He should move, therefore, as an Amendment—
 "That no Writ he issued for the Borough of Derby before Tuesday the 15th day of August next."
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  rose to call the attention of the House to the despatch of Lord Harris, dated the 21Bt day of February, 1848. He must complain of an erroneous statement made by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester. The right hon. Gentleman said that Lord Harris had stated that the cost of production on well-managed estates in the British islands was 10 s d "On the best managed estates in the English islands, a cwt. of sugar may be produced for 2 dols., 50 c s d s d l s d s d c c s d s d 243 c s d s d "I had hoped to have forwarded to your Lordship a return showing the average cost of cultivating the sugar-cane; of the manufacture of the sugar, the quantity produced per acre, with some other information, in the several English, French, Spanish, and Danish islands. The information has been collected, and is still collecting for me, by Dr. Mitchell, a physician of this island, who, I believe, possesses as much practical and scientific knowledge on these subjects as can well be combined in one person, and who has been travelling through the islands for me, in order to acquire a knowledge of the latest improvements of every kind. It has, however, been found so difficult to make any approach to average statements in numbers, that I am obliged to wait for further information; what I have actually collected goes to show, that in the English colonies the sugar has been produced at a considerable loss at the late prices." "In Trinidad, I believe, no sugar has been produced at a less cost than 3 dols, or 12 s d c s d s d s s s s s s s s s s s d s s s s d 244 s s d s s d s d s d s d s d s d s s d s d s s s s s d s s d s s s d s d s l s d l s d s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s 245
 MR. BARKLY  rose to propose the Amendment of which he had given notice. He did not propose to alter the rates of duty upon foreign and colonial sugar, but simply to arrest the progress of the Bill of 1846, except that he proposed to make an alteration in the standard sample at the Custom-house on which the duties were levied, and to substitute the new standard which the Government had adopted for brown clayed sugars, so that there might be only one class for all clayed sugars, instead of the two classes, as proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer the proposed to give a minimum protection of 4 s d s d s s s * * "British Plantation—from and after 5th July,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The alteration proposed by the hon. Gentleman was, that the duty upon brown clayed foreign sugar should be raised to 21 s d s s d s s 1848, to 5th July, 1854, inclusive: double refined, 1 l s s d s s d "Foreign—from 5th July, 1848, to 5th July, 1854: double refined, &c., 1 l s d l s d l s d s d s d 247 s s 248 s d 249
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, the question immediately before the House was simply whether they should have a duty of 14 s s s 250 s s s s d d 251 s d l l l l s d s l l 252 s s s s s s s l l l 253 l 254 l 255 l l l l l l l l l l l 256 l 257 l l l 258 s 259
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that though he did not complain of the general subject introduced by the right hon. Gentleman, he must say that his speech was devoid of that fairness which generally characterised his addresses. He never heard a speech more tinged with a desire to fix imputations on those who were politically opposed to the speaker. The right hon. Gentleman began by stating that he thought the measure proposed by the Government with regard to sugar was, financially speaking, of a dishonest character. [Mr. GLADSTONE begged to withdraw the expression; he had meant that it was a dangerous and delusive kind of measure.] He had not supposed that the right hon. Gentleman intended to impute moral dishonesty. The right hon. Gentleman had said that it was a most improper course to make a statement which
 260 261 s s l s 262 263 s d s d s d s d s d s 264 265 266
 MR. CAYLEY : The debate upon this question, the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) says, very justly, has been a very protracted one; but it has not continued one hour longer than the distress of the West India planters and the importance of the subject demand. These discussions, if abortive in some respects, have been at least useful in this—they have been fertile in very significant admissions on the part of the advocates of free trade. On three occasions have one or other of these admissions been made. The third has been made to-night by the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down. In the debates on free trade, by the advocates of that system, it has always hitherto been held—in contradiction to the views of the protectionists—that free trade would not produce a fall in the rate of wages; on the contrary, that it would raise them. In the present discussion, however, almost every free-trade speaker has declared that the protection which this country has afforded to the West India produce has so sustained the rate of wages as to annihilate all profit to the planter; and that one of their principal reasons for refusing additional protection at the present moment to the West Indies, is their desire to lower the rate of wages in those colonies. This is the first admission. Again, on all previous occasions it
 267 268 269 270 271 l l l 272 l l l 273 "My deeds upon my head; I crave the law, The penalty and forfeit of my bond." "Have by some surgeon, Shylock, at your charge, To stop the wound, lest he do bleed to death." "Is it so nominated in the bond? " "It is not so expressed, bat what of that, "T were well you do so much for charity." "I cannot find it—it is not in the bound." 274 "Cheapness is only relative To wages, two to one. One loaf  with Than two can be with  none 275 276 277
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the right hon. President of the Board of Trade, before he sat down, had emerged from the cloud of dissatisfaction which at the commencement of his speech manifestly hung over his mind, for before the conclusion of his observations it was evident that the usual agreeable tone of his feelings had returned. He believed that the cloud which overspread the mind of the right hon. Gentleman was caused by the analysis of the financial state of the country which had been given by his right hon. Friend the Member for Oxford, and that the removal of that cloud had been caused by the fact of the right hon. Gentleman having been able to answer two points in the speech of his right hon. Friend; one a small point, as regarded the general subject, namely, the delivery of sugar within the last few days at a lower point of duty than it was intended such sugar should be subject to upon entry: and the other involving a larger question, namely, the question of the revenue generally, and its bearing upon the measure before them, relating to the duties on sugar. The right hon. Gentleman had said, that this arrival of sugar at a duty different from that which was intended, was a casualty; but be must recollect, that on the 30th of May the Government plainly and emphatically told the House that there was then no present intention to make any alteration in the Act of 1846, either as to the amount or duration of the duties imposed by that Act. The Under Secretary for the Colonies would admit that his recollection of the circumstances was correct, more correct than the recollection of the hon. Member: and he would remind the House that on the day following the mail went to the West India colonies, and he had no doubt that the colonists would interpret the statement of the Government as he had done,
 278 l 279 l l l 280 l l 281 282 "You spoke of the effect of the Sugar Act of 1846 on the produce of Brazil; can you tell the Committee whether the Brazilian merchants expected so full a measure in respect to free trade as the Act of 1816?" The answer was, "Certainly not." "Do you know whether the general opinion of the Brazilian merchants was that the measure extended beyond the justice and reason of the case?—At the time I was chairman of the Brazilian Association—and what we always sought was an equitable adjustment of duties; but we never sought to be put on a footing with the colonists—we always looked for some differential duty." s s s 283
 MR. JAMES WILSON  said, the question to decide was, whether the House would adopt the proposal of the hon. Member for Leominster, or the Government proposal? He was desirous of holding the scales impartially, and he hoped any objection he might raise to the hon. Member's proposal would not be set down to a disposition to criticise it unfairly. He had listened with a good deal of surprise to the hon. Member's proposition with respect to the duties on British plantation and foreign sugars. The hon. Member had only noticed brown clayed sugars; but the hon. Member and his Friends were studiously silent on one point, which point he should presently allude to. The hon. Gentleman, from the way in which he placed his propositions before the House, evidently wished them to believe that his duties were in reality merely a continuation of the same scale of duties, with the exception of lowering the existing duty for white clayed sugars. This, however, was far from being the fact, although the hon. Member attempted to show that it was so. The hon. Gentleman said the average between 18 s d s d 284 s s d s d s d s d s d s d 285 s s d l l l s d l 286 l l l l l 287 288 s s d 289 l l l 290 l l s d
 MR. BARKLY : As the hon. Gentleman has twice alluded to the personal considerations which he supposes actuate me in bringing forward my Amendment, I think it necessary at once to say, that in the colony of Berbice, with which I am connected, there is not a single vacuum pan. In the island of Demerara there are only 200 tons of sugar coming under the denomination of white clayed, so that that colony would only be interested to the ex-tent of 400 l
 MR. WILSON  had no intention to charge the hon. Gentleman with a desire to benefit himself personally.
 SIR G. CLERK  said, that after the lengthened discussion which had taken place on this subject, he had no desire to occupy the House at any length on the present occasion; but he was anxious to state shortly the reasons which induced him to support the Amendment of the hon. Member for Leominster. The part of that hon. Member's plan which had been most insisted upon, both by the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the hon. Member for Westbury, as giving an undue advantage to the West India colonies, was the omission from his scale of white clayed sugar, or sugar equal to white clayed. But if hon. Members looked to the return of the quantity of sugar imported last year, they would find that not above 30,000 cwt.
 291 l s s s 292 l l l l l l 293 l l l l l l l l 294 l l
 MR. C. BRUCE  did not think the present state of the public finances would warrant any sacrifice of revenue. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, in addressing the House the other night upon the deficiency of the revenue, had made a slight allusion to the duty on corn, but he seemed to feel that it would burn his mouth. If the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire succeeded, in the present state of the revenue, in prevailing upon the House to sacrifice an amount of revenue to the extent of I,200,000 l l 295 296 d
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, the hon. Member for Westbury affirmed that a differential duty against foreign sugar, no matter to what amount, small or large, was a tax
 297 s s s s d s d s d 298 299
 MR. GODSON  recommended the House to come to the consideration of the question really before it, which was whether muscovado sugar should be admitted at 13 s s s s 300 l l
 MR. MOWATT  would promise not to travel into the budget, or "old stores." The Government having come to the determination that there were circumstances in the ease of the West Indies justifying a departure from their rule of policy in matters of trade and commerce, the West Indians really seemed to have the best of the argument, since they had a right to expect such a scale as would answer the desired purpose. For himself, he took quite a different view. He belonged neither to the Government nor to the West Indian party; but if he must give himself a denomination, he should say he was there representing the interests of a third party who were suffering between the two, namely, the people. The Government measure would give no substantial aid to the West Indians. They had fought their way through a transition state from slave labour to free, without any thanks to the Government, so far as to reduce the cost of production to range between 15 s s s bonâ fides
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that a Committee had been appointed to consider the best way of expediting the public business in that House; but there could be no great hope of any recommendation of theirs
 301 s s s
 LORD G. BENTINCK  hoped he was not asking anything unreasonable. He was the Chairman of the Select Committee. It was not his fault that he had not yet addressed the House in Committee at all; on Friday night, at various hours, not seeking to speak at a fashionable hour of the night, he was up three times, but was not so fortunate as to catch the Chairman's eye. He felt it his duty to address the Committee; and, charged as he was with the interests of those West India colonies, he thought it was scarcely reasonable to call upon him at a quarter past twelve to answer all the statements that had been made against them, and against the advice of the Committee over which he had the honour to peside. Therefore, though he was most sorry at any time to run counter to the feeling of the House, confident as he was that at that hour he had neither the wit nor the ability to amuse the House or to attract its attention, he was under the disagreeable necessity of persisting in his Motion.
 SIR B. HALL  rose to put the question of which he had given notice, respecting the Metropolitan Police Force, and he also wished to ask some questions relating to some letters which had passed between the Home Office and the representatives of certain parishes relating to the rates for the maintenance of the police being the same as last year, and also to any letters respecting the arrangement under the new assessment of last year. By the 9th of George IV., c. 44, and the 3rd and 4th of William IV., and 5th & 6th of Victoria, it was enacted that the police rate should
 237 d d l l l l "Secretary Sir G. Grey having considered the joint representations of the parishes of Marylebone and St. James, for a reduction of the police rate under the new assessment, he was desired to inform then that Sir G. Grey had ordered that stops should be taken for the reduction of the police rate in the way proposed, and Sir Grey hoped that the Bill which he should introduce into Parliament for this purpose would receive the sanction of the Legislature in the course of the present year." 238
 SIR G. GREY  said, the 10th Geo. IV., ch. 44, s. 23, enacted that a rate should he levied upon all property in the metropolitan district assessed to the county rate, for the purpose of maintaining the police of the metropolis, provided that such rate did not exceed 8 d l d d l l l l l l 239 240 l
 SIR GEORGE GREY  remarked, that the right hon. Gentleman was mistaken with respect to the clerks being in receipt of large salaries. They received fees, and not salaries; and the Act provided that in no case should the amount received annually exceed 600 l
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : The House was aware that by the Act passed last Session, the appointment of the clerks of the county courts was vested in the judges, and he had reason to know that in several instances these judges had appointed near relations of their own, who resided at great distances from the courts. For example, he knew of one clerk of a county court in a midland county who resided in London. He was personally cognisant of another case in Cumberland, where the clerk resided seventy miles from the court to which he was attached. There were very large salaries appended to those situations, some even as high as 600 l
 The EARL of LINCOLN  said, that, in rising to ask the question of the Under Secretary for the Colonies of which he had given notice on Friday last, in reference to an Address to the Crown agreed to last Session of Parliament, he hoped he might be allowed to preface his question by a statement of what occurred on that occasion. On the 1st of June, 1847, he moved—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will take into Her most gracious consideration the means by which colonisation may be made subsidiary to other measures for the improvement of the social condition of Ireland, and by which, consistently with a full regard to the interests of the colonies themselves, the comfort and prosperity of those who emigrate may be effectually promoted." "If you want to get valuable opinions, you should take, first, the opinion of the Governor General and Council. I think next it would be desirable to have the opinion of experienced persons in the Executive Council, as well as that also of the Provincial Assembly"— "It would be necessary that such an inquiry should come from the Crown; and through those organs of the Crown in the province who are accustomed to transact business with the executive and legislative bodies." "We are quite ready to direct the Governors of each of our British American provinces to consult the legislative bodies and the executive bodies as to those plans which are most likely to be useful to the colonies, and to which they will most readily lend an ear, I am quite ready to say that we shall lay the whole result of these recommendations on the table of the House; at the same time giving the opinion of the Government upon them in another Session of Parliament." 308 "He did not quite collect whether the noble Lord intended any special inquiries to be made beyond those ordinarily made through the Governors of colonies," "That there would be special inquiries upon this subject, but not by the appointment of a Commission." "I have taken into my consideration the Ad-dross of my faithful Commons. I am deeply sensible of the advantage which may be derived from the adoption of further measures for the promotion of colonisation; and I will direct such inquiries to be made as will enable Parliament to adopt a course free from those evils which any precipitate legislation on this subject might cause both to the emigrants and to the colonies."
 MR. HUME  would not occupy the time of the Committee by showing how completely the colonies had been prevented from procuring free labour. They had reports from almost every island, in which it appeared that laws had been passed by the legislative assemblies for promoting this object; but these laws had been one and all disallowed by the Colonial Office. The Colonial Secretaries had one after another prevented the colonies from giving a trial to free labour as compared with slave labour; and but for the difficulties thus thrown in their way, they would not have been brought to their present state. It was on that ground that he had ventured to tell his hon. Friends near him, that this was not a question of free trade but of justice. It appeared to him that the Government had not taken the proper course to meet the difficulty. He would wish to know if they had made up their minds to one of these two alternatives? If the colonies were unable to keep up the establishments on those islands, was the noble Lord at the head of the Government prepared to pay for their maintenance? Under the present system it was impossible that the expense could be paid by the colonies. In one instance, a vessel had returned without a single man; and in another recent case, that of the  Gulnare l 311
 LORD GEORGE BENTINCK : * * 312 s s d s s d s d s 313 s s d d s d s s s s 314 Jamaica Times s "If we are to believe rumour, it would appear that the only relief to be doled out to the planters, at the recommendation of the Committee, will be a differential duty of 10 s "The  coup de grace s s 315 l l 316 l l l l l l l l l l l l l 317 Gazette s d s d s d s d s d s d s d l 318 s d l l l l l l l s d l l l l l l l l l 319 l s d l s l l l l l Gazette l s l l l l s l s 320 "We are told too that the effect of such a proceeding will necessarily be to cause a great diminution in the amount of production—that it will be absolutely impracticable to cultivate sugar-that the colonies must be thrown up—and that nothing but ruin will ensue. Sir, so far as the amount of the production of sugar is concerned, I am not quite certain that to some extent a diminution of that production would be a matter of regret. I am not quite certain that it might not be for the benefit of the planters and the colonists themselves in the end, if that production were in some degree diminished." "The purchaser of a claim under the Slavery Compensation Act does not incur the slightest assignable risk of losing his money—he has for his security the national faith of Great Britain and Ireland pledged in the most solemn form in which such an engagement was ever yet made. If the seller supposes that any danger really exists, he labours under an illusion so gross as without further proof to demonstrate that he is not in a state of general information to deal on equal terms with the speculators to whom his right is transferred." 321 322 s d s d 323 "Among all honest Christian people, Whoe'er breaks limbs maintains the cripple." l l l pro tanto 324 l l l l l l Times 325
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I did not say so. I said the first loss would be 960,000 l l
 LORD G. BENTINCK : What does the noble Lord mean by "the first loss?" Loss and gain to the revenue must be estimated by reduction or increase in the consumption of sugar. The noble Lord is not so wanting in candour and frankness as not to admit that while he takes credit to himself for 20,000 tons of increased consumption by the Government plan, a greater consumption would be produced by our proposal? The great difference between the proposal of the Committee and that of the Government is, that the first makes a sensible difference to the consumer of ½d. per lb., while the reduction of the noble Lord is so small that it could not be felt in the weekly payments of the poor. The average consumption of poor families, taken at 23½ lbs. per head per annum, and the number of persons in each family at from four to five, amounts to 2 lbs. of sugar a week. And, supposing, that half the reduction we propose went into the pocket of the producer, and the other half were saved to the consumer, our reduction
 335 à fortiori d 336 l "That many estates in the British colonies have been already abandoned, and that many more are now in course of abandonment, and from this cause a very serious diminution is to be apprehended in the total amount of production." "That the first effect of this diminution will be an increase in the price of sugar, and the ultimate effect a greater extension to the growth of sugar in slave countries, and a greater impetus to slavery and the slave trade." 337 s s s s s s s s 338 339 s d s s d
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that that statement did not give a fair view of the effects of reducing the duty.
 LORD G. BENTINCK : I have given a great deal of study to the subject, and I venture to predict that any estimates I may make will be better founded than those of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. There was then an average fall of 5 s d s d s s s s s d 340 s d 341 s d s d s l l l l l l 342 l l l l l l ad valorem l l s ad valorem l l l l l l l ad valorem l l s 343 
 
 £ 
 By the Committees plan, the revenue obtained will continue to be 3,950,000 
 By Lord George Bentinck's  ad valorem 4,195,000 
 By the plan of the Chancellor of the Exchequer it will only be 3,457,500 
 Namely—British possessions at 10 l Tons. 
 225,000 2,250,000 
 Foreign sugar at 15 l s 85,000 1,317,500 
 3,567,500 
 Less rum duties, &c 110,000 
 £3,457,500 Economist 
 
 1854–1855. 
 £ 
 Lord George Bentinck's  ad valorem 4,195,000 
 The Committee's as before 3,950,000 
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer's plan, namely, 10 l 2,990,000 
 1854–55. 
 British. Foreign. 
 Consumption assumed to be 400,000 tons, namely 290,000 110,000 
 Lord George Bentinck's  ad valorem 
 British. £ £ 
 290,000 at 10 l s d 2,996,666 5,416,666 
 110,000 at 22 l 2,420,000 
 Committee's plan— 
 British. £ 
 290,000 at 10 l 2,900,000 5,100,000 
 110,000 at 20 l 2,200,000 
 Chancellor of Exchequer's plan— 
 4,000,000 tons of sugar of all sorts, at 10 l l 3,890,000 344 s s ad valorem ad valorem 345 l s l l ad valorem l s d s s s s s s d s ad valorem ad valorem s d d ad valorem s d s s s s 346 s d s d s d d l s d s s s s d s 347 ad valorem d d d d d d d * "that the slave trade was then diminishing altogether in amount, through the exertions and improved quality and system of our cruisers, and the depressed condition of the sugar planters of Cuba and Brazil." "London, July 10, 1848. "In reply to your inquiry, I beg to state that I believe I have supplied in the last ten months more hoes to be used in the sugar plantations in Brazil to one mercantile hosue only, than the whole of the same article supplied to the whole of the British West India Islands in the last ten years. I believe few engaged in our trade have * 348 been more largely engaged in plantation supplies than my house. (Signed) "FREDERIC BARNES." Duties payable according to the different plans on Low Sugars in ordinary use by the poor. 
 
 LONG PRICE. LORD G. BENTINCK'S POOR MAN'S BILL. THE COMMITTEE, SIR THOMAS BIRCH. BRIGHT, STICK TO THE ACT OF 1846. MR. BARKLY. THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER. 
 Duty on British Free Labour Sugar. Duty on Slave Sugar. Duty on British Free Labour. Duty on Slave Sugar. Duty on British Free Labour. Duty on Slave Sugar. Duty on Slave Labour. Duty on British Free Labour. Duty on Slave Sugar. 
 POOR MAN'S SUGAR. 
 £ s d £ s d £ s d £ s d £ s d £ s d £ s d 
 28 l p ton. 7 8 5 14 16 10 10 0 0 20 0 0 14 0 0 18 10 0 13 0 0 
 28 s p cwt. 0 7 5 0 14 10 0 10 0 1 0 0 0 14 0 0 18 6 0 13 0 
 3 d p lb. 0 0 0¾20/112ƒ 0 0 1½40/112 0 0 1 32/112ƒ 0 0 2 64/112ƒ 0 0 1½ A fraction under 2 The same both for British and slave, as regards "the poor man's
sugar." 0 0 1¼64/112ƒ Poor man's sugar the same as Bright and Barkly. 
 23 l s p ton 6 4 7 12 9 2 10 0 0 20 0 0 14 0 0 18 10 0 1 0 0 
 23 s d p cwt. 0 6 2¾ 0 12 5½ 0 10 0 1 0 0 0 14 0 0 18 6 3 3 0 
 2½ d p lb. 0 0 0½25/112ƒ 0 0 1¼38/112 0 0 1 32/112ƒ 0 0 2 64/112ƒ 0 0 1½ A fraction under 2 0 0 1¼64/112ƒ 
 RICH MAN'S SUGAR. 
 £ s d £ s d £ s d £ s d £ s d £ s d £ s d £ s d £ s d 
 47 l p ton 12 9 1 24 18 2 10 0 0 20 0 0 14 0 0 18 10 0 21 11 8 13 0 0 20 0 0 
 47 s p cwt. 0 12 5¾10/5ƒ 1 4 10¾2/5 0 10 0 1 0 0 0 14 0 0 18 6 1 1 7 0 13 0 1 0 0 
 5 16/112 d p lb. 0 0 1¼18/112ƒ 0 0 2½76/112ƒ 0 0 1 32/112ƒ 0 0 2 64/112ƒ 0 1 1½ A fraction under 2 0 0 2¼23/112 0 0 1¼64/112ƒ 0 0 2 64/112ƒ 349 
 
 FREE LABOUR—DUTY. SLAVE LABOUR—DUTY. 
 MORE THAN LESS THAN MORE THAN LESS THAN 
 LORD G. BENTINCK. LORD G. BENTINCK. LORD G. BENTINCK. LORD G. BENTINCK. 
 Poor Man. Rich. Pool Man. Rich. Poor Man. Rich. Poor Man. Rich. 
 1st. 2nd. 3rd. 1st. 2nd. 3rd. 1st. 2nd. 3rd. 1st. 2nd. 3rd. 
 p lb. p lb. p lb. p lb. p lb. p lb. p lb. p lb. p lb. p lb. p lb. p lb. 
 d d d d d d d d d d d d 
 Committee. ¼ 12/112 ¼ 62/112 ¼ 6/112 ½ 6/112 ¾ 26/112 ½ 12/112 
 Bright ½ 92/112 ¾ 32/112 ƒ 74/112 ¼ 72/112 ½ 74/112 ½ 76/112 
 Barkly ½ 92/112 ¾ 37/112 ƒ 74/112 ¼ 72/112 ½ 74/112 ¼ 48/112 
 Wood ½ 44/112 ½ 101/112 ƒ 25/112 ¼ 72/112 ½ 74/112 ½ 72/112 350 "To Cuba Sugar Planters.—For Sale, deliverable in Kingston, a set of estates, coppers with still, &c., complete. Also a new horizontal sugar mill with gear, for working by steam or water power. Tills mill was manufactured by the M'Onies of Glasgow, and was only imported last year, and lias never been worked. The above estates' machinery are well worthy the attention of Cuba planters." "The following estates' materials well worthy the attention of Cuba planters.—A first-rate cattle mill, coppers, pans, stills, worms, &c., complete." "That in consequence of the low price of sugar the planters of Cuba and Brazil were unable to meet their engagements, to make further purchases of labourers, or to extend their estates." "That the men best informed on the subject were of opinion that the Brazilian Government must not only concede to England all she required, but would he also bound to the final abolition of the slave trade; and that it was more politic to do so when she might hope for corresponding concessions, than to grant at last from necessity that which she refused to the dictates of humanity." "That in consequence of the Sugar Bill of 1846 the island of Cuba was tumultuous with joy, and the news of the passing of the measure was welcomed with general illuminations." "That the production of 1848 had exceeded that of previous years, and that the prices obtained by the planter were so large that every one was adopting means to extend his powers of production." "That they had no expectation of the price of sugar being improved, except by having the English market open to the produce of the island, which, if effected even by a duty of 50 per cent over the colonial produce, will give double the price then obtained." 351 "The net profits of the planters last year have been estimated at from 30 to 50 per cent, according to the different circumstances in which they were individually placed; nor is there any doubt of the fact. Their great advantage, however, I believe, over the British colonists consists in their command of labour; for they can compel their slaves to work sixteen or eighteen hours out of the twenty-four, and keep their engines always at work. The present condition of sugar cultivation is highly flourishing." "The estate consists of about sixty caballeries, or 2,000 acres. At 1,000 dollars per caballero, the estate may be valued at 60,000 dollars. The buildings and machinery may be valued at another like sum, which is extreme. There are about 400 negroes, who were bought two years since, who might have been bought, one with another, at 400 dollars each; though, as the owner imported them himself from Africa, they perhaps did not cost him one-fourth of that sum. The estimated value of the negroes is 160,000 dollars; add maintenance of same, wages for one year, &c, 20,000 dollars. He has this year a crop of sugar amounting to no less than 10,000 boxes, which, at 15 dollars a box, would give him a return of 150,000 dollars; so that, in two years, he will reimburse more than the outlay." "That the mortality is enormous in consequence of the scarcity of water on board the ships, which produced the most fatal consequences in tropical climates; " l "The negroes—chiefly boys of from ten to twelve years of age—are laid close together on their sides, and then the sailors lay a plank over them, jump upon it, and thus jam them down so as to fit close." 352 "That those who had the more iron constitutions survive, but they are horrible to look upon—the bones of their knees stands out like large stones, the calves of their legs have disappeared, and the abdomen is very much bloated." "That his estimate, gained from the best sources of information, is, that 60,000 Africans are imported annually into Brazil." George "He himself utterly abhorred the slave trade; and he would not adopt any course that would tend
 353
 MR. BRIGHT : Perhaps the noble Lord will allow me to tell him that the cotton manufacturers use no soap at all in their manufactures.
 LORD G. BENTINCK : Then, if they do not use it at all, I am at a loss to understand why the cotton manufacturers should have been so anxious to secure to themselves by law this invidious monopoly and distinction of a special advantage in the amount of drawback over their rivals the woollen manufacturers. l 354 "There is one class of merchants in this country whose interests my noble Friend on a former occasion advocated—the British shipowner, to whom I believe it will he most advantageous. At present the carrying trade of sugar from Cuba and Brazil is carried on mainly in foreign bottoms. I trust that the result of this change will be that it will be almost entirely carried on in British ships. Under the navigation laws of this country, sugar from Brazil and Cuba, for consumption in this country, can only come hither in British, Brazilian, and Spanish bottoms. I trust that the sugar will, after this measure is carried, Come home in Britis vessels; and those vessels will not only have the benefit of bringing their cargoes here or carrying them to the other ports in the north of Europe, but they will have also the benefit of the back carriage." s d 355 l l l l l l l 356 l bonâ fide l 357 "Isne tibi melius suadet qui ut rem, facias rem, Si possis, recte; si non, quocumque modo rem? " "Vilius argentum est auro, virtutibus aurum." …pueri ludeutes. Rex eris, aiunt Si recte facies. Hic murus aheneus esto. Nil conscire sibi, nullâ pallescere culpâ."
 LORD J. RUSSELL : As I admitted on Friday night, the noble Lord is fully entitled to the credit of being heard by this House on a question to which he has devoted so much labour, and of which it is due to him to say he has made himself master. But I must say he has certainly used that privilege to the utmost. The
 358 "Unis qui nobis cunctando restituit rem." s s s s s s s s s 359 s s s s s 360 l l l l "See to what an extent your Excise and Customs prove that you do not attend to this consideration; full three-fourths of your revenue are levied under these two heads; and by far the greatest proportion of that amount upon articles necessary, either for the subsistence, the clothing, or the humble comforts of the labourer; or of use in the fabrication of those articles to which his industry is devoted, Let any man look through the list of the Excise and Customs, even now that the beer and leather taxes are removed, and he will find in how great a degree this observation still applies. Candles, hops, licenses, malt, printed goods, soap, British spirits, tea, sugar, tobacco, rum, hemp, timber—here is an enumeration amounting to near 30,000,000 l l 361 s d s d s d s d s d s l d s d d d d 362 d d d d s d s d s d s d 363 s s d s s d s s s s s d s d s s 364 l 365 l l l l 366
 MR. GOULBURN  agreed with the noble Lord who bad just sat down, that the present question had no reference to the exclusion of slave-grown sugar from the British markets. Unfortunately, he thought, for the character of this country, and for the interests of the colonies, the time had gone by at which that question could be discussed. The House in 1846 adopted a measure by which they resolved to admit slave-grown sugar into the British market. The opponents of slavery were now, therefore, bound to take the best means in their power for maintaining, by other means, the principles for which they previously contended, viz., placing our colonies in such a position that they would be enabled to undersell the foreign producer—and, by underselling the foreign producer, to operate upon the profits of slavery and the slave trade. Agreeing, therefore, with the noble Lord, that the immediate question was not the exclusion of foreign sugar, he maintained that, in considering the comparative-merits
 367 l l l 368 s 369 s d 370 371
 MR. MOFFATT  proposed as an Amendment the omission of the words—" white clayed, or sugar rendered by any process equal in quality to white clayed, not being refined for every cwt.," which he declined to press.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in no case had any allowance boon made to any interest, nor had any article been allowed to come in at the lower duty where a higher duty had been imposed. His hon. Friend had drawn a distinction between this and duties on other articles. Nothing could be more mischievous than for a Government making an announcement of the intention to propose the raising of duties before having made a proposition to this effect in that House. On July 21, 1831, a proposal was made to increase the duty on Spanish wines, which was adopted; but no allowance was made to any parties. He could not find a single instance in which an allowance was not refused to parties under such circumstances as the present.
 MR. GLADSTONE  had conic down to the House with very considerable anxiety as to the Motion of the hon. Member for Kilmarnock, and as to the reply of the Government. He was aware of the inconvenience which must result from the present state of things to the importers of foreign sugar. He was anxious to have some clear statement from Her Majesty's Government as to the present case, before he gave a negative to the Motion; but he had not heard any such statement from the Chancellor of the Exchequer as the representative of Her Majesty's Government. He was anxious to state his own views on the subject. He felt if Parliament, from motives of public policy, thought fit to increase a duty, it was totally impossible to make an arrangement to allow such a draw-back as was proposed. In all increases or decreases, the principle of prudence must he recognised by parties, and the trader must make allowance for an increase or decrease of duties on any article. In one case, the parties might lose, but in another they might gain by an alteration in duties. He could not agree with the hon. Gentleman who made the Motion, that on the faith of Parliament parties might count on the continuance of duties for a limited time. He could not subscribe to the doctrine that because a discriminating scale of duties was enacted in 1844, and again in 1846, that it was to be supposed they could not be
 375 "The noble Lord has stated several points in which relief may be afforded to the West Indian interest, with regard to which Her Majesty's Government, as well as the noble Lord, thinks some inquiry may be advantageous; but I should deceive both him and the House, and, what is still more material, the West Indians themselves, if I led them to suppose that, in consenting to the appointment of this Committee, Her Majesty's Government mean them to imply the slightest doubt of the propriety of the Act of 1840, or the slightest intention of departing from the provisions of that Act. I think it but fair to all parties that this statement should be made as decidedly as possible, and as early as possible, because I believe upon a subject of this description uncertainty is the worst of evils, and because, as I remember an hon. Member to have said upon a former occasion, the greatest kindness is to state distinctly and explicitly what the views and intention of the Government are." 376 377
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that when the subject then before the House was adverted to on a former occasion, he had felt surprised at the right hon. Gentleman's
 378 s 379
 MR. HAWES  hoped the House would permit him to make a few observations in answer to the question put to him by the noble Lord. The noble Lord had correctly stated the nature of the Motion made by him on the 1st of June, 1847, and also the
 309 "To consider the means by which colonisation may be made subsidiary to other measures for the improvement of the social condition of Ireland, and by which, with a full regard to the interest of the colonies themselves, the comfort and prosperity of those who emigrate may be promoted." l l 310
 MR. SADLIER  denied that the hon. Baronet (Sir L. O'Brien) was actuated by party motives, or the intention of seeking to gain time by his Motion, for the extension of the operation of the Bill to England and Scotland. The Bill, in fact, contained principles and details which might be with great advantage extended to every part of the empire; and he objected to exclusive legislation for Ireland upon the law of entail. There was not one of those Gentlemen who dreamed of establishing a peasant proprietary in Ireland to whom he would yield in sincere anxiety to render the sale and transfer of land in Ireland, as facile, as expeditious, and as efficacious as possible, consistently with the interests of the empire, and consistently also with the rights of property, and the claims which belonged to honest and productive labour. The hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Napier) had made statements, in supporting the Bill, which were, in his opinion, calculated to mislead the House. He had said that the Bill would put an end to the system of
 386 ex post facto 387 l l l l l l corpus Dublin Gazette 388 Gazette l l 389 390
 MR. H. BERKELEY , as he had presented a petition from Bristol, purporting to be signed by the startling number of 1,500 names, and praying for investigation into the case of the Rajah of Sattara, had felt it his duty to make some inquiry with respect to that petition. He found the whole of the signatures were in the handwriting of two or three persons. He wrote to ascertain whether there was any excitement in Bristol on the subject of the Rajah of Sattara. One gentleman said in reply, "Really we are not acquainted with the gentleman." Another said, "If it was Mr. Brooke who was the Rajah, there was a great deal of sympathy for him; but as for the Rajah of Sattara, nobody knew anything about him." He held in his hand a return with the name of Lord Jocelyn on the back of it—a return of Europeans in the employment of native States and princes in India, with the amount of the payments made to them; and there he found the name of George Thompson connected with the payment of 1,000 rupees per month. There was an opinion abroad that this part of the return applied to the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets, The hon. Gentleman would be glad to have an opportunity of contradicting what was extremely prejudicial to his case, and therefore of answering the question whether he was in the pay of the Rajah of Sattara?
 MR. ELLIOT : He would read on if the hon. Member wished it:—
 "Assuming, as I feel authorised to do, that the contents of this paper are true, and that the highly respectable agent at Benares did not offer the advice referred to in entire ignorance of the feelings with which the Government would receive certain proposals from the Rajah, I am brought to the conclusion that the Government of India and the authorities here do not, any more than ourselves, entertain a doubt respecting the Rajah's innocence. Such propositions as are here suggested are wholly incompatible with the belief in the Rajah's guilt, and a conviction that an inquiry would justify the proceedings which have been carried on against him. If the contents of this paper be genuine, then there is an evident desire to prevent the further discussion of this question, and a disposition to buy off the Rajah, by conceding certain things—making him the petitioner for these concessions, and obtaining from him previously a declaration of his willingness to abandon all future claim upon the throne of Sattara." "The tone, and spirit, and meaning of the alleged conversation, thus minutely recorded, are so utterly at variance with the numerous consultations I have hold with the Rajah regarding the general state of his affairs, that I must at once pronounce the greater part of the conversation stated to have passed between him and myself in September last purely imaginary; and to declare that the 'propositions' therein detailed were never then or at any other period, directly or Indirectly, made by me to the Rajah of Sattara, cither on my own responsibility or on the authority of the Governor General. "Still there is so much truth blended with misrepresentation in this document, and the motives and kind feeling by which I have been actuated towards the Rajah in the various conversations we have really held, with a view to an amelioration of his unhappy condition, are so strangely
 429 "I could say a great deal more on this subject, and it would occupy many sheets of paper to detail everything that has passed between the Rajah and myself, as he visits me generally three or four times a month, and sometimes more frequently; but I trust I have written enough to satisfy the right hon. the Governor General and the hon. the Secret Committee, that I am utterly incapable of compromising the Government I servo by making unauthorised 'propositions' of any kind, whether to the Rajah of Sattara, or to any other person confided to my charge."
 MR. ELLIOT : Notwithstanding the hon. Member's denial, he must say that he had entire confidence in the gentleman from whom he had received the information, and who from his position could not be mistaken. The hon. Member might not remember the circumstance, but he had no doubt a letter had been written to Delhi asking for the remuneration for his services.
 MR. ELLIOT : The hon. Member had perhaps forgotten the circumstance. It was some time since it occurred, and his mind had been much occupied in the interval; at all events, of one thing he was sure, let this Committee be granted, and if it should be the will and pleasure of the hon. Member to go back to India to-morrow, he may return in two or three years with a hundred thousand pounds in his pocket. He would repeat, that let it only be known that the hon. Member had such power as would subvert the careful and unanimous decisions of all the local authorities in India, and a boundless field would be opened to him. Every dissatisfied prince or chief would be ready to engage the services of a Gentleman possessing such extraordinary influence. Sir, the hon. Gentleman might then have as many constituents as he pleases, and he (Mr. Elliot) could not help having some suspicions of the hon. Gentleman's intentions. Something bad occurred within the last few days that bad appeared rather ominous to him. The hon. Member had, he observed, moved for a return of all the lands held either by Jagheer or Shotrium tenure which had been resumed at Madras and Bombay. He (Mr. Elliot) was aware what a fine field these cases would open for the hon. Member, if it was his object to undertake further agencies; and he trusted the House would not encourage such an undertaking. He fully believed that, though there were dissatisfied people in India, as was the case in every other country, on the whole justice was as substantially administered in that country as in this. 431
 MR. ELLIOT  said, that having passed the greater portion of his life in India, he trusted he might be allowed to offer a few observations on the subject now under consideration—that, if he ventured to obtrude himself upon the House, it was because he naturally felt a strong and lively interest in the welfare and happiness of the people of that country. 409 410 411 412 "On the return of the late Baboo Dewarka nauth Tagore to India, from his first visit to England, he was accompanied by Mr. George Thompson as a sort of itinerant philanthropist, who on reaching Calcutta made sundry speeches, at sundry meetings, which were only curious on account of the utter ignorance of Indian affairs which they displayed."
 MR. ELLIOT : He would give the hon. Gentleman the name afterwards:—
 "Mr. G. Thompson had all but engaged to proceed to England as a sort of Oriental Philanthropist Agent, when his eye came across an advertisement circulated by the King of Delhi, calling for tenders of services from parties desirous to proceed to England to advocate his claims before the home authorities. I know not
 413 "On Mr. G. Thompson's arrival in England, he submitted his Majesty's claims before a duly assembled meeting of the proprietors, at which it appeared, by the outlines of the debate received by the mails, that Mr. G. Thompson made use of such intemperate and indiscreet language as to call down upon him the severest rebuke from the Chairman, Mr. Shepherd. By the same mail Mr. G. Thompson forwarded to the King a newspaper, the  Indian Advocate 414 A lungh "Other copies of the report of Mr. Thompson's version of the debate were also sent by him to natives of rank, fifteen, if I mistake not, in number, probably with an eye to their becoming profitable customers. [ A laugh l
 MR. ELLIOT : It was not a letter, but a statement which he (Mr. Elliot) received from Captain Angelo.
 MR. ELLIOT : The statement was written and signed by Captain Angelo himself; and if the hon. Member succeeded in obtaining his Committee, the gallant officer would be prepared to substantiate it. He (Mr. Elliot) thought he had now given fair proof of the inaccuracy of the hon. Mem-
 415 "The Rajah, for himself and for his heirs and his successors, engages to hold the territory in subordinate co-operation with the British Government, and to be guided in all matters by the advice of the British agent at his Highness's Court." "The Rajah, for himself, his heirs and successors, engages to forbear from all intercourse with foreign Powers, and with all Sirdars, Jagheerdars, Chiefs and Ministers, and all persons of whatever description who are not by the above articles rendered subject to his Highness's authority. With all the above persons, his Highness, for himself and his heirs and successors, engages to have no connexion or correspondence; any affairs that may arise with them relating to his Highness
 416 "This article is a fundamental condition of the present agreement, and any departure from it on the Rajah's part will subject him to the loss of all the advantages he may gain by the said agreement." 417
 MR. ELLIOT  did not care to what the hon. Member referred. He quoted Mr.
 418 "In the month of Juno, 1836, it came to my knowledge that his Highness had appointed an agent to proceed to England, to represent his claims to the Home authorities. Requesting an interview, I pointed out the impropriety of this, as he had not consulted me on the subject, as I conceive be was hound to do by the treaty; and as the right hon. the Governor had at that period assured his Highness that his case was before him, and that no delay would take place in submitting his case to the Court of Directors, and that eventually every consideration should be paid to his case, from that period an almost hostile disposition had been evinced towards me by his Highness, and he now scarcely ever consults me on any subject, and acts as he pleases, as if he were independent of the treaty and all control." "The British Government raised the Rajah from a prison to a throne; do you think he is now or hag ever been embued with those feelings of gratitude and attachment natural to a person so situated?" "Whenever I have treated on the subject to his Highness, which has frequently bee" the case, he
 419
 MR. ELLIOT : It was only the name that was wrong! Why, of course, it was only the name that was wrong; and is that not enough? He would ask how hon. Members would like their names to be so dealt with, and thus to have a charge of such a disgraceful nature imputed to them instead of to some other person? Why, this was all he (Mr. Elliot) wanted to show. All he wished to make clear was, that the hon. Gentleman's statements were so utterly inaccurate as to make it impossible for this House to put such confidence in them as would warrant their listening to such an extraordinary proposal as he had made to the House. l l l 427 l
 MR. ELLIOT : The hon. Member for Montrose might cheer; but he repeated, that, if the Rajah was called upon to supply proportionate sums to satisfy his agents at the other places, his ruin might well follow. The 36,000 l
 MR. ELLIOT : He would read the hon. Member's own words, and they there would be no doubt as to his meaning:—
 "It will be admitted, I think, that this is both a singular and important document. The hon. Chairman will probably be able to throw some light upon it; for I cannot help thinking it must be in some way connected with the deliberations which have taken place under this roof. As I have ever found the Rajah scrupulously cautious and correct in all his communications, I cannot doubt the substantial accuracy of the papers now in my hand; neither can I suppose that the Governor General's agent would send for his High-
 428
 MR. CALLAGHAN  said, that there was one inconvenience which, he was assured, would arise from this Bill, and that was, so far from freeing the country from the
 403 l
 MR. URQUHART  contended that the Government of Bombay had committed a
 445
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  tendered his thanks to the hon. and learned Solicitor General for having introduced this Bill. In 1834
 402
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, since the introduction of the Bill it had received alterations under the name of amendments, which had produced a total change in its character, and it was now a new Bill as compared to what it was when it was first introduced. It was not only now a new Bill, but a new principle was involved in it, and yet it had not been submitted to the Lord Chancellor, the Master of the Rolls, or any of the other high legal authorities in Ireland. He agreed perfectly with all the objects which the Bill sought to effect; but he was of opinion that the measure before them was calculated merely to precipitate, whilst it would not facilitate, the transfer of property in Ireland. With regard to the subdivision of property, and to selling estates in small portions, he believed that there was no country in the world in which the sale of estates in small portions was calculated to produce more mischief than in Ireland. The great writers on the subject in France, the very best authorities on the subdivision of property, had described the condition of the peasantry under the system of minute subdivisions being inferior to that which they exhibited before the revolution. He did not believe the Government ought to suppose the existence of any opposition to this measure on the part of the Irish landlords; and he was of opinion that if the Irish landlords and Irish lawyers had been consulted, a measure might have been adopted which would be satisfactory to all parties.
 MR. G. THOMPSON  rose to bring forward his Motion—
 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the conduct of Lieutenant-Colonel
 404 405 406 407 408 An unsuccessful attempt was here made to count out the House
 MR. THOMPSON : Read on.
 MR. THOMPSON : No, no!
 MR. G. THOMPSON : It was only the name that was wrong.
 MR. THOMPSON : I only referred to Mr. Shakespear with reference to the charge connected with the Soobadars,
 MR. THOMPSON : Who is the author of that paper?
 MR. G. THOMPSON : I never said that Mr. Hutt extorted a confession.
 MR. THOMPSON : I deny it.
 MR. G. THOMPSON : I beg leave emphatically to deny it.
 MR. GEORGE THOMPSON  was sure that those hon. Gentlemen who had heard the statements of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Roxburghshire (Mr. Elliot) would allow him (Mr. G. Thompson) to make a few remarks in reply, as they had a personal reference to him. The hon. Gentleman was pleased to state, on authority on which he said he placed the Utmost reliance, that when he was in Calcutta he saw an advertisement put forth by the King of Delhi requesting the assistance of some philanthropic individual who would undertake his case in England. Now he begged to say he never saw or heard of such an advertisement. But he received, most unexpectedly, a visit from some gentlemen who said they had received instructions from the Minister of the King of Delhi to wait upon him and communicate with him respecting the question then depending between the King and the British Government. It was not until he had examined the papers, and looked into the Wellesley despatches, that he stated, on a subsequent occasion, to a person who waited upon him, that he thought that the King of Delhi had a just and reasonable claim on the Court of Directors. What was his course of conduct then? he was free to admit that the deputies were authorised to make to him large offers, and he disclaimed altogether any intention to stipulate for any remuneration whatever. He would enter into no compact with the deputies, and he left Calcutta, on the invitation of the King, for Delhi, without having entered into any engagement with him, only stipulating that his expenses from Calcutta to Delhi and back should be defrayed. It was arranged that it should be settled on a personal communication with the King whether it would be expedient to undertake the case, which he desired him to advocate in this country. It was said he had proposed that a provision should be made for him in the shape of a house; and he assured the hon. Gentleman the Member for Roxburghshire that he had never expressed such a wish, but, on the contrary, desired that not a penny should be expended for his accommodation in Delhi. It was also said that, on arriving in Delhi, he had further stipulated for a payment of 200 rupees per month as a provision for his table; and he
 447
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  would not follow the lion. Member for Middlesex in his excursions into Andalusia, the snows of Norway, or the swamps of Belgium. As he understood the meaning of this Bill, it was to enable encumbered estates to be sold as speedily as possible. He could not see how that interfered in any way with the law of entail. He believed that this Bill, if carried out, would prevent such a state of things as was represented in the digest of Lord Devon's Commission. He believed that this Bill, although it might not be a panacea for the evils of Ireland, would have a great tendency, if carried out, to increase the employment of the people. He believed it would have a tendency to equalise capital with labour. At the same time, he could not look at this Bill at all in the light of a Bill of pains and penalties against Irish landlords. He looked forward to other remedial measures, which by improving the state of the country generally, should tend to give peace to Ireland.
 MR. HUME : Hear, hear!
 MR. HUME  begged to recall the House to the question really before them. The hon. Member who spoke last had taken up an old subject of debate, that of the case of the Rajah of Sattara, when the present Motion referred only to Colonel Ovans. That was a sort of drag, such as sportsmen used when they drew a red herring over the ground to bring the hounds away from the scent of the fox. The question before them related only to an inquiry into the conduct of Lieutenant-Colonel Charles Ovans, whilst he was British Political Resident at the Court of Sattara, and the proceedings of the Bombay Government and the Court of Directors of the East India Company in relation to the charges preferred against that officer. And how had the hon. Gentleman attempted to meet that question? By charging his hon. Friend (Mr. G. Thompson) with being a hired agent. Why, what was the hon. Gentleman himself but a hired agent? And was a gentleman's character to be put down as unworthy because he was a paid agent? Let the hon. Gentleman, if he could, grapple with the facts; but it was always the case with those persons who had no way of meeting stubborn facts, that they fell back upon the old system of attacking private character. But, as to the charge that his hon. Friend had acted improperly, he would say, that his hon. Friend had acted, while in Bombay, with the full knowledge of Sir Thomas Metcalfe. The hon. Gentleman was very fond
 432 433
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Who was the writer of that letter?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I want to know who wrote it.
 MR. OSBORNE  said, the speech of the hon. Baronet the Member for Radnorshire, if made on the side of the landed interest of Ireland, was an able speech; but if it were taken as made with relation to a great public good, it was nothing but a one-sided  argumentum ad misericordiam 397 "The first Bill to which I shall direct the attention of the House is the Encumbered Estates (Ireland) Bill, the Committee on which stands for this evening. The object and intention of that Bill would be found, I am convinced, very beneficial to the country: but, from late inquiries that have been made upon the subject, it appears that very great alarm has been excited by it. Not an alarm occasioned by the special provisions of the Bill itself, but by the contemplation of new powers being given by an extensive measure of this kind. It is said, by persons well qualified to speak upon the subject, and well qualified, also, to be entitled to attention, that several millions sterling, which have been advanced upon mortgages of estates in Ireland, would be called in if this Bill were passed." 398 399 l s d v "The gross mismanagement of estates in Ireland under receivers by Chancery is a matter of public notoriety, and there are few exceptions to the general rules of mismanagement." "That not only had the unfortunate people died of famine, but 360 of their bodies had been thrown coffinless into a hole." "This is true; no less than 600 bodies of tenants have been thrown into holes or ditches." v 400 l 401 "It rarely happens that land is brought into the market in lots of small amount. Estates are so encumbered, that the expense which would attend dividing them deters proprietors from taking this course, although a larger sum would be received." "We believe that there are large numbers of persons in Ireland possessing a small amount of capital, which they would gladly employ in the cultivation of land, and a still larger number hold land for rent who would cheerfully embrace the opportunity of becoming small proprietors."
 MR. DILLON BROWNE  heartily concurred in the sentiments expressed by the right hon. Baronet towards this measure, which, he believed, would be found acceptable to a great majority of the most intelligent people of Ireland. Many of the remarks of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Carlow (Mr. Sadlier) were not, in his opinion, applicable to the Bill; but if they were, they could be better considered in Committee, when the clauses were under discussion. The Bill was absolutely necessary in justice to Irish landlords, the owners of encumbered property. Of course it was natural they should be desirous of maintaining the dignity of their position as landlords; but after maintaining that position, in too many cases there was nothing left to be spent upon the improvement of the estate. The want of means for improvement affected injuriously, not only the property but the estate. Exorbitant rents were occasioned; agrarian crime followed, and a system of farming was introduced not more fatal to the tenant than the landlord. For these reasons, he conceived that proprietors of encumbered estates ought to be the persons most desirous of the passing of this Bill. The newspapers had represented the Irish landlords as a sort of monster bipeds—beings who had no rational notions of the rights or duties of property. Was it not right to get rid of that contumelious and undeserved reproach? In his opinion, no measure was better calculated than this to promote that end, and he should give it his earnest support.
 MR. ANSTEY , having taken a part in the previous debates upon this question, said, that he would not consider himself acting as a man of honour if he did not at once declare that, in his opinion, the character of Colonel Ovans had been completely vindicated. He had never assailed that gentleman. There was something more involved in the present discussion than the character of Colonel Ovans; and that was, the fame of our justice, and the moral influence which the result of these debates would have upon the natives of India. He was as well satisfied as ever of the guilt of our Government, and the innocence of the late Rajah. The speech of the hon. Baronet who had just sat down, appeared to him to furnish the strongest possible reason why an inquiry should take place into that case. He was satisfied that it was impossible, in the course of a night's debate of this desultory character, to arrive at a satisfactory conclusion. For example:
 444
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  observed that the question before the House was the instruction moved by the hon. Baronet that this measure be extended to England and Scotland. He intended to vote against the instruction, and he wished to state why. He thought it was manifest, from all they had hoard of the different laws of England and Ireland, that it was utterly impracticable to frame a Bill which should contain provisions necessary for the double purpose, and therefore the Bill should be confined to Ireland, and suited to the circumstances of Ireland. If they agreed to the proposition of the hon. Baronet, they would be virtually dividing this Bill. The statement made by hon. Members of the distress to which landed property was subjected, justified this Bill: the greater the distress, the greater the necessity for this remedial measure. You could not remedy the evil of the charges upon land, except by improving the law by which property was held, affecting both the interests of the landlord and tenant. With these views, and anxiously desirous that this Bill should be carried into effect, he felt it his duty to oppose the Motion of the hon. Member, not that he conceived that the principle might not be extended to England.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, that in the autumn of the year 1842 Sir John Carnac stated to him the reason for de-posing the Rajah of Sattara. It was to be found in the simple consideration that on communication with the Rajah he was found to be unfriendly to the articles that formed the basis of the Treaty of 1819, particularly that part of it which was comprised in the second article. The observation made by the Rajah was, "Do you expect me to sign that treaty which would reduce me to the position of the manager of a district?" A gallant gentleman, a friend of his, had been attacked—he alluded to Colonel Ovans—and he believed that a more honourable public servant than that gentleman did not exist. Whether the charges against the Rajah were true or false, Colonel Ovans had no more to do with them than any hon. Gentleman in that House. The first charge against the
 446
 SIR J. GRAHAM : As an English Member I shall presume to take for a very short time a part in this discussion. I must own I have long looked with great anxiety—I may almost say with despair—for the introduction of a measure upon this subject, which I regard as of paramount importance in the present condition of Ireland. I do not think this a fit occasion to go into all the technicalities and legal niceties which are connected with the subject. If it were, I should not presume to address you, as I am by no means competent to the task. But, at the same time, I think it right to offer my opinion upon the general outline of this measure. I am compelled to do so by an observation made by the hon. Gentleman who has just addressed you. I understood him to say that he was well content with the measure as it came down from the House of Lords, but that he viewed it now with less favour since it had been altered by the Solicitor General. Now my view of the measure is almost the converse of that of the hon. Gentleman. As it came down from the House of Lords I was not well satisfied with it, but as it has been amended by the Solicitor General I am happy to say I look with some hope to the practical working of this Bill. The hon. Gentleman has spoken rather disparagingly of the speech made on a former occasion by the Solicitor General. Upon that point also I must differ from the hon. Gentleman. My dread has always been that with respect to this measure it would be too much left to the professional prejudices and legal scruples of conveyancers, who would consider it only with reference to the law of real property, and not sufficiently in regard to the peculiar circumstances existing in Ireland. But I heard with the greatest pleasure a speech coming from a Gentleman bearing the name which the Solicitor General bears—a speech worthy of a lawyer, but I must say, not exclusively of a lawyer; but a speech, while bringing to bear upon the subject great knowledge of the law of real property, combined with that knowledge large political views well worthy of the subject which we have to handle. I am not, as I have intimated already, now prepared to go into the whole question of the jurisprudence of Ireland. The hon. Gentleman has told us of some defects in the
 391 392 393 394
 SIR J. W. HOGG  hoped he might be heard, as he desired to vindicate the character of men as honourable and as distinguished as any in India; and when he himself stood before them as a  particeps criminis 434 435 436 Mr. G. Thompson dissented 437 nem con l Times 438 439 primâ facie "The proceedings of the Commission have left no doubt on my mind of the guilt of the Rajah to the extent of countenancing and attempting to seduce from their allegiance two native officers of the British army." "It is now my painful duty to state that I am compelled to concur in the unanimous opinion of the Government of Bombay, that the two principal charges preferred against the Rajah are fully established." 440 441
 SIR J. HOGG : The hon. Member said that Mr. Hutt took the evidence, and Mr. Hutt denied both the imprisonment and the fact of the confession having been any-thing but voluntary. Whether the petition was written by the Rajah's mother or not, the facts stated in it showed a perfect knowledge of all the circumstances to which it referred, and the statements which it contained were borne out by all the other circumstances relating to that subject with which the Government had become acquainted. Another charge made by the hon. Member against Colonel Ovans, was that of suppressing the evidence of Krushnajee. Now, the fact was, that Krushnajee went to Colonel Ovans, and stated that he had written the petition, and had been promised 1,250 rupees by Girjabaee for doing so; and, to show the truth of his statement, he produced a copy of the petition. Colonel Ovans instituted an immediate inquiry into the matter; and, to show that no unnecessary delay had taken place, he (Sir J. Hogg) might state that the last deposition was taken on the 10th of July, and that the whole of the documents were handed by Colonel Ovans to the Government on the 16th of July. This fact at once disproved the charge that Colonel Ovans had suppressed the evidence for thirteen months. And yet the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets stated in the Court of East India Proprietors that
 442 l 443
 SIR J. B. WALSH  thought that a Committee of that House was not the best means for arriving at a satisfactory conclusion upon the measure. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon observed,
 395 396
 SIR LUCIUS O'BRIEN  withdrew his Amendment.
 SIR T. COLEBROOKE  was of opinion that the Bombay Government had been fully vindicated. He entirely subscribed to the statement of the hon. Baronet the Member for Honiton.
 COLONEL THOMPSON , as one who had
 454 Confession of Augsburg
 MR. MOFFATT , in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said, that it involved no new principle; its object was simply to prevent the abuse of one of the few remaining privileges of Members of that House. Hon. Gentlemen were aware that according to the Orders of the House, Members were privileged from arrest for debt. He believed that that privilege had in many cases been abused. He conceived, however, that it could not be abused if the rules and regulations of the House, which required that every Member, not only on taking his seat, but so long as he sat and voted in the House, should possess a quali-
 462 l
 MR. MOFFATT  had done his duty, and would yield to the wish of the House, and renew the Bill next Session.
 MR. CRAVEN BERKELEY  said, it was his opinion, and he doubted not it was the opinion of the House also, that the observance of Sunday would be better promoted by the force of a good example on the part of the higher classes, and especially of the higher class of traders, than by anything that mere measures of legislation could effect. He held in his hand evidence taken before a Committee of the House, and the statement of a witness named Boggis was to this effect, that on Sunday he passed near the brewery of Messrs. Truman, Hanbury, Buxton, and Co., situate in Brick-lane, Spitalfields. With that establishment he believed that the hon. Baronet who spoke last was connected. The witness stated, that on the day in question a boy was passing along carrying a basket of dry figs; that the boy was taken up and carried off by the police merely for the offence of crying and selling a few figs, by the profits on which to obtain a morsel of food. That the same witness on the same day, about three o'clock, passing the brewhouse of the hon. Member opposite, heard the clanking of chains in the brewhouse, heard the noise of heavy operations, and witnessed the escape of a
 459
 MR. C. HINDLEY  assured the hon. Baronet that he was sensible of the necessity for great discretion in dealing with this matter. Last Session he had moved for a Committee of Inquiry into Sunday trading, and the evidence of that Committee showed that 20,000 people in the metropolis were under the necessity of labouring on that day. Yet the hon. Member for Salisbury proposed to throw out this measure, and thereby retain that large number of the population of London in bondage. The evidence taken before the Committee showed that Sunday trading was carried to an immense extent in London, and not in articles of necessity or of a perishable nature, but in articles that might be purchased any day in the week; and would any person say that the people of England wished that Sunday should be a day of trade like other days? He was quite willing to adopt the suggestion of the hon. Alderman behind him (Alderman Sidney), and introduce a clause prohibiting the hawking or exposing for sale on Sundays of articles in places not being the place of residence of the owner; and he was ready to place the jurisdiction over the police in the hands of the commissioners of police, instead of the churchwardens. The good effects of the Police Act, which required that public-houses should be shut up at a certain hour in London, had been so approved, that numerous applications had been made for its extension to all parts of the country. The hon. Member concluded by urging the House to go into Committee on the Bill.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  thought it most unfair that a Member against whom a judgment had been obtained—no matter by what means or for what amount, and possibly even without his knowledge—should be disqualified by that fact on the report of a Committee, the House having no option in the matter. He protested against constituting a Committee of that House a court for the trial of cases of debt.
 MR. B. WALL  rose to move, pursuant to notice—
 "That this House will, upon this day six months, resolve itself into the said Committee." 450 451 "Am I mis-stating or overstating your opinion with regard to the Act of Charles II., that it is useless and mischievous?" "No, it is useless when not in force, and mischievous when in force." 452 s s s
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he had to ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland a question of which he had given notice. In the year 1845, an Act was passed by which one taxing master was appointed in Ireland, for the Court of Chancery. The society of solicitors at the time stated that it would be quite imposible for a single master to discharge the necessary business of the office; but there being an apprehension that the revenue derived from the fees of the office might be insufficient, one taxing master only was then appointed. He was bound to say that no blame whatever was at-
 449 l
 MR. MUNTZ  said, that every speech which had been delivered showed that there was great difficulty in legislating on this question. The hon. Baronet (Sir E. Buxton) said, that no work was carried on in his brewery on a Sunday except what was absolutely necessary. But was the plea of necessity to be limited to his case alone? No doubt, too, the boy with the figs was compelled by hard necessity to sell them on a Sunday. He recommended the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hindley) to withdraw the Bill.
 MR. BROTHERTON  had taken no
 460
 MR. HUME  did not think that a private Member of the House ought to legislate upon such a subject. The hon. Member for Ashton, who appeared to set himself up as a monitor or adviser in morals and religion, and the hon. Member for Salford, should inquire into the state of things at Ashton and at Salford, and it would be seen whether those Gentlemen had attempted to set an example of morality and religion there, and whether the same thing of which they complained did not exist at those places. He wanted to have from the hon. Member a list of the parishes in the
 456
 MR. SPOONER  entirely concurred in the observations of the hon. Member who had last spoken. Still, at this period of the Session, and considering what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department, it was his opinion that it would be desirable to withdraw the Bill for the present.
 MR. SLANEY  seconded the Amendment, and denounced the Bill as a petty and peddling interference with the comforts and amusements of the working
 453
 MR. ALCOCK  had not rested satisfied with the accounts of others, but had gone to satisfy himself as to the fact of Sunday trading in the localities which were much frequented by the working classes; and he had witnessed the great extent to which that description of traffic was carried on. He was in favour of the principle of the Bill.
 SIR B. HALL  said, if the Bill as it now stood was to be persevered in without introducing some provisions which should put the higher classes of the community on the same footing with the other classes—if it was to be merely an exclusive Bill, interfering with the privileges, advantages, and amusements of the lower orders of society—then he should say it was a most
 455
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, that the object of the Bill was not to interfere merely on the score of religion, but to put an end to the immense labour and toil which Sunday trading caused to tradesmen and those whom they employed. He (Sir De Lacy Evans) did not know of any measure which was so generally supported by the tradesmen amongst his constituents.
 SIR E. BUXTON  should be sorry to see this question discussed as a religious question. They might do thus much, they might prevent parties trading themselves, and they might protect those who were disinclined to trade from the injurious competition to which a disregard of Sunday on the part of others exposed them. In Lambeth, from which he received communications, and in Spitalfields, of which he possessed some knowledge, the desecration of Sunday was of the worst character.
 SIR E. BUXTON  never before heard of the accusation brought by the hon. Gentleman against the brewery with which he was connected. He could state with respect to that establishment, that no work was there carried on upon a Sunday, except works of absolute necessity. By far the greater part of the work done on Sundays consisted in the care and feeding of the horses. There were 300 men usually employed on week-days, and he believed there was no establishment in which loss was done on a Sunday than in the brewery at Spitalfields. As to the clanking of the chains to which the witness referred, he might just state that the stables abutted on the street, and that the chains were merely those by which the horses were fastened; and the steam was thus occasioned—it was necessary that the boilers should be raised to a very high temperature, and there was, therefore, a continued escape of steam throughout the day. He would not say that there was absolutely no work done on the Sunday; but every means were taken to render that as little as possible. The watchman was the only person continually on the premises, and he certainly had the means of passing as quiet a Sunday as any one could desire. If the hon. Member opposite would do him (Sir E. Buxton) the favour of visiting the brewery on a weekday and on a Sunday, he could contrast the one with the other; he might hear the clanking of the chains, and he certainly must see that every effort was made to give the working men the full advantage of Sunday.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that, immediately after this Bill was printed, three months ago, he had carefully perused it, and had submitted it to a gentleman of high position in the legal profession, who considered that there were great objections to the
 463
 SIR G. GREY  felt disinclined to object to the House going into Committee upon the Bill which had been prepared by the hon. Member, backed as the measure was by the recommendation of a Committee last year, and supported by so many petitions; at the same time, he must say that a careful perusal of the Bill had confirmed the strong impression he had previously felt of the difficulty, if not impossibility, of legislating upon the subject. The Committee which sat last year had taken a great deal of evidence which justified the report they had made, that Sunday trading was carried on to a very great extent in the metropolis. Sunday trading had no doubt increased, and so had the population; but he did not believe that Sunday trading had increased more than in proportion to the increase of the population; on the contrary, he believed that Sunday was better observed; and the observance of Sunday, he thought, was best promoted by the encouragement of moral and religious feelings amongst the community than by legislation. At the same time, he was not prepared to say that it might not be necessary to pass a law to prevent Sunday trading, and to amend the present law. He should certainly not oppose the Motion for going into Committee on the Bill, if he were at all able to see his way in the matter. He was not opposed to the great object which the hon. Gentleman who introduced the Bill had in view; but he must say, as the hon. Gentleman had admitted so many ex-
 457 s s 458
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE , in reply to the question put to him by his hon. Friend, was prepared to admit the inconvenience he had stated, from the accumulation of costs in the office of the taxing master of the Court of Chancery. He could also corroborate the statement with regard to the efficiency of the present taxing master. The subject had been under the consideration of Government, and he hoped means would be taken to remedy the inconvenience complained of.
 The EARL of LINCOLN  asked the Under Secretary for the Colonies whether a Commission had been appointed, either by the Secretary of State for the Colonies or by the Governor General of Canada, to inquire into the complaints of Mr. Isbister, and others, against the present government of the Red River Settlement, or against the Hudson's Bay Company generally; and whether, if no inquiry were now pending, he would lay on the table of the House any correspondence which had taken place on the subject? Also, whether a grant had been made by the Secretary of State for the Colonies of Vancouver's Island to the Hudson's Bay Company; and, if so, what was to be the form of government; what regulations had been made as to the working of coals and minerals; and what stipulations had been entered into as to the future colonisation of the island? Also, whether there would be any objection to lay on the; table of the House copies of correspondence between the Colonial Office and the Hudson's Bay Company on this subject, and of the charter, if any granted to the company?
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, it was proposed to omit the words which
 474
 MR. M'CULLAGH  proceeded to state the object of the Amendment of which he had given notice. The Bill as at present framed limited the right of petitioning for a sale to the owner of the estate, to the first incumbrancer, and to the mortgagee who might hold the title-deeds in his possession. He was desirous of removing such limitation, and permitting any incumbrancer to institute proceedings in a court of equity for a sale. The parties on whom the clause exclusively conferred the power, were precisely those who in general were least disposed to sell. The owner of an estate heavily incumbered has ceased too frequently to retain any direct interest in its possession, excepting that which he valued very naturally, and not undeservedly, the consideration and position which had come to him by inheritance, and which, with the inheritance, he is conscious that he must lose. To expect such a man to initiate proceedings in equity for a sale would be idle. Were the highest price realised, and all his creditors paid off, the balance in many instances that would remain would not enable him to maintain what is familiarly termed his position in the county; and if he happened to be but tenant for life, the interest annually payable to him out of court upon this residuum would be inadequate to maintain him in that social sphere in which he had hitherto moved. If you waited until the insolvent, or nearly insolvent, owner petitioned for a sale, you might wait for ever. Then as to the first incumbrancer, he believed it would be found that the first incumbrancer was, generally speaking, a person holding a charge under family settlement, or an old judgment on a bond. In Ireland those early charges and old judgments were looked upon as about the best investment that could be had. They were transferable, and always brought their full price whenever they were sold. They were valued like old pictures, which the possessor was always the loss disposed to part with because he knew that they would always bring him his own money. If, therefore, lands were never brought to sale until persons so circumstanced filed petitions in equity to raise the amount of these charges, sales to any considerable extent there would never be. As for the principal mortgagees, who had the title-deeds in their possession,
 475 476
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, they should keep in view that the purpose of the measure was not so much the sale of large estates as the formation of small ones, for the purposes of creating a yeomanry connected with the land, and living on their estates. Upon this ground he thought it important that the attention of the noble Lord should be directed to the subject of the stamp duties, with a view to their reduction, so far as regarded the transfer of property in land. [Mr. OSBORNE observed, that notice had been given of a clause for that purpose.] The Stamp Acts, as they at present stood, greatly favoured the sale of large estates, or rather rendered it very expensive to acquire small ones; and he thought that the objects of the present measure would not be efficiently advanced without an alteration in the stamp duties on the transfer of real property.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  could not assent to the suggested alteration. All the expenses of effecting a sale must eventually fall on the estate; and he did not think it expedient to give to any one incumbrancer the power of subjecting the estate to a forced sale, contrary to the interests of the owner and the other incumbrancers.
 MR. NAPIER  having moved its omission, the Committee divided:—Ayes 64; Noes 8: Majority. 56.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  thought that the particular clause then under consideration required the most serious attention, because he held it to be of primary importance that while every facility should be
 478
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL certainly would not object to the proposal, provided he was quite sure that sales by auction would be a security against fraud; but he feared that if fraud was intended, it would be perpetrated by public auction as well as by private contracts. He had always found, and he thought it would be the experience of most persons, that it was far the best course to give the power of selling either by public auction or by private contract, as might be found most advisable; because, if they limited the sale to either the one or the other mode, they would in many cases preclude a party from selling to the best advantage. He admitted, that if they were to limit the sale to one or other of these modes, it ought to be limited to sales by auction. If it was the opinion of the Committee that the sale should be by auction, he would not oppose it; but he presumed the right hon. Baronet, to whom he owed great obligations for the assistance he had rendered in improving the provisions of the measure, would not object to the estate being sold by private sale, if it could not be disposed of by auction.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  could conceive the case of a tenant for life having an interest in effecting a sale to the detriment of the heir in remainder, he being a minor, or under parental control; and therefore be thought the greatest care should be taken to prevent fraud. Perhaps the Solicitor General would consult the other law authorities on this point, and be able, on the report, to bring up the clause so altered as completely to meet the case.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  acceded to the suggestion.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  rose and said: I rise with the view of stating the course which I propose to take with respect to the two Bills which stand first on the Orders, viz., the Borough Elections (No. 2) Bill, and the Horsham Borough Bill. What I propose to do, in the first place, is to discharge the orders for these two Bills, and to state the outline of the measure I intend to propose in their place. I have endeavoured in this measure to avoid some of the objections which were stated to the Bill introduced by my hon. Friend the Member for the Flint boroughs (Sir J. Hanmer); but, certainly, I cannot hope that I have succeeded in obviating all of them. The House is aware, that in the Act of Parliament which I had the honour of carrying in August, 184:2, entitled "An Act for the Better Discovery and Prevention of Bribery and Treating at the Election of
 471 472 473 "That the Orders of the Dar respecting the Borough Elections (No. 2) Bill, and the Horsham Borough Bill, be discharged, and that leave be given to bring in a Bill for the purpose of instituting Inquiries as to the existence of Bribery and Corrupt Practices in certain Boroughs, and also for the Prevention of Bribery and Corruption at the Election of Members of Parliament."
 MR. HAWES , in answer to the noble Lord's first question, begged to state that in the course of last year certain complaints were made at the Colonial Office against the Hudson's Bay Company generally by Mr. Isbister, who was over in this country; which complaints were referred to the Hudson's Bay Company, with a request that they would answer the various allegations. These answers, however, when received, not being altogether satisfactory, and his noble Friend at the head of the Colonial Office feeling that the whole subject required more investigation, the original complaint and answers were intrusted to Lord Elgin, the Governor General of Canada, whose attention was specially directed to the whole question. About a fortnight ago an answer had been received from Lord Elgin, who stated that he had found great difficulty in instituting the inquiry which he had been called upon to make, and in obtaining correct information on the subject, which, considering the distance of the territory, was not to be wondered at; but, as a general result, his Lordship stated that his opinion was favourable to the government of the Hudson's Bay Company. An opportunity had since been taken by a Queen's officer, who was going out to the Red River Settlement, to protect the public peace, and who was instructed to inquire into all the allegations, and to report. At the present moment, therefore, he thought it would be hardly just to the Hudson's Bay Company to lay the correspondence on the table.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was not sorry to hear a disclaimer from the hon. Gentleman on the part of Irish proprietors of a wish to incur a larger debt to this country; but, at the same time, he did not think the hon. Gentleman had quite faithfully represented the object of the present measure. The Bill had three objects. The first was to enable the Treasury to readvance, for the purpose of completing those works which at the end of last year were left incomplete, such sums of money as might be repaid by different localities; the second, to postpone for half a year the payment of the first instalment; and the third, to enable the Government, looking at the different circumstances of different parts of Ireland, either to diminish or increase the number of instalments for the repayment of the advances which had been made. With regard to the first of these objects—the power of readvancing the money received—it would be in the recollection of the House that the purpose of making those advances was to relieve the destitute poor by finding them employment in the execution of public works; whenever this purpose was attained, the works were to be stopped, and the districts immediately interested were to complete the works in such a manner as they might think proper. In the early part of 1847 a large number of persons were employed upon various works. At one time they exceeded 700,000 in number. The wasteful expenditure was notorious; but for a time it was perfectly impossible for the exertions of the officers to keep it within a reasonable limit. The abuse at length reached so great an extent, that it was determined to change the system of relief, and the Relief Commission was
 485 "It had been their intention, at the opening of the season, to examine every work, and undertake only those which were of a useful character. Work had been required by the magistrates to be found for the destitute poor at their own door; doubtless, therefore, many roads were broken up which, in their present state, were worse than before. In all these cases it was desirable the works should be completed, as they remained unsightly monuments of neglect." l "No work was begun except from immediate necessity, pressed not only through the ordinary channels, but by deputations. Work of any sort was applied for, as the only means of saving the people from the horrors of starvation." 486 l l l 487 l 488 s s s s s "In one electoral division a rate of 7 s d s d l l 489 "They talk of striking a rate of 16 s "That all these crops should continue to prosper, and yield the full amount they promise is of vital importance, for the whole country is pauperised; and if it should not please Providence to rescue them, destruction stares everybody in the face: very many of the gentry are in the debtors' prison—very many who an; not, are imprisoned in their own dwellings, afraid to stir out. Many who were well off, and kept their horses and their vehicles, cannot now keep a cow, and I have been assured by many it is painful to witness their privations, and, in many cases, suffering. In Castlebar union there are 23,000 receiving outdoor relief; and applications have been made equal to the whole amount of the population of the union. In Ballina union there are 40,000, and in the whole county there are about 125,000 receiving rations, independent of schools, where about 30,000 children are fed by the British Association. Tirawley barony, once the nucleus of wealth, is now almost destitute of even comfortable people. A panic seized them—they fled; the paupers remain—the land grows almost nothing in comparison, and rates, &c., must he paid." "Mr. Jones, the proprietor of the coaches running between Ballina and Sligo, assured me he would gladly give to anybody a farm of about 200 acres he holds near Ballina, for two years, for the payment of the poor-rates alone." "Perhaps one of the strongest proofs we have of the poverty of the country is the incredible falling-off in the 'priests' dues.' A respectable Roman Catholic assured me, so reduced are the people, that it is not one out of ten who formerly could and would pay for 'anointing' their relatives when dying, can do so now, essential as they consider it to their future state; and even coffins must be dispensed with in many of these cases." 490 "The portion of this union situated in Roscommon is mostly in grazing, and the landlords nearly all absentees; the remaining portions in Galway and Mayo are occupied by persons holding from one to seven acres; their families do what work is required. I am of opinion that there will be as many applicants for relief for the next year as there are at present; they have no means of existence; they have neither clothing, fuel, nor shoes, and have nothing to look forward to except outdoor relief."
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that when his
 491 l 492 l 493 l 494 l l l l l d l l l l l 495
 COLONEL DUNNE  was understood to say that there could be no doubt of the necessity for advances to Ireland—the real question was as to the mode of application of the money. He agreed in many respects with the observations of the hon. Member for Northampton as to the system of wasteful expenditure that had been carried on under the department of Public Works in Ireland. His experience—and he had been a Member of eleven Committees—induced him to view with great suspicion any works which bore the name of "public works." There were districts, however, in Ireland, which were utterly unable to meet the demands made upon them under the new poor-law. The bankruptcy of those parts alluded to by the hon. Baronet was an inevitable consequence of the poor-law; and
 496
 MR. NEWDEGATE  expressed his surprise at the self-congratulations of the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but when the right hon. Gentleman said that these advances and these works were solely for the relief of the poor, the Government having no other object but the relief of distress, and was determined, in accordance with the rigid views of the political economy he professed, that this expenditure should accomplish no ulterior purpose—he must say it appeared to him that that object had been most fully carried out, for that the greater part of the money expended in Ireland was as completely lost to the resources of the empire, and to the improvement of Ireland, as if it had been buried in the sea. This debate brought to his mind a subject of his continual regret, which was the rejection of the proposal of his noble Friend (Lord G. Bentinck), that advances should be made in aid of the construction of railways, to have given food and employment to the distressed, whilst it promoted that first means of improvement, the facility of transit and communication throughout Ireland. The noble Lord and his supporters were told that the money, if it were so advanced, would be inevitably lost—an assertion he never believed; but hon. Members opposite now found that the money was really gone, though that scheme was not adopted. [Mr. M. J. O'CONNELL: The money was spent before Lord George's proposition was made.] The hon. Member's recollection was not accurate, because the proposition of the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn, was that the money to be advanced upon the security of the rates, and not then granted, should be diverted to railways, and secured upon them. And he would ask the House whether it would not have been better to have had the repayment of advances secured upon the property of the railway companies, whose interests were involved in the success of their undertakings, than upon the baronies of Ireland, which were now alleged to be bankrupt? Would there not have been a better chance of repayment? He recollected that they were also told, "Look at the length of time that must elapse before advances to railways
 497 498
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The right hon. Member for the university of Cambridge (Mr. Goulburn) has opposed this measure on the ground that it is not a good measure of finance; and he argues that it would be far better to have 1,000,000 l l 499 500 s s d 501
 SIR GEORGE GREY , having moved the Order of the Day for the taking into consideration of the Lords' Amendments to the Evicted Destitute Poor (Ireland) Bill, said, that he would briefly state the nature of the alterations made in the Bill by the other House, and what course he proposed the House of Commons should adopt with regard to them. The first alteration he would call attention to was one made in the second clause. The House of Commons provided in the original Bill that—
 "The landowner or other person by whom, or on whose behalf, such writ, decree, order, or other process as aforesaid, shall have been sued out, or his agent, shall give notice in writing of his intention to execute the same, seven days at the least before the same shall be executed, to the guardians of the poor of the union." 482
 LORD G. BENTINCK  wished to ask a question of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. By the Act 9 and 10 Victoria, c. 63, there were four different schedules under which duties were levied. There was a schedule of duties to be levied on sugar and molasses the growth and produce of any foreign country. But there was also a schedule of duties to be raised on all foreign sugar, or molasses, not otherwise charged with duties. That was the schedule of duties provided, as it was understood, for sugar, whether refined or otherwise, imported from a country of which it was not the growth or produce. By this fourth schedule, no refined sugar could be imported from Hamburgh, Antwerp, or any part of the Continent, except on payment of three guineas per cwt. No brown clayed or muscovado sugar, not being refined, could be imported except on payment of a duty of two guineas; and no molasses could be
 502 s d. bonâ fide l s d l s d s s s l s d s d. s d s d., 503 s d s d l. s d
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that the first question of his noble Friend applied to sugar of that description which was chargeable with a duty of three guineas. The schedule of the old Act to which his noble Friend referred had been put in to provide for unforeseen cases. There were certain descriptions of sugar which might come in actually without duty. If sugar could be grown at St. Helena, it could come in without payment of duty. The schedule was put in to prevent frauds and meet those possible cases. As soon as the Act was passed, a question was raised with respect to loaf sugar. A distinction was then made between manufactured and raw sugar; and, as with cotton in England, that was taken as the produce of the country which was in a manufactured state. The sugar of Holland was refined;
 504 l s d
 The EARL of LINCOLN  wished to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, of which he had given
 511
 MR. V. SMITH  considered that the hon. Member for Manchester, in finding fault with the management of the public business by the noble Lord and the other Ministers, had not proved his case, and had made an unjustifiable attack. The business had been interrupted by extraordinary circumstances, which had never happened in any preceding Session; and he thought that Ministers, at the commencement of the Session, had taken the best course they could take in submitting a
 521
 MR. RICARDO  confessed that he had heard with much astonishment that the noble Lord had abandoned the Bill for the repeal of the navigation laws, as he felt that to be a Bill of an importance that was not to be trifled with: it was a question which affected the whole mercantile community of the country; and he believed that if the noble Lord was sincere in the principles which he had so often enunciated—if he had been as determined to carry this measure as he ought to have been, it could have been done. He did not agree that it would be wise in the noble Lord to say that he was determined to press this question, or to pass so important a question in a hurry; but he had need of his reputation for honesty and sincerity to make the people of this country believe that he was sincere in his determination to carry this measure. Two things the noble Lord had promised: one, that the Bill of 1846, as to sugar, should be retained; and the other, that the navigation laws should be repealed. The Bill as to sugar had been altered in a manner totally at variance with the principles of free trade; and the navigation laws had been procrastinated until it was too late to bring the matter forward. He hoped the noble Lord was sincere in his intention to bring this measure forward on the first opportunity.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  rose for the purpose of proposing the second of those measures which the Government had announced for the
 535 d d 536 537 d d s d s d d d "I am far from wishing the Committee to understand that the decreases in our trade amount to 3½ d l d d d d d 538 l d d s s d 539 d d d d d d d d d d 540 d d d d d d d 541 s d s d l d d d
 MR. W. T. FAGAN  considered the proposal of the Chancellor of the Exchequer very unfair towards the home producer of spirits. If the distilling interest in this country, and particularly in Ireland, were to be affected by the spread of temperance, or even by raising the duty on spirits so as to lessen consumption, he, for one, would approve of such a result; but when he found that the effect of the present measure would be to introduce, to a greater extent than hitherto into this country and Ireland, a deleterious and seductive spirit, he confessed he could not go along with the right hon. Gentleman in congratulating the consumer upon it. He found that, in 1846, the consumption of rum in Ireland amounted only to 14,000 gallons; while last year, with a differential duty of 9 d 542 d d d d d 543 d d d d d d d
 CAPTAIN JONES  said, that he did not rise to support the Amendment moved by the hon. Member, although he agreed with him in the observations he had made, He believed that if this measure was carried in conjunction with other measures proposed by Her Majesty's Government, great injustice would be done to the distillers. In the year 1842, when an additional duty of 1 s 544
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that the community which he represented contained many individuals who were deeply interested in the manufacture of spirits. Looking to the welfare of these individuals and the trade generally, he had hoped that the Government would have placed the Irish distiller on the same footing with the colonial distiller, as regarded reasonable allowance to be made for waste and natural evaporation. By this measure the West Indian interest would gain an advantage of 5 d d
 MR. BARKLY  would not have addressed the House had it not been for the course adopted by hon. Members from Ireland. But he must say that the measure of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer fell short of the measure to which the West Indies were entitled in regard to an equality of duties. There was a market in this country for the spirits produced in those colonies; and the differential duty
 545 l l
 LORD G. BENTINCK : I can assure you, Sir, I never heard any complaint from any of the barley growers of Norfolk on the subject of the rum and spirit duties. At all events, I am not the representative of Norfolk, but of the commercial borough of King's Lynn; and, therefore, whatever judgment I may come to upon this subject, there is no man in the House more disinterested, or who can have a greater desire to arrive at the truth than I have. The hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has quoted from an anonymous pamphlet, in which it is stated that from 150,000 l l l l "With regard to the decreases, those, I take it, are matters of fact. A great deal of the evidence I have given is, of course, matter of opinion, and, I hope, will be taken by the Committee, and those before whom the evidence may come, with a considerable allowance, because it is mere matter of opinion." 546 d d "I find that, as 4 d d d d d d in transitu 547 Royal Victoria Royal Victoria 548 s d s d s d s d s d s d d d s d d d d d 549 s d d s d s d s d 550 s d s d ad valorem s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s s d s s d s d s d d s d s d s d ad valorem s d s d s d ad valorem s d s d s d d ad valorem ad valorem s d s d d ad valorem 551 s d "It is necessary, therefore, to determine the same [fitting countervailing duties] by the imposition of a differential duty of 1 s d s d s d d s d s d s 552 l l l 553 s d s 554 s s s d l l l 555
 MR. GOULBURN  did not advocate the measure proposed by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, because he looked upon it as a compensation given to the West Indians for the losses they had sustained; but he advocated the proposition because he believed it was a just settlement between two classes of their fellow-subjects who produced similar articles, and had a right to stand on the same footing. The question for the House was one which was to be decided by a calculation of the duties and restrictions imposed upon the two articles which were the subjects of legislation; an he entertained the opinion that the right hon. Gentleman had made on the whole a fair calculation upon the subject. If he had any objection to that calculation, it was this—that the right hon. Gentleman was in favour of the British distillers. With regard to the difficulty imposed upon the British distillers by the restrictions of the Excise, he could not agree altogether in the opinion expressed by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. It must certainly be admitted that the effect of the collection of the excise duty upon the manufacture of an article, is, in some respects, calculated to produce inconvenience to the manufacturer; but there are some respects in which it is of the greatest advantage to a manufacturer to have the supervision of the Excise, and in no article is that more observable than in the article of spirits. The Excise supervision gave an additional guard to the proprietor of the manufactory against the frauds which could be so easily committed by the servants he employed in that manufactory. The Government wag protected from the abstraction of a quart of spirits, on which they were entitled to receive duty; but, at the same time the manufacturer was guarded from the frauds that might be committed upon him by those who possibly might be inclined to abstract gallons if no duty were charged upon it. He knew it was said that a great hardship was inflicted upon the distillers by the penalties that were imposed upon every step they took in the manufacture of spirits; but it should be recollected that these penalties were not frequently exacted, but were held out  in 556 terrorem d d d d d d 557 558
 MR. FORBES  could not help remembering the arguments used on this question in 1847 by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who then proposed a duty of 9 d d d s d 75
 MR. LABOUCHERE  deprecated the course of moving adjournments at that hour, which was becoming, not as formerly, the exception, but the rule of the House, to the prevention of business. In the single combat, as it had been designated, which had there taken place between the Chairman of Excise and the noble Lord the Member for Lynn, the whole subject had been gone into in all its details; and again, the House had been discussing it the whole of that night. He hoped the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. Monsell) would not proceed with his Motion.
 MR. SADLIER  hoped his hon. Friend (Mr. Monsell) would persist in his Motion, He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that the question had been fully discussed in the Select Committee, and he regretted that Her Majesty's Government had proposed a measure the contrary of that which the Committee had recommended.
 SIR D. NORREYS  rose to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government respecting a Bill which was proposed to be introduced for the conversion of leases for lives renewable for ever into freehold. That Bill was not introduced, and he feared would never be, although leave had been given to bring it in. [Sir G. GREY: The Bill has been introduced.] He had been returned to Parliament as a Whig Member, and had found great difficulty in carrying his election;
 530
 LORD G. BENTINCK : I have no wish whatever to protract this discussion. I am quite satisfied that the navigation laws should be put to bed for the Session, and will therefore not quarrel with Ministers for their mode of doing it; but when the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) expresses his deep regret at the disappointment likely to be felt in the colonies, and especially in Canada, at the postponement of the measure, I must take leave to refer to that very correspondence which he himself has alluded to; and I must say that I cannot find anything in it which those who advocate the repeal of the navigation laws have any great right to congratulate themselves upon. It is perfectly true that the Canadian colonists, in a spirit of exasperation arising out of the policy previously pursued by the English Parliament, had stated that a, repeal of the navigation laws was necessary to countervail the free-trade policy to which they had already been subjected. But they tell you distinctly that the old colonial policy of protection was of greater advantage to them than the repeal of the navigation laws could be under the new policy; and that if their old protection
 526 "He observes with regret an expression in the memorials which the Board of Trade has requested him to forward, to the effect, that should the river St. Lawrence not continue to be the great highway for the commerce of Canada, a commercial union of the most intimate character will be produced between the United States of America and this colony, the inevitable result of which would be to dissolve the ties which connect the latter with the mother country." "that this expression should be used at a time when the only remaining protection existing in England is afforded to Canadian trade, and after so many demonstrations of the disinterested desire on the part of the Imperial Government to make the connexion of Canada with the empire beneficial to the colony, is a ground of surprise and disappointment to his Excellency. If the observations of the Board were correct, there could have been no necessity for making it a prominent argument with a Government only desirous to benefit the province by the connexion which it apparently threatened; and, if it be not correct to assert that the allegiance and attachment of Her Majesty's faithful and loyal subjects of Canada depends upon the successful competition of one route of commerce with another, it is peculiarly unfortunate that, in forwarding to the Imperial Government memorials, recommending measures in which his Excellency takes at least as lively an interest as the memorialists, he should be forced, in justice to the Canadian subjects of Her Majesty, to express his dissent from a proposition contained in the memorials, in which he cannot believe the people of Canada could, under any circumstances, be induced to concur." 527 "I am further instructed to say, that while it would be a cause of sincere regret to the Council that any objectionable expression should emanate from them, they consider it to be their bounden duty, as it is their undoubted right, respectfully but unequivocally to declare to the Queen, Lords, and Commons of England, the baneful consequences which, in their opinion, must ensue from the abandonment of the protective policy of the mother country towards the colonies, unless promptly followed up by remedial measures to compensate for the loss of that protection; consequences which, as pointedly stated in the memorial, the Council would deeply deplore." "It is true that a small remnant of protection still exists in England, not, as you say, in favour of Canada only, but also of Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, the West Indies, and other dependencies of the empire; the Council, however, do not recognise in this any valid reason for withholding the free expression of their opinion on the subject, The expression of that opinion was prompted by an earnest desire to avert a dreaded calamity; and they would take leave most respectfully to remark, that it is in no small degree satisfactory to them to find that the view they have taken in regard to the influence of commercial interests on political feeling does not seem to be at variance with that of his Excellency the Governor General, as embodied in a despatch of the Colonial Secretary referring to the contemplated changes in these laws, and cited in the recent discussion of the question in the House of Commons, wherein his Excellency was pleased to say, that 'one of the most efficacious expedients for securing the allegiance of a high-spirited and enterprising people is to convince them that their material interests will not be advanced by separation.'" 528 s d
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I understood that my hon. Friend (Sir D. Norreys) was going to ask me a question. Now, he has certainly made many observations, but has wholly omitted to ask any question. If there was any question at all, it was this—whether it was likely that the Bill for converting renewable leases into a tenure in fee would ever be brought in? and that question was answered by the Bill, the existence of which my hon. Friend said he doubted, being shown him in a printed form. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester has likewise asked some questions, and has complained that no statement has been made by the Government with respect to the affairs of Ireland. But as the hon. Member for Rochdale has given notice of a Motion, upon the occasion of the House being asked to go into a Committee of Supply, in submitting which to the House the hon. Member means to bring under notice the whole state of Ireland, I thought that this certainly was not the occasion when I should be required to enter generally into the condition of that country. However, I must say a word in reference to what has fallen from the hon. Member for Manchester, when he took on himself to represent the opinions of the Government. He stated that the Government has not gone on with the Irish Franchise Bill, because they understood that there would be opposition to it, and that the Bill would be considered as a new Reform Bill. Upon that subject the hon. Member is entirely misinformed. The hon. Member has also stated that the Government were not anxious on the subject of the navigation laws. On that point he is also misinformed, because they were anxious
 531 "That the repeal of these laws (the navigation laws) will have the tendency to perpetuate and not destroy the relations that exist betwixt Canada and the mother country." 532
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that his hon. Friend the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies had already informed the noble Lord that the Governor General of Canada had been written to, with a view to his making further inquiry respecting the conduct of the Hudson's Bay Company. His noble Friend at the head of the Government of Canada had not made any special inquiry; but Major Crofton, who had commanded the Queen's troops in the district, had reported that in his
 512
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I stated the other day, in answer to a question from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ripen (Sir J. Graham), that I would this day take the usual course adopted of late years, of stating what Bills the Government hope to proceed with in the present Session, and which they intend to postpone. I can only state the principal of the Bills—those which are of great importance; and it is not necessary I should go into any statement with regard to Bills of a minor nature. The first I shall mention is the Public Health Bill, which has passed this House, had the second reading in the House of Lords, and is still in that House.
 513 514 515
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that, whilst he had not the slightest intention of offering any thing in defence of the declarations or proposals of the Government made years ago, as an independent Member of that House he must tell the people of Ire-land, when they complained that more was not done for them, that they did not approach this country or the Government in a form very likely to conciliate their good offices. That House had shown no indisposition to meet the evils of Ireland; but he must say that he utterly repudiated such doctrines as those of the hon. Member for Manchester, with respect to the Church of Ireland; and he thought it was fit that the House of Commons should let the Irish people know that, ready as they were to consider any acknowledged grievance, armed sedition and conspiracy, and the formation of secret societies against this Government, were not the means to conciliate this country, and to induce them to extend to that country the privileges and advantages she asked. Let him ask any reasonable man, with reference to the demand, for instance, of an extended franchise, whether the Irish people were better calculated than were other parties in this country to exercise an extended franchise? A Motion had lately been made in that House for an extension of the franchise as regarded England and Scotland. That question had not been entertained, however, by the House with regard even to these portions of the kingdom; and what was there in Ireland just now to cause a preference for that country in that respect? If the franchise was a privilege, it was one that ought to reach those last who found themselves the most inclined to disturb the existing law of a nation. The people of Ireland could not thus convince this country that they were entitled to privileges and advantages which were denied to the people of England and of Scotland.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, it would be in the recollection of the House that in all the discussions on the West Indies, both in that and in the other House, the repeal of the navigation laws was held out as that which was to afford them the greatest degree of relief, and that it had been estimated at no less than 2 s s d
 MR. LABOUCHERE  felt as deeply as any one the evils and inconveniences of not proceeding to decide on such a question as that of the navigation laws; but he could not agree with those who thought that the time on this subject had been thrown away. This was a question which it was impossible to expect should receive the sanction of the Parliament or of the country without much previous deliberation; and he was sanguine enough to believe that the discussions and divisions had gone a great way to remove any prejudice that might have existed on the subject, and that on the approaching discussion of the question at an early period next Session they would be in a condition to come to a satisfactory decision. He must also say that he thought the accounts they had already received from the colonies would afford the greatest assistance and encouragement to those who contended that a great alteration in the navigation laws was necessary. He was anxious not to utter a word which might provoke discussion; but after what had fallen from the right hon. Member for Stamford, he could not help entreating the attention of the House to the manner in which the plan had been received in Canada. To use the expression of Lord Elgin, the repeal of the navigation laws was hailed with unanimous acclamations. When the right hon. Member said that he would make this a matter of stipulation and bargain rather than unqualified concessions, he would point to that which was a most important part of the concession to Canada, namely, the free navigation of the St. Lawrence, which would enable them to obtain easier means of communication with the United States, and greater facilities
 525
 MR. BRIGHT  thought the present not an unfavourable opportunity for making on or two observations with respect to the business of the Session, and the unfortunate course the Government, as he conceived, had pursued. He was not about to debate with the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Herries) the benefit or the evil of repealing the navigation laws. That measure had been recommended in the Queen's Speech, and the great manufacturing towns and a large proportion of the commercial and shipping towns were in favour of the abolition. It was quite true the measure had not been introduced till May; it was not, however, the fault of the House, but the fault of the Government it was not moved much earlier; for his hon. Friend the Member for Stoke (Mr. Ricardo), and others, had before that asked
 517 518 519 520
 MR. HERRIES  expressed his entire concurrence in the reasons which had induced the noble Lord to postpone any attempts to carry this Session the resolutions affirming the expediency of amending the navigation laws. The noble Lord had expressed a hope that there would be no objection on the part of the House in general—he presumed the noble Lord addressed himself chiefly to those who were most opposed to his views—to allow the resolution to pass, so that the Bill founded upon it might be before the country for its consideration until another Session. For himself—and he believed he could answer for others who, with him, entertained very
 516
 MR. MACGREGOR  regretted that Her Majesty's Government had not proceeded with the measure on the subject of the navigation laws during this Session; but, at the same time, he was of opinion that if they thought that they could not satisfactorily dispose of it during this year, they were quite right in postponing the further consideration of such an important subject until next Session.
 MR. HUME  said, if the question of the navigation laws was one of so great importance, he considered the conduct of the Government in throwing it aside to be the most extraordinary that ever occurred. He hoped the noble Lord would intimate to-right that he would bring in a Bill to allow the colonies to have intercourse with foreign States. What should he say as to Ireland? They had been called together in November to correct the abuses of that country—they had passed a strong coercive Bill—they had passed a Bill called the Gagging Bill—they had passed an Alien Bill; but what single Bill had they
 524
 MR. OSBORNE  said, it was very improper that the country should deceive itself, or allow the House to deceive it, upon the question of Ireland, which was by far too serious to be dismissed in an easy offhand way. He believed, throughout the whole course of the discussion, there had been found only two Gentlemen, the Members for Northampton and Shrewsbury, to speak in favour of the course pursued by the Government. He thought, however, that the conduct of Her Majesty's Government was deserving of something more than House of Commons' invective. As he would say nothing derogatory of the dead, so also he would say nothing derogatory of an expiring Government; but he did say that the Gentlemen of Ireland ought not to have been left in the way in which they had been. He had resisted the repeal of the Union heretofore; but he was of opinion that repeal would become necessary if such a system as had been adopted was further developed. If such a state of things was
 533 534
 MR. SLANEY  did not think that the Government deserved the obloquy which had been cast upon it for the abandonment of a few measures which were not likely to be passed this Session. Let the House remember the manner in which the time of the Legislature had been occupied—how many new Members had spoken on every subject which had been brought before them—and then let them say if the Government were to blame for the delay of any measures. If they carried the Health of Towns Bill, and the Landed Estates (Ireland) Bill, during this Session, they would have done more for the country, and towards removing the grievances of the working classes, than any former Parliament had done. He could not at all agree in the view of the hon. Member for Manchester that the disaffection in Ireland arose from any objection to the Established Church. The failure of the potato crop was the great cause of the recent agitation and disturbance, and that was a cause which he trusted the bounty of Providence would remove.
 MR. W. J. FAGAN  lamented that nothing had been done for Ireland during the present Session. He believed that that House bad not time properly to attend to the concerns of Ireland, and that it would be absolutely necessary, in order to preserve the connexion which existed, and which he trusted would always exist, between this country and Ireland, to permit local affairs to be transacted in Ireland by a Parliament of its own.
 MR. W. S. CRAWFORD  thought the observations of the hon. Member for Manchester, and the hon. Member for Montrose, were deserving of some comment from an Irish Member, or one connected with Ireland, for they conveyed a great deal of truth. He (Mr. S. Crawford)
 529
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that when they had heard from the noble Lord a few days ago what course he was about to adopt as to the Orders of the Day, they were also informed, not, indeed, by the  London Gazette Gazette 522 523
 MR. R. PALMER  expressed his disappointment at not finding the present measure included among those which the noble Lord at the head of the Government yesterday stated it to be his intention to postpone till the next Session of Parliament. The Bill had so recently come from the Select Committee, that it had been scarcely considered in any county in England. The preamble stated that it was desirable the roads and highways should be placed under one and the same control, in order that they might be managed more efficiently and more economically. It might be a question whether they could be placed under the same control, because there were many local and geographical circumstances that might render it impracticable; but, at all events, he doubted whether, if practicable, it would be a more economical system than the present.
 MR. G. HEATHCOTE , having received several communications from the most influential and intelligent of his constituents on the subject of the Bill, felt obliged also to oppose it. When so many Bills were to be postponed, he did not think that postponing one more would do much harm.
 MR. HENLEY  wished this Bill to be postponed to another Session, because its principle had not been discussed, and its provisions were not understood by the country. He thought the House would act unwisely to set up a machinery which would not be applicable to turnpike roads as well as to highways. At present, turnpike roads were going on satisfactorily, so far as the expense was concerned, it having decreased in a ratio that was favourable to the revenue; but they were in a most unsatisfactory condition in respect to the charge upon them on account of the staff for maintaining them. He therefore would suggest whether an amalgamation of the turnpike and highway trusts might not be effected. Before harassing the country with the cumbrous machinery of this new system, that question ought to be considered, not by the Government only, but by
 573
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  reminded the hon. Member who had just spoken, that the present Bill differed materially from the Bill of last year. The Bill of last year proposed that there should be a paid Commission appointed by Government, which should have the control of the highways. But the present Bill left the management
 572
 SIR G. GREY  said, the only substantial objection urged against the Bill of last year was that relating to a central commission; and the House having expressed an opinion adverse to that proposal, the Government undertook, in deference to the wish of the House, to bring in another Bill without that proposal. He must say, however, that if a Bill was to be opposed, on the one hand because it proposed a central commission, and on the other hand because it left the management to local control, there could be no amendment of the highways at all. The hen. Member for Evesham had objected to the Bill because it imposed a burden on the agriculturists. For his own part, he considered that, so far from this being the case, it was conferring on them a great advantage, inasmuch as he knew no way so likely to assist them in the competition to which they were now liable, as to give them increased facilities of communication by means of good roads. The Bill had been well considered by a Select Committee; and as all the Gentlemen who formed that Committee were anxious that it should proceed as speedily as possible through that House, he hoped they would at once go into Committee on it for that purpose.
 SIR G. GREY  objected to enter upon a desultory discussion of the different provisions of the measure, before the House had gone into a Committee upon it.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  objected to the Bill altogether, because he believed it would operate oppressively on the agricultural districts of the country, by imposing fresh burdens upon them, which, now that they had to compete with foreign producers of corn, they were ill able to bear. If it was the pleasure of the Legislature that the island should be intersected with fine roads, he considered that that was more a national than a local concern.
 SIR W. HEATHCOTE  agreed with the hon. Member for Oxfordshire, that unless the Bill could be improved in Committee, it ought to stand over till another year. He was desirous of seeing the bridges, which at present formed a great item of the county expense, come under the supervision of those persons who bad to provide facilities for locomotion in the county.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he had approved of the principle of the Bill, and had lent his assistance to its object, to repeal obsolete Acts pressing upon Roman Catholics; and he thought it somewhat ungrateful on the part of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Anstey) to reproach the Government, for if there was anything in the substance of the Bill, it was in the proviso which he (the Attorney General) had amended. The hon. and learned Gentleman had had an opportunity of bringing forward this Bill, and of bringing himself forward with it; and he hoped he would now consent to withdraw it, considering the lateness of the Session. If he did not, although friendly to the Bill, he should vote against the Motion for going into Committee, there being no immediate necessity for passing the Bill.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  had always treated the Bill as consisting of two parts: one relating to obsolete statutes, and the other to the recent Relief Act; and during the discussions upon the Bill, he and his right hon. Friend (Sir G. Grey) had said, that the principle of the Bill was a good one, and they had supported the first part of the Bill, which repealed those Acts which, although obsolete, were considered offensive; and with regard to the latter part of the Bill, they had offered no impediment. The Amendment referred to, though it might be in the handwriting of the hon. and learned Member, had been really suggested by himself (the Attorney General) and the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  objected to the measure, and read several returns to show that non-payment of rates excluded very few persons from the exercise of the franchise. In Cambridge, out of a constituency of 2,872, only one was excluded; in Exeter, none, though the constituency amounted to 3,550. In Liverpool, with a constituency of 39,266, only 89 were excluded; Manchester, 17,878 voters, 77 excluded; Tower Hamlets, 41,921, 978 excluded; Westminster, 23,224, 1,999 excluded; Norwich, 3,478, 53 excluded; Newcastle, 5,414, 7 excluded. He contended that there was no necessity for any such measure, and concluded by moving that the report be received that day six months.
 MR. LAW  would give the hon. and learned Attorney General an opportunity of showing his consistency, and move that the House go into Committee upon the Bill that day six months.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said: An impression prevails in the City, which I believe to be well founded, that it will not be competent to Her Majesty's Government to levy the sugar duties according to law which are now being levied under the Resolutions which have passed this House; and that if the Government propose to raise the duties which are now being raised, they must ask leave to withdraw from the House the Sugar Bill that is now before it, cancel the resolutions that have been passed, and begin again. The House may, perhaps, not be aware that the duties, by the Act now in force—that is, the old Act of 1846—are levied "on sugar or molasses the growth and produce of any British possession in America, or of any British possession within the limits of the East India Company's Charter, into which the importation of foreign sugar is prohibited, and imported from thence." Her Majesty's Ministers, in their desire, I suppose, to economise a few words—the only economy which they have ever displayed—have altered the heading of the resolution thus:
 576 s. s. d. s. d. s. s. d. de novo. 577 l. s. l. s. d. s. d. s. s.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was obliged to the noble Lord for having drawn his attention to this subject, which had not escaped his attention. When the House went into Committee on
 578
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there was not the least doubt that a mistake had been made in the wording of the first resolution. The question, however, turned upon the wording of the English Act, and not as to what might be the law in Jamaica. By that Act, sugar not refined was prohibited to be imported into the West Indian colonies. There was a technical distinction arising from the wording of the schedule, which he proposed to remove in Committee on the Sugar Duties, and the effect of which would be to admit sugar at the lower duty at which it was the intention of the Government it should be admitted. With regard to refined sugar, he stated on Saturday generally how the matter stood, in reply to the noble Lord's question. He was not prepared to give a more precise answer upon that question; and he would only remark, that it was inconvenient to be called upon to give an answer to such questions upon the spur of the moment, and without having the information at hand which would enable him to give a satisfactory answer. He would take the proper occasion to give a full and complete explanation upon the points raised by the noble Lord.
 MR. CARDWELL  begged to impress upon the Government the great influence which these things had upon every day's trade in London and Liverpool. The impression out of doors was, that two great mistakes had been committed by the Government: one, by which British West Indian raw sugar would be charged 15 s. d. s. de novo
 MR. JAMES WILSON  happened to know that the sugar refiners understood the Act of 1846 as did the Government.
 579
 MR. ANSTEY  could not allow the House to proceed to a vote without taking an opportunity of the hon. and learned Attorney General being present to make a statement in his own vindication. The hon. and learned Gentleman, for reasons of his own, or of the Government, had thought fit, at the eleventh hour, to make a speech, which if it had been made at an earlier period would have very considerably increased the minority against the Bill. He said the Bill, as framed by him (Mr. Anstey), contained nothing of substance; that the only thing of substance contained in it was introduced by him (the Attorney General) in Committee, by way of proviso. [The ATTORNEY GENERAL: By an alteration of the proviso.] The hon. and learned Gentleman made nothing of the kind; the Chancellor of the Exchequer made the Amendment, which, if the original document was in existence, would be found in his (Mr. Anstey's) handwriting. The amendment was made, not by the Attorney General, but by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The hon. and learned
 580 seriatim;
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  must begin the few observations he had to make in reply to the objections of the hon. and learned Member, by bearing his testimony to the great assistance which he had rendered in the discussion of this Bill. Every one was ready to admit that the condition of property in Ireland must be regarded as very peculiar, and there might, therefore, be provisions in the Bill which at first view were calculated to excite some degree of surprise; but be ventured to assert that nothing would be found in the Rill not justified by considerations of sound policy, nor would there be discovered in it anything that could not be supported by precedents in this country. People who had not paid any attention to the subject would be surprised to learn that at the period of the union, in the year 1800, the fee-simple of the laud in Ireland, was in the hands of only 8,000 proprietors, while at the same period the land of England was held by 200,000 proprietors. The chief purposes of the measure having already been fully explained to the House, it was not required of him then to apprise them, that one of its objects was to increase the number of small proprietors of land. One of the modes by which they proposed to accomplish that was to give to the incumbrancers a power of compulsory sale, when the Court of Chancery should have ascertained the rights of all the parties concerned, and that the sale should be proceeded with even though all the persons concerned were not consenting parties. There was also another power of sale given without the instrumentality of the court, when the parties gave unanimous consent. But in that case he proposed to provide that the purchase-money should be paid into the Court of Chancery to be divided amongst the several claimants. There was also a provision that the Court of Chancery possess possess the power of preventing the undue interference of parties who withheld their consent merely for the purpose of getting more money. The Bill would enable the Court of Chancery to see that parties presenting any obstacles to the progress of a sale did really otter a  bonâ fide 587 588
 MR. SADLIER  would support the Motion of the hon. Member for the university of Dublin. The titles of property in Ireland were exceedingly intricate, and it behoved the Government to consider well before they broke through those safeguards which the experience of courts of equity had raised up against the perpetration of fraud and collusion. The Amendment introduced by the hon. and learned Gentleman had gone far, in his opinion, to prevent the sacrifice of property which otherwise would have ensued under the provisions of the Bill as it originally stood. The practical power conferred upon the tenant-for-life in England to sell the estate, ought to be extended to the tenant-for-life in Ireland. One of the great defects of the law in Ireland was, that you could not institute a foreclosure suit in that country. A simple law conferring the power of instituting a foreclosure suit, would go far to confer upon Ireland all the advantages which a rational man would anticipate from the measure before the House. The hon. Gentleman entered into other details, and concluded by repeating his determination to support the Amendment.
 MR. FAGAN  hoped the Government would persevere with this measure, and particularly with that portion of it for which they were indebted to the Solicitor General. The importance of the measure would be at once perceived, when the House remembered that the land of Ireland was borne down by 3,000,000 l. l. l. l.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  hoped that the noble Lord would not at that hour of the night proceed with a Bill of so complicated a character, which in his judgment it was impossible properly to consider during the present Session. The period could not be far distant when a prorogation must take place, and, therefore, to suppose it possible to carry such a measure was out of the question. What had the present Government done since November? They had promised everything, but done nothing. He did not hesitate to say that a more incompetent, a more deceitful, or, as the hon. Member for Youghal had said, a more "hollow and treacherous" Ministry had never occupied the Teeasury benches. But what had that House done? Since the month of November, 70 public Rills had been introduced, of which 10 were withdrawn; and 44 Bills had been introduced by private Members, of which 15 had been withdrawn; and many of these Bills had been measures of great importance. This Bill, if it were to be read a second time to-night, could not pass both Houses at an earlier period than three weeks. He objected to it, therefore, because of the late period of the Session at which it bad been brought in; he objected also to its complicated machinery, and to its partiality. He objected to the Bill because there was to be a secret and a scandalous inquiry into the private concerns not only of the constituency, but of Members of Parliament, their characters and conduct, who were liable to be summoned before the Commission. He felt it to be his duty to reject this Bill  in limine,
 MR. BANKES , although he entirely concurred in many of the observations of his hon. and gallant Friend, could not concur in his present Motion; because, though he might object to the details of the Bill, he considered the principle of the measure to be so great an improvement upon the Bill which had been withdrawn, that he rejoiced at the discretion the noble Lord had used. It was but fair to state that their object had been, not to screen delinquency, but that the inquiry should be fairly and fitly conducted; and, now that they had a Bill which gave a hope of such fair and proper inquiry, they gave it a ready acquiescence. For himself, he was satisfied in giving his decided support to the present stage of the measure, though he believed they must look to another
 606
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the hon. and gallant Member opposite had referred to him respecting the measure now before the House, and had accused him of bringing forward the Bill. Greater justice, however, had been done to him by the hon. Member for Dorsetshire, who gave a more correct version of the facts. For many years past he had taken great part in the inquiries which had been instituted into that class of subjects respecting which it was now proposed to legislate; and he well knew the invidious nature of the task imposed upon those who undertook to bring forward measure of that class; it was, therefore, unwillingly that he applied himself to the subject. The hon. Gentleman who last addressed the House had told them that he (Lord J. Russell) did not agree with the arguments put forward by those who originally supported the Bill; and that he did not concur in the views entertained by the hon. Baronet the Member for the Flint boroughs. To this the only reply he thought it necessary to make
 607
 MR. HUDSON  observed, that they were about entering upon an inquiry into the conduct of certain boroughs. If they showed that they were in earnest, he would be willing for his part to make a return of the expenses that he had incurred at the last election; and if other Gentlemen did the same, it would greatly facilitate the proposed inquiry. He could not understand why the boroughs regarding which petitions were presented, should be the only places subjected to investigation. He should support the Amendment moved by the hon. Member for Lincoln; and he believed that the noble Lord himself would be glad to get rid of the Bill.
 MR. MILES  supported the second reading. There had been a feeling in the country formerly that Election Committees did not do their duty; but after what had recently taken place the same feeling could no longer exist. He disliked the previous measures which had been introduced on this subject; but he thought such a Bill as the present necessary; and, without pledging himself to all the details, he hoped that it might be made a good Bill in Committee.
 MR. ANSTEY , after some observations, consented to withdraw the Motion, adding that his objections to the principle of the Bill remained unaltered. If it passed, it would be a reflection upon the reports of judicial tribunals, that is to say, the Com-
 608 qui tam loud cries of 609 ex post facto l.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  thought this would be a good opportunity for showing to the country that, without needless prolongation of discussion, they could come to a decision upon an important subject; and, as the question had been several times debated, and he had so often stated his opinion on it, it would be inexcusable in him if he were to detain the House at any length upon this occasion. He was sorry the Home Secretary had left his place, because he fully relied on his support; but he saw the Lord Advocate, and was sure be would vote with him (Sir J. Graham) against the third reading of the Bill. A certain sect in Scotland, which had arisen only within the last five years, had built 750 churches, and desired to build about 30 more; and about 10 proprietors refused them the accommodation which they required for that purpose. To meet this case the proposition submitted to Parliament was, that any set of persons calling themselves a religious congregation might come upon the estate of any proprietor, and, subject to certain safeguards which he would not detain the House by enumerating, choose any site which they might think most convenient for their purpose. They were then to go to the Court of Session, which was to send the sheriff to inspect the locality; and, if that officer should be of opinion that the site selected was a convenient one, he had the power of setting it out, and the owner of the estate was compelled to take the price which might he agreed on for his own property, thus taken against his will; and, if the site selected should be close to his residence, he must nevertheless give it up. The other Dissenters in Scotland, except the sect in question, were opposed to the measure. What was the opinion of the Dissenters of England? The hon. Member for Stockport, speaking in their name on a former occasion, said that this measure was contrary to the voluntary principle, and that
 611
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that his right hon. Friend had not given a correct description of the provisions of the Bill. When the appeal was made to the Court of Session, that tribunal had authority to award costs against the parties making the application, in the event of its being refused. If the Court should determine on granting the application, it would then send the sheriff to look at the site selected, and, if he disapproved of it, he was authorised to fix upon another which he might think better. The main fact upon which Parliament was called upon to legislate was this—that a number of congregations were in the constant habit of meeting for religious worship in places and under circumstances injurious to the health of the people and their ministers, and in a manner which was not in accordance with religious liberty. A congregation in one of the Hebrides, an island larger than the Isle of Wight, was unable to obtain a square' inch of ground for the erection of a church. It appeared to him that his right hon. Friend had somewhat altered his tone on this subject, for on the 8th of June he said, that "though he would not go the length of saying that legislation might not be necessary in the last resort, he objected
 612
 The LORD ADVOCATE  intended to vote against the third reading of this Bill, because it was a general and not an exceptional measure. To say that justice might be done by leaving the parties to prosecute their remedy by private Acts of Parliament was a mere mockery and a denial of justice; but when, instead of making it applicable to one denomination, the measure was extended to all, he must object to it. He was sorry the right hon. Gentleman, in speaking of the Free Church, which had unquestionably met with great grievances, and which he thought had been almost admitted by the right hon. Gentleman, had referred to any particular case; but it should never be forgotten, even by those who voted against the third reading of this Bill, that there was one parish in Scotland every inch of which belonged to a noble Lord, and not only had he refused a site, but had also refused to 500 parishioners, against whose character, good feeling, and propriety of conduct not one word could be said, liberty to worship God in the open air, even on a barren moor; and, if he were not mistaken in the fact, the noble Lord had taken out an injunction against their meeting there, and had obliged them to worship God during the whole inclement winter season on the high roads. That was a strong case, and he would mention this fact, that until such time as the noble Lord felt he was bringing too hard upon himself public observation, and they had proposed to receive the sacrament under the inclemency of those northern skies in the middle of winter, the noble Lord did not consent to give them a place for performing that solemn ordinance of their Church. They were advised not to accept that compliment, being told that the noble Lord would be obliged to give them a better place of worship; but that sect, so much abused for its violence (and he dared say there had been violence), did upon that particular occasion receive that
 613
 MR. PAGE WOOD  thought the present Bill the most important measure of relief which had been proposed for Ireland during the Session. It appeared to him that the apprehensions which some persons entertained as to the probable consequences of the measure were entirely groundless. The Gentleman who sat as Member for Kinsale at the commencement of the Session (Mr. Guinness), but who was not now a Member of the House, gave upon one occasion a striking illustration of the miserable condition of property in Ireland. He stated that he had acted as receiver for an estate which produced a rental of 20,000 l. l. l. l 594
 MAJOR BLACKALL  observed, that the only point in dispute was a matter of fact, whether the owner of a life interest in land had power to sell the whole estate. As he understood the Bill, he agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, that there was nothing to prevent the owner of a life estate from selling, to the detriment of the remainder-man. He regretted to see a disposition to encourage small proprietors and middlemen, who were known to be most exacting, yet to whom it was proposed to give the fee of encumbered property in Ireland, by way of raising up a better proprietary. He should support the Amendment.
 MR. NEWDEGATE , as an English Member, objected to the anxiety displayed by the Solicitor General to extend this Bill to England. He believed in the necessity of a measure for Ireland such as this was when it came down from the House of Lords. The Lord Chancellor and the House of Lords had met the necessities of the case wisely, effectively, and he would add justly, and they had produced a measure worthy of the high legal knowledge of the Lord Chancellor, and of that calm, careful, and patient investiga-
 589 590 morcelement 591
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  considered that the Solicitor General had already explained what powers would be conferred by the Bill upon the tenant for life; and that he would have no right of disposing of the estate against the interests of the incumbrancer, or those in remainder, as the hon. Gentleman who spoke last had imagined. There had been peculiar care taken that all parties interested in the estate should have notice, and that they should not be substantially aggrieved in any way by the sale. The object and effect of this Bill was, as he understood it, to remove serious impediments and difficulties in the way of selling property encumbered by debt, and
 597 598 599
 COLONEL DUNNE  opposed the Bill, because he did not think that it had been
 592 593
 MR. J. STUART  conceived that it was settled beyond dispute that the present state of the tenure of land in Ireland was one of the great causes of evil in that country; but he thought the present measure was calculated to continue those evils. Since the Bill came down from the Lords, clauses had been added to it which materially altered its character, and completely interfered with its avowed intention. The 28th Clause provided that no conveyance to a purchaser should prejudice or affect the rights of any lessee, tenant, or occupier in possession; that was to say, no middleman
 600
 MR. HENLEY  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman, like the Solicitor General, had given the House a very large and general description of the advantages of this Bill, but had not attempted to grapple with the question which had been so ably raised by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin. No doubt existed as to the necessity of legislation for clearing away the difficulties by which landed property in Ireland was surrounded; and the only difference between them was whether this Bill would do that effectually, or whether it would not endanger the rights of property, and therefore tend to do moreharm than good. There were three classes of persons to whom this measure principally related—the owners, the remainder-men, and the incumbrancers, divided into the first incumbrancers and those who, unfortunately, came after them; and the House could not judge fairly of the operation of the Bill unless they looked as far as they could at the respective interests and positions of those various classes. The Solicitor General said no person could have so great an interest in the sale of an estate as the owner. No doubt that
 595 corpus 596
 MR. NAPIER  opposed the Bill in its present state, because it would be as unjust to apply the Bill to a large portion of the property in Ireland, particularly in the north, as to apply the provisions of the Bill to the property in England. As the Bill came down from the other House, this objection could not be raised, and the sacred rights of parties who claimed under settlements were also provided for. Under the first set of clauses, the machinery was provided for protecting the rights of all parties; but under the second sot of clauses, added by the Solicitor General, while the rights of owners and incumbrancers were protected, the vested rights of parties claiming under settlement were sacrificed. If it were an object to encourage the sale of small estates, it was a matter of much importance that the person who purchased a small portion of land should have his title made good at once under an order of the Court of Chancery. But, under the second set of clauses, no title could be completed in less than five years. During that period no title could be made, nor could the money be paid out which had been paid into the Court of Chancery by
 584 l. 585 bonâ fide 586
 MR. C. ANSTEY  would divide the House against the Motion. The House divided, but only thirty-two Members being present, it stood adjourned at Two o'clock.
 MR. MONSELL  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman, from the lofty eminence of his own intelligence, had affected
 601 "Are we to understand that it is your opinion that the impoverished state of the tenantry of Ireland in a great degree arises from the improverished state of the landlords? " "Yes, in a great degree: when the landlord of an estate is overloaded with debt, he must exact from the tenantry the highest rent they can give, and he cannot assist them in improving the land;
 602
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  said, that he should certainly have been very happy to have extended the whole of the provisions of the Public Health Bill to the metropolis, and to have extended the principle of representation which was adopted in that Bill. But he felt great difficulty, in a community which comprised upwards of two millions of inhabitants, in having proper representation, or applying the provisions of the Bill; especially where the natural direction of the drainage was not found to correspond with the boundaries and divisions of unions, parishes, or districts. Under these circumstances, he did not find himself able to introduce such sweeping alterations in the present sewage commissions as to put them on the representative basis which he desired. The drainage of the metropolis was at present vested in seven commissions, besides the Regent-street Commission. It was now proposed to include the city of London in the guardianship of a general Commission, and to put it under the same rules as have been applied to the outlying districts. The provisions of the Bill would enable works of public drainage to be carried on by the united Commission; to which powers, in conformity with the Public Health Bill, would—as to house drainage and the removal of nuisances—be given. The principle would be adopted of spreading all charges for permanent operations over long spaces of time, say thirty years, so as to make the burden less felt. He also pro-
 615
 MR. CARD WELL  said, there was some doubt as to what the rates of duty would be on single and double refined sugar, as contrasted with the scale of 1846. By the schedule of the Bill of 1846, refined sugar was to pay a duty of 28 s d s s d s d l s d
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the simple question was, what was the legal construction of the Act of Parliament? Foreign sugar was prohibited to be imported into certain British possessions; and the fact of its having at any time been admitted into any one of them was no proof of the legality of such admission. The importers of West Indian sugar were only, in effect, called on to say that foreign sugar was not legally admissible into the places whence their sugar came. The noble Lord produced a tariff with reference to the importation of foreign sugar into Jamaica; but that tariff was not sanctioned by an Act of Parliament, and was therefore null and void. If the noble Lord's twenty-three objections were not more formidable than the present one, there was little to fear from them.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  knew that considerable inconvenience had been felt in consequence of several gentlemen, who had called at the Custom-house for the purpose of relieving their sugar from bond, having to return back because they were not provided with warrants.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said, that the question was not, as to what was the law, so much as to what was the fact. Was sugar imported into our various colonies, or was it not? Now, he had shown that such sugar had been imported, and that the duty had been paid to the Queen's Custom-house officers. How, then, could any man, consistently with truth, sign a warrant to the effect that the sugar which came from any of those colonies was imported from a colony or country where the importation of foreign sugar was prohibited? If this law passed, the matter would remain as it was at this moment; and every such warrant that was signed would be a falehood. Was it desirable that the House of Commons should pass an Act of Parliament which should oblige 300 or 400 false warrants to be signed every day of the year?
 LORD G. BENTINCK  did not deny that the reductions of duty on double refined sugar from 19 s d s s d s ad valorem s d s d s d 665 s d s s s d s d bonâ fide
 LORD G. BENTINCK : I rise to press upon the right hon. Gentleman the necessity of withdrawing the Bill and going into Committee to pass a resolution preliminary to the introduction of another measure. Sir, no satisfactory explanation has been offered as to how Her Majesty's Government proposes to deal with the difficulty I pointed out on a previous occasion. It has been attempted to show that the British Possessions Act of 1845 would override any act of the colonial legislature. Sir, I have given further study to the matter, and, whether I consider the Act itself (9 & 10 Victoria, chapter 94) or the speeches of those who introduced it, I cannot conceive but that it was intended by the Act of 1846 to empower the colonial legislature to repeal any Acts founded on the former British Possessions Act, the 8th and 9th Victoria, chapter 93. Sir, this question is important; and I beg the attention of the House, for it would be too absurd for the House to go into Committee on the details of a Bill which it would be impossible practically to work. It is said on the other side, I am aware, that the 9th and 10th Victoria did not confer on the colonial legislatures any power to re-
 643 "We are called upon to give up the principle that the trade of the colonies shall be regulated by the Legislature of the mother country." "That the colonies ought not to be exposed to protection averse to them, when protection to their advantage was abolished." "Having established free trade as the general principle, we ought to treat our colonies as we would wish to be treated ourselves, and not keep up protective duties which they themselves thought injurious." 644 "All laws at this time or hereafter to be enacted in the colonies, Ac, in anywise repugnant to this or to any other Act of Parliament (as far as the same shall relate to the said colonies) shall be null and void," "Whereas it was expedient to enable the legislatures of the colonies to reduce or repeal all duties of customs, so far as the same may be enforced in the said colonies respectively, such legislatures may make any act or ordinance repealing or reducing the said duties so imposed as aforesaid by the said Act, upon any articles imported into the said colonies, provided the Queen in Council shall assent to such act or ordinance, and also provided the same shall be laid upon the table of both Houses of Parliament by one of Her Majesty's Secretaries of State within thirty days of the same receiving such assent, or of the next meeting of Parliament." 645 s s s "So many hundredweights of brown or muscovado sugar, not equal in quality to white clayed, the growth or produce of, and imported from, a. British possession in America." "So many hundredweights of brown or muscovado sugar, not equal in quality to white clayed, the growth and produce of, and imported from, a British possession into which the importation of foreign sugar is prohibited." "We cannot bring such a warrant as that. As regards Jamaica it is an untruth; and we do not wish to be made responsible for an untruth of this kind." de jure de facto 646 s s s s 647 l s d l s d 
 
 £ s d £ s d 
 Double refined sugar 1 3 4 for 1 3 7 
 Single refined sugar (1852) 0 15 0 for 0 15 4¼ 
 Ditto (1853) 0 14 2 for 0 14 8 
 White clayed sugar (1852) 0 13 3 for 0 13 5 
 Ditto (1853) 0 12 5 for 0 12 10 
 
 s d s d 
 1848–9 5 7 instead of 5 4 
 1849–50 5 3 instead of 5 5 
 1850–51 4 9 instead of 4 5 
 1851–52 4 4 instead of 4 6 
 1852–53 4 1 instead of 4 4 
 1853–54 3 11 instead of 4 1½ 
 
 s d s d 
 Double refined (1852) 19 0 for 19 6 
 Ditto (1853) 17 0 for 18 0 
 Single refined (1852) 10 8 for 17 4 
 Ditto (1853) 15 2 for 16 0 
 White clayed (1852) 14 9 for 15 2 
 Ditto (1853) 13 2 for 14 0 648 s d s d s d s d.; s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d
 MR. DISRAELI  observed, that the statement of his noble Friend near him was quite clear. The point which he had made was this, that in the present measure there was such an agglomeration of errors, that it was not expedient to go into Committee on such a measure. In his opinion the House ought to show its sense of the impropriety of bringing before them a piece of such crude and immature legislation. The House should show that it had no confidence in a measure so saturated with error as the Bill before them. If his noble Friend resolved to take the sense of the House on going into Committee, he should certainly vote with him.
 MR. HAWES  hoped that, as the hon. Gentleman had commenced an attack upon him, he might be allowed to finish it.
 MR. HAWES : A very unexpected, a most unjustifiable, and perfectly unfounded personal attack has been made upon me by the hon. and learned Gentleman. I am here to meet that most unexpected attack upon mo, and to give it the most unequivocal denial. I will state the facts, just as they occurred to me, in reference to the borough of Athlone. Immediately after the Lambeth election, a gentleman to whom the hon. and learned Gentleman has referred, came to my house and told me there was a prospect of ray success at Athlone. I believe it is not at all an unnatural thing that a defeated candidate should receive such a communication. He told me there was a fair prospect of success at Athlone, and volunteered his services to go. I knew nothing of Athlone. I was not unwilling to seize any chance of obtaining a seat in the House, but I thought it a prudent precaution to send a friend in whom I had confidence. That friend went to the borough, and made a communication to me which led me decidedly to say, I was not
 693
 MR. SPEAKER : The indulgence of the House in hearing the hon. Gentleman is confined to an explanation in reply to any personal attack made upon him.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it would be very difficult for him then to go through all the points to which the noble Lord had called attention; on the contrary, it appeared to him that the most convenient course would be to go into Committee on the Bill, and then discuss each objection separately. As to the manner in which the debate on this subject had been carried on, he would only say, that every sort of subject had been mixed up into one confused mass; and clearly the better way of arriving at a satisfactory conclusion would be to take each question separately, if it would suit the convenience of the House to go then into Committee on the Bill.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that the question put by the hon. Gentleman was a matter of pure detail, and he should answer it after the House had gone into Committee.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he hoped the Committee would
 650 651 652 653 "In reply to the letter on the subject of admitting one cask of foreign refined sugar into Jamaica, we ourselves discovered the error, but it was too late to remedy it; but we shall take care that it does not occur again." Cheers from the Opposition 654
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the only alterations which he should have to propose would consist of reductions in the colonial scale. As to the Bill for refining sugar in bond, it formed no part of the present measure.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  wished to take this opportunity of stating the views of the Government with reference to the admission of refined sugars. The Act of 1846 prevented the introduction of foreign refined sugars; but since that measure was passed, the Dutch Government had represented to Her Majesty's Government that Belgian refined sugar made from beetroot grown in Belgium was clearly admissible under the provisions of that Act; and they had claimed, as by treaty they were placed on the footing of the most favoured nations, that sugar refined in Holland should be admitted for consumption in this country. Mr. Deacon Hume had contended, and this country had always maintained, that foreign sugar refined in this country must be considered as the produce of this country, and was entitled to be considered as such irrespective of the place of its growth. He certainly thought that on the principle thus laid down it would be inconsistent with the good faith and honesty which ought to be observed towards foreign nations to exclude Dutch refined sugars from our markets. Then, it being, in
 659 s d s s 660 d s s l l s d s s d s l s d l s d l s s d l s d l s d l s d l s d 661 s d s
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  remarked, that the noble Lord's argument proceeded upon a fale assumption. The merchants were not called upon to sign a declaration that their sugar came from a colony into which foreign sugar was not  de facto
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was sorry to resist any suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman; but as the adoption of the Amendment would imply that there was a doubt in regard to the taw, and as he did not think there was any reasonable doubt in the matter, he felt bound to oppose it.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , with reference to the remarks of the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Card-well), begged to say, that, although he refused to give the noble Lord the Member for Lynn (Lord G. Bentinck) a full answer to his question till the House was in Committee on the Sugar Duties Bill, he stated generally that, by the British Possessions Act, foreign sugar was prohibited from being imported into the colonies.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the complaint was, that the importers of Jamaica sugar were inconvenienced by a cloud of confusion which had been thrown over the subject. Now, this was a very serious complaint, and the question was, what had it arisen from? It had arisen from an
 655
 MR. CARDWELL  said, it was quite clear that the West Indian planter was interested in this being the result of the measure before them, namely, that the refiner should not derive, by means of a protective duty, an undue profit. To that argument he entirely subscribed. The question, therefore, was, whether the proposed duties on single and double refined sugars, or the duties as set out in the Act of 1846, were the proper equivalents? Before they could decide this question it was necessary to know what the arrangements for refining sugar in bond were to be. At present no statement had been made on that point. Should the calculations of the right hon. Gentleman be not correct, the most serious consequences might result. Those who had spoken to him on the subject were not prepared to admit that a duty of 1 l s d l s d
 MR. BARKLY  had received a note from a large refiner in this country, stating, that he considered a duty of 1 l s d s d 663 l
 MR. BARKLY  said, that yesterday one of the deputation who waited upon the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, stated that he had been called upon to make a declaration in case of some sugar he had imported from St. Lucia, and that he felt he could not, as a man of honour, do so.
 MR. BARKLY  thought it was not treating the sugar trade fairly to refuse them this request. The Chancellor of the Exchequer seemed to think that the merchants had found a mare's nest. He begged to tell the right hon. Gentleman that they bad a much more valuable occupation than engaging in such a search; but having found that there was considerable hardship in being called upon to make a declaration which they could not conscientiously make, they did not think it too much to ask to be relieved from this difficulty.
 MR. BARKLY  said, that what the importers of West Indian sugar complained of was, not an imaginary grievance. They were now, for the first time, called on to declare that the admission of foreign sugar was prohibited in the colonies whence their sugar came; and this they conscientiously objected to do. In the tariff of every one of our West Indian colonies there was a rate of duty for the admission of foreign sugar; and practically also, foreign sugar was not excluded. It would be seen, by reference to the papers published in 1846, giving the exports and imports for ton years, that there was not one of the West Indian colonies into which foreign, sugar was not practically admitted, such a duty being imposed as would he equivalent to the differential duty in order to prevent fraud. In Barbadoes, raw sugar, the produce of the foreign West Indies, had been admitted in 1843 to the extent of 741,216 lb., or about, 300 tons, notwithstanding the operation of the British Possessions Act. That sugar was admitted at a duty of 12 s d
 MR. GOULBURN  agreed very much with what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman; but he hoped he might be excused if, before they went into Committee, he sought for some information. If the propositions which the right hon. Gentleman had to make in Committee would lead to an increase of the duties on sugar, it was evident that such propositions could not be entertained in a Committee on the Bill, but must previously be proposed in a Committee of the whole House. Other hon. Members might have different duties to propose in a Committee of the whole House, and therefore he thought it expe-
 649
 MR. GOULBURN  believed that, at all events, there was considerable confusion on the subject. It was, no doubt, true that the importation of foreign sugar into
 657 "On sugar or molasses the growth and produce of any British possession in America, or of any other British colony into which the importation of foreign sugar is prohibited," &c.
 MR. JAMES WILSON  said, that there was no person in that House who was less disposed than himself to estimate lightly the inconvenience suffered by the trade, either from this or any other cause; but he was satisfied that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down—probably from misinformation—had very much exaggerated both the cause and the effect. The resolutions did not come into operation till the 12th; the warrants were prepared, according to the new form, by the 15th; and he had reason to believe that, since then, no party had been at all inconvenienced. For before the questions had been put in that House on the subject, he heard a rumour in the City that some difficulty had been felt on the matter; and he asked the Chairman of the Customs about it, and was informed that, although one gentleman had demurred to signing the required declaration, a message was sent to him next morning, and the matter satisfactorily explained.
 MR. JAMES WILSON  said, the question to be considered was, whether the duty levied on foreign refined sugar was the equivalent of the duty levied by the Government on foreign raw sugar. A great many experiments had been made in an extensive sugar refinery and by the Board of Trade, which established the accuracy of the calculations adopted by the Government. If the Dutch Government chose to give a drawback on sugar exported, that was no affair of the British Government, who were bound by treaty; and whether that bounty would operate in favour of the Dutch refiners or not, was a subject which the House were not competent to entertain. One of our sugar refiners had assured him that he did not fear the competition of the Dutch refiners in the neutral markets, and that he was perfectly satisfied with the protection he had in the resolutions proposed by the Government. The statement of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Barkly) respecting the resuscitation of a sugar refinery in Holland, was not exactly correct. The refinery in question had never been stopped; and, three weeks ago, before there could have been any knowledge of the intentions of our Government, arrangements were made for carrying on that concern as a joint-stock company, and the sum of money mentioned by the hon. Member was subscribed; these proceedings had therefore no reference whatever to the present Bill. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) that if they were beginning  de novo s d s d 664
 MR. REYNOLDS  had to express his regret at so much acrimony and personal feeling being displayed. He had a good deal of experience in public meetings, and deliberative assemblies, and he could not charge his memory with recollecting an occasion when the question under consideration was so widely departed from as on the present occasion. The hon. and learned Gentleman who introduced the Motion, stated that his object in doing so was to sot Her Majesty's Government right with the people of Ireland, and reinstate them in public confidence. But what degree of credit the hon. and learned Gentleman was entitled to when he made that assertion, he (Mr. Reynolds) would have the House to judge. Certainly his speech did not appear to him (Mr. Reynolds) to he calculated to improve their position. In the course of that speech, the hon. and learned Gentleman had appealed to him to verify his assertion as to the respectability of the Catholics who had been excluded from the juries of Mr. Smith O'Brien, of Mr. Meagher, and of Mr. Mitchel. As a citizen of Dublin, intimately acquainted with that community, he felt no hesitation in saying that those gentlemen of his creed who had been excluded from those juries were men collectively and individually most respectable. He believed that, in public and in private, their reputations would be found to be unblemished, and their characters unimpeached and unimpeachable. He (Mr. Reynolds), therefore, had always expressed his surprise that the Attorney General for Ireland, or whoever repre-
 694 695 Freeman's Journal were "I am as yet nearly a stranger to you, and must claim your kind indulgence. I have only within the last few hours arrived from a distant part of the country. I thank you for the great honour you have conferred on me in allowing my name for an instant to he associated with the great men of Ireland and of Europe. The compliment you have paid me is entirely unexpected, and shall be warmly remembered; at the same time my breast is full of the subject on which you have debated; and in common with every young man who chooses to enlist in the ranks of his fellow-countrymen, it beats high with hope. It is au honour to have my name associated with the great patriot who, after thirty years' exertion, is still followed with undeviating fidelity and undiminished love. I feel that nothing unworthy of his great name should be stated. Where shall I begin? We are fighting for English constitutional liberty, led on by O'Connell, and supported by the most paternal Government Ireland has ever seen—the Government presided over by Lord Melbourne." 696
 MR. C. ANSTEY  wished to recall the attention of the House to the subject immediately before it. The hon. Gentleman made several efforts to address the House without obtaining a hearing, and therefore moved that the House do now adjourn.
 MR. M. GIBSON  begged to remind the House that a colonial act was overruled by any Act of the Imperial Legislature. In reply to the observations of the noble Lord the Member for Lynn, he contended that the scale of duties was correct. With respect to the tariff, they could not allow one part of it, and disallow another.
 MR. GLADSTONE  felt great anxiety with respect to the question of the treaty between this country and Holland. The right hon. Gentleman had intimated an opinion that this country had no discretion in the matter, but were bound by that treaty to admit the refined sugar of Hob land, although made from materials not the produce of Holland, upon the same terms as sugar produced in Belgium—that, in point of fact, they had no right to draw a distinction with respect to the country of production, but only with reference to the country of manufacture. He thought it was dangerous to lay down that principle, and say that it ought to constitute the general rule of their legislation. He did not, however, wish to tie up the hands of the Legislature from introducing exceptions. He questioned the doctrine that they were bound by their treaty with Holland to admit her sugar, refined from raw sugar produced in the tropics, upon the same terms as the sugar refined in Belgium, produced from beetroot grown in Belgium. It was the practice of Russia to make a distinction in regard to Cuba sugar—that distinction turning upon the point, whether the sugar had received a given state of refinement in this country, or in the country of its production. Russia laid a higher duty upon Cuba sugar, which had been brought to a given state of refinement in this country, than that which would have been imposed upon it if it had been refined in the country where it was grown. That country had a right to make a distinction in respect of the materials of which any article imported might be manufactured. It was a distinction of which there were traces in our own laws. He would quote two instances, one from the British Possessions Act of 1832. In that Act sugar refined in England from colonial sugar was made admissible into the British North American colonies free of duty; but sugar refined in this country in bond from foreign materials was made admissible at a duty of 10 l 662
 MR. KEOGH  rose to move—
 "For the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the Law and Practice of Striking-Juries in Criminal Cases in Ireland, and especially into the facts connected with the Striking of the Juries in the late Cases of 'The Queen against William Smith O'Brien, M. P.;' The Queen against Thomas Meagher;' and 'The Queen against John Mitchel.' " 666 667 668 "Was the panel all prepared on one occasion?" "It was, as well as I can recollect. "Was it prepared before or after the 13th of the month of May?—To the best of my recollection it was before it; I am not certain. "Was the panel all made on that occasion?—Yes, it certainly was." "Were you present at the framing of the panel?—I was. "Was it prepared on one day?—I cannot recollect the exact day on which it was prepared, but I think there were two days occupied in preparing it." "Was it you that selected the names from the book, or was it the under sheriff? " "I did it." "Was it you that selected the names from the book, or was it the high sheriff? " "I rather think I did it." 669 670 "I do not wish that you should exercise the right without having some sufficient cause, not founded on any political or religious distinction. I am glad to know, from what passed when I spoke to you on the subject, that you agree with me in thinking that convictions obtained in cases in which the right shall not have been exercised, will have a more beneficial effect than those which may be procured when some of the jurors are objected to. There may, and probably will be, some acquittals not warranted by a calm consideration of the evidence; but after an anxious consideration of the subject, and an experience of the result of the present system, I think that I should not on that account refrain from adopting the course above stated. In England no such right is claimed." 671 672 Hansard "It did so happen then that, of the forty-eight name that had been chosen, there were only ten of those persons that were Roman Catholics, and
 673 "The moral effect of a verdict did not consist in tile form of law, but in the conviction of its justice, and of the impartiality of the tribunal be-fore which the cause was tried. In the present state of Ireland they were engaged in a solemn case of the administration of criminal justice. Were six Roman Catholics to be placed on their trial in such a country as Ireland, a country where party spirit and religious feeling ran high, before a jury of men holding opinions diametrically opposed in religion, and it might be supposed in politics also, to themselves?" 674 "It is," he said, "a source of very great pride to me, and a fact which I will remember with gratification as long as I live, that mine was the very first inline that was attached to the requisition by which you have been called together. The time is come for making a great popular demonstration of our feelings, and a demonstration of oar feelings is also a demonstration of our power." "The nation is now our own. My advice is, that you should present a memorial to the Queen and petitions to both Houses of Parliament, stating your cause of complaint with calmness and method, and without exaggeration. That all the Catholics have been struck off is an admitted fact. It has been suggested that they were all members of the Repeal Association, and therefore guilty of some of the overt acts charged in the indictment. Suppose they were so, I do not think such a circumstance would at all relieve the prosecutors from the grave imputation they have incurred." 675 "The conduct of the prosecutors proved that foul play had been practised, and ho, therefore, called for the strictest and most searching Parliamentary inquiry." en masse "Dissentient, because the recent prosecutions have been conducted in a manner which deprives them of all that moral weight which belongs to the due administration of justice." 676 677 678 "I certainly had formed a great and comprehensive scheme to lay the foundation of a lasting peace in Ireland. I certainly did entertain this dream, and it is on that account only that I regret I had not been able to form an Administration." 679
 MR. KEOGH , in explanation, said it was a marked characteristic of that House to hear impatiently the defence of Members who might be accused. A great charge, or rather great charges, had been brought against him by the right hon. Gentleman, He had made altogether three charges against him, for none of which had he presumed to give his authority. He had stated, without authority, that he (Mr. Keogh) had caused the Government to be informed that he would support them—
 MR. KEOGH  was only making statements which he thought were connected with the charges which the right hon. Gentleman had made against him. He next
 691 …. Quisnam Delator? Quibus indiciis? Quo teste probavit? 692
 MR. KEOGH  said, the right hon. Baronet had not stated that he (Mr. Keogh) led Her Majesty's Government directly or indirectly to believe he should give them his support if a petition against him were withdrawn. But he was glad he had now an opportunity of saying he had not given Her Majesty's Government any reason to believe he should not be opposed to them
 689 690
 SIR G. GREY : No; what he said was, that pending the petition presented against the return of the hon. Member, he had not given Her Majesty's Government any reason to suppose they would find him an opponent, provided the petition were withdrawn. The hon. Gentleman had denied that statement; and he (Sir G. Grey) had stated he was bound to take the hon. Member's word.
 SIR Gr. GREY : The hon. Gentleman stated that he addressed the House with much hesitation as to the prudence or expediency, under existing circumstances, of bringing forward this Motion. However, after having deliberately considered whether he would bring it forward or not, he had determined that it was his duty to bring it under the notice of the House; but in arriving at that determination, he had prescribed to himself—he intimated—the solemn duty and obligation of keeping strictly to the point, and of showing the House whatever might be the tone of his speeches made at different periods out of the House—whatever might be the tone and character of the few speeches he had made in the House since he had been a Member of it, that at all events to-night the House should see that he could keep within the bounds of moderation, and that he was only actuated by a pure love of justice, and a desire to establish the fair and impartial administration of justice. Therefore, the hon. Member was to abstain from every topic not necessarily connected with the point he had to establish, and the Motion he had to submit to the House. I appeal to the House as to how far the hon. Gentleman has kept that promise, in the latter part of his speech at least. I have, perhaps, no right to complain of this. Belonging to a Government which has failed to recognise the merits of the hon. Member, I probably should not be surprised at hearing from him a violent party speech, most unfairly impugning the conduct of the Government during the time they have been in office; though the hon. Gentleman seems to be forgetful of the time which this House spent (while the hon. Gentleman was making speeches at public meetings in Ireland) hi passing Acts calculated to mitigate the severity of one of the most unparalleled
 680 681 "You are fighting for English constitutional liberty led on by O'Connell, and under the most paternal Government I have ever seen, the Government over which Lord Melbourne presides." Ireland under Lord, De Grey Hansard 682 683 '"The Queen  v 684 "I do not believe that a single person was struck off the list of jurymen on account of his religious opinions. It is unnecessary for me, being a Roman Catholic, to assure your Excellency, that I could have no desire to exclude from juries persons against whom there existed no objection but that they were of the same religious persuasion as myself. It was in consequence of Mr. Kemmis's determination not to exclude any
 685 v 686 "The right hon. Gentleman, feeling that the pure administration of justice was a subject upon which this House and the people of this country were most deeply and properly sensitive—feeling the force of the observations which have been made, both within the walls of the House and out of doors, upon certain parts of the proceedings in the late trials in Ireland, addressed himself first to the defence of the Government in reference to the exclusion of Roman Catholics from the jury by which the traversers in the Court of Queen's Bench were tried. Upon that subject I am bound to say, taking up the question at the point where the Crown Solicitor attended to strike the jury, and placing implicit reliance on the statement of the right hon. Baronet, I am not prepared to assert that the Crown Solicitor could have adopted my other course than that which he took. In expressing this opinion, I say nothing at present of the policy of the Government in instituting prosecutions which necessarily involved such a result." "But if, as appears to have been admitted, eight out of ten Catholics were members of the Repeal Association, and of the remaining two, one, although not a member, was proved to have signed the requisition for a meeting—for so he had understood the right hon. Gentleman—[Sir J. GRAHAM: Was believed to have signed it, and net denied.] Believed and not denied, then, to have signed a requisition for calling one of those multitudinous meetings, the proceedings at which meeting were to furnish part of the evidence for the prosecution—I am bound to say that, with regard to these nine out of the ten Catholics, the Crown Solicitor would not have discharged his duty had he allowed them to remain upon the jury. With regard to the remaining one, the right hon. Gentleman has pledged his word that that person was believed to be a Protestant, but that, for reasons known to the Government, which they did not feel themselves called upon to dis-
 687 688
 MR. SADLIER  said, although many hon. Members might think it presumptuous in him to interfere in the present discussion at that early stage of the proceeding, yet, considering the deep anxiety which he must be supposed to feel with regard to the welfare of Ireland—his close connexion with that country—the great interest which he had in the preservation of peace, prosperity, public order, and tranquillity in that part of Her Majesty's dominions, he hoped that the House would not imagine the few observations which he had to make unnecessary or uncalled for. He might truly say, in the words of the noble Lord, that
 722 723 l 724 725
 MR. FAGAN  seconded the Amendment. He maintained that a domestic Legislature was absolutely necessary for the prosperity of Ireland, but he held that separation from England would be destructive of that prosperity. Ireland was as much interested as England in the maintenance of the connexion between the countries, and he therefore repudiated the doctrine of the hon. Member for Nottingham (Mr. O'Connor). He was conscientiously in favour of a repeal of the Union, with a view of having a domestic Legislature in Ireland; but he was entirely opposed to separation. It was because he believed that the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act would not have the effect of putting a stop to the proceedings against which it was directed, that he felt bound to oppose the proposition of the Government, and to support the Amendment. He had expressed his conviction that the last Coercion Act would not be attended with its desired effect; and the result had shown that what he had then ventured to state had turned out correct. It was true that quietude prevailed in the proclaimed districts; but the immediate cause of that was to be found in the special commissions, which were carried out with so much energy and effect by the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. It might be true that under the operation of that Coercion Act parties might not be able to exhibit their arms, and to march about armed, openly as before; but the evil-doers still possessed their arms, though concealed, and were ready to bring them forward at a moment's notice. He had also predicted that what was called the "Gagging Act" would be inoperative in Ireland, unless it acted as a stimulus to the proceedings of which every one in that House justly complained; and, with the exception of the conviction of Mitchel, which had lost much of its influence by the transactions attending it, the Gagging Act had had no effect in stopping the march of insurrection in Ireland. In like manner he conceived that the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act would fail, and only serve to stimulate discontent, bringing it quicker to a head. The proposed measure, instead of being a cure, would be a cause of irritation.
 728
 SIR D. NORREYS : The hon. Member who has just addressed the House has said, that any one of us who now gets up and supports this Bill, will commit an act of political suicide; and I believe that to be the case. I do not hesitate on that account to rise at once, and declare myself a supporter of this measure. Let the consequences to myself be what they may, I will support it; and I avow that I think the time is come when such a measure is absolutely requisite. This is no time to examine the antecedents of any hon. Member, or of the noble Lord; to consider whether the one has been a good prophet, or whether the other has fulfilled the promises with which he took office. It is to save my country from the precipice on which I see her rushing, that I support this measure. Like the hon. Member, I feel that I have a country; my blood boils like his, but it is against those who would
 732
 MR. H. DRUMMOND : I am certainly somewhat surprised that the hon. Member for Cork should discriminate so accurately as he does between the mass of his country-men and those who are trying to mislead them, and that he should yet hesitate for a single moment to give to the Government that power which will enable them to seize the guilty while sparing the innocent. I am still more surprised that the hon. Member should have the smallest doubt that this measure will be efficacious as far as it goes. If it be not efficacious, other measures must follow: for it is right for him, and for every man, not only in this House, but in the country, to understand that civil war is no child's play. We are provoked to it; war is proclaimed against us; and there is no alternative but victory or death. It is "war to to the knife;" and these persons must be put down. I am quite willing to enter upon the consideration of Irish grievances on a future and more fitting occasion; but at the present time the point in hand is the remedy proposed for a particular state of affairs in Ireland. It has been rightly said by the eloquent Member for Buckinghamshire, that Jacobinism and the discontent which certain persons feel with respect to their social position are at the root of the evils we have now to deplore. The hon. Member for Nottingham (Mr. O'Connor) has spoken
 733 Toule propriété est un vol "The land is yours, and one day or other you'll have your share of it; and the sooner you arrive at a knowledge of its value, the sooner will you he prepared to assert the great principle, that the and is the people's inheritance, and that kings, princes, peers, nobles, priests, and commoners, who have stolen it from them, hold it upon the title of popular ignorance rather than upon any right, human or divine. The natural right is yours; the human usurpation is theirs." "We frankly avow that we have no respect for society as at present constituted. Civilisation
 734
 LORD J. RUSSELL  rose to bring for-
 697 "For leave to bring in a Bill to empower the Lord Lieutenant, or other Chief Governor or Governors of Ireland, to apprehend and detain until the 1st day of March, 1849, such Persons as he or they shall suspect of conspiring against Her Majesty's Person and Government." 698 699 l l 700 United Irishman Irish Felon "We hold the present existing Government of this island, and all existing rights of property in our soil, to be mere usurpation and tyranny, and to he null and void, as of moral effect; and our purpose is to abolish them utterly, or lose our lives in the attempt. The right founded on conquest, and affirmed by laws made by the conquerors themselves, we regard as no other than the right of the robber on a larger scale. We owe no obedience to laws enacted by another nation
 701 "We advise, (he says), the people to organise and arm at once in their own defence. We mean to assist them, and to set an example by organising and arming ourselves." Nation l 702 "That the systematic efforts made by writers in the pay of the British Government to cause it to be believed that the repeal clubs of Ireland are organised for purposes of pillage and massacre, and for the overthrow of religion and social order, render it expedient that we should define the real objects of the club organisation; he it therefore resolved and declared— "That the purposes and end of our organisation are the overthrow of the power of the British legislation in this island; "That while we are firmly resolved to abstain, in our political capacity, from any interference in matters of a religious or sectarian character, we are not the less desirous that religion should be upheld, and the legitimate influence of its ministers maintained in its integrity. 703 "That so far from desiring to overthrow social order, and to subject our country to universal anarchy, our first anxiety has been, and is, to secure the legislative independence of our country with the least possible injury to any class of its inhabitants; and in the accomplishment of these our designs we hope to put an end for ever to the sufferings and the disorders which have never ceased to afflict our people under the sway of Britain." 704 "A decision need not be immediately come to by Her Majesty's Government; but I am afraid that before the Parliament is prorogued the Government will have to determine whether they shall ask for greater powers from Parliament, or permit the organisation for an immediate civil war to remain unmolested." "There have been five Confederate clubs formed at Carrick-on-Suir; they have about 000 members in all. No persons but members are admitted to their meetings. Their object seems to be ascertain their strength in case of insurrection." 705 "A meeting to form a Repeal Club was held at Trim on the 21st inst. Messrs. Duffy and Dillon were present and addressed the people, urged them to provide arms, and said they expected to see the constabulary in the front rank of the Irish National Guard." "The United Irishman Club met at Dundalk on the 29th ult., about fifty persons present. The usual speeches were made. A Mr. Boston said, he would endeavour to put the Government down unless they put him down; and if he were transported there were others to take his place." "A meeting of the Repeal Club was held at Bree on the 2nd inst. Mr. Whitty proposed several violent resolutions, that none but men of good character be admitted—no policemen to be admitted without a warrant. A Mr. Devin produced a pattern of a cheap pike for poor persons, urged the people to arm and drill, and suggested modes of attack, &c." "There are now about 15 Confederate clubs formed, or in the course of formation, in this city, and probably about 2,000 names enrolled in them; there are few, it any, respectable persons amongst them; some of these clubs have been open to the police visiting them; at a few, admission has been refused." "A meeting of Confederates took place at Skibbereen on the 2nd, to enrol a National Guard; the speakers advised arming and organisation; it was stated 140 names were enrolled." "A meeting of the Enniscarthy club was held on the 3rd inst.; a man named Dwyre attended, bearing a pole, with a pike on it. The constabu-
 706 "There are 15 clubs in Cork: their effective members are, it is said, 4,000. Mr. Thomas F. Meagher recently attended a meeting of the officers of the different clubs; he is about to proceed to America own a mission of importance. The police applied at the following clubs for ad mission, the first six refused it:—' Citizen,' 'Mercantile Assistants,' 'Arthur O'Connor,' 'Robert Emmett,' 'St. Patrick's,' 'Lord Edward Fitzgerald,' 'Wolfe Tone,' 'William Orr,' and 'Felon Club'—in the three last there was no business doing." "Great exertions are made by the leaders of the clubs in Cork to complete their organisation; the members the well supplied with firearms and pikes—the latter are readily sold for 1 s d "The people to arm, and demand their rights, 'with a clean steel in the hand of every man.' Not more than 150 persons attended; informations have been sworn as to the words used." "The Rev. Mr. Coone, Roman Catholic clergyman, addressed his congregation at Minnane, county of Cork, and urged strongly their joining a Confederate club, which Mr. Luke J. Shea would form after mass. Mr. Shea, who is a magistrate of the county, soon after addressed the people in the chapel yard; he urged them to join the club, said he would not do so if it were not perfectly legal; that each club should consist of 309 fighting men; that the clubs all over the country should he in communication with each other, under those in Dublin. Not more than 20 persons enrolled their names." "As each club passed, the president announced
 707 708 "It being now ten o'clock at night, and dark, I resolved to go to the end of the bridge, where many thousands were waiting. … There were no politics spoken of, but that all the plans were making to upset the authorities, so that they may have the plunder. One fellow said, 'I am against plunder;' 'Well, and so am I,' was the answer; 'but it is not plunder; they once got it from us, and it must be our turn now.' This was the sole and serious burden of their song; and I have no hesitation in saying that, unless Government take instant stops, although they will in the end get the better of these people, before that much property and the lives of many respectable people will be sacrificed." 709 "I have nothing satisfactory to send you today. The accounts from the country are as bad as they can he, short of open rebellion: and everybody concurs in saying that the change in the feelings of the people within the last week or ten days has been the most rapid and complete thing-over known even in Ireland. The bad spirit has now extended itself to Tipperary; and the stipendiary magistrate at Clonmel tells me there is great alarm for that town." 710 711 712 713
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I wish to take this opportunity of stating the single reason for which I shall give to the proposition of Her Majesty's Ministers my earnest and unequivocal support. If I thought that the origin of this impending insurrection was to be found in the social or political grievances of which we have heard so much in the sister country, and if I thought that the measure proposed by Her Majesty's Ministers would prove any obstacle to remedial measures for those social and political evils, I, for one, should view it with jealousy and distrust. Its character is flagrant; it is invested with no hypocritical garment; it is an assault upon the constitutional liberties of the subject; and the only justification of such a proposition must he the necessity of the case, and I think that necessity exists in those circumstances to which the noble Lord at the head of the Government has amply referred. It did not indeed require the exposition of the noble Lord to impress that conviction upon
 729 730 731
 MR. NEWDEGATE  would give Her Majesty's Government his unqualified support in respect of the measure they had proposed; and he would not have interrupted the progress of it for a moment by any remarks of his own, had he not felt the necessity of saying merely this, that he supported the measure which the Government, on their own responsibility, declared to be necessary for the preservation of peace in Ireland as a great measure of police. The hon. Member for Montrose had just told them that concession had not caused agitation in Ireland to cease; and he did trust that Her Majesty's Government would pass this Bill as an exceptional measure, and without conditions, in order
 737
 MR. D. CALLAGHAN  could not imagine that such a measure as the present was calculated to stop the progress of that feeling which now strongly actuated the great body of the Irish people. He considered that any Irish Members who gave their support to this Bill would be committing an act of political suicide. He would never be a party to suspending the Habeas Corpus Act, or to any other measures of coercion, when he believed that the results those measures were designed to effect might be attained by another course of proceeding. He was a repealer, and was anxious to secure the legislative independence of his country. He believed that the present state of Ireland was the result of misgovernment; and that, by the application of remedial measures at a proper time, the peace and prosperity of that country might have been established. But when such remedial measures had been demanded, the answer had been, "Wait awhile;" and how long had they waited? The press in Ireland did not fairly represent the state of that country; and the noble Lord at the head of the Government had derived his information from the press, instead of resorting to those from whom he would have received a true representation of the facts—the representatives of the Irish people.
 MR. O'CONNOR  could very well understand the painful feelings with which the noble Lord said he had risen to ask for a suspension of the constitution, as far as regarded Ireland; but he thought the noble Lord must be gratified, notwithstanding
 714 Here Lord John Russell lifted up the copy of the oath of allegiance which was on the table, and pushed it across to the hon. Member "Give me the bold, the erect, and manly foe, Whom I may meet, perchance return the blow." 715 716
 COLONEL DUNNE  cordially agreed in principle with the hon. Member for Rochdale; but he thought that that consideration ought not to sway him on this occasion. The opinions of the present agitators of Ireland had nothing to do with remedial measures, avowing, as they did, the division of property and the spilling of blood. He could not offer any opposition to the measure that was now called for by the Government.
 MR. SCULLY  denied that the allegations which had been made of the state of Tipperary were true in all their details. He denied that disaffection or disloyalty prevailed amongst the mass of the population of that county; for the great guides of the people who had heretofore taken the lead in all movements there, had studiously, and almost unanimously, abstained from taking part in the present one—and those guides were the great body of the Roman Catholic clergy. He stated that from his own knowledge. What had occurred in that county last year? The very man who was now accused of publishing sedition against the Crown, Mr. Doheny, had gone there trying to promote confederate opinions, but he was scouted from the county. But a Coercion Bill had since been passed, and under it Mr. Mitchel had
 743
 MR. MUNTZ  asked the hon. Member for Rochdale to withdraw his Amendment. It appeared to him that, by carrying that Amendment, the hon. Member would do no kindness to the Irish people, but would, on the contrary, injure the cause he wished to support. He was as anxious as the hon. Member himself that remedial measures should accompany measures of coercion, and wished he could find a sufficient excuse for himself to avoid supporting Her Majesty's Ministers. But he felt that it was impossible to avoid giving them his support on this occasion, much as he regretted their not bringing forward measures for the satisfaction of the Irish people, by the removal of their social evils and political grievances. Every coercive measure must fail in a country full of misery, which they did nothing to relieve. The hon. Member for Dublin said, that the present agitation in Ireland did not interfere with the trade of that country; but he could give the hon. Member an instance to the
 741
 SIR H. W. BARRON  had no doubt of the absolute necessity of some measures of this description being adopted by the House and the country, if possible with unanimity. He regretted that it had been delayed so long; for his letters from Ireland, from day to day, were of the most alarming description. He could assure the House that persons of all persuasions in that country, and he might almost say of all political opinions, were almost unanimous in condemning the Government for not adopting this measure sooner. They attributed the delay to the mildness of Lord Clarendon, and his aversion to the assumption of the powers which would be put in his hands by the adoption of the measure; but the people in all parts of the south of Ireland were suffering the greatest possible anxiety from day to day, not knowing the moment when their homes might be invaded by men driven to desperation by the exciting language addressed to them, and the hopes of success held out by the leaders of this rebellion, for he could call it nothing else, in that country. The great mass of the people were intimidated to join the disaffected, not seeing any steps taken to protect them. Tories, Whigs, Radicals, nay, Repealers themselves, were most anxious that the Government should come forward and put a stop to this excitement, and the promulgation of the dangerous doctrines put forth every day, alarming every class of the community in that country. Property was hot safe, life was not safe, nor was any class in that country free from alarm. All had expressed a wish that the leaders of the Young Ireland party should be arrested in their progress; and he believed that some; of those persons themselves, feeling that they had gone too far, and conscious that they had some property and some stake in the country, were most anxious that the measure should be passed, and that they should be put in safety. When they were shut up, as he hoped they might be soon, they would rejoice when they felt the doors of their prison shut upon them. That was his conviction, for they must know the utter hopelessness of any rising in rebellion
 742
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that his hon. Colleague (Mr. Grogan) had called upon that House to consent to the introduction of this Bill in the name of that portion of his constituents who were peaceably disposed. He was prepared to vote against its introduction, although he was not prepared to pursue any factious course with regard to it. He was prepared to vote against the Bill in all its future stages, and he hoped they would be long and tedious. His hon. Friend the Member for Mallow (Sir D. Norreys), in expressing his determination to support the Bill, had said most valiantly, "I am prepared to commit political suicide." Now the present Parliament was not quite one year old, and therefore had five years to run; so that the hon. Gentleman could not be politically sacrificed for five years, and would incur no danger until that period had elapsed. But an appeal had been made by the hon. Member for Montrose to the Irish Members not to oppose this Bill. Why, if the hon.
 738 739 740
 MR. HUME  said, to such papers as those which had been described, he would not hesitate for one moment to give the character of profligate, whether in Ireland, Scotland, or England—such papers were most dangerous to society, and ought to he shunned by every one. If there was any principle more dangerous than another, it was that which had gained footing in a neighbouring country, and which for years had by some individuals been fostered in that country—the attempt to interfere with the labour of the poor. To attempt to lay down the principle of making property common to the community, was to violate the laws upon which society was based. He trusted that no such doctrine would ever be supported in that House. He had, for a very long period, paid close attention to the situation of Ireland, and he found himself in a most unpleasant situation now, because, while he knew of great evils which existed with respect to that country, which he believed might he removed by wise and honest legislation, yet he was compelled unwillingly to give his support to Her Majesty's Government on the present occasion, in order to maintain peace and tranquillity. He protested against the supposition that such a Bill as this would remove any of the evils to which he alluded. He agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Cork (Mr. Fagan), that they never would remove the social evils which existed in Ireland until they removed the causes of discontent, which were broad, deep, and long-continued. Within his own recollection, one class of the community had been held up against another—Protestant against Catholic, and Catholic against Protestant. Excitement was kept up by the belief that England was an oppressor, and that from England no good could he obtained. That doctrine was supported and held until the year 1829, when he had hoped that the era had arrived which would be marked by a change in the situation of Ireland, and the oppression which had theretofore existed would be gradually effaced. But had anything
 735 736
 MR. OSBORNE : I assure the House that it is not my intention to follow the example of the hon. Member for Nottingham. I shall not—though no one can suppose me likely to show a preference for Her Majesty's present Ministers—I shall not, I say, join in any attack upon the present Government, which in my heart I believe to be an honest Government; and when the hon. and learned Gentleman talks of Irish Members becoming the hacks of the Treasury, I trust that the hon. Members around me will take my advice, and
 720 721 "Let us save the ship, not ask who is the master—let us consider not who is the Minister, but where is the enemy we have to cope with."
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  found it very difficult to convey to the House any idea how very painful it was to him to proceed to a division upon the present question. The condition of Ireland was one of the greatest possible danger, and no one more earnestly desired than he did to uphold Her Majesty's loyal subjects in that part of the united kingdom with all the force that law and government could put forth for their protection. But, looking at the measures of the Government, he found it impossible to be favourable to their plans. On the contrary, he believed their whole administration to he utterly inefficient for any useful purpose; and more especially did he consider that the present measure would he wholly unsuccessful, He wanted to see peace established in Ireland, and he feared that the proposed Bill would bring with it no peace. He admitted that times arose when the common principles of the constitution must he suspended; but what he wanted was, that such measures of suspension should not go alone—that they should be accompanied with practical plans of social improvement. He begged the House for a moment to consider what were the causes of the present agitation and discontent. They evidently were to he found in the condition of the people. Was their social state a healthy condition? Were they not depressed to the lowest point which human beings could reach? In some parts of the country the population were actually starving. Such was the state of Ireland at present, and such it had been for a length of time past. And this was going on without any attempt to provide remedial measures. The strongest promises of remedial measures were uniformly made by every Ministry, and as uniformly neglected. They were growing worse and worse every day. In the year 1800, the Habeas Corpus Act had been suspended in Ireland; it had again been suspended from 1802 till 1805; from 1807 till 1810; again in 1814; and once more, from 1822 till 1824. The Habeas Corpus Act, then, had frequently been suspended, and they even had martial law from 1803 till 1805. Arms Acts were frequently enforced; and now, in 1848, after forty-seven years of union, Ireland must be held by the sword, or by that which few Governments liked to propose—good remedial measures. If remedial measures were not adopted, the consequence would
 726 727 "That the present distracted state of Ireland arises from misgovernment and from the want of remedial measures, without which no coercive measures could restore either order or content to the country."
 MR. GROGAN , in the name of the loyal, industrious, and peaceable classes of the city of Dublin, returned thanks to the Government for their having at length determined to grapple with the monster agitation—the incubus which had afflicted Ireland, had paralysed trade and employment, and had brought poverty and bankruptcy on all classes. The suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act was a proceeding which nothing but the most extreme case could justify. Such a case now existed. The Confederates were only an offshoot of the establishment at Conciliation Hall. That agitation had now assumed so solemn, so dangerous, and so alarming a character, that the measure which Her Majesty's Government had proposed was the only one which could prevent bloodshed and ruin. The noble Lord had alluded to the fact of a magistrate presiding at one of the meetings. He hoped that noble Lord would on Monday tell them that that gentleman was no longer on the list of magistrates for Ireland. Three magistrates from Kilkenny had come up to Dublin in order to attend one of the meetings, and he hoped that they would be no longer members of the magisterial bench in that city.
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, by one of the compliments paid to me by the hon. Gentleman I am gratified. I am gratified by his anticipation that I should give to the measure proposed by the Government a decisive and cordial support—a support not qualified by the reminiscences of past contentions—a support not qualified by party recriminations. Sir, I look to the state of Ireland—to the formidable combination which exists in that country—and to the avowals of the persons who head that combination—I give those persons credit for veracity: and, giving them credit for veracity, I cannot doubt that there exists in Ireland at this moment a wicked conspiracy to deprive the Queen of the government of that country. Such being my impression, justified by the avowal of the confederates, I take my part with the Crown of this united kingdom against the conspirators who are arrayed against it. Sir, I won't qualify the value of my support by a long speech. I don't blame the Government for their delay in introducing this measure. I cannot but feel that Governments ought to be very for bearing before they seek to impose the greatest restrictions that can be imposed on the constitutional liberties of a large portion of Her Majesty's subjects. I dare say, that a case might be made out for placing at an earlier period the liberty of individuals at the discretion of the Crown; but I agree with the noble Lord, that when proposals of this nature are made, there ought to be a strong decisive impression on the mind of this House, and on the public mind also, that there is no justification of further delay—that the necessity has arisen which compels the measure of restraint, and which will ensure for it a general support. Sir, I believe the immediate question at issue in Ireland is not whether the Union shall be repealed, but whether or not you shall have during the recess a desolating warfare. My conviction is, should that warfare take place, that the authority of the Crown will be ultimately successful, but after great devastation of property—after great loss of life—the loss of life by many innocent persons—the loss of life by many who may have joined in rebellion from doubt as to your ultimate intentions. If I should be mistaken—if the Crown should fail in re-establishing its authority, you
 717 718 719
 MR. FAGAN  vindicated the course which had been taken by the hon. Member for Athlone (Mr. Keogh), in bringing forward the question of juries in Ireland before the House. Although differing entirely from that hon. Gentleman in politics, he must do him the justice to say, that he had not commenced that scene of acrimony and personal recrimination which had occurred. All this personal matter had, however, nothing to do with the question before the House. He contended that the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary had not answered any of the statements put forth in the hon. Member for Athlone's
 758 "It does. Sir, appear to me that such a fact of itself deprives the whole of those proceedings of any weight or value. I can understand if the object had been to obtain a jury to convict—if it had been the practice which a violent partisan might adopt for the purpose of sustaining a private right to obtain a jury to suit his purpose, I could then, and in such a case, understand such a course being taken." 759 "You will not sot aside any juror on account of his political or religious opinions, and you will be pleased, in every case in which you may consider it necessary to set aside a juror, to make a note of the objection to him." 760
 THE EARL of LINCOLN : I certainly should be disposed to appeal to the hon. Member for Limerick not to divide the House upon this clause; but at the same time I would also appeal to the Government to take into their serious consideration the whole question of the stamp duties as affecting the transfer of landed property in Ireland. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer has replied to the proposition of my hon. Friend, by stating, that almost every Bill that is now introduced into this House contains a clause for exemption from the stamp duty; but I think the right hon. Gentleman has hardly given a fair representation of the clause brought forward by my hon. Friend, when he represented this as a claim for exemption. It is not a claim for exemption, but a claim that the stamp duties as regards the sale of landed property in Ireland should be so rearranged as not to affect the sale of such property in a way that would be prejudicial to the object which is intended by this Bill to be accomplished. According to my view of the object of the Bill, it does not merely contemplate the transfer of properties in bulk from a landed proprietor who is now encumbered by his own conduct, or by the conduct of his ancestors, to some one other individual, but it is intended that when such properties are to be sold, those who have the means of small investments should be enabled to invest their capital in the soil of Ireland; and it cannot be said that there are not great impediments to that object in the present scale of the
 769 770 771 quoad 772
 MR. F. MAULE  said, that the whole of the establishment of the Tower had been frequently under the review of the Committees of the House, and it had also been under the review of the Military Commission. He should be the last man under any circumstances to propose a reduction of the sum paid to the present Constable of the Tower. But all these questions would come before and be inquired into in detail by the Committees of the House; and if that Committee should propose a reduction of these charges, the House, no doubt, would give their recommendations effect.
 MR. F. MAULE  was understood to say, in reply to Sir DE L. EVANS, that this was the first time he had heard of a claim on the part of the officers referred to by the hon. and gallant Member—certain officers on the full-pay retired list—to continue to progress in rank in the Army on occasion of a brevet. If promotion by brevet were extended to them, the honorary distinction would carry with it no charge upon the State; but it might be a question whether the practice would be a convenient one: it might give an impression that our list of general officers was much greater, with reference to efficiency, than the fact would warrant. As a matter of good-nature and kindness, he (Mr. F. Maule) should certainly have no objection himself to oblige these veterans; at the same time, to himself it would be a matter of very little concern whether he was called major or lieutenant colonel.
 MR. F. MAULE , so far as he had seen the course of procedure at the Horse Guards, believed there was great fairness exhibited in that department in the management of the Army, and in regard to promotion. With respect to this Caffre war, who was the first person that was named by the hon. Member as neglected? Colonel Somerset, a most intimate connexion of the man said to be all-powerful at the Horse Guards—the nephew of Lord F. Somerset. The reason why no decoration had been bestowed upon Captain Hogg was, that he could not, according to the regulations, obtain one, on consequence of not being of higher rank than a captain.
 LORD. J. RUSSELL : I am not going to follow the hon. Member for Meath into a discussion of the measure which received the sanction of this House on Saturday; but I think no one can deny that the intelligence which has been received from Ireland this day would fully justify the adoption of that measure. I rise, Sir, merely to say a few words, because I understand that the hon. Member for Athlone (Mr. Keogh), in bringing forward his Amendment on Friday, was pleased to comment upon my absence from the House. Now, I can assure the hon. Gentleman that I did not leave the House from any want of respect for him, or from any inattention to the subject which he brought forward; but, having early on Saturday to propose to this House a measure of the greatest importance, and, it being necessary for me to consult documents, and to consider what ground I should take for the measure I had to introduce, I thought it was bettor to take some time for the inspection and preparation of those documents, than to attend in the House during the remainder of the debate. With regard to the Motion of the hon. Member for Athlone, having heard the greater part of his observations on the subject, I do not think be was justified in the statement he made. He went particularly into the case of Mitchel; and he stated that the sheriff of Dublin was an officer appointed by the Crown. Now, technically and literally, this may be true; but, in point of fact, the names of three gentlemen are returned by one of the Judges—in this case, I believe, the return was made by the Chief Justice—for the choice of the Crown. That, certainly, is a totally different thing from the sheriff being selected by the Crown; for the only choice the Crown has is to select one of the three persons; unless the Crown thought proper to set the whole three aside—a course which, I need scarcely say, was not taken in this case. The sheriff, I believe, performed his duty most conscientiously. Then the hon. Gentleman says it was wrong to exclude a great number of Catholics from the panel, and to challenge the names of certain persons who were placed
 763 764
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that there might be inequalities in the pressure of the stamp duty requiring revision, and which might be made the subject of a general measure; but he must object to these exceptional cases. In almost every Bill claims of exemption of some kind or other from the stamp duties were put forward.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Goulburn) was not quite correct in one of his assumptions. This money was not to be expended by the Treasury, or by the Board of Works, or by the same officers who formerly misspent the funds. The object of the Bill was to enable the Treasury, through the Board of Works, to lend money to the grand juries in Ireland in order to complete such works as might be presented by the juries—such works being executed by the grand juries, or under their direction. With regard to the money to be spent in arterial drainage, indeed, that must be spent under the Board of Works. With respect to the whole 1,000,000 l 777
 MR. CARDWELL  apprehended that this was not a mere question of giving time for the payment of a portion of these advances; but it was proposed by this Bill, that as certain repayments were made, they should not be taken to the place to which, by law, they ought to go, namely, to the Consolidated Fund, but should be placed at the disposal of the Board of Works, subject to the sanction of the Treasury. Now, the mode of voting public money, whether by loan or grant, had long been settled to be, that the Government recommending it should state to the House the specific sum wanted, and the purpose for which it was to be voted. Unfortunately in this matter Parliament had departed from that principle; and what was the consequence? At the end of the Session of 1846, there was a measure for making unlimited advances to Ireland; when Parliament met in 1847, there had been 4,000,000 l l 778
 MR. HUDSON  protested against the principle of this Bill, and complained that the Government had not established in Ireland any works of public utility which would be records of the munificence of this country towards the Irish people. The noble Lord the Member for Lynn (Lord G. Bentinck) had submitted a plan to the House some time since, by which that object might have been effected, and the funds would have been usefully applied: but the noble Lord's scheme was opposed and rejected by the right hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House, and by right hon. Gentlemen opposite. He thought the House ought not to sanction this measure until they had some security that the money would be applied to some defined object which would tend to benefit the people of Ireland.
 MR. GOULBURN  thought the distinction made in favour of the proprietor whose estates were encumbered by the reduction of the stamp duties, while the proprietors whose estates were not encumbered had still to pay the full amount of duty, gave a positive encouragement to encumbrances. To that principle he objected.
 MR. GOULBURN  would take the liberty of adverting to the circumstances with which the Bill dealt. For some years past it had been the practice to make large advances from the Consolidated Fund to public works in Ireland under the engagement that those sums should be repaid by annual instalments; and during the late distress in Ireland, when it became necessary for this country to afford additional assistance, that system was carried to a greater extent, and the Government was invested with the extraordinary power of taking unlimited advances from the Consolidated Fund for the purpose of relieving the distress of Ireland. These sums, let it be observed, were to be repaid into the Consolidated Fund; but the House dealt liberally on the occasion, as it was hound to do with Ireland, and instead of exacting
 775 l l 776
 MR. GRATTAN  did not think it necessary to enter deeply into this question. He had intended to bring it before the House himself, but he had been informed by the hon. Member for Athlone that he proposed to do so. He would give the hon. Member his advice not to agitate the public mind in the present state of Ireland. The condition of that country was dreadful; the fever was increasing, and whole districts were becoming depopulated; in some places there was not even an animal. Instead of dividing upon this question, it would he much better to divide amongst the starving people of Ireland loaves of bread, and give them physic and clothes. Considering the destitute state of the people of Ireland, there existed abundant materials for inflammatory proceedings; but, situated as the Irish people were, it did not become the Government to bring forward such a measure as they introduced last Saturday, without sufficient notice—without a message from the Crown, or the examination of a single individual before a Committee of the House; and only justified by newspaper extracts, and the  ipse dixits 761 762
 MR. HUME  believed, that unless land could be made marketable in small portions, the Bill would not answer its purpose. The question was not one simply of expense.
 773
 MR. OSBORNE  supported the clause. Why should not the stamp duties be lowered to enable small capitalists to buy land? He hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would profit by the convincing and able remarks of the right hon. Member for Ripon on the stamp duties. He did not think so highly of this Bill as some hon. Members; for he believed that while they kept in the old track of the Court of Chancery, and the Masters' Offices, and did not put the matter into the hands of a Commission, they would never have a good Bill for the sale of encumbered estates.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  considered the staff of the Army worthy of the consideration of the House. He thought the office of Master General of the Ordnance and that of Commander at the Horse Guards should be held by one person. He would knock off 1,000 l 766 l l l l l l s d
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, that the treatment of officers in the Army was infamous. The services of meritorious men were overlooked if they happened to have no connexions. Take the Caffre war, for instance. The whole brunt of it was borne by three or four officers; but Colonel Somerset, Captain Hogg, and Captain Bisset, received nothing but empty thanks in despatches and gazettes. And forsooth, Mr. Bulwer, Mr. Trevelyan, and Mr. Chadwick were honoured with the rank of C. B.! The fact was, that the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies was actually Secretary at War in regard to them; he had the whole disposition of the colonial force, and settled what regiments were to he sent out. The old colonels who went out from England were put to Captain Bisset to be taught how to conduct a Caffre war. But these officers, to the disgrace of the country, were pushed aside and neglected for younger men, who had never even been called out in a street riot, and who had no claim to promotion but their high connexions. These things would not be suffered to continue much longer.
 MR. MONSELL  said, that if ever there was an exceptional case this was one. Every Member who had addressed the House on this Bill had dwelt on the great importance of encouraging the sale of estates in small portions, not only as regarded the social advantages of such a system, but the probability of finding buyers. If the Bill worked, as he believed it would, the right hon. Gentleman would gain a large addition to his stamp revenue from
 768
 MR. MONSELL  (on behalf of Mr. Bouverie) then proposed the following Clause:—
 "That no assurance under this Act shall be subject to the further or additional duty (of equal amount with the duty on a lease, or bargain and sale for a year) with which conveyances by a single deed are by any Act, either expressly or by reference, made chargeable; and that, in lieu of all other stamp duty whatsoever (except the progressive duty) there shall be chargeable on all assurances under this Act on which the purchase or consideration money therein or thereupon expressed shall not amount to 2,000 l ad valorem s l l
 MR. DISRAELI  wished to address an inquiry to the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, with regard to negotiations which were at present taking place, or had taken place, between Denmark and Germany, under the noble Lord's mediation. The House would recollect that he had brought the question of the hostilities between those Powers before the House in the month of May; and at a subsequent period the King of Denmark, with a view of terminating those hostilities, signed an armistice with great reluctance, as the terms of it were not very favourable to his crown and kingdom, and the signature of it was unsatisfactory to his subjects. But the king was influenced by feelings which would be appreciated in this country, and was especially anxious to terminate a conflict which was injurious to the commerce, not only of his own country, but particularly of England. The armistice having been signed under those circumstances by the King of Denmark, it was brought to Berlin, where it was signed and ratified by the King of Prussia, and he believed mainly through the auspices of the Crown of Sweden, and the activity and intelligence of the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs. The House, then, would be surprised to learn that this
 809
 MR. HAWES  thought, whether he regarded the importance of the subject involved in this debate, upon which he entirely concurred with his hon. Friend who had just sat down—or whether he considered the magnitude of the subject, or the multiplicity of details which it involved—and admitting fully at the same time the propriety of discussing it; he must at the outset ask the House to extend to him its kindness and indulgence while he drew somewhat largely on its attention. Both his hon. Friend who supported the Motion, and the hon. Baronet who introduced it, had impugned not only the colonial policy of the present day, but the whole colonial policy of England. Reproaches, too, had been heaped upon the Colonial Office and his noble Friend now at the head of it—reproaches in which he begged humbly to take his share. [Mr. HUTT: If the hon. Gentleman alluded to him, he begged it to be distinctly understood that he cast no reproaches upon the noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Office.] He thought that what fell from his hon. Friend the Member
 861 862 863 864 865 866 "The principle on which, in my judgment, the Governor of a representative colony, such as New Brunswick, should act, is that of endeavouring to form such a council as he thinks will command the greatest confidence from the inhabitants and their representatives, and, when constructed, to give to it all fair support in carrying on the government of the province, while at the same time he should carefully abstain from committing himself to the interest of any one political party in such a manner as to place him under any difficulty in giving similar constitutional support to their opponents, if through any change in public opinion, a change of his council should become necessary." "The object with which I recommend to you this course, is that of making it apparent that any transfer which may take place of political power from the hands of one party in the province to those of another, is the result, not of an act of yours, but of the wishes of the people themselves, as shown by the difficulty experienced by the retiring party in carrying on the government of the province according to the forms of the constitution." 867 "I turn now to a totally different subject, on which I hope to receive the benefit of your advice and assistance so soon as the settlement of the affairs of Caffraria shall have left you leisure for the purpose. I advert to the applications which have been addressed to Her Majesty for the establishment of a representative form of government in the colony of the Cape of Good Hope. Her Majesty's Government entertain the strongest prepossessions in favour of that system of colonial polity, and will be prompt to avail themselves of any opportunity of extending it to the British settlements in Southern Africa." 868 "I propose to myself, with reference to your Lordship's despatch to me of the 10th of September last, to embrace in one general report the remodelling of the whole of this Government upon a comprehensive view, ever regarding popular representation as the true English form of government." 869 l l l l l 870 l l l 871 l l l s l l s 872 l l l l l l l
 MR. C. BULLER , on moving the Second Reading, said: As the House was good enough to allow me, at a very late hour of the night, some weeks ago, to bring in this Bill without any explanation, and as the Bill is one of considerable importance to the poor-law unions throughout the country, and in regard to the general administration of the poor-law, I think it would not be fair for me to allow the discussion on the second reading of the Bill to take its course without at the commencement attempting to discharge that duty which I ought to have undertaken when I brought in the Bill. I must begin by saying that it is no anxiety for legislation at this period of the Session that has induced me to bring in four Bills on the subject of the poor-law. I should have felt rather proud if, having devoted myself with due activity to my duties as the head of the poor-law department, I could have referred, at the close of the Session, to proofs that the existing laws were sufficient to carry out the objects of the Legislature for which that department was instituted. I should have thought it perfectly unjustifiable, with only half a year's experience in my present office, for me to have undertaken any large change, on speculative grounds, in the law which I had to administer; and I trust the House will believe that it is only under the pressure of an absolute and urgent necessity that I now call its attention to the subject which I am about more particularly to introduce, with an endeavour to secure its assent to a
 788 789 790 791 792 793 "As the Act 10 and 11 Victoria, cap. 110, will expire on the 1st of October next, when the charge for the relief to the irremovable poor will be again thrown on the parishes of their residence, the Legislature, when that time arrives, would no doubt consider it expedient to renew its provisions, in the absence of any intention of introducing the Bill now under consideration. Of the justice and policy of that Act there can be no doubt—the dissatisfaction created by the retrospective effect of the 9th and 10th Victoria, cap. 66, created universal dissatisfaction in all the larger towns in the country, which was only allayed by distributing the burden which it bad imposed on individual parishes over the whole union, and fixing the charge on the establishment; the relief thus afforded to the parties most aggrieved has not, however, given general satisfaction, and the ratepayers in the largest and most pauperised parishes, where the averages have been increased by bad management and profuse expenditure, object that they are unfairly called upon to bear a disproportionate share of a charge for paupers belonging to parishes with which they have no connexion, and in a mode which inflicts a species of penalty for internal mismanagement by means of a foreign impost. It is, indeed, evident that the levying of contributions from the union fund, in such cases, upon the principle by which that fund is now created, is a grievous evil to the contributors, and some modification of the existing mode of raising it would probably have been demanded in the event of the revival of the Act above referred to in its present shape. The plan proposed by your Bill for the remedy of the evil appears calculated to give general satisfaction; and no method for creating a union fund for the payment of this charge, as well as for that for the relief of vagrants, can be better devised than that of an uniform union contribution, assessed, not in reference to past payments, but on the rateable value of every parish." 794 795 796 797 798 The right hon. Gentleman was here interrupted by the Usher of the Black Rod, who summoned the House to the House of Lords, to hear the Royal Assent given to the above Bill. On the House returning, the right hon. Gentleman resumed 799 800 801
 MR. C. LUSHINGTON  asked the President of the Board of Trade, whether it was his intention to take any steps to prevent the overloading of the passenger steamboats plying on the Thames?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that by the provisions of the Steam Navigation Act all steamboat proprietors were directed to transmit to the Board of Trade every six months a report of the condition of their vessels; but this Act, although it inflicted
 812
 MR. HENLEY  was sure the House would share with him in the feelings of thankfulness they owed to the right hon. Gentleman for the clear and lucid manner in which he had gone through the whole of this difficult, complex, and intricate subject, and the frankness with which, it appeared to him, he had stated his views and that of the Government, upon a subject which was at once difficult, and interesting to all persons in the community. He could not, however, agree altogether in some of the principles which the right hon. Gentleman had laid down, and he would point out what seemed to him some inconsistency in those principles; but if he differed from the right hon. Gentleman in the result which he thought his measure had a tendency to produce, it was not from disrespect to his judgment. He (Mr. Henley) perfectly concurred with the right hon. Gentleman in thinking that a greater principle than the mere question of pecuniary interest was involved in this subject. If they looked to the proceedings of the last fourteen years they would perceive the effects of the parochial system, from which he had never been able to see any possible reason for departing, unless we adopted a national rate. He was a member of the Committee which sat last year with respect to this subject, and his views were based upon what he had heard in evidence before that Committee. The burden of the support of the poor was thrown upon some descriptions of property with an inequality which was very considerable, and showed the absolute necessity of a proper assessment. Why should not one description of property be as heavily taxed as another for the relief of the poor? It was, in his opinion,
 802 803 l l 804 s s s s 805 806 807 s s d s s 808
 MR. MANGLES  thought that the hon. Member the Under Secretary for the Colonies had been very successful in showing the improvement that had taken place within a recent period; and if the hon. Gentleman had confined himself to the recent administration of the colonies, he would have done very well. The hon. Gentleman, however, with more of chivalry than of prudence, went back through a long series of years defending all that had occurred. He thought also, that the hon. Gentleman would have been more prudent, as well as more generous, if he
 877
 MR. GLADSTONE  rose to move an Address, setting forth—
 "That by an Order in Council, which his late Majesty was pleased to approve on the 15th day of December, 1831, Sir John Thomas Claridge, then Recorder of Prince of Wales's Island, was removed from the said office on account of an 'irritation between the Local Government and himself' which, in the opinion of the Lords of the Committee of Council, acting judicially in the case, was 'principally to be attributed' to the conduct of the said Local Government and of the Home Authorities:—Also setting forth that it further appeared to their Lordships in their investigation of the case, 'that no imputation rested on the capacity or integrity of Sir J. T. Claridge in the exercise of his judicial functions, so as to preclude his Majesty from employing him in his service in some other judicial situation; 'and praying that Her Majesty, graciously taking into consideration the expectations which the terms of the said Order in Council were calculated to create, may be pleased to direct that Sir J. T. Claridge may receive an appointment in Her Majesty's service of such a class as to Her Majesty shall seem meet." 813
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  inquired what steps had been taken to put an end to the abuses that have taken place in the several Vice-Admiralty Courts of the Cape of Good Hope, St. Helena, Sierra Leone, and New South Wales?
 MR. WARD  was not in a condition to give the hon. and gallant Gentleman any information on the subject of the fees and charges of the Vice Admiralty-Court of Sidney. With regard to the charges of the other courts, the subject had been fully investigated, and it had certainly been much easier to discover the existence of the evil of which the hon. and gallant Gentleman complained, than to devise a remedy for it. Among those who had been applied to to investigate this subject was Dr. Lushington. The fees, which were fixed by the Act of the 2nd William IV., cap. 51, were moderate; and if the charges had been limited to those fees, there would have been no ground for complaint. The judge received a fee of 1 l. s l l s
 SIR J. C. HOBHOUSE  would not go further into the subject than the specific wording of the Motion required. He had no more to do with the case than the right hon. Gentleman himself. The appointment had taken place twenty years ago, and he had nothing to do with it, and had had nothing to do with the matter at all except having been so unfortunate as to have had a long and by no means agreeable correspondence with that gentleman. The whole accusation against him was, that he had not thought proper to recommend this gentleman for an Indian judgeship. [Mr. GLADSTONE: For any colonial judgeship.] He had no power to recommend him, except to an Indian judgeship. But he would ask the right hon. Gentleman how it happened that during the five years which the right hon. Gentleman had been in office, he had overlooked the claims and the merits of Sir J. T. Claridge? How came it that while the right hon. Gentleman held the office of Secretary for the Colonies he had never bestowed a judgeship on this gentleman? How came it that the injustice of this case had not burst upon the right hon. Gentleman until he (Sir John Hobhouse) had had the misfortune to become for the second time the correspondent of Sir J. T. Claridge? He considered that the proviso in the Order in Council on which the right hon. Gentleman had laid so much stress was somewhat extra-judicial. It, however, did not go the length of recommending him for employment, but it merely stated that he was not incapacitated from being employed. There was nothing whatever to impugn the character of Sir J. T. Claridge, who had been appointed by an able and excellent man, Mr. Charles Wynn; but neither was there anything that gave him any claim to any other appointment. He had nothing to say against the character of Sir J. T. Claridge, but he would rather not make him a judge. When the case was heard before the Privy Council, the Members of the Committee were Lord Brougham, Lord Goderich, and Mr. Charles Grant; and if they had entertained so decided an opinion as to the propriety of the reappointment of Sir J. T. Claridge, how came it that they had not reappointed him? Lord Brougham had conveyed extra-judicially to Sir J. T. Claridge that it had been the intention of the Committee in their decision to give a triumph to neither party. Shortly afterwards Sir J. T. Claridge had made a communication to Lord Brougham, to which he received no
 815 816
 MR. HUTT  rose with considerable diffidence to address the House, after a speech which had displayed such great ability and such extensive knowledge of the subject; but be rose with great confidence to second the Motion of the hon. Baronet. There was scarcely any opinion which the hon. Baronet had expressed in the course of his extended speech which be was not prepared to maintain and support. He agreed with the hon. Baronet that the large expenditure which this country undertook on account of its colonies was productive of very little beneficial result in its application. He believed, too, that this expenditure was sometimes admitted as a justification of the perpetual and mischievous
 858 attaché 859 Punch. El Dorado 860
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH : * * 817 l l l l l l l l l l 818 l l l l l l l 819 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 820 l l l l 821 l l l l l 822 l l l l l l l l l 823 l l l l l l l l l 824 l 825 826 l l l l l 827 l l l l l l l l l l l 828 l l l l l l l 829 l 830 l 831 l s d. 832 l l l l l l l l l l l l l 833 l l l l l l l 834 l l l l l l l l l 835 l l l l l l l l l l l 836 l l l l 837 l s d 838 l s d. l l s s d. l s d s d. l s 839 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 840 l l l l l l s d. s 841 l l s l l l s l 842 s d s d s d. l s d l s d l s 843 l l s l s 844 l l l 845 l 846 847 848 849 850 851 852 l l s d s 853 l. s s l l 854 l 855 856 857 "That it is the opinion of this House that the Colonial Expenditure of the British Empire demands inquiry, with a view to its reduction; and that to accomplish this object, and to secure greater contentment and prosperity to the Colonists, they ought to be invested with large powers for the administration of their local affairs."
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  had great pleasure in giving to the hon. Member and the House such explanation as was in his power to convey with regard to the very interesting and important matter to which his observations applied; and he trusted that the general result of his answer would be more encouraging, if not satisfactory, than perhaps the anticipations of the hon. Gentleman might have led the House to expect. The great difficulty which had arisen in those negotiations had sprung from the circumstance of there being so many different parties to be consulted, and in consequence of their being at a distance from each other, rather lengthened delays taking place in making the necessary communications preparatory to their assenting to an arrangement. What, in a few
 810 811
 MR. RICE  acknowledged that he had not heard one word from the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Grattan) in justification of rebellion and insurrection in Ireland. He did not wish to say one word on the question of repeal, nor bad he ever ventured to address the House on Irish affairs, because he felt his in competency to do so; yet he had not on that account less feeling for the good of Ireland, or a less sincere desire to remove the evils of that country. It was desirable that all language which might be deemed offensive by the people of Ireland should be avoided; but he believed that all the English representatives were animated by a good feeling for Ireland; and he could assure the Irish representatives that he and his constituents had no other feeling but that of kindness for their country.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I quite agree in what the hon. Gentleman has just said, that those who are favourable to the repeal of the Union have shown a wise and considerate feeling, when they postponed the discussion of the measure of which they are advocates, in order not to create any acerbity in addition to the irritation which may now be felt. I only beg it to be understood that I have no objection myself personally to the renewal of this debate. I have not at all shrunk from the discussion of the question of the repeal of the Union—I was ready to enter into it whenever the hon. Gentleman the Member for Dublin might have told me it was to come on—and I determined to attend the House and take part in the debate. Therefore I have no personal objection or unwillingness to enter into that discussion. Of course, having thus shown what my intentions were, I leave it to those in whose hands the Motion is to decide whether or not they will bring it forward; and I think that they deserve credit for the course they have now taken. I may perhaps say further, that one of the many grounds of objection which I should have urged to the Motion, if it had come on for discussion, would have been that, in my opinion, the repeal of the Union and the establishment of a separate Legislature in Ireland would tend to that very degradation of Ireland to a province which some hon. Gentlemen belonging to that country so very much complained of. I think the honour of having a seat in this House and of taking a part in the government of a great empire is a distinction of which Irishmen ought to be ambitious—which they ought to feel as being one which raises and elevate them into a component portion of the Parliament of this mighty empire; while at the same time they may in this Legislature promote Irish legislation. Men of very great abilities and of those masterly talents which fitted them for the government of mankind arose in Ireland towards the end of the last century. We had Edmund Burke sitting in this House, and the speeches he made will ever be the subject of admiration for all succeeding generations. But Ireland being
 888 889
 MAJOR BLACKALL  suggested the propriety of allowing the discussion to be now
 887
 MR. URQUHART : Sir, I cannot suppress my regret that an Irish Member, possessing the rare attributes of integrity, earnestness, and courage, has at such a moment opened his lips in this assembly, to add only to the mass of error and the depth of blindness unfortunately obscuring Ireland. Nor can I convey my astonishment to hear a man clothed with the historic name of Grattan unable to defend repeal without justifying rebellion.
 MR. URQUHART : I am happy if I am wrong in my first interpretation. I am happy to be corrected. If what the hon. Member has said was liable to doubts, I am glad that he has removed them: the hon. Member did defend the men who have incurred this guilt. In the course of his speech the hon. Member complained of having been misunderstood and misrepresented. It would be difficult not to misunderstand and misrepresent the hon. Gentleman, for he evidently does not know his own mind. 883 884 princeps senatus 885 886
 MR. GRATTAN  condemned the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone for indulging in the habit of attacking the Irish Members, and warmly defended the Repeal Association from the taunts which the hon. Member, with a smile upon his countenance but bitterness in his heart, had thrown out against that body. The question was not now pressed forward, because the advocates of repeal did not wish to follow the example of the hen. Baronet in exasperating the public mind. But the hon. Member did not understand the case of Ireland, nor did that House, which was utterly incapable of legislating for that country. One object he had in supporting repeal was to keep the Irish nobility and proprietors at home; and he hoped the time would ere long come when, to quote a sentiment of the late Mr. Grattan, the common sense of both countries would repudiate an Act which was beneficial to neither, and utterly distasteful and injurious to one. If he might venture to say so much without running the risk of adding to that discord of which there was already too much, he would call the attention of the House to the direful calamity which was said to be approaching the country in the shape of famine. He advised hon. Gentlemen to look to it. He had said before, and still believed, that
 881 882
 MR. GRATTAN  denied that he had in any way justified rebellion.
 MR. REYNOLDS  had a sufficient catalogue of errors and omissions of his own to answer for, and was not prepared
 879 880
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, the hon. Member for Radnorshire (Sir J. Walsh) was mistaken in supposing that this was his (Mr. Scrope's) Bill. It was introduced by the hon. Member for Roscommon (Mr. French), who was an Irish landlord, and the representative of an Irish county, and who possessed a local acquaintance with the state of Ireland, which the hon. Baronet had said that he (Mr. Scrope) did not possess. He (Mr. Scrope) might, however, claim to be well acquainted with the state of that country; for he had taken every pains to acquire information on the subject by a perusal of the blue books which had been presented to Parliament during the last thirty years. He had also turned his attention particularly to the subject of this Bill, and he believed that such a measure would tend very materially to improve the condition of the Irish people. He had that morning read a letter of Lord Cloncurry, which appeared in the  Dublin Evening Post ateliers nationaux. ateliers nationaux 892 l l l l l l l l 893
 MR. R. M. FOX  said, that as the hon. and learned Mover of this Motion (Mr. J. O'Connell) was absent, and with him the greater part of the Repeal Members, he would move that the debate he adjourned until that day three months.
 SIR B. HALL  thanked the hon. Member for saving him the trouble of making this Motion. It was better that the order should be discharged, or the debate adjourned on the Motion of the chief promoters of the repeal question, because it showed the fallacy and absurdity of the whole proceeding. He believed the hon. and learned Member who had brought forward this Motion had never had the intention of going to a division upon it. He had not been in the House since he made a speech of four hours' length in introducing the subject; then away he went, and no more notice was taken of it. He hoped the House would, after this, hear no more of hon. Members going over to the other side of the water, and saying that the House of Commons would not entertain the subject of repeal. Lot them in future say, on the contrary, that there were a great many Members ready to discuss it, that it stood first in the Orders of the Day, and that it came on after a promise that it should be persevered with. On Monday last he inquired whether the Repeal Members had made up their minds to resume the debate, and he was then assured that the debate would be resumed to-day. A circular had also boon sent out that morning to state that the matter would be brought on, and now, at twelve o'clock, the Repeal Members had the modest assurance to move that the Order of the Day should be discharged. Such conduct rendered the whole thing contemptible and ludicrous; and he hoped they would hear no more of the repeal of the Union, unless Irish Repeal Members would, at the same time, say that they had withdrawn the proposition themselves.
 SIR G. GREY  said, he had been disappointed when he read this Bill, for his hon. Friend, on moving for leave to bring it in, said he should not require any Government machinery or any public money to carry it into effect; but he must say that that pledge had hardly been kept, because it was proposed that the working of the Bill should be under the superintendence of a Commission. His hon. Friend said the commission was to be unpaid; but he doubted whether the Government would not be called upon afterwards to provide salaries for the officers required. His hon. Friend suggested that the Poor Law Commissioners should be invested with the largo powers proposed to be conferred on the Government by this Bill; but be was of opinion that nothing could be more injurious to the operation of the poor-law than that those powers should be centered in the Commissioners. He was not prepared to deny that there were extensive tracts of land which were not occupied, and which might be brought into profitable cultivation; but much that was called "waste land" was private property, belonging to gentlemen who kept it as sheep-walks or moors. But how did his hon. Friend propose to find funds requisite for carrying the Bill into effect? The expenses must be immediate, whilst the profits of the scheme were future and contingent; and his hon. Friend could not be so sanguine as to suppose that any capitalists would advance the money that would be required unless on the direct credit of the Government. He thought that the best mode of reclaiming these waste lands
 894
 SIR J. WALSH  said, that the measure was neither more nor less than an attempt to carry into effect a policy which had recently met in Prance with a signal failure, namely, to convert the Government into great employers of labour; and the mode by which it was proposed to attain this result was by invading, in the first instance, the rights and property of individuals. It was, indeed, practically impossible to carry out the propositions of the hon. Member for Stroud (Mr. P. Scrope). It was true that there was a great deal of land lying waste in Ireland, and much of it susceptible of improvement. It was true that capital might be profitably employed in a great many localities in reclaiming land; but it was not true that the Government could by any possibility be successful agents in carrying out any plan for that purpose. Neither was it true that, under the provisions of the present Pill, a remedy could be found for that destitution and overcrowded state of particular districts which formed the source of most serious evils and grievances connected with the social state of Ireland. He should be curious enough to know whether the hon. Member for Stroud had any practical acquaintance with Ireland—whether he had ever seen Ireland in his life, or reclaimed one single acre, rood, or perch of bog? The hon. Gentleman's experience was theoretical rather than practical. The case of Chat Moss had been referred to as showing what might be done in the way of reclaiming waste lands. But Chat Moss
 890 891
 MR. RICE  expressed his regret that hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) was not in his place, as he was anxious to make a few observations upon the objections which that hon. Member had taken to the measure before the House. Those objections were, first, as to the provision for reshifting the burdens on the several parishes of a union by altering the mode
 903 904 s s 905 s s s s s s s s s s s
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he considered this a most partial measure, inasmuch as the city of London and other boroughs, the constituencies of which were amongst the most corrupt in the country, were exempted from its operation; and he would therefore oppose the Bill clause by clause. It was not unusual, he believed, for hon. Gentlemen holding high situations—Under Secretaries of State, for instance—to promise electors situations in the Customs or Excise for their sons, and situations as necessary women or dressers for the female members of their families. If this Bill received the sanction of Parliament no man would be secure from the charge of corrupt practices, although he might be perfectly innocent. He was aware that he might be charged with offering a factious opposition to the measure; but he considered that he was justified in opposing a Bill of this nature by every means in his power. He (Col. Sibthorp) begged to move as an Amendment that the Bill be committed that day three months.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  thought that the greater part of the observations of the hon. and gallant Member would be more in place in Committee on the Bill. He trusted, therefore, that they would be allowed to go into Committee on the Bill, as the hon. and gallant Member would have other opportunities, at future stages of the Measure, of persevering in his opposition to it, should he then think fit to do so.
 MR. ANSTEY  said, that the objections to the measure were not objections of detail, but of principle and substance; and no more amendments in Committee could set right a Bill which was open to opposition on such grounds. How could it be said that boroughs—and such were included in this Bill—could be guilty of corrupt practices, when Committees had reported of the Members for them that they had merely been guilty by their agents of treating? He admitted that treating might be carried on upon so large and costly a scale as, in some cases, to amount to bribery; but acts of that kind answered for themselves. Harmless acts of treating were not illegal at common law; but they were now considered wrong, because prohibited by an Act of Parliament. Why, this was poisoning morality at its very source. But if harmless treating was to be designated as "corrupt practices," what designation was to be given to the bribery of the Whigs of Derby, and of the
 917 ex post facto 918 l s 919 exparte
 MR. HUDSON , having taken part with his hon. and gallant Friend in opposing this Bill when it was last before the House, begged to say that, on the present occasion, he would altogether abstain from voting upon it. As he found that, in offering his opposition to this Bill in its present state, he differed from those hon. Gentlemen with whom he was in the habit of acting, he felt that he had no right any longer to obstruct its progress. But his objections to the principles of this Bill were as strong as ever. He was perfectly satisfied that this Bill would confer no benefit upon, whilst it would introduce into, all the boroughs to which it related scenes of unpleasantness and heartburnings. It was impossible for it to produce any good effect. He thought the hon. and learned Solicitor General would have acted wisely had he listened to the few observations which fell from his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Lincoln, who suggested that, rather than look for any practical and beneficial results under this Bill, he should apply his legal mind and judgment to the amendment of the law, which had been found inefficient in its operation,
 920 921
 MR. URQUHART  called upon the Attorney General to answer two questions. The first was, whether it was in the power of the House of Commons to delegate its anthoriy to a second body; and whether a Committee of this House to which such power would be delegated, could again delegate that power to a third body, a Commission? The second question he had to ask was, whether this Bill was a private or a public Bill; and whether or no it would not be treated as a private Bill in courts of law; and further, if the decisions of the courts of law might not by this Bill be brought into collision with those of this House? He regarded the measure as partial, insidious, and hypocritical, and it was his determination to support the Amendment.
 MR. ANSTRY  said, that as it was then twelve o'clock, and as there were fifteen other Orders of the Day to be gone through, he begged to move that the Chairman do now report progress.
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  agreed with the hon. Member for Oxfordshire, that this was a tinkering measure; but as that hon. Gentleman had not given a definition of what a "tinkering" measure was, he (Mr. Drummond) would endeavour to do so. He meant by "tinkering," a bad mending of a bad thing; and that, he thought, was a natural and inseparable part of the now poor-law system, and whether they got in the small end of the wedge or the large end of the wedge mattered not. The measure itself was bad from the beginning. It was a measure they had never been able to work, and the whole practice of it was directly in the teeth of the professions and statements that were made on proposing it. But he had never been, nor would he be now, a party to any agitation upon this or upon any other question. Say what they would of it, agitation was an appeal to men's passions when yon know you could not convince their reason. The repeal of the corn law was carried by agitation; and this very measure of the poor-law, which he very much disliked, was
 910 s 911 s s s d 912
 MR. V. SMITH  said, that the hon. Member who had just sat down, had, while deprecating agitation on any question, used the language and the terms of agitation as regarded what he had called the Somerset-house system of treating man as an abstraction. Whatever rules and regulations had been adopted in respect to the administration of the poor-law, Parliament were as responsible for as the Commissioners themselves. He (Mr. V. Smith) could not support the Motion of the hon. Member for Oxfordshire; for there were three or four principles contained in this Bill which were deserving of consideration in Committee. He would not say he did not entertain doubts with respect to some of them; but the whole subject was difficult and complicated, and required the most careful consideration. But, although he was not prepared to vote with the hon. Member for Oxfordshire, he was at the same time convinced that the Bill would not pass this Session; and, after the opinions which had been given by Gentlemen who were so well acquainted with rural affairs, he was almost disposed to recommend his right hon. Friend to withdraw the Bill for the present. For some five Sessions of Parliament the House had been attempting to deal with that important question, the law of settlement, but without producing any advantage, because, instead of grasping some great principle at once, they had been trying to effect their object bit by bit. Although he gave great credit to his right hon. Friend for his ability, and thought that his exertions had been of great utility, he still thought that the Bill now introduced was not of so ample and comprehensive a character as to be considered a final settlement of the question. There were four questions
 913
 MR. BANKES  said, whether or not Ministers thought proper to endeavour to proceed with the other stages of the Bill, it was a measure which could not pass in the present Session. The Bill was one of considerable importance as regarded the
 914
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, that if in the present state of Ireland any partial outbreak should unfortunately occur, it was reasonable to suppose that very great excitement would prevail everywhere; and, under these circumstances, it would be the imperative duty of every loyal subject connected with Ireland to place himself at the disposal of the Government for the purpose of rendering himself useful either in opposing insurrection or tranquillising the minds of the community. He therefore asked whether it was the wish of the Government that Irish Gentlemen, and particularly Irish Members of Parliament having influence in Ireland, should leave this country and go to their own respective districts; and, if so, what course the Government would then propose to take with respect to Irish business in that House?
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  said, the object of the Bill was to meet two grievances; in the first place, the vagrant question; and, secondly, that of the irremovable poor. With respect to the charges fur vagrancy, there was no person who would not agree that a grievous burden should not be thrown upon any particular parish because the union workhouse happened to be built in that parish. He would agree that this charge should be made upon the union instead of upon the particular parish where the relief was given. But with respect to the general question of vagrancy, the right hon. Gentleman appeared to be of opinion that the suppression of vagrancy rested with the administrators of the law rather than with, the Legislature itself; and the right hon. Gentleman said that vagrancy ought to be kept down, He would agree that it ought; but the question was how to keep it down. It was a very difficult thing for the relieving officer to say what cases he would relieve,
 906 907 cœteris paribus s s s 908
 Mr. MONSELL  begged to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department
 915
 SIR G. GREY  had great satisfaction in stating that he had every reason to believe that the alarming accounts which appeared in the late editions of the morning papers, and which were transmitted by electric telegraph from Liverpool, of an insurrection having actually broken out in the south of Ireland, were totally destitute of foundation.
 SIR G. GREY  replied, that several Gentlemen connected with Ireland had called on him in the course of the day, and expressed their willingness, in consequence of the accounts which had been published, to proceed immediately to Ireland, and render all the service in their power for the maintenance of tranquillity. Though he believed that the information transmitted by the telegraph was totally destitute of foundation, yet in the state of the country where this insurrection was reported to have broken out, he thought that Irish gentlemen of property, influence, character, and weight, could not do better than proceed to Ireland, and in their respective neghbourhoods exert themselves for the maintenance of order. Under these circumstances he was authorised by his noble Friend to say that the Government would not immediately proceed with Irish business.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  thought, that under all the circumstances the right hen. Gentleman might fairly postpone the consideration of this Bill for the present Session. It appeared, that on the 12th of July, in the Court of Queen's Bench, Lord Chief Justice Denman differed entirely from the Attorney and Solicitor General as to the residence of five years. The hon. and gallant Member read the judgment of Lord Denman in the case "Regina  v l s d 909
 MR. FAGAN  feared that the speech of Her Majesty's Chief Minister would not be considered a message of peace in Ireland. Though the noble Lord had adverted to many of the grievances which pressed on that country, he did not hold out the slightest hope of redress. The noble Lord said, indeed, that he looked to the calm and gradual course of amelioration; but in the mean time what was to become of the starving and miserable people of Ireland? Were they to lie down and die? Or could it be expected that content would prevail, whilst the old religious ascendancy was still maintained, for the Roman Catholic Emancipation Act had not yet been fairly carried out. With regard to the tithe system, although it had been abolished in part, whilst a vestige of it remained, it could never be looked upon in any other light than as a degradation by the great majority of the population. He admitted that Ireland had gained by the abolition of the nomination
 956 s 957
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The hon. Member who has brought forward this Motion, has done it in language so temperate, that I prefer following him immediately to waiting till the course of debate may have introduced greater asperity and warmer contention upon the interesting subjects which he has brought before us. If I must say that I cannot agree in many of the opinions that he has stated, in some of those opinions I do agree; and I am ready, at all events, to state the view which I take of a great portion of the subjects to which he has called the attention of the House. In considering the conduct of this Imperial Parliament, as the hon. Member has brought it before the House, I think it is hardly just to say, that certain measures have been long delayed—that they have been brought before this House many years ago—that this House has not finally carried them into law—and to attribute that delay or that refusal entirely and solely to an unwillingness to debate Irish subjects, or to grant a remedy for Irish grievances. Whether it be a portion of our character and habit—whether it he owing to the complicated nature of our Government—whether it be owing to the habits of debate which prevail in Parliament and in the country—the fact is, that there is hardly any measure of great public importance, whether it relates to the united kingdom or to any portion of the empire, which is ever carried without a very considerable delay—without the vicissitudes of being rejected at one time, triumphant at another—postponed at one period, and only assented to after long discussion. There have been questions which related entirely to this country before the Union took place—questions which did not relate entirely to this country, but which were subjects of debate before—such questions as that of Parliamentary reform, which took upwards of fifty years in settling—such questions as that of the abolition of the slave trade, which took nearly thirty years in discussion; and various other cases in which it is obvious, that whether from the reasons I have mentioned or not, that which was, as I believe, a just and fair cause for legislation did not produce its effect in obtaining the measures that, were
 938 "If the condition of a people be the best criterion to judge of the excellence of their practical government, how shall the people of Ireland, worse housed, worse clad, and worse fed, than the subjects of the most inveterate despotism in Europe, divest themselves from thinking that they live under one of the worst practical governments in the world?" "Does the produce of the lands of Ireland go to supply the fund for the employment of its people? No. Your corn, your cattle, your butter, your leather, your yarn, all your superfluous produce, and much more than would be superfluous if the people of Ireland were furnished with the common necessaries of life, are all exported without a return to pay the rents of Irish landlords, who do not think the country worthy of their residence, every particle of which is as utterly lost to the fund for the employment of the people of Ireland as if it had been thrown into the sea. " 939 940 "I think I shall carry for you the measure of the Union with England; but the measure of Roman Catholic emancipation, the participation of the Roman Catholics in all the privileges of the Protestants of Ireland, I shall not be able to carry." "Then, if I were you, I would refuse both: I would not have the one without the other." 941 942 943 944 s s l 945 946 947 948 949 l 950 951 952 953 954
 MR. C. BULLER  thought he should behave ill to the House if he did not announce as speedily as possible his intentions respecting the Bills which he had announcd. One of these Bills—the Poor Law Officers' Superannuation Allowances Bill—had not been discussed in that House; but he understood that strong objections to that Bill had been entertained in the House, and that those objections also extended very much to the country. He would therefore move that the Order of the Day for that Bill be discharged. With regard to the Poor Law Union Charges Bill, he had received letters from the country, which led him to believe that he should obtain the general assent of all parties to the passing
 925 pro formâ
 MR. H. HERBERT  thought the peculiar evil of the legislation of this country for Ireland was, not that the measures were unsuitable, but that they were not concomitant with one another. The poor-law, for instance, was an admirable mea-sure; but any one might have seen that it would be a failure unless it were accompanied by other measures for the cultivation of the waste lands, or for otherwise employing the poor. Then, again, the Encumbered Estates Bill was a capital measure; and he only regretted that it was not passed at the time the Poor Law Bill was enacted. It would have admirably assisted the operation of the latter measure. But he discountenanced the idea
 955
 MR. OSBORNE  could not regard the question then before them in a merely Irish point of view. He believed that it was a question deeply affecting the welfare of England and Scotland as well as Ireland. He believed that it was a great national question, and as such he should address himself to its consideration. He thought that no hon. Member could say he was entirely satisfied at the close of this Session of Parliament to leave Ireland in the state in which it at present existed, and which was every day getting worse. Having commenced the Session by passing a Coercion Act, and finished by a suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act, it could hardly be said that the House had done its duty towards Ireland. It was a remarkable fact that on that very day, the 28th of July, 1803 (forty-five years ago), the House of Commons was employed in suspending the Habeas Corpus Act for Ireland. Now, he would ask, what had the House done in these forty-five years to produce any salutary change in the condition of Ireland. He must tell the House that there was a deep conviction on the minds of the people—he did not allude either to Young Ireland or Old Ireland, but to the people generally—that that House was incapable of legislating for Ireland; and if there was one duty more incumbent than another on Her Majesty's Ministers and the House of Commons at the present time, it was to show that they were able and willing to grapple with Irish questions—not to fold their arms with complacency, and point to the Encumbered Estates Bill, the Landlord and Tenant Bill, or any other single measure, but to address themselves like men to the consideration of the whole question of the remedies for the grievances of Ireland. He remembered—and the majority of the House would remember—that in the course of last Session, in the year 1847, when a large deputation of what was then called
 961 "Who gives constrained, but his own fear reveals; Not thanked, but scorned; nor are these gifts, but spoils." 962 "We cannot determine on remaining idle spectators of discord and disturbance in Ireland. The universal voice of this country declares that something must be done. I am but echoing the sentiments of all reasonable men when I say that something must be done." "We have before us the notorious facts that Ireland is tilled with troops; that the barracks where the troops are posted have been fortified; that preparations have been made as if the Government were hourly in expectation of civil war. We have before us, in short, the fact that Ireland is occupied and not governed by those who now hold the reins of power. I say, and say it deliberately, Ireland is occupied, not governed, by the present Administration"—[the Administration of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth]. "In England, the Government, as it should be and has been, is a Government of opinions: the Government of Ireland is notoriously a Government of force." 963 in posse "was not accompanied, above all, with such measures of relief, of remedy, and of conciliation, affecting the great mass of the people of Ireland who were in distress, as ought to accompany any measure tending to an increased rigour of the law." 964 "We demand the recognition of perfect equality in regard to ecclesiastical and educational arrangements between the several religious communities into which the population of Ireland are divided." 965 l l 966 "That in the Irish Church there were livings without duties, a clergy without flocks, pay without work, and gains and sinecures upon the worst principles of the bigot." l l 967 968 "This Church is the root of Irish discontent; let it become the cradle of Irish tranquillity, the
 969 "warned the House not to delay the settlement of this question until it was forced on them by a revolt in Ireland, or a foreign war. At every turn, and in every act, they were met by the Irish Church. The vote he should give would be a vote of want of confidence in Sir R. Peel's Ministry, as far as related to their Irish policy, if they did not take some step as to the Irish Church." "The state of the Church of Ireland is the most important question. I believe there is no such case at present existing in Europe—no case of any Church of this kind. The only parallel that can be found in history is the state of the Episcopal Church in Scotland during the reign of the Stuarts, under which that country was convulsed with disturbances and insurrection, and oppressed with tyranny and wrong. The same feelings exist in Ireland as formerly existed in Scotland; and I cannot but believe that some remedy is required before you can expect peace and tranquillity to be restored to Ireland. When the Irish see you impose on them a grievance—no nation in Europe submits to them—I ask if the warmest loyalty may not grow cool, if the strongest attachments may not turn into enmity? Until you have tried just and conciliatory measures, you have no right to say that you have done justice to the people of Ireland." "he thought it was now high time for doing away with the Established Church in Ireland, which only remains as a monument of England's conquest and Ireland's disgrace." 970 "the Church of Ireland was the monster grievance of Ireland; and what, then could he more just than the Motion of his hon. Friend?" "This is my deliberate opinion, long entertained, confirmed by much observation and reflection; and it is my opinion that of all institutions now existing in the civilised world the Established Church of Ireland is the most absurd and indefensible; it reverses the text of Scripture—'It filleth the rich with good things, and sends the hungry empty away.'" "regarded the Protestant Church in Ireland in the same light as Mr. Macauley. He had been convinced for many years past that that Church had been a great obstacle to the spread of Protestant principles in Ireland; and he believed that the Church was at the root of all the oppression which had taken place in that country." "Whether or not there will be any future discussion upon that subject I know not; but if there should be, I shall think it my duty to contrast the conduct of hon. Gentlemen opposite from 1836 to 1841, and their conduct from 1841 to 1843, with that which they are at present pursuing; and I do come to this conclusion, that either there was the greatest blindness, the greatest want of foresight from 1835 to 1843, and in that case I have no opinion of their wisdom, and must suppose that the Ministers are the most wanting in capacity of any that have ruled this country for a long time; or, if I refuse that conclusion, and say they are men of great ability and capacity, I must deny that they acted with any sincerity during the whole course of their opposition." "The Irish being a Catholic people, they have a right to perfect independence, or to a perfectly equal union; if our conscience objects to the latter, it is bound to concede the former. Whether Ireland remain in its present barbarism, or grow in health and civilisation, in either case the downfall of the present Establishment is certain; a savage people will not endure the insult of a hostile religion; a civilised one will reasonably insist on having their own," 971 d d d s s d 972 l l 973 974 975 "Their highest offices were filled by strangers, unacquainted with the habits, wants, or feelings of the country. The Lord Lieutenant was a pageant; the shadow ceased to dazzle them; the so-called Irish Government was regarded as little more than a mockery; the Castle of Dublin was but a registration court for the behests of the Home Office at Whitehall." "I join with these laws the personal presence of the King's son (Lionell, Duke of Clarence, son of Edward III.) as a concurrent cause of this reformation, because the people of this land, both English and Irish, did ever love and desire to be governed by great persons; and I may take occasion to note that, first the absence of the kings of England, and next the absence of those great lords who were inheritors of those mighty signories of Leinster, Ulster, Connaught, and Meath, have been main causes why this kingdom was not reduced in so many ages. Touching the absence of our kings, three of them only since the Norman Conquest, namely, Henry II., John, and Richard II., have made journeys into this land; and yet no sooner they are arrived here but that all the Irish took oaths of fidelity, and gave hostages to continue loyal." 976
 MR. ANSTEY  concurred in a great portion of the able speech just addressed to the House; but his hon. Friend had entirely miscalculated the feelings of the Roman Catholics with regard to the Protestant Church, when he emitted the opinion that the Established Church was the monster grievance of Ireland. He (Mr. Anstey) was himself a Roman Catholic, and represented a population nearly equally divided between Roman Catholics and Protestants, and he could assure the hon. Gentleman, and the House, that neither his constitueuts nor himself considered the Established Church to be the chief grievance of Ireland, or, indeed, any grievance at all. There was no charity or corporation, whether secular or spiritual, whose property was not secured to them on trust as much as the property of the Established Church; and yet, would it be pretended that this House had the right to sequestrate the property of these holders at their mere caprice? And how could the peasantry be injured by the maintenance of the Established Church? Tithe was not taxation, and the lands of the Established Church were not bought and paid for out of the public moneys? How, then, could the pauperism of the 2,500,000 of people, which they all deplored, be attributed, in the slightest degree, to the maintenance of the Established Church? He could tell the House, on the contrary, that the maintenance of the Established Church, in all its possessions, was regarded by the
 977 978
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that having acted as Chairman to the Committee to which the Bill was referred, he would very briefly explain its object and the nature of its provisions. The object of the Bill was to create a body of independent yeomanry in Ireland: and the way in which this was to be done was by incorporating a company to purchase land and to resell it, divided into portions, the minimum being restricted to thirty acres, below which subdivision was not to he permitted. There were two points which the House would feel called upon to consider—first, whether the incorporation of a company for the possession of land was not a deviation from the ordinary current of legislation; and,
 979
 MR. MACKINNON  wished to know whether it were within the power and the intention of the Government to prevent the spreading of false news and intelligence by the electric telegraph?
 MR. MONSELL , feeling strongly with regard to the present miserable condition of Ireland, could not hesitate to give his vote in favour of the hon. Gentleman's proposition. In opposition to the opinions of his hon. Friend the Member for Cork (Mr. Fagan), he must say, that there was not one single Member in that House, of any party, be he English, Scotch, or Irish, however different from others might be the views that he took as to the means of remedying the evils of Ireland, who did not sincerely and heartily desire to remedy those evils, and was not prepared to exercise his utmost energies in the removal of them. He would ask the House to consider, for one moment, what was the present condition of Ireland. It was not necessary for him to go into any lengthened proof on that subject—it would answer his purpose to recall to the attention of the House the remarkable letter read by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer a few nights ago, in which was described the condition of every class of the Irish people—landlords of the west of Ireland being described to be in debtors' prisons—fields deserted—and the people out of employment. When the House recollected all these things, it would be mere surplusage in him to endeavour to amplify that description, or to adduce any arguments to prove that the social condition of Ireland was most desperate. But, in giving his vote in favour of the proposition of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Rochdale, he was, of course, obliged to show that these evils were such as, he did not say might be remedied, but might, at all events, be mitigated by legislation. [The hon. Member, on this subject, quoted a long passage from the speech of Lord Howick (now Earl Grey), in 1813, who then declared that the evils of Ireland might be remedied by legislation.] Every one (he continued) who considered the sub-
 958 l 959 960
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  rose
 926 "That the present distracted state of Ireland demands the instant attention of Parliament, with a view to the speedy enactment of such measures as may be necessary to improve the condition, redress the grievances, and establish the just rights of the Irish people, and thereby promote the good order and prosperity of that portion of the United Kingdom, and give increased security to Her Majesty's Crown and Government." 927 l 928 s 929 l l 930 931 932 "Her Majesty views with the deepest anxiety and interest the present condition of Ireland, and She recommends to the consideration of Parliament measures which, with a due regard to the rights of property, may advance the social condition of the people, and tend to the permanent improvement of that part of the united kingdom." 933 …. "Famine is in thy cheeks, Need and oppression starveth in thine eyes, Upon thy back hangs ragged misery, The world is not thy friend nor the world's law; The world affords no law to make thee rich: Then he not poor, hut break it." "The people might be told, 'You, miserable peasants, shut up from sunset to sunrise, obliged to keep within your miserable hovels, if you are found looking for a stray cow, or visiting an acquaintance who lives in a cottage a few yards from you, you are liable to transportation; but it is not for the security of the lives of the people among whom you live, but it is because English measures
 934 935 936 937
 SIR G. GREY  feared it would be impossible to prevent the perpetration of such frauds, whether by means of the electric telegraph or otherwise. By the Act of Parliament under which the Electric Telegraph Company was constituted, the Government was invested with power, by a warrant under the hands of the Secretary of State, to take possession of the whole machinery and apparatus of the telegraph, with a view of preventing any intelligence being forwarded without the sanction of the Government. That process, however, involved very considerable expense, as the Government were bound to remunerate the company; and such a, power was only to be used under extraordinary circumstances justifying suspicion.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  observed, that in the absence of all the Cabinet Ministers he felt some difficulty in addressing himself to the Irish policy of the Government, especially as he should follow four hon. Members who had spoken in support of the resolution. He must add his feeble but earnest remonstrance against the do-nothing policy which Her Majesty's Go-
 980 981 982 l 983 l 984
 SIR D. NORREYS  was not surprised that the hon. Member for Stroud had quoted from the  Felon 1005
 MR. CLEMENTS  condemned the course uniformly taken by the hon. Member for Stroud in dealing with Irish questions. That hon. Member could understand little of the state of Ireland if he imagined that the remarks in which he had that day indulged were not calculated to produce the greatest excitement in that unfortunate country. When Ireland was on the brink of an insurrection, was it to be endured that the hon. Member for Stroud should hold up the Irish landlords to the execration of the populace? No man in that House had done more mischief to Ireland than the hon. Member for Stroud. The hon. Member had done all in his power to set man against man in that unfortunate country. As regarded the question before the House, he deeply regretted that the speech of the noble Lord at the head of the Government was not calculated to allay the feelings of disappointment which prevailed in Ireland, on account of the non-adoption of any remedial measures with respect to that country. He had hoped that the noble Lord would have held out a far different prospect for next Session; and so strong was his feeling of disapprobation at the noble Lord's statement, that if a division had taken place last night, he would have voted for the Motion of the hon. Member for Rochdale; on consideration, however, looking to the critical state of Ireland, and the necessity
 1004
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I fear that the hon. Member has mistaken the Members of the Government, and me in particular, on a point on which it is very desirable that we should not be misunderstood. He says that the Members of the Government have represented the Irish Established Church as a grievance, and Went on to represent that we had even attacked the conduct of the clergy of that Church. [Mr. NEWDEGATE: No, I did not say so.] Well, I am happy to find that I
 1010
 MAJOR BLACKALL  said, that taking the Amendment abstractedly, there was no Irish Member who would not readily give it his support; but it had been followed by a speech from the hon. Mover containing views as to remedial measures from which he entirely dissented. He wished it to be recollected that there had been an obstructive as well as a do-nothing policy during the Session. It was said, that the coercive measure passed at the commencement of the Session had been inoperative. His own county, Longford, was one of the first put under it; and he could only say that it had restored tranquillity in a very short time. Longford remained tranquil to this moment, au example to many parts of Ireland. To what was this attributable? To the excellent example of the Roman Catholic clergy and gentry, who discouraged political agitation and the club system. Much mischief, he believed, would be done by the speech of the hon. Member for Middlesex, in which he attributed nearly the whole of the evils of Ireland to the Church. That speech was likely to create feelings of sectarian bitterness; whilst, as he believed, it did not contain a true representation of the opinions of the Irish people. In all his (Major Blackall's) communications with the Roman Catholics of Ireland, he had always found them professing a wish not to do away with the Protestant Establishment; and he believed they were sincere. However much he might wish for reform in the Irish Church, he would never consent to its abolition. He had no confidence in many of the remedial measures proposed. The panacea for Ireland was to encourage employment—to support the law. He must say, that in the present state of Ireland there were considerations which should induce the Government to treat her with great caution. The great mistake had been in adopting permanent legislation at a moment of temporary distress; and the House was now passing measures which would rather involve her in further difficulties. The measure which had met with most success,
 985 l
 MR. STAFFORD  must remark that, whatever charges he had heard made against the hon. Member for Dublin, certainly it was not the charge of giving a factious opposition to Her Majesty's Government; for his conduct since he came into that House had been marked by a most elaborate and studious desire to avoid any such charge. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Dublin had stated, as he (Mr. Stafford) thought very fairly, that his wishes were not hostile to the Church of Ireland, but merely to the temporalities of that Church. But the distinction which the hon. Gentleman drew between the Church of Ireland and what the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland called "the Ecclesiastical Establishment of Ireland," was, he (Mr. Stafford) presumed, of such a nature that they had little reason to thank him for saying he entertained no hostility towards it. He could assure the hon. Member that they who belonged to that Church and adhered to its ritual, and believed in its apostolical origin and immortal destiny, were not afraid to stand up in that House to declare that it was stronger than any combination of politicians arrayed against it. It would be found that already there had been two alienations of the property of the Church of Ireland. The first took place when, by the abandonment of the church cess, they fixed the charge for repairs of churches upon the Ecclesiastical Fund. They took that sum from the Church, and gave it to the landowners on whose estates it had been a charge. There was in the next place a commutation of tithes; and by the arrangement, they gave 75 per cent to the Church, but at the same time took 25 per cent and gave it to the landlords. And they had this year under discussion the question of ministers' money in Ireland, which was said to amount to about 11,000 l l l l l 1013 l l l l 1014
 MR. NEWDEGATE  felt himself called upon to make some reference to the manner in which various hon. Members had proposed to deal with the Church Establishment in Ireland. The hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. Osborne) had spoken of that Establishment as of a nuisance, and had declared his willingness to go to the hustings on the question of its abolition. He was one of that hon. Member's constituents, and he thought he might venture to predict that the hon. Member would find that a very troublesome question if he persevered in his intention. [Mr. OSBORNE: You did not vote for me.] He (Mr. Newdegate) never had hitherto opposed the return of the hon. Member. For one, he felt it to be his duty solemnly and emphatically to protest against the language which had been used with reference to the Irish Church by the Members of Her Majesty's Government in the course of that debate. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department was cautious and circumspect in his selection of language when speaking on this question; but nevertheless it was quite evident that what he meant and intended was to deal with the Irish Church. Such was the right hon. Baronet's expression. [Sir G. GREY concurred with the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. Monsell), in hoping that the day was not distant when it might be possible to propose some measure which would put an end to the evil of having the clergy of the great majority of the people depending for their maintenance on sources such as those to which the hon. Member for Middlesex referred.] Although the Members of Her Majesty's
 1009
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  could not better illustrate the position of the Irish landlords in relation to the Government than by relating an anecdote of a Catholic priest, who once on a time lived in the county Kildare, and was supposed to be endowed with supernatural powers. One day a deputation of his parishioners waited on him, to beg that he would exert his miraculous influence on the atmosphere. One of the parishioners implored of him to procure fine weather, another entreated for rain, a third supplicated for great heat, and a fourth importuned him for cold. "Go home, my good people," he said to them at last; "go home; and when you have agreed amongst yourselves what weather to ask for, I will give it to you; but it is impossible for me to give you all kinds of weather at once." Just similar was the position of the Irish landlords with respect to the Government. They all suggested different remedies, and sought from the Government different favours; but they entirely overlooked the fact, that the miseries of Ireland were in a great degree to be attributed to their own systematic non-performance of their duty. He was not, however, of those who thought that the landlords alone were open to censure. The middlemen were the curse of Ireland. The farmer oppressed the labourer oven more than the landlord oppressed the farmer. For one tyrant in broadcloth there could be found in Ireland twenty tyrants in frieze. Nevertheless, of all classes in Ireland, the landlord class was the most in fault; for if they performed their duty honestly by the tenant, the tenant would have no excuse,
 1008
 COLONEL DUNNE  observed, that in the course of the debate many hon. Gentlemen had referred to measures which, in their opinion, would be advantageous to Ireland; but the question was whether, under existing circumstances, they should endeavour to force the Government to bring such measures forward. He conceived that, although many of those measures were undoubtedly of great importance, it would be impossible, if they were submitted to Parliament at this late period of the Session, to give them the full consideration which their importance demanded. But the Home Secretary had accused the Irish Members of want of unanimity: that was not a sufficient reason for not introducing a remedy for an evil. Was there unani-
 1002
 MR. REYNOLDS  wished to correct an error into which the hon. Member for the county of Warwick had fallen. That Gentleman had talked of the hon. Member for Longford (Mr. R. M. Fox) as though he were a Catholic Member, and quoted from him accordingly. It was right, however, that the hon. Member for Warwick should know that the hon. Member for Longford, so far from being an orthodox Catholic, was a highly orthodox Protestant. The hon. Member had referred to another Irish Member, who was not an Irishman at all—the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. Anstey.) It was true that that hon. and learned Gentleman was a Catholic, but he knew very little indeed about the feelings of Catholics in Ireland. He was a convert. He had very recently renounced what he now called the errors of the Established Church; but whether his conversion to the Church in which he (Mr. Reynolds) had the blessing of being horn, was or was not an acquisition to that Church, was a question which he would not undertake to decide. It had often been said that that House was ignorant of the real state of Ireland. He had always known it to be true; but he never could have supposed that it could be true in so wholesale a sense as that that House could for one moment seriously believe that the Irish people did not regard the Church Establishment as a grievance. If they were to believe the hon. and learned Member for Youghal, indeed, they would find it no difficult matter to suppose that the Irish regarded it as a national blessing. But he denied that the hon. and learned Gentleman was a faithful interpreter of the Irish people on the question. If the Irish people should ever bring themselves to regard the Church Establishment otherwise than as a grievance and an injustice, there would he but little chance of that prediction being realised which had been uttered some years ago
 1011 "As long as Ireland shall pretend, Like sugar-loaf turned upside down, To stand upon the sharper end, So long shall live great Rock's renown; As long as Popish spade and scythe Shall dig and cut the Sassenach's tithe, And Popish purses pay the tolls On heaven's road for Sassenach's souls; As long as millions shall kneel down To ask of thousands for their own, While thousands proudly turn away And to the millions answer, Nay; So long the merry reign shall be Of Captain Rock and his family." l Regium Donum l 1012
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, that the state of Ireland was important to England was plain from the events of the last two years, and the events of the last two days. If the Irish remained in a discontented state—if civil war were to break out, would not the English people have to pay the expense of the maintenance of troops? and the loss of tranquillity would produce ruin in this commercial country, England would not
 986 987 Irish Felon "Our most suffering, most patient people have long humbly prayed the ruling faction to live by honest industry in their own land—in the land in which God has placed them, and in which Heaven has amply provided the means of maintaining them. We have claimed Ireland for the people of Ireland, and our rulers call that pillage. Is it worthy the name of robbery or pillage—the cry of the people of Ireland to live by their labour? We have begged that the produce of Ireland should sustain the lives of the Irish people, and our rulers call that plunder. We have entreated Irish landlords to act as Irishmen, to enjoy the advantages of their social condition, but to take that enjoyment with all its duties; to receive their rents, and revel in their wealth, but to make that wealth subservient to the happiness of the Irish people; and most of our landlords accuse us
 988 "Salus populi lex suprema."
 MR. R. M. FOX  read a letter which he had received that morning with regard to the condition of the county he represented (Longford), a letter written by a gentleman who was agent for property of great extent, a magistrate for three counties, and a practical agriculturist. The letter stated—
 "Your fears about the potato failure are groundless; there is a partial blight, but nothing more. We are very quiet here; I do not think the people were ever less disposed to riot than at present." l l 1003
 SIR G. GREY  said: As the speech of my noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) has included every topic connected with the question before the House, it will be unnecessary and unjustifiable for me now to occupy much of the time of the House; but it would hardly be considered respectful to the House if the discussion were allowed to close without some other Member of the Government addressing; it after the speeches which have been since made. A complaint has been made that the speech of my noble Friend, though mild and conciliatory in its tone, has held out no particular encouragement to Ireland as to those legislative measures in the power of the Government to propose, and of the Parliament to adopt, for the purpose of remedying those evils which unfortunately exist in Ireland. If that complaint were well founded, I must say that, having listened to every speech which has been delivered in the course of the present discussion, I should not be able to feel anything but discouragement in respect to the application of a cure fur those evils, when I observe the want of agreement existing among hon. Gentlemen themselves as to the suggestion of any remedy which they think practical. No two Gentlemen have concurred in a remedy, though they all agree in admitting that grievances exist in Ireland; and, while acknowledging the difficulty they themselves experience in agreeing upon the legislative remedy to be adopted, they nevertheless think it the bounden duty of the Parliament and Government to devise the proper remedy. I am not disposed to say that Parliament can do nothing to mitigate the evils in the condition of Ireland; and still less do I think that it is the duty of the Government to look with apathy—as the hon. Member for Middlesex has unjustly accused the present Government of doing—at the existence of those evils without attempting a remedy. I will recall the attention of the House to the circumstances which followed the present Government's accession to office; and I ask whether the social condition of Ireland was neglected by the Government or the Parliament in 1846 and 1847? Immediately after the present Government assumed office, the disease in the potatoes—unfortunately the main staff of life in Ireland—accompanied by a deficient harvest in Europe, brought on the calamity of death in a most aggravated form, which pressed with unequal severity on Ireland, reducing the popula-
 990 991 992 993 994 995 996 997 l l l 998 l 999 1000 1001
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  would first allude to the Landlord and Tenant Bill, on which the hon. Member for Rochdale had dwelt. The hon. Member had quoted the proceedings of a meeting held in the north of Ireland, in which the Ministerial measure was described as a robbery and deprivation of property; but he thought, on further consideration, the hon. Member would sec that it did not deserve that description, or that it would deprive any portion of the population of their rights. He said, that you could not take a custom which had long existed in Ulster, and transfer it to any other part of Ireland without practically working the greatest injustice. He did not agree in the opinion that this measure lay at the root of the social relations between landlord and tenant, or that these were the principal cause of the dissatisfaction existing in Ireland. He thought the principal cause of this was less the relation between the landlord and tenant, than that between the tenant and labourer; the hardships to which the latter was exposed, formed one of the principal evils with which they had to deal. A letter, contained in the Appendix to the Report of 1845, strongly illustrated the evils of the prevailing system. On the estate therein alluded to, there were 1,064 tenants, holding farms averaging ten acres, with 886 cottier families, occupying 536 acres of land, for which they paid 2,185 l l s d l 1006 1007
 MR. WILSON  said, the distinction to which the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) had alluded was so clear, that he was surprised that there should he any doubt on the subject—the colonies were confined to their own growth and produce, simply because it was admitted into this country at a lower duty than foreign sugar. They were then speaking of a Bill imposing duties up to 1854; and he apprehended that after that period no such distinction could exist. It was clear that up to 1854, unless this distinction were maintained, the Jamaica planter would be liable to frauds on the part of the Cuban planter; but after 1854, there would be no longer any reason for insisting that the importation from Jamaica should be the growth and produce of that island. He believed that last year, so far from the bounty received by the Dutch refiners proving an advantage to them, they considered it an injury; so much so, that one of the principal refiners in Holland had recently published a pamphlet, strongly advocating the abolition of the system of bounties altogether, and recommending the adoption of the system of refining in bond in order to relieve them from the serious difficulties to which they were exposed under the existing system. The hon. Gentleman quoted a document which showed that the Dutch refiners were anxious for the abolition of the drawback, and very desirous of having the system of refining in bond introduced.] At the present moment, too, there was a proposition before the Chambers at Brussels for doing away with the drawbacks, and to allow refining in bond, as was the practice of this country; and, upon the whole, he was sure the House would be satisfied that the advantage of the bounty was more an apparent than a real one. As to the protection enjoyed in this country from the amount of freight, &c, paid upon the Dutch refined article, fifteen shillings per ton was the expense by steamboat; but it might be carried as low as ten shillings by sailing-vessels; although by the latter mode of conveyance the merchant had to put up
 1054 1055 d s s s d s s d s d s s d. 1056 s d s s d. s d s s d s d s d s d l s d., s s d s
 MR. M'GREGOR  said, that with regard to the treaty with Holland, we were bound by it to admit whatever was manufactured there, as if it were the produce of Holland. With regard to the amount of the bounty, he thought he could give the Committee some information. In the year 1834, when he visited Holland, he found that half the duty (which was then very high) was the advantage which the Dutch refiner enjoyed. In 1842 the bounty was 6 s d s s d s d., s d
 COLONEL ANSON  said, the House was aware of the cause of the delay in bringing the estimates before it. In. deference to a general expression of opinion in the House, the whole of the estimates were submitted to a Select Committee upstairs, and that Committee having sat for five months, had reported on a portion of the subject referred to, namely, the Navy Estimates. He regretted the delay which
 1067 "That a sum not exceeding 316,254 l l
 COLONEL ANSON , without attempting to dispute the knowledge of his hon. Friend upon military subjects, could not help saying, that he knew very little of military service, if he did not know that the Royal Horse Artillery was one of the most efficient corps in the service. He so far disagreed with the opinion of the hon. and gallant Gentleman, that if he had the power of persuading the Government, he would recommend the increase of that corps. The corps was the cavalry of the artillery. It was the description of force most adapted for home service, in the necessity which they experienced for moving troops rapidly from one part of the country to another—from England now, unfortunately, to Ireland. As to their expense, there was only a difference of 2 d.
 ADMIRAL BOWLES  hoped that the House would pause before coming to a decision on the report of the Naval Commit-tee, until they had read the evidence on which that report was founded. From the extreme opinions held by some of the Members of the Committee, as well as from the inattention shown to certain points connected with the inquiry, he believed that many of the conclusions come to by the Committee were inconsistent with the efficiency of the public service, and the safety of the country, and such as would show that the Committee were not entitled to further consideration.
 LORD G. BENTINCK : I am happy to find that I may claim the vote of the hon. and gallant Member (Colonel Thompson), as well as that of the hon. Member for Glasgow (Mr. M'Gregor), which I confidently calculate upon. It appears, then, that the hon. Member not only had the honour of suggesting the Tariff of 1846, but that he officiated as the representative of the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs in working out the details of the treaty with Austria. There seems to be no office which the hon. Member does not add a lustre to. But he says that, in his opinion, the duty of 24 s d. s d s 1065 s d s d. s d. s s s d s s
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said, that while he could not approve of the proceedings of the Government, he could not help admiring the  debonnaire s d s s d s 1049 s d s s s s 1050 s d s d l. s. l s s 1051 bonâ fide 1052
 LORD J. RUSSELL , in explanation, remarked that his argument was that the sugar refiner of Holland could not possess any advantage from his bounty, since the sugar refiner of this country, in the third
 1064
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that when the right hon. Gentleman spoke of giving notice to Holland that at a certain period the treaty would cease, he seemed to forget that this was not merely a question of commerce and trade in refined sugar, nut that the treaty to which he referred was a treaty regulating the trade generally between this country and Holland. Did the right hon. Gentleman think that, in order to shut out the refined sugars of Holland, it was worth while for the Dutch to place a differential duty against the commerce and manufactures of this country, thereby putting the manufactures of this country at a disadvantage, as compared with the manufactures of Germany, France, or the United States? That was the effect of the argument of the right hon. Gentleman. Then the right hon. Gentleman said, after all there was an advantage given by bounty in Holland to the refiners of Holland, therefore this country ought to impose a higher duty on all foreign sugars on account of that bounty. He did not deny that there might be some apparent advantage in that bounty being given to the refiners of Holland; but there was a great difference of opinion on the subject. Many in this country were of opinion that
 1063
 MR. DISRAELI  said: The right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of
 1057 1058 l 1059 1060 1061
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  considered it necessary to state, at the earliest possible opportunity, the course the Government proposed to pursue with regard to this subject, and the reasons which had induced them to adopt that course. With regard to some inaccuracies which had been pointed out in one of the schedules, as to the duties upon refined sugar and upon brown clayed sugar the produce of colonies, they might be corrected in Committee. The principal alteration which had been made, and which was shown in the paper delivered to Members of that House, was the consolidation of the duties upon double and single refined sugar. He was sorry to say that the result of the communications he had had with his hon. Friend the Member for Westbury (Mr. J. Wilson), and which they had together had with sugar refiners, had led the Government to conclude that, at present,
 1043 ad valorem 1044 1045 "That the Duty upon Candy, Brown or "White refined Sugar, or Sugar rendered by any process equal in quality thereto, the growth or produce of a British Possession, should be 17 s d
 MR. CARDWELL  had the honour of representing some of those who were most interested in the question. During the whole of the Session they were always told, both in Committee and in the House, that the system of refining in bond was a great advantage to which the West Indians might look forward. Now, the Chancellor of the Exchequer said, that if the power of refining in bond were given at all, it should not be optional, but compulsory, and that he did not see his way clearly to a solution of the difficulties attendant upon such a scheme. This was but an unsatisfactory answer to the West Indian producer. He did not know what difficulties the Chancellor of the Exchequer might have met with on communicating with the heads of the revenue departments; but if they had been made acquainted with this whilst the West India Committee was sitting,
 1047
 MR. BARKLY  had heard with mingled astonishment and regret the announcement made by the right hon. Baronet, that after all the promises made to the West Indian interest, with respect to refining in bond being permitted, and all the advantages which it was stated would result to them from that measure, it was the intention of the right hon. Baronet to abandon the plan for the present Session. This was a fresh instance of that extraordinary vacillation of purpose on the part of the present Government which would in future prevent the trading interest of this country from placing any reliance whatever upon their promises, officially made in that House. This was no new measure; it had been always represented during the Session as one of the boons to be given to the West Indian interest by those who were connected with the Government. It was so stated in the House by the hon. Member for Westbury (Mr. J. Wilson) on the 23rd of June; and the statement had been again and again confirmed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer also in the House. The next thing heard was, that the preliminaries of the measure had been settled at an interview between the refiners and the Chairman of the principal Revenue Board concerned, at the office of the Chancellor of the Exchequer; indeed, in the City, the parties interested in the measure were favoured with a paper purporting to be the heads of the arrangement then come to. It was only upon Saturday last, when gentlemen connected with the West Indies requested an interview with the right hon. Gentleman, with a view to offer some suggestions, that they were told that he had changed his mind, and that there was to be no refining in bond. The reasons he had assigned were far from satisfactory. It was impossible to form so low an estimate of his capabilities for office as to suppose that it was only after the measure had been talked of for weeks, and after the preliminaries of it had been settled, that he thought of seeing whether the revenue could be made secure—whether the measure was practicable; it seemed incredible that it should have been only on Friday last that the Chairman of the Customs and Excise went over a refinery with that view. There was no difficulty
 1046 s Economist
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that it was not very easy to follow the calculations of the hon. Gentleman with regard to Dutch sugar; but, as far as he could understand the hon. Gentleman, he had made it out that a very large bounty was given to the Dutch refiners on exported sugar by their Government. The hon. Gentleman stated that 100 cwt. of raw sugar produced 68 cwt. of refined sugar, on which he paid no duty whatever. If, then, the Dutch had this bounty on sugar exported to this country, it would be a very serious thing to permit them to compete on equal terms with our own sugar refiners. Considering the difficulty there was in distinguishing sugars in a manufactured state, the better plan seemed to be to increase the rate of duty on all foreign sugars.
 MR. GOULBURN  begged to confirm the statement of his hon. Friend the Member for Liverpool. It was perfectly true there was no distinct proposition made to that effect in the Committee; but, from conversations with the Members of the Government, the general belief was, that the permission would be granted.
 MR. GOULBURN  asked whether it had never struck the right hon. Gentleman that throughout the whole of this Bill he insisted rigidly that the West Indies should be subjected to the same inconvenience which he had described as operating so prejudicially towards foreign countries?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  must deny altogether the statement of the hon. Member for Liverpool, that the Members of the Government, when sitting in the Committee on the West Indian inquiry, distinctly announced their intention of proposing a plan for allowing the refinery of sugar in bond. Although they certainly had examined witnesses in that Committee, to see how far the measure was practicable, and might have evinced a great anxiety to arrive at that conclusion; yet they never did, either as individual Members of the Committee, or still less as individual Members of the Government, intimate their determination to take any such measure. With respect to the proposal of allowing sugar to be refined in bond, he altogether agreed with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that, if it were possible to do so consistently with the security of the revenue, it would be a most important boon to the West Indian interest; but he thought his right hon. Friend had done his duty in not proposing a measure of so much importance unless he saw his way more clearly.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, there was only one point to which he should refer, and that was the censure which the noble Lord had cast upon the Government with reference to the Dutch. The Dutch had stated that the English Government were bound to admit sugar refined in that country on the same principle as they admitted that of Belgium. That was a claim which could not be disputed; and he believed that if a contrary principle were acted upon, no country would suffer more than this. What was the case of the Channel Islands? Those islands being allowed to import into this country their own produce free of duty, certain parties had taken advantage of this to manufacture confections and other things, which were sent in large quantities to this country merely for the sake of the saccharine matter they contained, and thus the Customs regulations were altogether evaded. To cite such an instance as that against the claim of Holland, in a case in which equity was on the side of that country, would have been a
 1053
 MR. HERRIES  said, the whole question was one of adjustment of protection, and he thought the taunt which the noble Lord had thrown out against his right hon. Friend (Mr. Gladstone) altogether inapplicable. The whole question, he repeated, was one of adjustment, and, being so, the material point was to ascertain the precise amount of benefit which the bounty of the Dutch Government conferred. Not to take the bounty into consideration, was, in his opinion, giving to this favoured nation clause a more favourable interpretation towards the foreigner than ever was intended or anticipated. He thought it was quite in accordance with the treaty and with the duty of the Government to have apprised the Dutch Government that they would not receive its sugars with its special bounty upon the same footing as the sugar of other countries which did not enjoy such bounty. The noble Lord seemed to base his support of this scheme upon free-trade principles, so that it would appear free trade meant an under disregard of British interest, and the exposing of the British manufacturer to foreign competition at whatever disadvantage. [Lord J. RUSSELL: I did not say so.] No, but such was the only inference which could be drawn from the observations of the noble Lord. If this was free-trade policy, he wished its advocates joy of it. It was clear that in this case it was both unjust and unequal. The noble Lord depended mainly for the maintenance of his measure, not upon argument or facts, but upon a majority of that House; for he had shown such a total want of acquaintance, not to say ignorance of the subject, as he had never before witnessed in a Minister. He would support the Amendment of his noble Friend.
 MR. HERRIES  considered the observations of the right hon. Baronet (Sir F. Baring) to be deserving of the greatest consideration. He stated that the Committee were of opinion that great reductions in the amount of the estimates could be made. The Committee which had been appointed had only entered into a consideration of the Ordnance Estimates, and they had occupied a great length of time upon it. This fact demonstrated that the Government had not been sufficiently early in bringing forward their proposals. He would give his assent to the votes, as under the circumstances he had really no choice in the matter.
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, that by the Bill as it at present stood, if the company purchased an estate on which there were farms of less than 30 acres in extent, they would have to get rid of those occupying tenants before they could sell the land. Remembering that nine-tenths of the farms of Ireland were under thirty acres, he thought the principle was so important that he should take the souse of the House upon it.
 MR. OSBORNE  desired that the hon. Gentleman would give some explanation to the House of the item of 31,448 l
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, the competition really to be apprehended was that of the Dutch refiner. The arguments in favour of the; plan of the Government, to which he had endeavoured to give an impartial consideration, were these: first, that we ought not to leave in the hands of the British refiner the monopoly of the British market; and in the second place, that the equity, if not the strict construction of the Treaty of the Netherlands required us to admit sugar from Holland on the same terms as sugar from Belgium. As to the argument of competition, on general grounds, he could not accede to it; but if it was to he sustained not by the fair advantages of industry, but by the artificial advantages which legislation could give, it would not be a fair mode of applying the principle of liberty in commerce, to admit this competition against our own refiner. As to the treaty, he conceived it was not wise to adopt an illiberal mode of constructing treaties. If they were bound to ob-serve the principles of equity towards foreign countries, they were bound to observe the principles of equity towards their own subjects; and if it were equitable to give a free construction to the stipulations of a commercial treaty, so was it equitable to preserve the equality of footing of our own trader, and not to suffer him to be crushed by the competition of those who were sustained by the long purse of a foreign Government. He could not help observing, that the treaty with Holland, on the strength of which this difficulty was raised, was a terminable treaty. It was a difficulty which might require an exceptional arrangement for a term of twelve months, after which we had liberty to require the termination of the treaty. We came back to this question, was there a considerable bounty given by the laws of Holland to the refiner of sugar in that country, or was there not? He must say, that the evidence was what he should call demonstrative in favour of the fact that a large bounty was given to the Dutch refiner; and he had heard nothing advanced
 1062
 SIR F. BARING  said, it appeared that the Committee appointed upon public expenditure had been employed for some time on the Navy Estimates. He was a Member of that Committee, and he thought when they came to read that report, that the House would not consider that their time had been wasted. The Government could not be charged with having delayed that report; on the contrary, they had forwarded their labours in every possible way, and there was no evidence they required which was not placed at their disposal. He trusted that it was the intention of the Government to reappoint next year the
 1068
 SIR W. CLAY said, in the borough which he represented, by far the larger proportion of the sugar-refining trade of England was concentrated. He had been in communication with parties engaged in that trade, and he would say, it was after the most deliberate investigation of the difficulties attending any plan of refining in bond, that they had come to the conclusion that no plan yet presented would obviate those difficulties, and that it would he impossible to prevent fraud alike on the revenue and the honest trader without such a close, constant, and vexatious interference of the excise officers as would in the highest degree embarrass the proceedings
 1048
 MR PAGE WOOD  said, the House must be almost unanimously of opinion that of all properties devoted to great and useful purposes, that in question had been the most mismanaged; and there fore it was most important to ascertain the extent of property sacrificed. He did not entertain the fears expressed by the noble Lord with regard to the result of the commission of inquiry. The property under consideration stood upon much the same footing as property in general devoted to corporate purposes, with respect to which the fullest in-formation had been obtained by means of a commission. He did not believe that the bishops, deans, chapters, and other dignitaries of the Church would think it right or respectful to withhold information sought with a view to the diffusion of the blessings of religion. The evil originated in the great act of spoliation which took place in the reign of Henry VIII., when the property taken from the then holders was handed over partly to laymen, in which case it was charged with none of the duties which formerly attached to it, and partly to spiritual persons whose situation was totally different from that of their predecessors. He was no advocate for the celibacy of the clergy; but undoubtedly under the celibacy which formerly prevailed, there was an  esprit de corps 1090 l l l 1091 l l l l l l l l l 1092
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, I have heard with very great satisfaction the speech of the hen. and learned Gentleman. I think that while he brought before the House a very important subject, he did so in a spirit for which he is entitled to credit; and that, in aiming at the improvement of the Church, he introduced no topic to which a just objection could be offered. The proposal of the hon. and learned Gentleman is certainly one well worthy of consideration; but it is at the same time encompassed with a great many difficulties of a practical nature, which it behoves every one who may undertake to bring forward a measure in detail seriously to consider before he introduces it. The property of the Church has, I think, been truly represented by the hen. and learned Gentleman—whether the exact calculations which he has quoted be correct or not, no doubt the actual property of the Church is of a value far exceeding that which is derived from it by the clergy. With respect, however, to the mode in which this property should be managed, and the alterations which should be made, there has been already a good deal of inquiry. There is, in fact, at this moment a Committee sitting on leases, which is, I am informed, about to make a report on that particular subject; and I should be sorry to say that any particular scheme ought to be adopted until I have seen that report, and fully considered to what the inquiries of the Committee have led, and what is the nature of the proposal which they make. It is obvious, that if you were to take the first scheme proposed by the hon. and learned Gentleman, that of Mr. Finlayson, and to allow the leases to run out, it would, according to the calculation
 1085 1086 1087 1088
 MR. HORSMAN  rose to move, pursuant to notice—
 "That an humble Address he presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be pleased to take into Her consideration the whole condition of the Established Church as regards its Temporalities; that She will direct an inquiry to be made into the full value of all Church Property under lease, and cause such measures to be prepared as may make the Revenues of the Church more fully conducive to the religious teaching of the people." 1076 1077 l l 1078 l l l l l l l primâ facie 1079 l l l l l l l l l l 1080 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1081 1082
 MR. F. O'CONNOR : Sir, there were two questions submitted to the Committee; the one was to inquire into the expenditure of the monies of the company, and the other as to the practicability or impracticability of the plan. It having been circulated, not in one newspaper, but in nearly every newspaper in the country, that I had established this plan for my own benefit, und that improper accounts were for that object kept, I beg now to appeal to those hon. Gentlemen who were on the Committee—and especially to the Chairman of that Committee—and to ask them, first, whether every facility which they thought necessary for the investigation and fair hearing of the whole case was not given to them?
 MR. GOULBURN  could not refrain from expressing his satisfaction at the tone and manner of the hen. Mover's speech; and, as he had differed from him on former occasions, he was then anxious to take that opportunity in expressing his concurrence in what had on the present occasion fallen from him. Still, he felt that this was a question of some difficulty and of great delicacy, and required great care in dealing with it. They had had experience in the year 1833–34 as to inquiries put to the clergy as to the amount of their incomes. He believed, with very few exceptions, these inquiries had been answered; the intentions of the House had been complied with. The hon. Gentleman, however, did not merely call for the amount of the incomes of the bishops and clergy, but he called upon the lessees of the Church to make discovery of the income which they derived from the property of the Church. This was a very different thing from dealing with an inquiry, the object of which was to increase the spiritual efficiency of the Church. He therefore repeated, it required the greatest delicacy and caution on the part of the Government in dealing with the subject in the way proposed. The hon. Member who had brought forward the Motion had pointed out in language in which he (Mr. Goulburn) entirely concurred, the necessitous situation of a large portion of the parochial clergy of this country, and expressed a desire that every clergyman should have an income of at least 200 l 1093 1094
 MR. LABOUCHERE  proposed a Resolution to enable him to bring in a Bill to make some alteration in the law as regarded steam navigation. The object which he had in view was simple. All steamboats going to sea were required to have their machinery inspected by surveyors, and penalties were imposed on boats going to sea without such inspection; but there were no penalties attached to steamboats navigating rivers, and it was almost as important that there should be an inspection of steamboats on rivers, as of steamboats going to sea. Some cases of great abuse having lately been brought under his notice, he thought it not right to leave the public exposed to such dangers. This was the principal object of the Bill; but there was another
 1074
 SIR G. HAYTER : I bear my most willing testimony to the accuracy of what the hon. and learned Gentleman has stated. I am desirous to admit that every facility was given to the Committee for the investigation of the whole of the accounts and matters relating to this company. Every officer that we called for was at once produced. The accounts were rigidly investigated by an accountant, who was appointed by myself at the suggestion of the Committee;
 1075
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL : I perfectly agree that every facility was given to the Members of the Committee to investigate the affairs of the company; but at the same time, I cannot conceal from myself this fact, that the whole of the original accounts, as stated to have been audited by Mr. Cuffay and Mr. Knight, the auditors of the company, with the exception of the accounts for the quarter ending September last, December last, and November last, have been destroyed. They were not forthcoming; although I admit that, according to the data which was placed before the accountant nominated by the Committee, there does appear to be a balance due to the hon. and learned Gentleman of 3,200 l
 SIR E. BUXTON , in seconding the Motion, said the suggestions of his hon. Friend would tend to strengthen and establish the Church of these realms. It appeared to him unnecessary to go over the ground which had been so ably dwelt upon by his hon. Friend who had brought forward the proposition. The facts were plainly before them, and they had in their recollection the opinion expressed on the subject by the noble Lord at the head of the Government in the year 1836. That opinion was acceded to by a majority, though a small one, in that House; and yet twelve years had elapsed without any measure being taken to put the matter on a more satisfactory footing. They had, in fact, before them the opinions of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, and the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge, who at that time declared that though they were unwilling to devote this fund, if it existed, in order that it should take the place of church-rates, yet if such a fund did exist, they were willing and anxious that it should be applied to the extension of the efficiency of the Church. They acknowledged at that time, that it was possible to adopt an improved method of dealing with the funds, and they stated most strongly that a great necessity existed in populous districts for increased efficiency in the Church Establishment. There was also the fact, mentioned by his hon. and learned Friend, that 2,600 clergymen in the Church received but 100 l l l 1083 Thirteenth Report of the London City Mission. "One end of which is in the thronged thoroughfare of Holborn-hill, a few yards east of St. Andrew's Church, and the other entrance is in Shoe-lane. On the occupation of this district by the mission, the missionary appointed to it ascertained, that although in Plumtree-court there were hut thirty houses, these contained 153 families, three or four families living frequently in a single room of a house. Drunkenness, swearing, and vice of almost every description were luxuriant and unchecked. Few of the adults could even read, and of the 175 children under 14 years of age, not more than 30 attended any school, until the missionary recently established a ragged school." "Orchard-place and Gray's-buildings are two contiguous courts within a stone's throw of the aristocratic squares known by the names of Grosvenor, Manchester, and Portman. They contain 49 houses, which by a recent investigation of a missionary were found to be inhabited by about 600 families, consisting of no fewer than 1,757 persons. A highly respectable medical gentleman, who visits the courts professionally, and who is the son of a late venerated clergyman, informed the missionary, that before the hop season the population of these two little courts of 49 houses was very nearly 3,000. The disgusting scenes witnessed on exploring those 49 houses cannot be told. Of the 1,757 persons remaining in them, 1,274 were adults, of whom 484 could not read, only 14 attended Protestant worship, and but very few possessed the Scriptures. Their ignorance was extreme. One woman, for instance, when asked whether heaven or hell was the better place, replied, 'She supposed hell.' Of the 413 children in these courts 404 do not attend Sunday school, and 304 do not attend a daily school." 1084
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, the hon. and learned Member for Cockermouth had on that, as on a former occasion, triumphed without a battle; he had gained a virtual concession which might well satisfy a more ambitious mind. Assuming, therefore, that there would be no division, he rose for the purpose of calling attention to one or two points which he thought ought not to pass without notice. The hon. and learned Member for Cockermouth spoke of the income of the Church as amounting to 4,500,000 l. l l l l 1089
 SIR G. GREY  said, the law had been altered by the right hon. Baronet the
 1096
 MR. C. BERKELEY  proposed the omission from the Bill of the words, "before half-past twelve o'clock in the afternoon." His object was to strike out of the Bill all words requiring public-houses to be closed until some definite time on the Sunday, leaving in the Bill the provision compelling them to be closed during the morning service.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said, that the duty of 15 s d s s s d s d 1114 s d s d s s d s s s d s d s d s d s d s s d s d s s d s d
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had imposed a higher rate of duty on the white clayed sugar, as the article imported from the East Indies was of a finer description that that which was imported from the West Indies, He did propose to maintain the same relative differences between white clayed sugar and muscovado, he was not prepared to take from the West Indies the advantages thus obtained from them.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  observed, that in this division of the schedule there were six fresh blunders; but as they were blunders in favour of the West India planters, he had nothing to say against them. The hon. Member for Westbury (Mr. Wilson) shook his head. So he had to the other quarter of a hundred blunders in the scheme; and it was only when the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer became convinced of the mistakes, that the hon. Gentleman became suddenly convinced of them also. The duty, as it was proposed for 1848–1849, was 17 s s d s d s d s d s s s d 1116 s d s d s d s d s d s d s d
 The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER  was understood to say that the noble Lord was not correct in the grounds of calculation which he had advanced. The schedule was of very little importance; but with the view of obtaining for the West India body a greater degree of protection than they now enjoyed, the duty on British brown clayed sugar was fixed in the same proportion above that on muscovado sugar, as was the duty on foreign brown clayed above that on foreign muscovado.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  opposed it. The noble Lord was first the friend and then the opponent of the West Indian interest. Such a clause as this would not be palatable to the West Indian interest. Under this clause it would be impossible to prevent fraud. He was, however, willing to consider this question before next Session; but if any measure were introduced it must be far more general than that proposed by the noble Lord. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had lately been waited upon by several refiners, and they expressed themselves as opposed to the proposition of the noble Lord.
 MR. URQUHART : The case lies in a nutshell. It is a question merely of veracity. I must first beg the House to observe the extraordinary character of the Motion before it. You are required to rescind an order to adapt it to a false return which has been made, and papers are to be given to me which I never asked for and will not take. The noble Lord now says that he never concurred in the Address. His words are on record, as I shall presently show. I now assert, upon my honour, that the understanding on his part and mine was complete. There was no kind of doubt. He knew the papers I meant, assented to the demand I made, and now he comes down to call upon you to rescind that order upon the plea that it was in ignorance he acceded to it. Then comes the second plea, in reference to the amended order of April the 19th. He says he had allowed it to pass in inadvertence, and that I had not submitted the order in the form to which he had assented to it. I again declare, upon my honour, that the noble Lord assented to the amended order, and that if not in his handwriting, as I believe it was, it passed through his hands. You are called upon to rescind your order upon grounds that are not true. If the facts were as they are now sought to be represented, would not the noble Lord have corrected the error when he perceived it? Would he have waited for two or three months, and then, and at my repeated solicitations only, make a return to the order of papers which the order did not specify? Is not this subterfuge incompatible with the pretext? Surely the case is self-evident. There is deception in its very face. I acquit the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) of any in-
 1121 Hansard: "He (Mr. Urquhart) called upon the noble Lord to Lay that correspondence on the table of the House. The noble Lord could not pretend any injury to the public service, since it had been already printed. The noble Lord could not complain of being taken unawares, for every line of it on his side bad been written for publication. He now called upon the noble Lord either to retract the insinuations to which he had given utterance on Wednesday last, or to lay upon the table of the House the correspondence to which he had referred." Hansard: "I shall have no objection to lay on the table the letters to which the hon. Gentleman alludes;
 1122 Portfolio Portfolio Portfolio "When he found that the Motion had been made, he sent a message by his right hen. Friend the Under Secretary for the Foreign Department, that he should by no means have consented to the return, and that if the hen. Member had given him an opportunity for doing so he should have felt it his duty to object to it, and for this reason, that he did not consider it conformable to the spirit of the constitution, and that he thought, &c. The return for which the hen. Member moved was the correspondence between himself and Mr. Backhouse, in the years 1837 and 1838, whilst the correspondence he (Lord palmerston) had pledged himself to produce began in 1839; but the engagement he had made was to produce the papers he hold in his hand when he was replying to the hon. Member for Youghal, and from which he read an extract, and which, in fact, was the correspondence with Mr. Backhouse as to the publication of the  Portfolio 1123 "All the letters which had appeared in the newspapers, and also two or three subsequently addressed by me to Lord Palmerston in 1837, which had not so appeared." "It did not enter into his imagination that when the hen. Member had consented to rescind the Address for the papers to which he objected, he should substitute a second Address calling for the same thing. He imagined that the hon. Member had altered the terms of his Address, and that he was content to take the other correspondence which he said he was ready to give. It was, perhaps, his fault that he had not looked more narrowly into the matter." Portfolio Portfolio? Portfolio 1124
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  observed that the case was a very simple one. In replying, on the 6th of March, to the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Youghal, who had impugned his foreign policy, he quoted one or two extracts from a correspondence which had taken place in the years 1838–39 between Mr. Backhouse and the hon. Member for Stafford, with respect to the  Portfolio Portfolio 1125 Portfolio
 MR. ANSTEY  thought the noble Lord's explanation far from satisfactory. He (Mr. Anstey) called attention to the report which appeared in  Hansard Portfolio Portfolio
 MR. ANSTEY  reiterated his objections to the Bill. It was an  ex post facto
 MR. E. DENISON  wished the right hon. Gentleman to give his opinion on the three following cases: Firstly, if a person presented himself at the door of a union workhouse in a state of intoxication, ought such a person to he an object of public charity? Secondly, supposing the case that some labourers had been engaged in labouring work, and had been in the receipt of very large wages—that a strike took place, that those parties were thrown out of work, and that they immediately had recourse to the union workhouse, and represented themselves as destitute, ought they to be taken into the house, or otherwise receive relief? His third question was, whether certain men, between the ages of eighteen and thirty, who were known to be circulating through the country, and who were in the habit of con-
 1146
 MR. SANDARS  said, that though the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Buller) had been compelled by circumstances to withdraw the greater part of the measures he had introduced, yet he thanked him for Persevering with the clause which spread the charge of vagrancy over the whole union. This evil of vagrancy was so great, so increasing, that it admitted not of delay, and he was glad to see a prospect of the principle being admitted; for, depend upon it, unless the guardians generally were made to feel the burden, no effectual steps could or would be taken to mitigate the evil. The country guardians, as the law now stood, bore none of the burden, and they opposed those who did,
 1147 l l l 1148
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  stated, that cases of extensive treating had been clearly proved in the North Cheshire election.
 LORD J. RUSSELL , who was almost inaudible in the gallery, was understood to say that the law as it stood was intended to visit with punishment those who had treated, with the view of corruptly influencing votes; but if the treating existed without any intention of corruptly influencing votes, he did not see how, in such a case, the penalties of the law could be applied. The application of those penalties would naturally depend upon the particular circumstances of each case, for it was impossible to make a law which would apply exactly to every instance.
 SIR R. PEEL  observed, that there was some misunderstanding as to the effect of the present law; and it was supposed that difficulties arose from its recent change. Now, such, he apprehended, was not the case. The law was not recently made more strict than it was by the old statute which had existed for 150 years. The effect of the noble Lord's alteration was, that if at any period shortly before or after the election there should he treating, with the intention of influencing voters corruptly—that in that case the treating rendered the Member liable to the loss of his scat. In that Act of the noble Lord's, the intent of treating, to render it part of the
 1155 corpus delicti s d
 MR. HENLEY  thought that the existing law had been well explained by the right hon. and learned Member for Bath (Mr. S. Wortley), and the right hon. Member for Tamworth (Sir R. Peel). In the present case, by no possible interpretation of the law were the parties amenable. It was quite impossible to define the proper limits of treating. If inquiry was to be made into every case of a gentleman being hospitable to his tenants, where, pray, was such an inquiry to stop? In the present case it appeared that the treating was neither corrupt, nor given by the candidate. What was there then to complain of? He hold that it was a morbid feeling of pureism which had induced the Committee to report the matter to the House at all. The fact was, that if you refused to allow any expenses of the kind to be defrayed by Members, you would be virtually disfranchising the great masses of the poorer classes.
 MR. HOBHOUSE  opposed the clause. The Committee divided on the question that the clause stand part of the Bill:—Ayes 117; Noes 19; Majority 98.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL : I proposed to insert it.
 MR. HODGSON : Why had Aylesbury been omitted? Why had Sligo been omitted?
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL : I was going to propose it.
 MR. HODGSON  would add another borough—Athlone. It was true that many of those boroughs had returned Gentlemen who generally supported the views of Her Majesty's Government. He thought the schedule was very partially and capriciously drawn.
 MR. P. HOWARD  gave the Bill his most steady and earnest support; and in doing so, he acted in accordance with the wishes, if not of the whole, of a very large and respectable body of the constituency of Carlisle. A petition had been presented from the mayor and corporation of Carlisle, praying that this Bill might pass, and a searching inquiry take place into all the circumstances of the Carlisle election. He (Mr. P. Howard) could not forget that the liberties of a people had been oftener ruined by corruption than by tyranny.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  referred to the report of the Carlisle Election Committee, showing that a large expenditure for the purpose of treating had taken place at the late election; that Mr. Hodgson had been found guilty of treating through his agents, though it was not proved that he had been cognisant of their practices.
 MR. C. BERKELEY  hoped the inquiry would be extended to Carlisle and Cheltenham too. Why should the hon. Member wish to screen Carlisle, or shrink from inquiry, if there was nothing he was ashamed of?
 MR. HODGSON  did not object to extend the inquiry to Carlisle, if they would make it general.
 MR. WYLD  defended the Bodmin constituency, whom he declared to be as pure as any in the empire. They recorded their votes unrestricted and uncontrolled; and the ballot would be of no use to them. Bodmin had undergone the ordeal of a Commission of Inquiry; and the application
 1157
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  was understood to say that Great Yarmouth was originally included in the Bill, but had been withdrawn, in consequcnce of the freemen being disfranchised. He proposed to insert Sligo and Lancaster, but not Bodmin, Lewes, or Gloucester.
 MR. HENLEY  suggested that the Chairman should report progress, to give an opportunity of considering the cases of the boroughs now first proposed to be introduced.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  hoped the Committee would first dispose of Carlisle, before reporting progress.
 MR. HILDYARD  said, there were the same grounds for inserting Bodmin as Carlisle.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  read the report in the Bodmin case, where the treating had not been traced to the sitting-Member or his agents. In the case of Carlisle, the sitting Member was declared guilty of treating by his agents.
 MR. ARMSTRONG  defended his constituents from the charge of corruption.
 SIR E. COLEBROOKE , as a Member of the Committee in the Lancaster case, recapitulated its principal features, and said if that borough was included, it would be impossible to exclude any place.
 MR. WYLD  said, that as allusion had been made to the Bodmin election, he might state that it had been proved before the Committee that one of the electors had, in his zeal for one of the candidates, issued sixteen refreshment tickets of the value of 5 s
 MR. V. SMITH  felt persuaded that the right hon. Gentleman who brought in the Bill ought to be extremely careful to avoid doing anything that had a tendency rather to increase than to diminish the expense attendant upon the present measure; and he rather apprehended that such a result would ensue from the proceedings in which they were now engaged; he should there-force wish to see the circular which provided for the administration of the law in this matter, As, however, it seemed to be then not convenient to produce it, they might perhaps proceed with the Bill through a Committee, and he should not at present resist its progress.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  wished to know whether it was true that certain portions of the police had been armed with swords, having saws at the back; and if they had, whether it was done by the sanction and recommendation of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department; and whether it was
 1154
 LORD G. BENTINCK  trusted that the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not bring up the report upon the Sugar Duties Bill, unless he wished the name of Wood to be immortalised in this Bill of blunders. If he persevered, there would he nothing but laughter at him and the hon. Member for West-bury. There was not a merchant in the City who would take the Chancellor of the Exchequer for his clerk. He was sure if this Bill was persevered in, there was not a merchant's clerk in the City who would not believe that he ought to be the Chan-
 1159
 LORD H. VANE  thought it would be unjust if, by the area of rating being extended to unions instead of the parochial area, there should, as he believed, be a great additional charge upon railroads. The evil of vagrancy in the north of England was great, and one of the difficulties attending the extension of the area of chargeability was, that without some very stringent measures for the suppression of vagrancy, it would be increased by such extension of the area. The difficulties in the way of a union settlement were very great, and it would be better to proceed by a bit by bit reform, than to adopt at once so extensive a change, to which he foresaw much opposition.
 MR. DISRAELI  said: I wish to ask a question of the noble Lord the Secretary
 1152
 MR. BULLER  wished to state why
 1151
 MR. C. BULLER  said, the question raised by the hon. Member for Birmingham was a very large one. He had his own opinion on the subject, and it did not entirely coincide with that of the hon. Member. With respect to the questions put by the hon. Member (Mr. E. Denison), he might state that his object had been, ill the circular to parochial officers, which he hoped to lay on the table to-day, to point out to the unions the necessity of exercising a discretion in such cases; and if a general explanation of his views did I not prove sufficient, he would labour most sedulously, from time to time, until he had I made himself understood. With respect to those persons who were in the receipt; of good wages, he had attempted to guard against their being improperly relieved; and if it should be known in the neighbourhood that they were in that condition, unless they were bowed down by illness, he should say that the relieving officer would exercise a wise discretion in refusing relief. As to habitual vagrancy, he would put that act down as he would any other offence.
 MR. C. BULLER  concurred in what had fallen from the hon. Members for Sal-ford and Sunderland with regard to the hardship caused by the inequality of rating of different parishes in the same towns. He had already expressed his opinion in favour of retaining the principle of parochial chargeability; but none of the arguments in favour of this principle applied to the case of towns, in which one parish paid more than another, in consequence of the labourers living in one parish, and working in another. The question underwent much discussion in the Settlement Committee of last year; and it appeared to he the general opinion that a complete and uniform charge would he the right thing with regard to the several parishes forming large towns. He proposed to lay on the table this Session a Bill enacting that where there was a town coextensive with a union (of which he believed there were only six cases), and where the town was not under a local Act, there should be in such cases an entire union charge for all purposes whatsoever. If the Bill gave satisfaction, it would be easy to extend it to smaller towns which were not coextensive with unions. He thus proposed to feel his way, and he hoped the House would allow him to go on in this kind of pottering manner. The present discussion was somewhat premature.
 MR. C. BULLER  said, that one object of the Bill was to renew the temporary law respecting the irremovability of the poor, and to continue Mr. Bodkin's Bill for one year. In doing that he thought it right to make the whole subject of the Bill extend only for one year also.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  believed the calculations on which the duties were based were correct, and he would persevere in bringing up the report. He was quite willing that no merchant in the City should receive him as a clerk.
 MR. HUDSON  could confirm the statement of the hon. Member for Salford as to the effect of the present system. Some of the richest parishes in the city of York were almost entirely relieved from poor-rates. There was another point to which he begged to call the attention of the right bon. Gentleman (Mr. C. Buller), and that was the hardship of which railway proprietors had to complain in the rating of railways to the relief of the poor. In looking over the accounts of one railway with which he was connected, the Eastern Counties, he found that they had paid 12,000 l l s s d 1145 l s s d
 MR. HUDSON  had, as a chief magistrate, found it only necessary to commit vagrants found in the town. By steadily pursuing this system, and employing a few policemen, he had always found that in five or six days the town was completely cleared. A little additional expense was incurred, but it saved a good deal in the end.
 MR. MUNTZ  would suggest to the House whether the relief of the poor ought not to he a national act instead of a local act. Why should funded property be free from the poor-rate, or stock in trade? He knew that the difficulty of taxing stock in trade was great, and that the expense of collecting it would he large; but that was no reason why it should not be taxed as well as any other description of property.
 MR. BROTHERTON  hoped the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Buller) would bring in a Bill to make the poor in large towns chargeable upon the unions. At present the poor had to keep the poor, for the rich evaded this duty. In the parish in which he lived the poor-rates were 1 s s
 MR. HENLEY  agreed in what had fallen from the hon. Member who had just sat down, that a great deal of the pressure and temporary suffering in the country had arisen from the unfortunate depression of trade in many parts; and that a great deal of the burden of the rates had arisen from that cause and no other. With respect to the mode of dealing with vagrants, it was a most important subject, and he thought a great discretion should he exercised where persons claimed relief who were in a state of intoxication, or who had means or credit of their own. But he (Mr. Henley) had been disappointed, and he thought the right hon. Gentleman would disappoint the views of the country, by the mode in which he proposed to deal with tramps or professional vagrants. He was sorry to find that they were to be dealt with only by refusing relief. The administration of the poor-law had now become a responsible department of the Government; and the relief of the poor, be they vagrant or casual, would fall into the hands of the relieving
 1150
 MR. P. HOWARD  said, that some part of the pressure of the rates upon large towns had arisen from the general depression of trade in the early part of the year. He trusted that during the next half year much labour would be absorbed, and that the pressure upon the country would be relieved. The five years' residence might be accounted a grievance; but he believed the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) had been actuated by the most beneficent motive in bringing forward that clause, and that it was upon the whole founded on the greatest humanity. He trusted that, whatever might be the evils attending vagrancy, the poor-law unions would be ready to grant relief to infirm and aged vagrants.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, in the late Chartist disturbances it had been found that the mobs were augmented by the 4,000 or 5,000 vagrants who were always preying upon the community. Unless vagrancy, which was rapidly increasing, was dealt with in a most stringent manner, the large towns would be in constant fear of
 1149 l l l l
 SIR G. GREY  assured the noble Lord that no such intention existed as to arm the police habitually with swords. It had been the practice at different times, and in circumstances of danger, to arm the police. A larger number than usual had been armed in London, Liverpool, and Manchester, in consequence of the threatening language which had been held. The formidable weapons referred to formed part of a store in the Tower belonging to the Ordnance, to whom an application had been made; and they granted a loan of them because they were not the most serviceable. The backs of them were serrated in the manner of a saw, as they were intended formerly for the use of troops in a bivouac, for the felling of trees and the erection of tents. They were not intended for permanent use.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  had suggested, at the time the poor-law was passed, that small, well-administered parishes should be exempted from the operation of the law. When the right hon. Gentleman attempted to frame a new system of rating for the country, it was very like a breach of faith to these small parishes, and threw an additional burden on parishes where property had been bought and sold under the old system. If a greater burden were thrown upon property than existed at the time of the contract, it would have the effect of confiscating property.
 SIR R. PEEL , in moving the estimates for the British Museum, observed that he was sure he should consult the wishes of the House by refraining from any lengthened remarks at so late a period of the night. The original estimate on account of the Museum was 53,000 l l l l 1158 l l l
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  said, the vagrant had half-a-dozen reasons now for following his trade which he had not before—workhouses, relieving officers, overseers, were all interested in getting rid of him as fast as they could; and there was this additional cause, that the whole country teemed with beer-shops, many of which had lodgings for the poor—these and other causes gave facilities for leading an errant life.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The hon. Gentleman has stated correctly the obligations entered into by the Treaty of 1839. By that treaty a portion of the duchy of Luxemburg was ceded and annexed to the kingdom of Belgium. The House is aware that the grand duchy of Luxemburg formed part of the Germanic Confederation, the King of the Netherlands being a member of the Germanic Confederation, as duke of the grand duchy of Luxemburg; the articles of that treaty of 1839 stated that, in consideration of the cession made by the grand duke of a portion of Luxemburg, be was to receive an equivalent in Limburg. The district was described, and it was to be held by him, either in his capacity of grand duke, or it was to he incorporated with the kingdom of the Netherlands. There was a subsequent article, by which the King of the Netherlands was to compensate the agnates of the house of Nassau for the loss they had sustained, and also the Germanic Confederation. The hon. Gentleman stated very correctly what these arrangements were. The King made an arrangement with the agnates of his house; what arrangement was entered into with the Germanic Confederation, Her Majesty's Government have no official knowledge of. But I have recently had an official communication from the Minister of the King of the Netherlands with regard to the proceedings of the National Assembly at Frankfort, respecting that portion of the empire referred to. Before Her Majesty's Government shall be in a position to decide as to the degree of obligation imposed or conferred in that treaty upon England to interfere with regard to these transactions, I find it necessary to inquire from the Government of the Netherlands what passed between the late King of the Netherlands and the Germanic Confederation. I have not obtained that information, and therefore I am not able to say whether the Government feel themselves bound or entitled to interfere, and if so in what way.
 MR. DUNCAN  said, this Bill had been considered in almost every district in Scotland, and it was a matter well worthy the attention of the House, that in the course of the last year as many as two hundred and thirty-nine petitions from various parts of Scotland were presented against the Bill, and in favour of it only five petitions. At present there existed but one feeling on the subject, and that was decidedly opposed to the measure. Now, supposing that there was not clear evidence of that fact, he would ask the House, did their experience of the Scottish people load them to think that that portion of Her Majesty's subjects were so fickle as to entertain
 1168
 MR. LOCKHART  was most anxious to carry out the wishes of his constituents by opposing the Bill which the learned Lord had brought under their consideration. But, however desirous he might be to resist every stage of the measure, he could not remain in town for that purpose, for a corps of yeomanry to which he had the honour to belong had been called out upon service in the disturbed districts, and he therefore must bring his Parliamentary attendance to a close. Serious opposition had been raised against the measure, and though many persons approved of the Bill, and admitted the soundness of its principle, yet they had never been told what the expenses of it were to be. Ought they, under such circumstances, to proceed to deliberate upon the details of such a measure? The Session was just closing—he saw by the newspapers that the Ministerial Gentlemen were to have their fish dinner on the 19th. Was it reasonable, then, to ask them to go on discussing such a Bill when there was not even a quorum present? He should move that the House be counted.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, a question before the House, connected with this Marriage
 1170
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  observed, that every one agreed in this, that the Bill then before them was the same measure that had been before the people of Scotland since last April twelvemonth, and, although everybody agreed in the principle, yet hon. Members seemed to contend that there was not now time to consider the measure—they agreed in the principle, but they did not like the machinery; and that reasoning, if good for anything, went to show that they ought at once to go into Committee on the Bill. He felt considerable suprise that hon. Members did not appear to be aware of the inconvenience which resulted from the present state of the law upon all occasions where it became necessary to inquire into cases of disputed succession. One case he might mention, it was that of a woman, who for some time was known in Glasgow by a particular name; she afterwards went to America, and in consequence of some legal proceedings which had been taken, as many as 300 persons of the same name started into existence, which stopped the whole of
 1171
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the question was certainly beset with difficulties, and he must admit that the clause contained inconsistencies which it would not be easy to reconcile. If his noble Friend took his advice, he would not press the clause upon the House.
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  thought the hon. Gentleman ought to weigh well the meaning of the word "nuisance;" for the question might be raised whether black smoke was prejudicial to health. The only justification for such a clause as this was, that smoke had an effect on the public health. That House, in legislating, ought always to be very chary of entering on scientific subjects. They ought not to forget the lesson their experience had road to them in the matter of the excise on malt. The more he had seen of this Bill the more he was satisfied that there was a great deal of quackery and mock philosophy in such questions, and that this clause was manufactured by some quack. It ought not too hastily to be presumed that what were called nuisances were necessarily injurious to health. All persons connected with butchers and knackers were known to be more free from disease than any other trade whatever; and it was a fact which was also well known that every trade had a class of diseases peculiar to itself.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, the religious ceremony ought to be that portion of the proceedings connected with marriage which the House should especially recognise, and he wished that they could enforce a greater degree of strictness than had yet been put into operation with respect to the law of marriage. He believed that no one now denied the necessity of registration; at the same time, he hoped the House would not at so advanced a period of the Session proceed further with the Bill.
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  was sensible of the mischiefs experienced by the present state of the marriage law in Scotland, and of the imperious necessity of some change. Therefore, if the learned Lord would be satisfied simply with the affirmation of the principle, that some alteration of the nature proposed should take place, both in respect to marriages and registration in Scotland, he would readily assent to the second reading of each of the Bills; but, thinking it would be difficult, if not impossible, to give anything like due consideration to the details of the measures in the present Session, he felt bound to urge the hon. and learned Lord not to press them beyond the second reading. If the Marriage Bill stood alone, so great was the necessity of some change in the law, that it might possibly pass during the present Session; but, mixed up as it was with the machinery of the other Bill, it would require an elaborate discussion; and he would ask whether there was any reasonable prospect of an opportunity for such discussion being afforded at that period?
 MR. ELLIOT : The law of marriage in Scotland was disgraceful, and attended with serious consequences, particularly to the female part of the community. He thought that the statements of the learned Lord must convince the House of the absolute necessity of some change in respect to it. He saw no reason for putting off the Bills, as their nature was perfectly well known by the people of Scotland.
 LORD ASHLEY  asked whether Ministers, seeing the great and intense interest upon the subject of emigration, were prepared to take that subject into consideration during the recess, with a view to diffuse information, and afford facilities to those who desired to emigrate; he did not mean by an advance of money from the public funds?
 LORD ASHLEY : With the aid of whatever facilities the Government can afford.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  had given no notice of the question he was about to put to the Foreign Secretary, but no doubt the noble Lord could answer it at once: it was, whether he was not in possession of an official report of the Belgian Government, giving a distinct contradiction to the statement made the other night by the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the hon. Member for Westbury (Mr. J. Wilson); and if so, whether the document would be laid on the table?
 LORD G. BENTINCK  referred to the statement made respecting the sugar duties, and the premium given by the Belgian Government on the exportation of refined sugar.
 LORD G. BENTINCK : You have got it.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  could assure the noble Lord that the Government would be very happy to take any steps that might tend to diffuse information upon the subject. He thought that it would not be desirable, even if they had the means, to propose at present any large grant for the purpose, and that those who were desirous of emigrating would do much better to concert among themselves to make their emigration regular and well conducted than to look to the Government.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, in reference to the course suggested by the right hon. Member for Buteshire, that he must press the second reading of the Bills unconditionally. At the same time he did not mean to say that he was not aware of
 1172
 The LORD ADVOCATE , in moving the Second Reading of these Bills, said, he was not aware that any distinct objection had been taken to the principle of them. As to the complaints which had been made of the time at which they had been brought forward, he begged to remind the House that both the principle of the measures and the machinery by which it was proposed to carry them out had been already fully discussed. Bills had been introduced, read a second time, and passed through Committee  pro formâ l. 1165 status 1166 l. 1167
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was aware that it was his duty to do that which his hon. Friend had called upon him to do, namely, to consider the taxation of the country. In a great deal of what his hon. Friend had said, he expressed his concurrence; but he was not prepared to deal so largely as to reduce duties amounting to 9,000,000 l. 1192
 MR. BRIGHT  said he had opposed every Smoke Bill that had been introduced to the House, and he thought this clause contained all the absurdities of all the former measures put together. It would only tend to turn into ridicule the legislation of that House, as it was quite impossible to work out any Smoke Bill. For example, the kind of smoke to be put down was "opaque smoke," and it was to be considered opaque when it was not transparent. But, did not everybody see that the opacity of smoke coming out of a chimney would, by this description of it, depend very much upon whether there was a black or a white cloud behind it? By the clause, opaque smoke was only to be permitted during a certain time, which was allowed for putting on fires; but this would be found utterly unworkable. Sometimes the smoke of ten or twelve smithies adjoining each other was sent out by one common chimney. The fires of these smithies were renewed several times an hour; and how, then, was it possible to enforce the Act in such cases? In point of fact, the clause was ridiculous, and it would he impossible to carry it out. Parties producing smoke were to provide a "well-approved plan" for consuming it; but who was to decide what the well-approved plan was? In Lancashire, no three men were ever found to agree upon any effectual plan for preventing smoke.
 MR. HENLEY  was surprised that the noble Lord, after expressing the greatest respect for the right rev. Prelate who had proposed the clause now under the consideration of the House, should have taken the extraordinary course of proposing the omission of the most important portion. As to the cholera, if it should please God that that dreadful disease should come here, the cumbrous machinery of the Bill and the immense time which would be necessary to put it in motion, would prevent its being of any use in staying its ravages. The noble Lord's statements on that subject were all very well as a moans of exciting public attention upon an important matter, but they had no practical bearing upon the clause before the House. He thought Members should be allowed some time for consideration; it was hardly fair to call upon them to pronounce "aye" or "no" with respect to such an important proposition.
 MR. HUME  considered it unfortunate that his hon. Friend had not had an opportunity of introducing the subject at an earlier period of the evening, before the attention of the House had been exhausted. The stamp duties were in no country so unjust and so oppressive as in this, nor did they anywhere else bear so heavily upon the poor man, or so lightly on the rich. Under our excise laws also, all articles paid double or treble what they ought to pay, not only in the direct tax, but in the interference with labour and industry at every stage. He believed that if there were no excise duty on soap, that article would be manufactured better, and in greater quantities, and that it would become an article of export, instead of being, as it was until lately, an article of import. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had not the money to spare to carry out the views of his hon. Friend. Why, he never would have the money to spare, because in proportion as he increased the income, the expenditure was increased. The whole of the income-tax might been avoided; but as soon as they added 5,000,000 l.
 MR. HUME  said, that as he was not opposed to the principle of either Bill, he should rather not vote in favour of the Amendment. He should wish to take the second reading of the Marriages Bill then, and postpone further proceeding on the subject until next Session. He did not deny many of the inconveniences which had been pointed out by the learned Lord, and he felt no indisposition to support a measure the object of which would be to make people cautious; but he thought it extremely unfair at such a period of the Session as the present, to press forward a measure of this kind, without giving the parties principally interested an opportunity of being heard. They were proceeding with this Bill without any request from the people of Scotland to that effect. The learned Lord, in bringing this Bill forward, plainly wished to carry the House with him; but what sort of a House did he address? Throughout the whole of his speech there were not forty Members present. It was like the manner in which it was endeavoured to pass the Bank Bill last year; and what was the result—a universal condemnation of the whole proceeding. He wished registration to take effect; but he objected to the first Bill, because he did not think it would furnish a fair and honest registration. Under it any man might register his own death or the birth of a child, or that of a child which was dead. He wanted to see something like the system of registration which prevailed on the Continent, where no registration was effected till witnesses were examined, and every species of fair investigation instituted. It was really too bad thus at the close of a Session to bring in such a measure. The Bill, in its present form, had been submitted to the Statistical Society—a body
 1169 l.
 MR. P. HOWARD  did not think it possible to apply the clause to any manufacturing town.
 MR. P. HOWARD  rose to ask, whether it were the intention of Her Majesty's Government, cither singly or in concert with her Allies, to mediate between Sardinia and Austria, for the pacification of the North of Italy?
 MR. EWART  said, that nothing, at this late period of the Session, and at this hour of the evening, would have induced him to introduce his proposal for a "Revision of our present System of Taxation," except his deep conviction that the Parliament ought not to part without some consideration of that important subject. He had sought for opportunities of bringing it forward sooner, and he had been disappointed, He desired,  in limine 1182 l. l. l. 1183 stratum 1184 entrepôt 1185 l. l. l. è nihilo nil fit 1186 "No improvement has been introduced into the soap manufacture during the forty years we have been in the trade." "It is a purely chemical operation. But the interference of the Excise precludes that class of experiments which alone can lead to new processes. In 14 years 449 traders have withdrawn from the trade…… We attribute this constant change to the temptation afforded by a high duty to a class of men who evade it, and who steadily destroy the respectable maker." l. d 1187 s d s s d s 1188 l. l. 1189 l. l. l. l. s l. l. s l. d. l. l. l. ad valorem 1190 in transitu "The profits of stock and the wages of labour pay more then their just share of taxation. If we are in danger of falling into this state of things, may we not guard ourselves against it by some change in the principle and distribution of our taxation? I know I am treading upon tender ground. It is impossible to touch upon it without coming into collision with the interests of many, and those, perhaps, the most powerful in this
 1191 "That it is expedient that there be a revision of our present system of taxation; especially with a view to extend the commerce of the country, and to increase the employment and comforts of the people."
 MR. MACKINNON  supported the clause. If there were in it any inconsistencies which would prevent its working well, let those be amended; but let them not, on that account, throw out the clause. It should be recollected that a Committee of that House, which contained several manufacturers, had unanimously decided in favour of a measure for the prevention of smoke. If the clause were not operative, as had been alleged, then it would do no harm; and it would have a salutary effect at least in inducing owners of factories to abate the nuisance, and require their stokers to be more careful.
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  was aware his hon. Friend (Mr. P. Howard) represented the highest chimney in England. When he had been told on authority he could not fail to respect, that this clause would not work, he hardly should think it worth while to incur the odium which, rightly or wrongly, seemed to attach to its adoption; more especially as it was not intended to
 1180
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  was aware that peculiar importance was attached to this clause, owing to the circumstances under which it had been introduced into the Bill. It must at once be admitted, the clause was at variance with the principle of the important Amendment made in the Bill when it was before the House of Commons, on the proposition of the hon. Member for Oxford, and assented to by the Government. In the House of
 1174 1175 "Odessa, Juno 28,1847. "My Lord—The presence of the cholera in this town was for the first time acknowledged by public authority yesterday. According to official
 1176 "JAMES YEAMES. "The Right Hon. Viscount Palmerston, G.C.B." British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review Review "Whatever be the electrical or the atmospheric conditions of the air during epidemic visitations of cholera, there is no doubt that, in any given country, we can with tolerable certainty foretell both the locality and the class of people which will be chiefly affected. The locality will be that in which, from situation, or from the habits of the inhabitants, the air is damp from the exhalations from rivers or marshes, and is at the same time rendered impure by the animal and vegetable exhalations which steam up from a crowd of people, ignorant or careless of sanitary precautions; and the class of people will be those who are subjected to these influences. These simple principles—so simple, that it appears almost unnecessary thus formally to announce them—have been proved by a multitude of observations, both in this country and in India." 1177
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : In answer to the question of my hon. Friend, I can assure him and the House that Her Majesty's Government are deeply sensible of the great importance of seeing a termination put to that unfortunate warfare which is now taking place in the north of Italy; and I am able—although I have no right to speak for another Government—yet I believe I may assure the House that that desire is equally shared by the Government of France. Her Majesty's Government arc, therefore, about—I may say,
 1173
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  would ascertain whether there was such a document.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  believed the Belgian Government was better engaged than in contradicting statements of Members of this House. But he really did not know to what the noble Lord referred.
 MR. C. LEWIS , having had some experience in the execution of the Vagrancy Act, could affirm that the provisions of the existing Act were sufficiently stringent; it would be difficult to increase their stringency. But there was an un willingness on the part of magistrates in the metropolis and throughout the country to give effect to the provisions of the Act; and there was likewise a difficulty in obtaining evidence as to an act of vagrancy.
 MR. HENRY BERKELEY : Sir, if after the powerful way in which Mr. Grote pressed this question on the attention of the House of Commons in 1836 and 1839; and if, after the able way in which it was treated by my hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield (Mr. Ward), in 1842, I could hope to make any impression, I might justly be accused of presumption. Indeed, Sir, I have no such hope; but having served under Mr. Grote, and having followed the able leading of my hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield, being sincere in my belief of the necessity of the measure, I venture once more with feeble, perhaps, but certainly with willing hand, to unfurl the banner of our cause, and, pointing to the words of Cicero emblazoned upon it as our motto,  Tabella vindex tacitœ libertatis 1226 1227 "It is a great privilege," that learned authority says, "to choose such persons as are to bind a man's life and property by the laws they make—a privilege not to be deputed to another," nominis umbra 1228 1229 "You take my house, when you do take the prop That doth sustain my house: you take my life When you do take the means whereby I live." "Gentlemen tell me that the ballot will be fatal to what they call the legitimate influence of property. Now, Sir, I deny this assertion point blank, in any defensible meaning which the words 'legitimate influence' can be made to bear—in any meaning of the words, which a patriot or a freeman can acknowledge. I assert fearlessly, that under a system of secret voting, the legitimate influence of property will be preserved unimpaired; nay, more, that it will be even exalted beyond what it is at present. There is only one species of influence which the ballot will withdraw from a rich man: it will take away the power of rewarding or punishing electors according to the manner in which they vote. Now, Sir, I would ask, and I hope the question will be plainly answered, whether it be really this power of rewarding or punishing electors which Gentlemen mean when they talk of the legitimate influence of property? Does the House intend to recognise in any one citizen of this community, Peer, or Commoner, titled, or untitled, a legitimate authority to reward or punish electors for their
 1230 1231 "I can conceive no case except a case of actual infatuation, in which, if bribery be tolerably well managed, conviction would be possible." 1232 modus operandi l. "I believe you serve my family with beer, and my servants are in the habit of using your house? " "Now, you shall no longer serve me; and I
 1233 "Very well, you will make your choice; but if you vote for Captain Rous, I will procure for your son a place in the Custom-house." 1234 "I have a tenant living under me, and I am kind to him; I do every thing I can for his benefit, and the benefit of his family. I wish the honour of being a Member of Parliament—that man refuses to gratify me; and then, I think, all ties are severed between us." "I think it is the legitimate right of the landlord to have the vote of his tenant." 1235 "I have often said it, and I hare heard other clergymen declare, that the electors have reason to curse the day when they were invested by a reformed Legislature with the dangerous privilege of voting in Irish counties for Members to serve in Parliament. I could give instances of farmers who are now, in consequence of their votes, reduced to the condition of day labourers, and some of them are beggars." "No; but I say the Legislature which invested them with the right, ought to grant them protection in its exercise, and that is what they desire." 1236 a là 1237 "The ballot, we are told, will lead to false promises and false declarations on the part of voters. How or why should it produce this effect? Does it command any voter to break his promise? Does it hold out any inducement or reward for breaking his promise? No nothing of the kind—it merely enjoins him to perform the act of voting without a witness, and thus indirectly enables him to vote either according or contrary to any previous promise, without being found out, if he be inclined to do so. Certainly the same may be said of every private and solitary act of every man's life. But why are hon. Gentlemen so very much afraid lest electors who vote by ballot should break their promises the moment they are enabled to do so with impunity? Sir, it is but too well known that the promise given by a voter is in a thousand eases extorted and compulsory—it is a promise neither consonant to his own free will nor dictated by his own conviction—a promise which he would never
 1238 1239 1240 1241 "That it is expedient in the Elections for Members to serve in Parliament, that the votes of the Electors be taken by way of Ballot."
 COLONEL THOMPSON  seconded the Motion. He said, it gave him great pleasure to follow the hon. Mover, because it removed from their side of the question the charge of being men acting in defiance of the unity which was so desirable for the country. They presented themselves as the organs of no insulated party; they felt they were inarching under their proper officers, and rejoiced in the union with those who had ancestral connexions and territorial rights to pledge, as security for not engaging in anything prejudicial to the safety of society. He would take the counsel of the hon. Mover, and not go into the windings of the question. He would attach himself to one argument which had been advanced from high authority now before them; because it fell in with the experience of his life. It had been stated in opposition to the ballot, that the exercise of the franchise was a duty. With that, he and his friends would entirely close. There was no doubt of its being both a duty and a trust; but what was the inference from this in other cases? Both the hon. Mover and himself well knew, that voting as a member of a court-martial was both a duty and a trust, and therefore—he wanted an answer to that therefore—therefore it was enacted that an officer
 1242
 MR. PAGE WOOD  considered this to be one of the most important Motions that had been submitted to the House during the present Session. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had said that the principle of the constitution had always been open voting; and he had observed that if the Motion of the hon. Member for Bristol were adopted, a new principle would be introduced. Before the passing of the Reform Bill, it was of very little consequence what the principle of voting was; but since the adoption of that measure, by which Parliament declared that they would place confidence in the mass of the people, it was only right that they should protect the people in the exercise of their privileges. He thought the House would feel, on looking to the events which had lately occurred in Europe, that they could no longer delay a decision upon this question, "Are you disposed to trust the people, or are you not disposed to trust them?" He could scarcely believe that the statement of the advantages of an open style of voting had been seriously made. Were the drunken voters who walked noisily to the poll with music and flags the real constituency of England? No; the real constituency of England consisted of those electors who had been trained to self-government in vestries and municipal corporations, and who exercised their privileges quietly and deliberately; and these were the persons whom he wished to protect in the free expression of their opinions. He alluded to the middle classes—take, for instance, the shop-keepers of towns. He represented a city
 1260 1261
 MR. H. BERKELEY  replied. The noble Lord had objected that this was not a Bill, but a resolution. Now, he (Mr. H. Berkeley) only wished to obtain the assent of the noble Lord to a resolution; for, if he could do that, he had no doubt that a Bill would soon follow. He had observed the working of the ballot in America, and he must confess he had never known of any thing like intimidation, or had heard of any thing like a bribe in that country.
 LORD D. STUART  could bear testimony to the accuracy of the statements made by the hon. Mover as to the intimidation used in the metropolis. He had always felt, however, some apprehension that the ballot might not operate so efficaciously as its greatest admirers seemed to think. He was afraid that the ingenious devices of those who were determined to be corrupt, would he such as to evade the operation of the ballot. But when they knew how great an amount of intimidation existed, surely it was their duty to endeavour to devise some measure by which the voter might be protected.
 LORD G. BENTINCK : I entirely join with the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his condemnation of those who lavishly throw away the public money when the revenue does not meet the expenditure. But I take leave to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether he does not think 15,000 l. l. l. l. 1224 ad valorem l. l. l. l. l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I think, Sir, it is due to the hon. Gentleman who has made this Motion, and supported it, I must add, with arguments of great ability and ingenuity, before I give my vote contrary to that Motion, to state some of the grounds which induce me to take that course. I can hardly, however, pretend to advance any novelty, because it has been my fate to speak upon this subject before. I will, however, say, and I consider that I am supported in this view by the illustration advanced by the hon. and gallant Gentleman who seconded the Motion, that this is a proposal to make the exercise of the right of voting an act in direct contradiction to the usual policy and principles which govern this our Government and constitution. That hon. and gallant Gentleman remarked that, in the case of courts-martial, the members of the tribunal take an oath not to reveal the opinions and votes which they among themselves may give. It has, no doubt, been thought requisite for the due management of courts-martial, and for the preservation of military discipline, to introduce that rule in the proceedings of those courts. But it is a special rule, affecting those military bodies only, and is at variance with that general rule which governs our institutions; and it
 1246 1247 1248 1249 l. l. 1250 1251 1252 1253
 LORD R. GROSVENOR , in seconding the Motion, called upon the Government to allow the Bill to pass. The legacy duties in a great many instances were the means of preventing the full development of some of our finest institutions.
 MR. RAPHAEL  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to exempt from legacy duties all charitable bequests, not to private individuals, but to public bodies. His main object in coming into Parliament was to introduce this Bill; and if it should be carried, he would then accept the Chiltern Hundreds. He implored Her Majes-
 1223 l.
 MR. BULLER  said, if a policeman were employed, he would know better how to discriminate between real and pretended destitution. He did not consider that the instructions would justify any person in absolutely refusing relief. The city of London might avail itself of the Poor Law Act
 1215
 MR. BULLER  was much obliged to his hon. Friend for affording him that opportunity of explaining the principle and some of the details of the measure which he then proposed to bring under the notice of the House. It seemed to him that his hon. Friend laboured under some misapprehension as to the precise nature of the Bill, and he should gladly set him right regarding those points upon which he seemed to have received incorrect information. He hoped, in the first place, that the House would do him the justice to believe that, at the present period of the Session, he should not have ventured to
 1217 1218 1219 d 1220 s d
 MR. SPEAKER , on taking the chair said: I have to inform the House that I have received a letter from the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, dated the 6th of August, to the following effect:—
 "Sir—It is my painful duty to inform you, that Mr. William Smith O'Brien, a Member of the House of Commons, was yesterday arrested at Thurles on a charge of Treason, and is now in the jail of Kilmainham.—I have the honour to be, &c. "CLARENDON."
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  was perfectly in-different as to what might be the opinion of the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) on this question, whether it was for or against the ballot. He was resolved to give a vote neither one way or the other. He had never advocated the ballot, and he hoped he never should have occasion to ask for any vote to be given to him in secrecy.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  would trouble the House with only one or two remarks, in consequence of the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin; who seemed to think, as well as his Friends around him, that he had answered and disposed of the very able and impressive speech just delivered by the hon. Member for the city of Oxford (Mr. Wood). He (Mr. Villiers) could not allow that impression to go forth. The hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Napier) said, that when the Member for Oxford described the people of this country as frank, spirited, and independent, that he had put himself out of court, as this character, according to his (Mr. Napier's) judgment, had been formed under the institutions and mode of acting directly opposed to the spirit and purpose of the proposition before the House. Now he (Mr. Villiers) agreed entirely in those qualities which had been ascribed to the people of this country. He agreed that they were spirited and independent; but that had shown themselves so, by precisely doing before what they were now-doing, in calling upon this House to pass this measure, or some equally effective for its object. It was just because the people of this country, when they became conscious of some great evil or abuse, that they neither tamely submitted to it, nor helplessly believed it to be incurable, that they had earned the character the hon. Gentleman had given them. They were now fully aware of the extent to which bribery and intimidation were carried on at the elections, and that no remedy had been devised for the evil; they will now not endure it longer; and they do, as they have ever done before, insist upon the known and proved abuse being abated. They believe, moreover, that this is the remedy, and that it is effective in other cases where men would otherwise abuse the power which open voting confers upon them. Now, then, for what the hon. and learned Member considers, no doubt, were his conclusive replies to the arguments opposed to him. His (Mr. Villiers) hon. Friend the Member for the West
 1263 1264 Laughter 1265 1266 1267 l. l. 1268
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that if he consented to the remission of one duty because it was small, he would be called upon to give up others on the same ground. He had already this year given up the copper duty. He highly appreciated his hon. Friend's motives in bringing the subject forward; but he could not consent to the concession that was demanded. He doubted if his hon. Friend had not underrated the amount when he fixed it at 15,000 l.
 MR. URQUHART  said, that recent experience of public measures, and the character of public men, had tested the real value of past reform. If they were to go on pottering and tinkering with our institutions, raising hopes of change without effecting any practical good, but doing much harm by exciting an incessant alarm of change, the result would be that the English constitution would become a  caput mortuum 1245
 MR. MUNTZ  agreed that if voting by ballot should not be really secret voting, a great deal of mischief would be the result; but he was satisfied that it could be made secret, and that it would produce much benefit. The noble Lord said that the supporters of the ballot were bound to show where it had worked well. Now, he (Mr. Muntz) was prepared to say that it worked well in the Netherlands, to the satisfaction of all classes and interests. What cause was there to prevent that which was well done in the Netherlands from being well done in this country? The ballot was said to be un-English. What was meant by that? He was as open and as English as any man in his dealings; but still he should not think it necessary to publish all his transactions in the market-place. It was not reasonable or wise to expose the
 1259
 MR. HENLEY  had heard a good many speeches from the hon. Gentleman who spoke last, and never had heard one which more surprised him than the address just delivered. The hon. Member's course had lately been somewhat eccentric, and lacked the steadiness which formerly belonged to his character. The hon. Gentleman seemed altogether to forget the principles of the constitution, though he had been reminded of them by the noble Lord, who remembered them much better. He thought it was for the hon. Gentleman and his Friends to show the advantages that were to accrue to the country from the use of the ballot, so opposed as it was to the constitution and habits of the people of this country; but the hon. Gentleman had not done that, and had passed very lightly over the continent of Europe. The statements, however, which the hon. Member previously made, were to the effect, that there would be no disturbances, trouble, or discontent in the countries of the Continent. [Mr. COBDEN: I said nothing of the kind.] The hon. Gentleman at least mentioned France. He had told the House that the ballot was to be found in every constitutional country of the world; but he had not explained the advantages to be derived from that institution. In Russia, perhaps, he would say that it had been productive of the best effects; and if hereafter we should have the benefits of a very liberal Government, England might probably suffer under a tyranny as severe as any that prevailed in Russia. The hon. Member went to America, and though he said he was not a republican, yet he enlarged upon the great advantages to be derived from a republican form of government. The hon. Member did not attempt to show the House any one single advantage which America derived from the use of the ballot. The noble Lord said that there was a good deal of corruption in America, and the hon. Gentleman denied that statement; but it was for the House to decide which party was likely to be the better informed on that matter. The hon. Member, referring to the small salaries of the President and other official persons in the United States, did not say, but wished it to be inferred, that where this was the case there could not be much bribery; but the hon. Member might have recollected, what had certainly been publicly stated—how truly he could not say—that there was more chaffering of offices, and more sweeping away of all public officers, down to the very doorkeepers, in
 1258
 MR. HENLEY  thought that the speeches of the right hon. Gentleman and hon. Baronet must have convinced everybody that they were now dealing with a much larger subject than at first blush might have been supposed. He conceived that what had fallen from the two hon. Gentlemen constituted a most complete condemnation of the workhouse system, which had brought about such a state of things that it was said that no young person could be in the workhouse without a certainty of being ruined. Would, then, the proposed measure remedy that great evil? The right hon. Gentleman might refer to the school at Norwood, and say that that was a large school, and that there the system worked well; but there, it must be recollected, the children were not placed at a distance from their friends; they were not removed, as they might perhaps be under the proposed system, as far as thirty or forty miles from their friends. Such an arrangement might be all very well in a limited district of fifteen miles; but if the right hon. Gentleman amalgamated with other unions districts where Dissent prevailed, how would he deal with that state of things? The right hon. Gentleman said that at present in the workhouses the parents were separated from the children; but it must be remembered that in case of illness the mother had access to her children directly. This arrangement would be entirely got
 1222
 MR. NAPIER  agreed that the true way to deal with the people of England was to be frank with them, and fair and above-board; they were a generous, open, manly, independent people, and therefore worthy of being entrusted with an open franchise to be openly exercised. But their virtues were derived from their conduct being always public. They were frank because they had open voting. The hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden) had alluded to America; he (Mr. Napier) had found that hon. Member a bad prophet, a bad historian, and apparently his allusions to the present time were bad also. He had in his band a pamphlet in which it was stated that "Old John Randolph, the American orator," being asked one day whether the ballot prevailed in Virginia, answered, that he scarcely believed they had such a fool as to propose it; that it would make a nation scoundrels if it did not find them so. The English constitution knew no such thing as an English man discharging a public trust or duty in a secret manner known only to himself. In the case of juries, which had been alluded to, each man knew his fellow's mind, and the world knew the opinion of all. Could it be pretended that there were no public duties that we were bound to discharge under the constitution, which it might be inconvenient and injurious to our private interest to discharge? Why not, at this rate, shut up all the avenues by which the proceedings of the House became public? Why not have vote by ballot in the House? It might save a man from the frown of the Minister. But in that House men acted
 1262
 MR. P. HOWARD  begged to offer his humble tribute of applause for the ingenuity displayed by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Berkeley) in support of his argument; but he must say at the same time that he could not depart from those great constitutional principles which had recommended to their ancestors the principle of open voting. He thought, with Grattan, that national justice could only be administered through the power of public opinion. A trust which should be exercised for the benefit of the whole community should be exercised under responsibility, and subject to the safeguard which publicity offered. Look to France for an example of the consequences of secret voting. Did that mode of voting afford a safeguard against corruption? It was not tyranny which led to the recent revolution in that country—it was the progress of corruption; and he would maintain that under the principle of open voting, the power of corruption would have been checked, owing to the appeal which could have been made to the more generous sentiments of human nature. For himself, he must say, that no man could detest more heartily than he did that system of intimidation which the hon. Gentleman had most properly held up to public reprobation; and he would assert that those persons who were guilty of such practices were the worst enemies of open voting. But although there might be some persons who acted upon such utterly unconstitutional and reprehensible principles, yet he trusted he might say that the great majority of Englishmen were not open to the accusation. As to the intimidation of tradesmen, he had reason to believe that the man who openly and steadily, and without bitterness, adhered to his opinion, seldom or ever lost a customer. He believed that persons who had displayed bitterness in upholding their opinions had suffered; but as regarded the borough (Carlisle) which he had the honour to represent, those tradesmen who openly and steadily supported their opinions were respected, and ultimately lost no customers. The hon. Gentleman concluded by expressing his opinion, that if the number of the electors
 1244
 MR. COBDEN  reminded the noble Lord that when Mr. Hume brought forward his Motion, he was censured for including so many changes in it. The noble Lord now found fault with the ballot because it was calculated to give to one-seventh of the people the power of the Venetian oligarchy; but were those who wished to extend the suffrage beyond the seventh of the population
 1254 1255 1256
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  called the attention of the right hon. Gentleman again to the extent of vagrancy, which required greater means than were in existence in order to check it, in the city of London. In. Leeds, the amount of poor-rate had doubled within the last three years; and in London, the number of vagrant poor relieved in 1839 was 396, and in 1847 it amounted to no less than 41,743. In the instructions there seemed to be a desire to refuse relief to vagrants unless provided with a pass; but humanity and justice required some provision for them. A man, because he was a vagrant, must not be left to starve. In most workhouses, however, there was not sufficient accommodation for them.
 MR. W. FAGAN  vindicated his reverend friend Dr. Murphy from the animadversions passed upon his conduct by the hon. Mover in this question. He could say that considerable exaggeration had existed as to the transactions previous to Kinsale election; and the reverend Doctor had never
 1243
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  had hoped that the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Buller) would have thought it necessary to explain the details of the measure which they were now called upon to consider in Committee. It was of course impossible to deny that, with reference to the objects of the Bill, some very important regulations were necessary. It was necessary that a competent education should be given to a very large class of the community. With reference to this matter, there had been presented to the House some time since a petition from the Ashton union, in which the petitioners assumed, he believed upon good grounds, that by the recent legislation on this subject the parochial burdens had been increased. They stated that the children in work-houses were better educated than the children of the labouring classes and those of mechanics, who were brought up out of the workhouses; that they were kept at school till the age of 16, when they were too old to learn any useful art. The petitioners complained that parents and children were separated; that widows and orphans were never allowed to meet; and that there were other grievous faults in the system. According to the present Bill it was provided that the educational district should extend to distances of fifteen miles; this was a penal exile, by means of which the poor children were separated from their friends and connexions. It was objection-able, as tending to centralisation, and to the increase of Government patronage. Further, they must all agree that religious instruction was essential to the poor; but by the proposed system religious freedom could not exist. The poor-rates were at
 1216
 SIR R. PEEL  would not, by supporting this Bill, commit himself to the principle that they should encourage parties to neglect the claims of their families in favour of public charities. The first duty of a man was to provide for his own family. He did not say that there might not be circumstances in which it might be proper for an individual to slight those claims and prefer those of public charity; but speaking generally, the provision a man made for his own family was a very unostentatious and unobtrusive thing, and he did not often get much credit for it; but it might gratify his vanity to be advertised in the public newspapers as a person who had given 10,000 l. l. 1225
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  thought they were now debating as important a measure as Parliament could be called on to discuss. He agreed in a great deal of what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, in the course of the lucid exposition he had made. He, however, thought that the right hon. Gentleman had failed in showing—although the measure was described as a permissive one—that the country was not going to incur an enormous expense on account of it; and, though he gave the right hon. Gentleman credit for the kind and
 1221
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  had hoped that the principle of the Bill would have received the assent of the House, and that the details of the measure would now have been considered in Committee. The expense expected to be incurred under this Bill excited alarm; but surely the House must be aware of the great expense at present incurred by providing for the separate classification of small bodies of children all over the country, which expense would be lessened by their assembling together in larger numbers. With regard to the religious instruction of children in the schools to be established under this Bill, reference was made in the Bill to the provisions of the former Poor Law Act; and he did not think it necessary to introduce any new provisions on the subject. It was provided under the present law that chaplains of the Established Church should be appointed to workhouses, with the consent of the bishops of the respective dioceses in which such workhouses were situated; and it was enacted, with respect to Dissenters, that no rules or regulations of the Commissioners should oblige any inmate of the work-houses or schools to attend any religious service to which he entertained an objection; and that no child should be taught any creed which was objected to by his parents or next of kin.
 ADMIRAL GORDON  regretted that the Navy Estimates had been referred to a Committee; for he believed that it would hereafter be found to be a precedent attended with serious injury to the public service. At the same time he believed the Committee had collected a great deal of valuable information that would be serviceable in framing future estimates, and in conducting the general business of the different departments.
 CAPTAIN BERKELEY  thought many of the hon. Member for Montrose's figures erroneous. He thought it better that it should be left to the Executive and the Board of Admiralty to say what ships should be kept up, and how they should do duty, than leave such a body as the House of Commons to decide upon such matters. He denied that there was the difficulty of getting medical officers and seamen which the hon. Member had supposed. The hon. Member for Montrose ought to remember that the half-pay, of which he so loudly complained, was the result of the long war. Seven hundred and twenty-eight ships were commanded by captains in the course of that war, who had been placed upon half-pay when their services were no longer required; and it would be extremely hard if no account was to be taken of their having spent the prime of their lives in the subordinate ranks of the profession, prior to their promotion to be commanders. It was, therefore, most unfair to say that they were receiving half-pay after only a few years' service, and to cry out that the country was robbed by their being paid extravagantly for doing comparatively nothing.
 MR. CORRY  defended the increase in the salary of the Second Secretary of the
 1301 1302
 ADMIRAL BOWLES : Sir, the hon. Member for the West Riding has addressed the first part of his speech so particularly to me, that although he was sufficiently discursive towards the conclusion, and wandered into various foreign topics, it would be disrespectful towards the House, and not courteous to the hon. Gentleman himself, if I did not say a few words in reply. The great error into which he, and all the school to which he belongs, always fall in discussing these questions, is, that from an, apparent incapacity to comprehend the immense national interests and objects at stake, they argue as if the matter was merely pecuniary—an affair of pounds, shillings, and pence—and totally lose sight of the higher objects involved in it. The hon. Gentleman brings forward his  ad captandum 1298 1299 1300
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  concurred with the hon. and gallant Member, not only in his views with respect to the claims of the commanders and lieutenants, but also of the masters. He considered that the claims of those officers were as strong as those of the captains; and, as the change would not be for many years, he hoped the Government would not refuse their just claims. There was another point to which he would advert, and which he considered to be within the reach of the Admiralty—he meant the necessity of making timely preparation for manning the Navy in the event of a sudden breaking out of a war. The question required only to be grappled with and looked boldly in the face, and it would become perfectly easy of accomplishment.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I do not rise for the purpose of entering into a detailed explanation of the Navy Estimates, for my hon. Friend the Secretary to the Admiralty, and the hon. Gentleman opposite, who were concerned in the preparation of the estimates of the late Government, have gone into those details very fully, and, as I think, very satisfactorily. But the hon. Gentleman the Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire has laid down certain principles for our consideration, at least with a view to the preparation of estimates for a future year; and this, in fact, does seem to me to be the chief topic of discussion for the present occasion. It is impossible that we can now discuss the report of the Committee; and no one wishes to reduce the actual force of the Navy. But certain principles have been laid down by the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire, to which I think it important that the House should give some consideration with a view to what is to be our basis in preparing the estimates. The hon. Member admitted very fairly and very truly that we could not omit from our consideration the naval force of other countries; and not only that, but that no one in this country and no foreign Power ought to find fault
 1303 1304 l. l. l. l. s d. l. l. 1305 l. 1306 1307
 MR. DISRAELI : The hon. Member for the West Riding has taken this opportunity of promulgating certain deleterious principles, of which he is a persuasive advocate. I wish I could agree with him that what he calls the progress of democratic government is calculated to insure peace for human nature. I must say that the little experience we have of recent changes has not been of a very promising character. We have had the triumph of democracy in Germany followed up by the invasion of Denmark and by the invasion of Holland; and I believe that the hon. Gentleman, though he visits upon kings and cabinets the occurrences of all past wars, will not find in the annals of history cases of more unprovoked and flagrant invasion. Indeed, I must express my opinion that the hon. Gentleman is a professor of philosophy on the subject, which is not founded upon fact. The hon. Gentleman is apt to embrace, I think with precipitation, certain opinions which at the first glance are calculated to enlist the popular conviction; but they do not appear to me to be matured opinions—they do not appear to me to be founded upon any investigation, or to be authorised by anything that has occurred. All the opinions which the hon. Gentleman so frequently takes an oppportunity of communicating to us and to the country on the subject of war, appear to be totally unauthorised by what has happened. The hon. Gentleman has said that his does not pride himself upon the gift of prophecy; and I think he is quite right. There have been occasions when we have been informed how much
 1308 1309 1310 1311 1312 1313 1314
 MR. DISRAELI  observed, that the noble Lord had named five out of the six agents who had been employed to negotiate, but he had not said a word about Mr. Southern, who had just gone out to Buenos Ayres. The House would recollect that we were in a state of  quasi
 MR. URQUHART  said, the Committee were much indebted to the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire for having asked these questions about Denmark and Buenos Ayres. With respect to the first, it appeared to him that we had not prevented an evil that was raging; and in the other case, we had caused an evil that was intolerable. That Denmark was entitled to our protection there could be no doubt; but it was not given, and, if any danger arose to us from the present conflict, he laid it to the charge of the Government of
 1318 Times 1319 Times
 MR. HUME  thought the sum of 208,000 l. 1283 l. l. 1284 1285 1286
 MR. COBDEN  wished to make a few observations on the question now before the House. The hon. Member for Montrose had explained to the House what the Committee had themselves stated in their report, that they were precluded from entering on the question what should be the amount of our naval force. The Committee were told that this question must be left to the responsible advisers of the Crown, who, taking a general survey of
 1287 1288 l. l. l. 1289 l. l. l. l. 1290 "Take the Isle of Wight, for example; a large steam squadron comes over; you have two of those ships and four frigates lying in Portsmouth harbour. We will assume the object to be to attack Gosport, from which point Portsmouth might be easily destroyed; about that there is no doubt. Suppose that twenty steamers came laden with troops into Stokes bay for the purpose of landing; they would be there just at the back of Gosport." "Supposing you had an equal force with France, and the object to be attained were the defence of the Channel Islands. The squadrons assemble near the Channel Islands. The object, of course, of the British squadron would be, which, with steam, they would easily have the power of doing, to place themselves between the Islands and the enemy. In that position it is probable a great battle would be fought. I will admit that the battle is to the advantage of England; but, as probably would be the case in the opening of a war, it is not one of those great decisive actions with which a war is closed, and that the French are enabled to retire into Cherbourg, Brest, Nantes, I'Orient, and Rochefort." 1291 "We supposed just now a battle to be fought near the Channel Islands; but if we look to the Mediterranean, we shall find that the first naval actions would be probably somewhere to the west of a line drawn from Toulon to Algiers. There is no factory at Gibraltar; and, if you wished to have one, you have no ground on which to build an extensive one." "The factory at Portsmouth is so confined, that admitting you were to throw twenty-five steam-ships in there after a battle, to repair, you could not effect it. Take it that there were forty vessels engaged; supposing you were to send fifteen to the river, and twenty-five to Portsmouth—twenty-five would be more than you could calculate on the power of Portsmouth to repair, and consequently I think it would be wise to provide another basin and factory where such repairs, in the event of such a contingency, depending upon a war, may arise." "It has been stated that if Woolwich were worked to its maximum, and nothing was done but the repair of steam machinery, it would be equal to the repair of 20,000 horse-power; what power do you think necessary in addition to that? " "Portsmouth is designed for 25,000 horsepower, that would leave me 25,000 for Keyham; also, according to the estimate I have given, I would venture to say, that if you are forming an establishment, admitting my data to be right, of 70,000 horse-power, the  materiel l. 1292 "I believe that no officer in the Navy, whoso opinion is worth anything, would say that the force of the Navy ought to be so low as at the present moment." "My opinion is, that we should take care to be one-half superior to the French navy, whatever their navy is." "Our Navy must be kept up with reference to the Navy of the Power with which we may be at war; so that if the other Power have sixty or seventy steamers of the line, we ought to have eighty or ninety." 1293 "Is not the time come when the powerful countries of Europe should reduce those military armaments which they have so sedulously raised? Is not the time come when they should be prepared to declare that there is no use in such overgrown establishments? What is the advantage of one Power greatly increasing its Army and Navy? Does it not see that if it possesses such increase for self-protection and defence, the other Powers will follow its example? The consequence of this state must be, that no increase of relative strength will accrue to any one Power; but there must be a universal consumption of the resources of every
 1294 l. l. 1295 l. l. l. 1296 l. l. 1297 l.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  begged to say that, as far as he could discover, the Navy was never in a more efficient state than at the present moment; and as regarded the manning of the ships, he must do the hon. and gallant Member for Glocester (Captain Berkeley) the justice to say, that much of that was owing to the ability and perseverance which he had shown on the subject. The class of officers in whose behalf he wished to say a word was, the masters of Her Majesty's fleet. They complained that although an Order in Council gave them the rank of lieutenant, and empowered the Board of Admiralty to give them the rank of commander, the Board had shown an indisposition to act upon that order. He hoped that the gallant Officer below him (Admiral Dundas) would attend to the petition of those old and meritorious officers, to see that justice was done to them.
 MR. WARD  after referring with much approbation to the proceedings of the Select Committee on the Navy Estimates, said, as the best mode of dealing with the subject more immediately under discussion, he should propose to take the report of the Committee in hand, and to state to the House what were the recommendations in that document which the Admiralty agreed with, what were those it dissented from, and what were those which it wished to modify. Before, however, entering on that branch of the subject, the House would allow him to remind them of the situation in which the Navy Estimates now were. Discussions which had already taken place on the subject, had, he thought, cleared away much debateable matter, particularly as to the amount of force for the present year. When it was recollected that that question had been discussed and decided by one of the greatest majorities ever heard of in Parliament, he hoped that there would be no cause seen for going over the ground again, or for questioning the propriety of the House providing victuals and wages for the number of men so decided upon. His right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer bad already informed the House that the amount of the reduction made from the original estimates was about 200,000 l l. l. l. 1272 l. l. l l. l. l "The expenditure for the effective services of the Army, Navy, and Ordnance, must, in a great measure, depend upon the amount of force which the advisers of the Crown may consider necessary. A satisfactory decision upon this subject could only be formed after a careful and deliberate survey of the position of the country in regard to its internal resources, its external interests, the state of its foreign relations, its political obligations, and the maintenance and fulfilment of all the various rights and duties which belong to the extensive and long-established dominion of the British empire." "That, whatever cause might have led to the increase of force upon any particular station, when once the force had been augmented, there was too frequently some unfortunate hindrance to its subsequent reduction;"— "When the enemy was defeated, and hostilities were at an end, other duties were found for the ships employed, and the force which was required for the contingency of a war remained as the permanent establishment in time of peace." 1273
 VISCOUNT INGESTRE  observed, that the object of this vote was to grant a sum of 122,000 l. 1320
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, it was true that the fleet of the Argentine Republic had been detained, but the squadron was to be given up the moment matters were settled between the contending parties in the River Plate. Notwithstanding this, the intercourse between General Rosas and Lord Howden had been of the most friendly description, and Mr. Southern merely went out to replace the former negotiator. With regard to the trade with China, he must remind the hon. Member that our trade with Shanghae was of great importance, and of an increasing character.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : With regard to the first of the two blockades to which the hon. Member who has just sat down has directed his observations, I am sure that both he and the House will see that it was not a blockade which we imposed, and therefore that we are not entitled to force it. I should say, in the first place, that the original blockade by the Danish fleet of the German ports was afterwards relaxed to a great degree, and that, owing to the hopes which prevailed that an armistice would be signed, that blockade had nearly ceased. Accounts, however, have since been received, that if the armistice is not signed by the 15th inst. the Danish Government will feel obliged to reimpose that blockade. Now, no one will deny the right of Denmark to impose this blockade as a measure of additional retaliation. The only functions, therefore, which British ships of war would
 1315 1316 1317
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  hoped that the Committee, having already agreed to include four boroughs in the schedule, would also consent to insert Lincoln, and not think it necessary again to discuss the principle of the measure.
 LORD NUGENT , as one of the representatives of the borough, said, he and those by whom he was returned courted inquiry in the most full and searching manner. Indeed, he thought that every Member who had been returned purely to that House was bound to call for inquiry whenever there was an allegation of corruption.
 LORD NUGENT  rose to vindicate himself against the not very intolerable charge of the hon. Member who had last spoken, and who impeached the few words which he had taken the liberty of offering. Whatever motives the hon. Gentleman might choose to ascribe to him in the part he had taken that evening, he begged to say that he did not wish the inquiry to be instituted merely because the last election of the borough had been impugned; but because the tribunal appointed by that House to try these matters had reported that in the case of one of the Members, facts had been proved of a nature to disqualify him from sitting as the representative of Aylesbury. Therefore a  primâ facie 69
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, it appeared by the evidence that refreshment tickets had been issued to the voters of Bodmin by the friends of both candidates. An hon. Member called his attention to
 71
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that in inserting Bodmin, he had only followed the general rule in regard to all those cases in which special reports were made. However small the amount given to voters at elections, it was evidently given for the purpose of influencing their votes; and such was a case for inquiry by the House of Commons.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  had been urged to put Bodmin and Bolton in the Bill by Members on the other side of the House. He was perfectly willing to withdraw the names of Bodmin and Bolton from the Bill, if such was the pleasure of the House.
 COLONEL THOMPSON : This comes of "that same giving back." A stratagem of war, of course a blameless one, is played off upon us from the opposite side of the House. Resistance is made to putting two boroughs into the schedule; and when the Government concedes the point, it is told it was because the Members for those boroughs voted on their side. The only way to get out of this position, is for the Government side of the House to insist on coming to a division, and then their constituents will know what every man supported. The tendency of leaving these boroughs out of the schedule, is plainly to give ground for maintaining that treating is not bribery. Bribery is admitted to be a sin; but treating was never prohibited. The distinction is taken from that chaplain to Newgate, who said, "If you will drink, let it be punch, which is a liquor nowhere spoken against in Scripture." This side of the House knows full well, that treating operates against the purity of election as well as bribery, and that the object of both is the same, to give the decision of elections to the longest purse. The only way for the independent Members on the Government side to clear themselves, would be to go to a division.
 MR. LAW  opposed the further progress of the measure. It was a Bill seriously affecting English owners, whether absentees or residents of Irish property, and went, in fact, to convert the fee-simple of their land into a fee farm rent, and to confer upon middlemen the freehold now vested in proprietors. This was the first time that an arbitrary law had struck at the power of the Irish Society in the plantation in Ulster since the reign of Charles I.; and he thought it was an extreme hardship that such a course should be pursued towards a public body like this, created for public purposes, and who, with the rarest exceptions, were the only contributors to schools and public institutions. The Irish Society stated that one of the promoters of this Bill was a gentleman whose estate was liable to be forfeited, and that he promoted it in order to set aside the forfeiture, and to convey to himself a freehold in his estate. The Bill sanctioned neither more nor less than a complete spoliation of property to the prejudice of the occupier and real proprietor, and for the benefit of middlemen. He did not say that the measure was altogether bad; there were many things in the principle of the Bill and in some of its provisions which he did not complain of; but a measure affecting property to so large an extent should have machinery which applied to
 56
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that he could not but admire the tactics which on this occasion were pursued by the hon. Gentleman. They were quite new, exceedingly ingenious, and might be found of great use, if not in promoting the public welfare—if not in attaining any measure useful to the State—at least in embarrassing the progress of measures which might have such objects in view. He had heard it lately made a matter of regret that there was not at present a leader of Opposition in the House—a leader who might in some degree control, and be responsible, for the conduct of the party who followed him. But although that was the state of things which existed in former days, he could not but observe that Gentlemen opposite had now found a better plan. They had two leaders of Opposition, who it appeared were to adopt two different lines of policy. His hon. and learned Friend, the Solicitor General, yielding, it might be, too soon and too easily to suggestions from the other side of the House relative to Bodmin, presented an opportunity for the new school of tactics to be displayed. First, then, got up the hon. Member for Dorsetshire, one of the leaders of the Opposition, and he considered that Bodmin had been inserted in the schedule on far too light grounds—that there had not been sufficient evidence adduced to justify its appearance there at all. The hon. Gentleman was supported in that view. The general sense of the House appeared to be with him. There was no charge against the sitting Member—the charges which were made against the electoral body were confined to a few persons. Such being the case, his hon. and learned Friend consented to leave Bodmin out of the schedule. Up immediately started the other leader of the Op-
 78 79 80
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The Committee must recollect the circumstances under which I determined to proceed with the Bill now under consideration. Various reports were made from Election Committees, and many Members thought that the writs for the boroughs to which these reports referred ought to be suspended until further inquiry was made into corrupt practices alleged to have taken place at the elections for those boroughs, with a view of determining whether Parliament ought to legislate on the subject. Various opinions were given on that point; but I confined myself to voting, as an individual Member of the House, upon the questions as they arose relative to the issuing or suspending of the writs. It, however, was urged by several Members, and especially by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, that it was fit that some Member of the Government should introduce a Bill for the purpose of determining the form which the inquiry into the reported boroughs should take. For some time I declined to take this course; but at last, seeing that a Bill on the subject which an independent Member had introduced was perpetually causing the delay of public business, I did undertake to introduce the Bill which is now before the Committee. The hon. and learned Member, thereupon, thinks that I am a fair object of attack, and that he is justified in bringing a personal charge against me. [Mr. ANSTEY: I made no personal attack.] Well, the hon. Member at least attacked the character of my constituency, and called upon me to put the city of London into the schedule of the Bill. I deny that, because I have undertaken the management of this Bill, at the request of influential Members of the House, I am bound to put the place I represent in the schedule without any cause being assigned for that proceeding, merely to gratify the curiosity or the malignity of those who pursue me as the introducer of this measure. I am merely
 64 l. 65
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, it had been the purpose of the Government to state their intentions and go into their general
 58
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I want to know what it is that the Government really intend doing with this Bill. It seems very strange that they should consent to withdraw two boroughs from the Bill, in consequence of a very slight debate. The Solicitor General, when he spoke first, favoured us with what he called the principle of the Bill, and said it was based upon the report of the Committees. The Solicitor General, when he spoke last, favoured us with another principle of the Bill, namely, the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Bodmin (Mr. Wyld), whose plaintive appeal he could not forget. The hon. Member said, with great feeling, is this the return you are going to make to me for my continued support to the Government? if so, there is no encouragement whatever for hon. Gentlemen about me to support the Government, nor for me to remain its supporter. His speech was what Quintilian calls the irony of rhetoric—he made an appeal which I am sure no Secretary to the Treasury could misunderstand. The effect was great—the appeal was at once responded to. The hon. Gentleman was successful, not only for himself, but for a more distinguished Gentleman, the name of whose borough was also set down in that fatal schedule. The learned Doctor the Member for Bolton, has, through that appeal, also escaped. I can well understand the astonishing efficacy of this most telling little speech. The hon. Gentleman sits on the favoured side of the House. But the learned Doctor (Bowring) disclaims against being excepted. He saw in a moment the innocence and inexperience of the hon. Member for Bodmin—he saw instinctively that his appeal would tell, and, feeling that, took a high ground. He called for investigation. He confessed that
 74 horribile dictu! s. s. 75 76 77
 MR. DISRAELI : I consider the hon. Member for Bodmin to be very ill treated. The Solicitor General has given the House his reasons for inserting the borough of Bodmin; and I think the Solicitor General ought to be ashamed for giving such reasons. He admits that he knows nothing of the case of Bodmin—that he has not read the evidence nor the special report. This seems to me to be a canting, lying, hypocritical Bill. The whole thing is miserable and hypocritical, and not really founded upon fact. "I confess," said the Solicitor General, "that this is a very weak case." Why, does any one doubt that it is a very weak case? There are other things besides the Bill. The whole thing is weak from the beginning to the ending. I do not much fear, Sir, that the reputation of Parliament is endangered by the investigation that has already taken place; but what I do fear for the reputation of Parliament is the intellectual gauge which is given by these measures as to the remedial agency which is to put an end to practices which we all disapprove of. If this is your machinery, and these are the men who are to prevent organic changes, then I think indeed the constitutional future of this country is gloomy. Anything more ridiculous in conception or feeble in execution I never witnessed. If the hen. Member for Bodmin divides the House, he shall certainly have my support.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he had listened with perfect astonishment to the speeches of both of the representatives of the principal towns of the county which he (Mr. Disraeli) had the honour to represent. As to that maudlin sensibility which said that an impeachment under any circumstances was entitled to an inquiry, he could not at all sympathise or agree with it; and knowing the amount of real business they had to transact, and the great difficulty they experienced in getting through the busi-
 67 68
 MR. NEWDEGATE  supposed that the
 60
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  would not condescend to petition the House on the part of the borough of Lincoln, nor would he plead  ad misericordiam, 61
 MR. BANKES : The Solicitor General had admitted that this was a very weak case; and he (Mr. Bankes) wished to know whether, on a weak case, the House would consent to put Bodmin in the Bill? As the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) had truly and eloquently said, if they passed this Bill, they would succeed in bringing upon that House the ridicule of the country.
 MR. HUDSON  said, he could readily believe that the noble Lord was unacquainted with any corrupt practices at the last election for London; the noble Lord was the last person who would be allowed to know anything about the matter. The Chairman of the noble Lord's Committee also declared that he had nothing to do with bribery. Doubtless he had not. The Committee-room was the last place in which bribery was carried on; that business was always transacted by the outdoor agents. The noble Lord's memory failed him when he said that he was the champion of free trade at the first election for London; he was then a protectionist, and advocated an 8 s.
 MR. ROBINSON  denied that the House had affirmed the principle of the Government measure. They had only negatived the counter resolution proposed.
 MR. G. TURNER  said, the Solicitor General had admitted that he had not read the evidence in the case of the Bodmin election. Yet he called upon the House to perform a judicial duty. He doubted whether the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Russell) was contributing much to the cause of purity of election by proposing to meet a great evil by punishing constituencies for giving 5 s.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that in placing in the hands of the Chairman the resolution he was about to move, it was scarcely necessary for him to remind the House that the Government had been compelled, very reluctantly, to give up all expectation of being able, during the present Session, to pass a Bill for the alteration of the navigation laws. He hoped the question might be brought under the notice of the House next year, at so early a period as to insure its receiving that full consideration which its importance deserved, and to enable Parliament to adopt a matured measure. It was not the intention of the Government to attempt to pass any measure on the subject during the present Session; but they were desirous to be enabled to lay their views before the House and the country in the shape of a Bill, which would be a much more satisfactory way of presenting the subject to their attention than by the statement of a Minister of the Crown, He believed there was a general disposition on the part of the House to assent to this course; and he considered that it
 57 "That it is expedient to remove the Restrictions which prevent the free Carriage of Goods, by Sea, to and from the United Kingdom and the British Possessions Abroad, subject, nevertheless, to such Control by Her Majesty in Council as may be necessary; and to amend the Laws for the Registration of Ships and Seamen."
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the hon. Member for Warwickshire had asked him whether the Bill he proposed to lay on the table was in accordance with the statement he had made when he brought this question before the House, and also with the resolution in the hands of the Chairman? He (Mr. Labouchere) should think that he was practising a sort of trick upon the House if the Bill were otherwise than in accordance with the resolution; and he thought when the hon. Gentleman compared that Bill with the resolution, and recollected what he (Mr. Labouchere) had stated on introducing the subject to the House, he would find that the Bill he was about to introduce carried into effect that which he then proposed. At the same time he did not consider himself precluded from taking advantage of any information or consideration he could give to the question during the recess. He would only repeat the assertion he made on the former occasion, that nothing would have induced him to propose this measure to the House if he had thought that those alterations were inconsistent either with the commercial greatness of this country or the maritime power which he felt was indissolubly connected with that commercial greatness. It was because he believed that by this wise and timely alteration we should secure the foundation upon which the most important national objects were based, that he had ventured to recommend it to the House.
 MR. LACY  said, that he never was so surprised in his life as he was on Saturday, on returning from the sea-side, to which he had taken a sick relative, at finding that Bodmin was to be placed in the schedule. Never had so foul a charge been made against a borough that had deserved it less. The report stated that the treating was without the knowledge of the sitting Member. The Solicitor General, however, in arguing upon it afterwards, said it did not matter whether it was done by the principal or agents. Now, in Bodmin it was neither the one nor the other. He (Mr. Lacy) had not got the evidence; but he presumed his solicitor had. The thing had already been disagreeable enough with-
 72 l.
 MR. WYLD  said, that no maudlin sentimentality should prevent him from standing up in defence of the honour and integrity of the borough which he represented. There were special reasons why the framers of the Bill should not have included Bodmin within it; and he would briefly allude to them. But he would first remark, that a series of boroughs had been placed in that schedule by the Solicitor General, and now at the eleventh hour the Solicitor General came down and inserted the name of Bodmin and other boroughs represented by Gentlemen who had for so many months given Government their best support. He might ask, was this the consideration which the Government showed to Gentlemen who had supported the present Administration all the Session? And was it in this way Government showed its disinterested spirit by including Bodmin among the list of boroughs in the Bill? He never cared for any fear, favour, or affection, and would act independently, whatever Government might be in power. On the part of the borough, he had made no objection to the strictest possible investigation; but it was unjustly stigmatised by being placed in that Bill, of which the preamble set forth that "corrupt practices had prevailed in certain boroughs," which was altogether unsubstantiated as far as Bodmin was concerned.
 70 s. s.
 DR. BOWRING  said, after what had passed, he could not consent to Bolton
 81
 MR. BRIGHT  would repeat what he had stated on a former occasion, that the population even of the shipping towns were in favour of this measure. At a public meeting in Sunderland, the opinion was almost unanimous in that direction; and three or four years ago, when the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Hudson) was first returned, though he had a majority of the shipowners at the poll, the sailors and
 59
 MR. HERRIES  did not feel that he should be justified in entering into a discussion of the merits of the proposition, as the object of the Government was only to lay their measure completely before the House, and not carry it further this Session.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that in this discussion they had had tragedy, comedy, and melodrame, and it would be well if at last they did not come to farce. The noble Lord had said that there was a private understanding on that side of the House to take a particular hue; but did it not occur to the noble Lord—he was sure it would to the country—that no Gentleman, or set of Gentlemen, or human being, could have imagined that the Government would take the course it had done. Was it very hard to conceive that on a question affecting the rights and the franchise of the people of this country, that the Government would have put places into the schedule of the Bill without examination, and then without examination put them out? In the whole history of Parliament, such another instance could not be found. The noble Lord found fault with him (Mr. Henley) because he wished the evidence to be looked to; but that was the natural course for any one who wished to come to a correct conclusion. But the operation of the Bill, after all, was like hanging a man first and trying him afterwards. Was it not a fact that both the Committee and the Commission would commence their labours with a foregone conclusion? He contended that they were not in a position to go further with the Bill that night; from the conduct of the Government it was more and more apparent that they ought not to proceed hastily. He thought the proceedings of to-night would go far to satisfy the people of England that Members of this House were inclined to "strain at a gnat, and swallow a camel." The very hair on their head seemed to stand on end at hearing that a poor unfortunate devil had got a glass of beer for his vote; and yet when an hon. Member got up and complained of their inserting his borough in the schedule, though he had supported the Government for the last three months, that instant the borough was taken out of the Bill.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the further they went into this Bill the more extraordinary
 73
 MR. Q. DICK  defended himself from the uncalled-for attack made upon him by the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire. He had merely stated that he cordially assented to the Bill being made applicable to Aylesbury because he wished to see the constituency freed from the charges made against it, and he firmly believed it would come out unscathed from the ordeal of the proposed inquiry.
 MR. DICK , as one of the representatives of Aylesbury also courted the most searching inquiry.
 MR. ANSTEY  did not think that the case of Lincoln was governed by the rule which applied to Horsham. There was sufficient information obtained about Lincoln already. But the Horsham rule would also apply to the city of London; and as he saw the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) in his place, he would give him an opportunity of coming forward and saying that he did not shrink from an investigation into matters of which the world had heard so much. Management, no doubt, had prevented the presentation of a petition against the return for London, and management had caused the petition which had been presented against the return for Horsham not to be prosecuted. In neither case was there any proved fact to proceed upon; the charges as to each rested upon common fame. Why not then apply the same rule to both? It was generally believed that in London the "long shore men" had been bribed to the number of 1,000. It was also affirmed that personation had been practised to a great extent. These corrupt practices were alleged to have been committed by persons in the interest of the noble Lord and his Colleagues; and that allegation rested, he believed, on unimpeachable evidence. It had been asserted by a Member in his place in that House, and yet the noble Lord took no notice of the matter. It was stated out of doors, that no less than 32,000 l. bonâ fide 63
 MR. W. E. GLADSTONE  thought the Government could not be blamed for postpoing the measure. There could be no hope of passing one so complicated—involving such extensive interests, appealing so much to the feelings of large parties in and out of the House, and compelling the discussion of complex collateral questions—unless it were introduced at a very early period of the Session. Knowing, that with the mass of public business to be dealt with, it was very difficult for a Government to bring forward its measures as early as it would desire, he did not refer to this in the way of censure, but to express a hope that it might be submitted very early in the next Session, if not as the first measure of the Session. With respect to the form of the resolution, he confessed he should have preferred one of a more general character, not involving that peculiar feature of the Government plan—the reservation of a very large discretionary power to the Queen in Council; to his mind it was an extremely doubtful question whether the form in which the measure was thus shaped was the most conducive to the public interests; and he did not quite agree that, as a general rule, resolutions of this kind ought to be passed  pro formâ,
 MR. W. MILES  had expected that his hon. Friend the Chairman of the Lincoln Election Committee would have moved to strike out Lincoln from the Bill; but as his hon. Friend was not now present, he himself, as a Member of the Committee, wished to call the attention of the House to the evidence and the report. The counsel stated that there were forty-six cases of bribery, but only three were brought before the Committee, and of these only one was proved, and that was only a 10 s. 62
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  referred to several opinions delivered by law authorities in Ireland, with the view of demonstrating the evils and inconveniences arising out of the existing system. It had created, over and over again, the most extensive and most vexatious kinds of litigation, and had done more to give insecurity to property in Ireland than almost anything else. Every care had been taken in framing the Bill not to deprive the Irish Society or other proprietors of any power of enforcing claims and conditions on which the leases were now held. The object of the measure was to give increased security to property; and he believed that it would be found beneficial both to the proprietor and lessee.
 The CHAIRMAN  having resumed his place, put the question that a sum of 557,213 l
 ADMIRAL DUNDAS  said, the hon. Member for Montrose's figures were incorrect;
 93
 CAPTAIN BERKELEY  said, the hon. Member for Montrose had omitted from his calculation those officers who had forced themselves into promotion by gallant services in every quarter of the globe.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, considerable sums had already been voted on account, and the remainder was so small that the House was hardly in a position to make any reduction. Since the original estimates were presented, however, a considerable reduction had been effected by the Chancellor of the Exchequer; and the whole must come under review next Session. Generally speaking, the result of the inquiry by the Committee over which he had the honour to preside was, that in all the public departments there was wanting a proper financial check upon the expenditure. Where or whence that check could be obtained it was difficult to say; but he trusted that in the recess the subject would occupy the deliberate attention of the Government. That reductions could be effected in the miscellaneous expenditure was proved by the fact that since these estimates had been presented, they had been reduced very nearly 250,000 l 94
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  would not follow the hon. Gentleman's example in "badgering Her Majesty's Ministers;" but, in duty to his constituents, he should offer a few observations. He was called upon to vote upon a document on which it was impossible for him to form an opinion; he not having the means of forming an opinion upon any single item on the paper. He would just draw attention to one item, in which two matters most incongruous were placed together,
 95 l
 CAPTAIN HARRIS : Sir, I rise to order. I do not think we need have a chapter of Grotius or Vattel read. [ Cries of and
 LORD J. RUSSELL  observed, that a general desire had been expressed at the early sitting that the Chairman should resume the chair in Committee at five o'clock, in the same way as was done by the Speaker after the morning sittings of the House. He had consulted the Speaker to ascertain whether there was any objection in point of form to such a proceeding; and that right hon. Gentleman expressed his opinion that the Chairman of a Committee of the whole House might resume the chair under such circumstances. The right hon. Gentleman said, however, that he was not aware that there was any precedent for such a course, and that if there was any objection, the better plan would be not to press it. There did not seem to be any objection on the part of any Member of the House to such a course being taken; but if any objection was felt,
 91
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  did not think that it would be a convenient course, with respect to the miscellaneous estimates, to follow the example of his hon. Friend the Secretary for the Admiralty, as regarded
 98
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, the hon. Gentleman is raising a very large question. We wish now to go into Committee upon the Navy Estimates, and I trust the hon. Gentleman will allow the Committee to proceed.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , with regard to the observations of the hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex, must say, that in his experience of Parliament, which was somewhat longer than that of the hon. and gallant Officer, he had never heard of a Minister or a Chancellor of the Exchequer coming down to that House and making a statement on the miscellaneous estimates. There were no less than 113 different items in the estimate he held in his hand; and it would be impossible to make any general statement with regard to them. As to the remark of the hon. Member for West Surrey, there were items still more dissimilar in character than those he had mentioned to be found classed together. But had the hon. Gentleman exercised a little of that common sense for which his speeches were generally distinguished, he would have seen that they were by no means so incongruous as at first sight might be imagined. As to the report of the Committee of which his right hon. Friend behind him (Mr. V. Smith) had been Chairman, he thought it of considerable value. But he candidly admitted that out of the mass of matter presented to them for consideration, it would have been impossible for them to have made a perfect proposition. Still it was quite clear that a great reduction of expenditure might be made by the Executive Government. And he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had said, when moving the appointment of the Committee, that that appointment would not relieve the Government from their responsibility. With regard to the checks that should be exercised by the Treasury, he observed that the miscellaneous esti-
 96
 MR. URQUHART : Mr. Speaker, I will assure the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster, that he is perfectly correct in the statement that he has made regarding myself: he has hit the right nail on the head. It is precisely the part I have taken in the affairs of Greece, that is the origin of those conclusions which the hon. and gallant Gentleman says I have been so persevering in placing before my countrymen. He will recollect that these circumstances occurred in my early life; but they are the key of my future conduct. It was the share I had in that war, and the instinct of its injustice, that first led me to investigate this great subject; and when I did discover the delusion under which I had laboured in common with my fellow-countrymen at this particular time, I did feel myself oppressed with a load of shame and guilt, and I have been impelled unceasingly to labour to awaken others in like manner, and thereby to recover the sense of law and right among a nation from whose breast within a single generation it has utterly passed away. The hon. and gallant Member seems very needlessly sensitive at once, and contemptuous in refer-once to certain epithets which I have used, and which he chooses to say, and says justly, apply to myself no less than to those in reference to whom I had used them. But if I remember correctly, and if I have read aright, discussions which took place in former years in this House, the hon. and gallant Gentleman was not merely characterized as a Pirate, but as a  Condottiere 85 Lord John Russell here entered the House, and took his seat on the Treasury Bench 86
 MR. URQUHART : Sir, I close now my argument. I have here the judgment of Chief Justice Tindal in reference to the affairs of China; but I prefer the judgment of the hon. and gallant Gentleman, who has no crotchets such as might be attributed to that learned Judge or to myself.
 MR. URQUHART : Sir, I am very much indebted to my hon. Friend (Mr. Hume) for his suggestion. If my hon. Friend had attended to what I have said, he would have seen that I was proceeding not to quote the authority of Grotius or Vattel, but that I preferred the authority of the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Westminster (Sir De Lacy Evans). The noble Lord (Lord John Russell) two nights back gave me an answer with which I was forced then to be content, and which I wish now to record. I stated to the noble Lord that I should divide the Committee on every item of the Estimates, unless I had the assurance from himself that the Navy would not henceforward be employed unlawfully; and the noble Lord on the third occasion of my asking made this answer—that the Navy "would not be employed except according to the law of nations." I believe that this was the statement of the noble Lord, and if I am wrong I beg to be corrected. Now, then, I beg that the fact may be borne in mind—I have obtained that assurance from the noble Lord, that the troops of Her Majesty are no longer to be employed in violation of the law of nations. From the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster, I have got the judgment that the Riot Act is required to legalise force. Now, I assert, in like manner, that it is against the law of nations to draw a weapon against a fo-
 89
 MR. URQUHART : Sir, the noble Lord was not present when the hon. and gallant Gentleman behind him made the observations to which I reply. The noble Lord was not present when I gave way with every desire not unnecessarily to interfere with the public business, and postponed my Motion. I therefore deserve, I think, the indulgence even of the noble Lord. I had characterised certain acts in a certain manner, and the hon. and gallant Gentleman tells me that I had no right do so; but he has not so much as touched on the ground of that qualification. The hon. and gallant Gentleman says these officers acted under lawful authority, and he does not know what lawful authority means. He says that he would act in obedience to a superior. An order has to be lawful in itself before it can be lawfully obeyed; and
 87
 MR. URQUHART  rose to postpone until Monday his Motion relative to the expenditure for diplomatic agents abroad.
 MR. BANKES  said, that the House was not to blame that there was a delay in voting the estimates, for the Government had taken their own course as to the time of bringing them forward. He should dismiss all complaints as to the delay created by objections, as if the estimates had been brought forward in the month of February instead of the month of August. Among other charges, he found one for the Pavilion at Brighton; but every one knew that it was no longer in a condition for the residence of the Royal Family; and certainly, from what passed some time ago they ought to have reason to believe that that property would be made a matter of revenue instead of expense. Then, again, the charge for providing temporary accom- 99 l l
 DR. BOWRING  said, he wished, as a Member of the Committee, to explain that there was no part of the estimates in which it was possible for the Committee to have entered into details. Under each head there were ten or twenty different topics that ought to be inquired into. There were in all, he believed, 116 special subjects referred to the Committee; and of these there were sixty or seventy that would each have required all the time that the Committee had been able to devote to their whole task. The inquiry had served to convince him the more strongly of the truth of Lord Congleton's remark, that until Parliament were able to control the whole amount of the public expenditure, and got possession of the whole of the public receipts, financial reform on a grand scale could not possibly be effected. Under the circumstances the Committee could not possibly have produced a satisfactory report. In the item before the House, for instance, how were they to know how much of the vote should he given for Buckingham Palace, and how much for Windsor or other royal residences? If they could have visited the localities, and looked into the contracts, they would have made their report more satisfactory to themselves and to the House. They were thus necessarily compelled to leave the details in the hands of
 97
 MR. PARKER  moved the first of these estimates, which was for 40,923 l
 MR. HUME  thought it would be very desirable that the Chairman should resume the chair at five o'clock, without reporting progress, in order to avoid the discussions which might take place on the Motion of again resolving into Committee of Supply.
 MR. HUME  observed, that in very many of our dockyards the salaries of the superintendents and petty officers exceeded the amount of money paid to the actual workmen; and he concurred in the opinion of Sir J. Barrow that our dockyards were overstocked with superintendents and petty officers. A great deal of money, too, was spent in building ships, a great many of the ships so built never going to sea at all, but being kept rotting in ordinary.
 MR. HUME : Sir, I do not agree in every particular with my hon. Friend (Mr. Urquhart), but I nevertheless go along with him to a great extent. I think the observations which have fallen from him of very great importance, and I think that he ought to bring on this subject separately, and not mix it up with these Esti-
 88
 MR. HUME  regarded this vote as one that ought to receive particular attention. It was a very serious thing to the public interest that the perpetual half-pay should be very nearly equal to the whole of the active pay; and if the ordinary service were reduced to what it was in the year 1845, the whole of the active full pay would little exceed the half-pay of the present time. By a rule of the Admiralty, passed in 1830, the promotions were to be restricted to one for every three vacancies that occurred. Now, according to a return which was laid before the House on the 30th February, 1847, it appeared that 245 vacancies for flag officers had occurred, and instead of 81 promotions, which was the proportion allowed by the Admiralty's rule, 189 had actually taken place. Why, he asked, should the rule have been broken through in this manner? Again, 316 vacancies for captains had been filled up by 365 promotions; whereas, the proportion, according to the rule of 1830, ought to have been only 105. What was the use of laying down rules if they were to be violated in this way? Again, 315 commanders had died within the same period, and no less than 685 promotions had been made; which, instead of being one for every three, as required by the rule, was actually in the proportion of two for every one that died. Again, 1,049 lieutenants had died, which, including 48 for the coastguard, would have called for, agreeably to the rule, only 397; but what was the fact? Why, as many as 1,224 had been made from the date of the order to limit the promotions. There could be little use for rules if they were to be set aside in this manner. He did not, however, blame any particular Admiralty, because all Admiralties were the same. Their political situation unfortunately obliged the Government to reward services by an addition to the pension list. Every promotion in the Navy was an addition to the pension list. The Committee had recommended that they should be reduced from 150, the present number, to 100; but the Admiralty, he understood, were not disposed to adopt this recommendation. At present only 14 admirals were actually employed; and he believed that even to leave 100 upon the list would be a larger number than was necessary.
 MR. OSBORNE  said, he always thought that when a Minister of the Crown wanted a vote for the miscellaneous estimates, he came down to that House and made a statement. They really never stood more in need of explanation; for the report before them, whoever drew it up, was most unsatisfactory. After setting forth the salaries of the Ministers and high officers of State, it recommended merely that the salaries of a few clerks should be reduced; and upon the subject of Ireland, one of the recommendations was, that Queen's plates should be abolished. So much for the report; as to the item under consideration, it was the most disgraceful estimate that was ever brought before the House. They found in it Windsor Castle, the Horse Guards, and the Hackney-coach office in Essex-street, Strand, all mixed up in most inextricable confusion. There was one item in it, too, regarding which he wanted some explanation. They ought to know what was meant by the museum of economic geology. He wanted more details. Any gentleman would be ashamed to have such an estimate regarding his own private establishment presented to him. He said it was a fraudulent estimate; and when they came to the item of the palm-house, at Kew, he would prove it. He hoped the House would not pass the estimate in its present shape; and he trusted that some Minister of the Crown would tell the Committee that at least for the future they should have the estimates presented in a different way.
 MR. COBDEN  could by no means admit that the invention of steam had placed other countries on a level with England, abounding as she did with iron and coal, which formed the chief elements of efficiency in that arm of the naval service. It was utterly ridiculous for the hon. Secretary to the Admiralty to state that the invention of steam had placed this coun-
 90
 SIR C. DOUGLAS  wished to call attention to the course which had been taken in Committee to-day. After the suspension of the sitting, the Chairman, without having previously reported progress, had resumed the chair. His object in calling attention to the subject was merely to afford the noble Lord opposite an opportunity of stating that this was an extraordinary case, in order that it might not be drawn into a precedent. He believed that, if the business of the House had proceeded in the usual course, it had been the intention of an hon. Gentleman near him to put an important question to the President of the Board of Trade with reference to railways.
 Sir DE L. EVANS  would take the opportunity of reminding the hon. Member for Stafford, that he had on a former occasion spoken disrespectfully of General D'Aguilar, Colonel Brotherton, and Brigadier General M'Doughal. He thought the hon. Member was not justified in speaking in such terms of disparagement of those who served their country, by serving in the armies of her allies.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS : The hon. Member says he will be satisfied if I answer his question; I therefore tell him that I should not act against a crowd unless the Riot Act were read.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  called the attention of the House to the case of commanders and lieutenants. From the state of the half-pay list, promotion was absolutely at a stop as far as the great bulk of those deserving and meritorious officers were concerned, and they saw themselves excluded from all hope of rising to a higher grade in their profession. There were 879 commanders, 96 of whom were on full pay. The first 150 on the list received 10 s s d s d s d s d
 MR. WARD  gave the gallant Officer credit for the best intentions, but was not quite sure that his plan would be found very practicable. As for the lieutenant-commanders, he did not think that they were quite as badly treated as the hon. and gallant Gentleman appeared to suppose. It should be borne in mind that those of them who retired as commanders in 1815, did not serve one day in that capacity. They received their promotion and their half-pay allowance accordingly, in full acquittance of all claims. Of those who had retired as lieutenants, 116 had served
 92
 MR. WARD  said, the present Board of Admiralty was most anxious not to incur any expenditure without producing desirable public results. The larger class of French ships had made it necessary, looking to the possible contingency of a rupture, to make successive changes in the class and rating of our ships, so as to enable our sailors to meet a gallant enemy fairly on equal terms in case of aggression. He hoped when they again mot, hon. Gentlemen would find that every recommendation of the Committee which could be safely adopted would be carried out and acted on. Our power in sailing vessels was indisputable; but we might have an irresistible fleet of sailing vessels lying wind bound and absolutely useless without steamers to bring them to bear on a hostile force. The invention of steam had brought other countries more on a level with us; and if we had not placed ourselves in the position we now happily occupied by a large increase in our steam navy, it might truly have been said, as it was said by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cobden), that "the invention of steam was a curse instead of a blessing to this country." Thanks to the exertions of two successive Boards of Admiralty, we could now bid defiance to any foe.
 MR. WARD  moved a vote of 139,350 l
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  thought it very desirable that the large and at present unsightly area on the south side of Downing-street should be appropriated for the erection of a plain, solid, substantial building, for all the commissions appointed, so that it should not be necessary to have recourse to the occupation of houses in George-street, or elsewhere, for them. There ought also to be a building more worthy of the important business transacted in the Foreign and Colonial Offices; it was to be hoped it was not generally known that the Foreign Office of England consisted of five separate private dwelling-houses, in such a ruinous state that the documents of the department had to be removed a floor lower because the weight of them would hazard the stability of the building.
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  agreed in the report of the Select Committee, that all the particular buildings which were the subject of this vote should be enumerated, and that they should put down the specific sum allotted to each of the Royal Palaces, so that the House might know what sums were expended for the comfort and accommodation of Her Majesty, and what for the innocent recreation and enjoyment of Her subjects in those places which were thrown open to the public. With respect to the Pavilion at Brighton, it was not intended to expend upon that building any more than was necessary to keep it tight, and to keep the rain out. It was now cleared of all its furniture, and the Office of Woods and Forests had called for and obtained a report upon the best mode of disposing of the site. It appeared that there was some difficulty in giving a proper title, which might render the intervention of Parliament necessary. An undertaking was on foot to repair the very interesting and beautiful ruin of Lanercost Abbey, in Cumberland, with a view of preserving from ultimate ruin and decay this, among other interesting specimens of antiquity in the possession of the Crown. A small sum was therefore voted in aid for the repair of Lanercost Abbey; and it was intended, also, to vote a small sum for Carisbrooke Castle and Caernarvon Castle. With reference to the number of buildings engaged for the accommodation of the different offices and commissions, for which rent was paid, it did amount to a great sum, because the increasing business of the country required an additional number
 100
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  asked if the noble Lord at the head of the Woods and Forests had any statement to make with reference to the subject of a certain private communication which he (Lord Duncan) had, as Chairman of the Committee on the department, made to the noble Lord this Session; also whether the noble Lord had anything to state with respect to the depredations which it had been discovered had been, during some years, committed upon the wood in the New Forest?
 MR. H. DRUMMOND  begged to call attention to the Victoria Tower. It would not be safe to carry up that tower more than thirty feet a year. But, in reference to the New Houses, the Select Committee had required two impossible things to be done. In the first case they required that all the apartments should be fire-proof, and that they must be insulated. In the next place, they were to be ventilated; but this they could not be if they were insulated. It was, however, important that they should refuse to advance a farthing until a board had been appointed who should be responsible for the expenditure.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said: Sir, I should have hoped there would be no objection to grant the Motion of which I have given notice, which is that—
 "An humble Address be presented to Her Majesty that She will be graciously pleased to direct the Earl of Elgin and Kincardine forthwith to transmit to Her Majesty's Secretary of State for the Colonies Copies of the omitted Correspondence between the Provincial Secretary of Canada and the Secretary to the Montreal Board of Trade, and will direct that the same be laid before this House." 128 129 130 "Her Majesty's Ministers hasten to assure Earl Kincardine that Her Majesty's servants are fully sensible of the extreme importance to Canada, of the measure which is now under the consideration of the Legislature, and that they entertain a confident opinion of its being passed into a law." s d s d s s d s d s d s d s d 131 s d s d d s d s s l l l 132 l l l l d 133
 LORD G. BENTINCK : In asking leave to withdraw my Motion, I may perhaps be allowed to correct a mistake into which the noble Lord has fallen. There is one despatch from Lord Elgin, dated the 15th of June. The omission of which I complain is in a paper dated the 8th of June, and was published in the newspapers on the 13th of June, and it arrived simultaneously with that dated the 15th of June. So far as to the noble Lord's dates. The noble Lord is also under a mistake in stating that the communication from the Secretary of the Montreal Board of Trade was written by that person  ex mere motu 135
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he should not object to the Motion being withdrawn except that they would have another Motion made on the Amendment that the House go into a Committee of Supply. He must, therefore, request that the Motion be negatived.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said: Mr. Speaker, I do not think it necessary or convenient, at this time, to enter into a discussion whether the repeal of the navigation laws would or would not be useful to Canada, or whether it would answer the objects which the Montreal Board of Trade have in view. I think that such a discussion will far better take place when any measure with regard to the navigation laws is proposed. The only question, as I understand the noble Lord on this occasion, is for an address for what has been omitted in the correspondence now before the House. The objection to the noble Lord's Motion is simply this, that his Motion appears to convey an incorrect notion of the facts of the case. Any person reading this address
 134
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that however Sir C. Trevelyan might have employed his intelligence, the Ministers of the Crown were responsible for his acts. The Public Works Act was adopted after several meetings of the Cabinet with Lord Besborough; and whatever errors might have been committed, the Government were to blame for them. Sir C. Trevelyan stated in his evidence that he worked three hours before breakfast; that he then went to the Treasury, where he worked all day; and that the pressure upon him was such, that be wondered that he had been able to get through it alive. If the Government had
 141
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the subject had been referred to in the report of the Committee which sat on the civil contingencies; and therefore the House was not indebted exclusively to the hon. Member for Middlesex for the notice of it. The Government thought that the services of Sir C. Trevelyan were deserving of reward; and the question was, whether they should bestow the reward during the recess, or wait until Parliament met, and then propose it. They decided on the former course.
 MR. DISRAELI , while readily acknowledging the great services rendered by this Gentleman, could not forget that the Order of the Bath had been conferred upon him—a reward bestowed as for services which could not be paid for by a pecuniary grant. The vote of 2,500 l preux chevalier
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  could assure the hon. Member that the Lords of the Treasury were of the very greatest use in conducting the business of the Treasury. However, the noble Lord the Member for Calne (the Earl of Shelburne) having resigned, it had been determined, in compliance with the recommendation of the Committee, not to fill up the vacancy. With regard to Sir C. Trevelyan, the case was an exceptional one; but his services on the extraordinary emergency alluded to were so very great that it had been thought right to make a Treasury
 139 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had stated before that the former sum was paid out of the civil contingencies, and that the other was contained in the estimates then before the House.
 MR. GOULBURN  could assure the hon. Gentleman that as strict a control was exercised over the expenditure of the Lord Lieutenant as over that of any public department of this country. He noticed an item in this vote of 900 l
 MR. GOULBURN  begged to say, that he had laboured with Sir C. Trevelyan for many years, and was deeply impressed with the value of his services; and he had no doubt that, whether he had applied his talents to the ordinary business of the Treasury or to the extraordinary business of the famine of Ireland, he had done so in a manner to entitle him to the cordial approbation both of Government and of Parliament; and if he (Mr. Goulburn) said anything as to the mode in which the remuneration had been granted to him, it was not for the purpose of disparaging Sir C. Trevelyan's services or doing him dishonour, but from a feeling that the honour due to him had not been properly paid. According to all precedent the House of Commons ought to have fixed the amount of Sir C. Trevelyan's remuneration; and the House had just reason to complain that they had not been asked to do so. With respect to the other question, of the abolition of one Lord of the Treasury, he begged to say, that he entertained an opinion entirely at variance with that expressed by the Committee.
 DR. BOWRING  wished to call the attention of the House to this vote, to which he strongly objected, as he considered that if there was any department which required special control, it was the department of public works in Ireland,
 MR. BRIGHT  asked from what fund the money was paid? Was it from the fund voted for the relief of Irish distress? If it was, it might be a necessary salary for distributing that relief. He also wished to have an explanation with regard to the sum of 8,650 l
 MR. HUME  objected, and the Committee divided:—Ayes 71; Noes 14: Majority 57.
 MR. OSBORNE  did not know that there was much use in Junior Lords of the Treasury. The Committee recommended that they should be reduced to three. But he rose to make an inquiry respecting the Assistant Secretary; it was understood that 2,500 l
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, he must really recall the attention of the House to the question before it, with which he would not consent to mix up the policy of the Government in Ireland. The question was, whether a certain sum of money should have been given to this officer, from any fund whatever, without the consent of Parliament? He thought that the whole transaction was illegal.
 MR. OSBORNE  thought the course pursued by the Government was unwise, injudicious,
 136
 MR. SPOONER  considered that the Government had no right to reward any public servant, however great and meritorious his services might be, without coming to the House of Commons and stating his services, and letting the reward come from the House and not from the Minister himself. It was a dangerous principle.
 MR. SPOONER  objected to the item of 2,685 l l l
 MR. GLADSTONE  condemned the conduct of the Government in this matter. It was their duty to have submitted a vote to the House; not to have taken on themselves to reward a public servant. If there was one rule connected with the public service which more than another ought to be scrupulously observed, it was this, that the salary of a public officer, more especially if he were of high rank, ought to cover all the services which he might be called upon to render. Any departure from that rule must be dangerous. The particular payment to Sir C. Trevelyan was not even mentioned in the estimates before the Committee. All that the estimates stated was, that 4,045 l l 140
 SIR. H. WILLOUGHBY  said, the Legislature had already voted no less a sum than 945,000 l l l l
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  said, it was true that 945,000 l l l l l l l l l
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  replied, that from the information which be had received he had reason to believe that a system of fraud and depredation bad prevailed for a long time past with respect to the New Forest. As soon as the revelations in reference to them were brought under his attention by the praiseworthy investigation of his noble Friend, he engaged the services of two gentlemen who were specially recommended to him for the purpose, and he had every reason to believe that they would prosecute their inquiries with effect. Two persons had been already apprehended, and committed to take their trial in consequence of these depredations.
 MR. C. BULLER  stated, that the object of this Bill had been much misunderstood. It did not increase the power of the Poor Law Commission, or aggravate the severity of the present law. On the contrary, it limited the one, and decreased the other. Its object was, in fact, to authorise certain payments of the boards of guardians not allowed by the strict letter of the existing poor-law. The present system of auditing had had the effect of making the law unduly stringent upon this head. The fourth clause was the most important one in the Bill, giving, as it did, power to the Commissioners to hear and decide on appeals with reference to allowances and disallowances, and to decide upon the merits of each individual case. He had received from all parts of the county general expressions of satisfaction at the provisions of the Bill, and the prospect they held out of mitigating many of the severities complained of under the present law.
 LORD GEORGE BENTINCK  could not but take occasion to offer his thanks to Her Majesty's Government; indeed, it would be the height of ingratitude on his part did he not, in the name of the farmers of England, render to the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, his and their thanks for—and congratulations on the courage with which he had come forward to take this—the first retrogressive step—this, the first step towards the repeal of their free-trade measures. The House would not forget that the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, the source whence the right hon. Gentleman and the noble Lord opposite derived their commercial policy, had at a time when mutton was 7 d 146 variolum ovina
 LORD G. BENTINCK  observed, that during the last fourteen years the English Government had been instrumental in greatly aggravating the sufferings of from 80,000 to 100,000 human beings. These poor creatures had, by our laws, been made to endure great torture by reason of the overcrowding of ships, and want of water. He feared, moreover, that he should be justified in asserting that there were no two persons in the empire who had
 181
 LORD GEORGE BENTINCK  felt that no apology was necessary on his part for rising to make some observations as to the vote of 57,500 l "As bees on flowers alighting cease to hum, So Whigs in place installed grow dumb." 185 l 186 Bull Dog 187 188 sine quâ non
 MR. DISRAELI  said: Whatever may be the justice of some complaints we have heard from Her Majesty's Ministers as to the time of this House being occupied by too much discussion—complaints, by the by, which I cannot admit to be valid—there is certainly one Member of the Government who, I think, has no right whatever to join in those complaints. I think that the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, so far as his department is concerned, cannot for a moment pretend that any criticisms on the policy which he has recommended, or of the transactions which have occurred abroad, have given rise, during this momentous and protracted Session, to any very frequent or prolonged discussions. Indeed, though this year has witnessed, throughout Europe, events more important than probably have occurred within the recollection of the vast majority of this House, I cannot at this moment recall more than two occasions on which the attention of this House has been called to anything connected with our external relations. For one of those occasions I confess that I myself am responsible; but in that instance I was warranted in calling the attention of the House of Commons to the circumstance that an ancient ally had claimed the fulfilment of a guarantee from England; and the sympathy expressed by the House when I ventured to make those observations on the position of England and Denmark, at least showed that, however imperfect my advocacy of that subject may have been, it was not considered by the House intrusive. There was another instance of a discussion on foreign topics; and I should be very much surprised if any Member of the Government can for a moment pretend that the discussion which
 148 149 150 151 152 153 154 155 156 157 158 159 razzia 160 161 162 163
 MR. URQUHART  moved—
 "That, from the Correspondence laid upon the table of this House in reference to the suppression of the Slave Trade in Mussulman Countries, it appears that Her Majesty's Servants have adopted proceedings calculated to aggravate the horrors of the Traffic, and to alienate from this Country the good-will of the Governments and Nations so interfered with." 176 177 178
 MR. BANKES  thought the House had a right to ask what were the instructions given to the naval officer in command of our fleet off the coast of Italy, and whether he had instructions to prevent the landing of the Neapolitan troops upon the shores of Sicily? With regard to Spain and Portugal, our interference had not been at all successful. Would the noble Lord tell the House what reparation the British Government were likely to receive hereafter for the insult which had been put upon us by the Spanish Government? He imputed no blame to Sir H. Bulwer, who had probably only done what had been done before, in receiving parties who were compromised into his house. We were also parties to treaties with Spain—the Quadruple Alliance, for example—by which, in the event of a prince who was now in this country asserting his rights to the crown of Spain, we were bound to give aid to the existing Government of Queen Isabella. It was desirable to know whether the obligations which Great Britain had entered into by this treaty had been affected by the conduct of the Spanish Government in the expulsion of our Ambassador. He wished the noble Lord would inform the House what were the present state of our relations with Spain.
 MR. BAILLIE  said, if the discussion that had taken place was productive of no other result than that of calling attention to the foreign affairs of this country, it was not made in vain. The noble Lord the Foreign Secretary was, it appeared, not satisfied with utterly failing in all his endeavours to make satisfactory arrangements in Spain and Portugal, and rendering the name of England odious from one end of the Peninsula to the other, but he was about to try his hand in the affairs of Italy, and embark England in the chaotic sea of trouble that existed in that country. The hon. Member exemplified his statement by a description of the condition, and particularly the party quarrels, in Portugal and Spain. The hon. Member also referred to the conduct of Sir H. Bulwer, which he severely condemned. The hon. Member concluded by saying that he supposed, with much regret, that the equivocal way in which the noble Lord had answered the hon. Gentleman respecting
 175
 MR. LABOUCHERE  acknowledged that a compliment proceeding from the noble Lord was so rare that it certainly came upon his ears with a pleasing sound; and if in this instance he could honestly accept it, he would be happy to do so. But he did not think that the noble Lord was justified in saying that he had shown any courage in departing from the principles of free trade when he introduced this Bill—not the most ardent free-trader would contend that free trade implied the admission of diseased stock, or of articles, whether living or dead, which would be likely to spread contagion or generate disease. He would take the opportunity of saying that he had recently received from our consuls abroad valuable statistical information on this subject, to which he wished the attention of the agricultural public to be directed. The general impression among our consuls was, that the only real way of checking the progress of the disease was by inoculation. Every other way was ineffectual; but inoculation was found to re- 147
 MR. MACGREGOR  thought the present a fitting occasion for adverting to the arrest and expulsion from Spain of Colonel Bristow, a British subject, who had been expelled from that country on the ground of his having an order of a Spanish Minister for the claims he had on the Spanish Crown. Colonel Bristow had never meddled with the political affairs of that country, yet he was arrested, and not allowed to go to his house to get his clothes or to secure his papers. He was afterwards conducted by the police to the frontiers of France, and there dismissed without money and without clothes, and without any charge being made against him of any kind what-
 182
 MR. HUME  said, the hon. and gallant Member deprecated discussion, but he did not deprecate intervention. For fifty years the great evil of our foreign policy had been our constant intervention in the affairs of other countries; and if there were one desire on the part of the people of this country stronger than another, it was that we should interfere no longer.
 MR. P. HOWARD  said, that, as regarded English intervention in Portugal, the effect of it had been to put an end to a fierce and bloody civil war. He begged to draw attention to an occurrence which had been reported in the newspapers, namely, that a part of the Pontifical States had been occupied by Austrian troops. Considering the manner in which his Holiness had discouraged the attack upon Austria, and considering the weakness of his military resources, he trusted the circumstance of the occupancy of part of his territories by the Austrian troops would not be lost sight of in the friendly negotia-
 183
 MR. OSBORNE  contended that the intervention of England in the affairs of Portugal had certainly not given free institutions to that country, but had entailed an expense upon England the items of which figured conspicuously in the estimates. As to the Spanish affair, he did not think the House was in a position now to discuss it. It had been his intention to vote that the proposed grant of 2,000 l
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, those who had followed the course of events between this country and Spain, must be perfectly convinced that the final and complete rupture which had taken place between the two Courts was in a large degree to be attributed to the tone and manner of the debates in the other House of Parliament pending the discussion between the two Governments. He regretted that that course was so often taken both in that and the other House of Parliament; and he believed it to have been of more frequent occurrence during this Session than in any other. In his opinion, Parliament ought, in foreign affairs, to postpone its judgment of the conduct of Government until the matter in question appeared to be concluded. It would then be the time for censure or approval of their conduct. The Government of Lord Liverpool had continually interfered in the internal affairs of foreign countries, and so had the Government of the Duke of Wellington, the most pacific of all Ministers. It had been said that the noble Lord's efforts to establish constitutional governments in other countries had all failed, and that despotisms were now re-established at Madrid, at Lisbon, and in Greece. He deprecated the introduction of such discussions in that House.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I certainly do not rise to complain, as the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down seemed to expect I should, that this House has, during the present Session of Parliament, exhibited any undue desire to impede the march of Her Majesty's Ministers in regard to the conduct of the foreign relations of the country by pressing too hardly upon them for disclosures of the course which they mean to pursue, or calling prematurely for explanations as to the course which they may have pursued during the Session. I acknowledge with thankful-
 164 165 166 167 168 169 170 171 172 173 razzias 174
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the policy of the Government of England, not only in the present case, but in all former periods of our history, was to consider the interests of England as deeply concerned in the transactions which took place in other countries; that it was the duty of the Government of England to have regard to those interests; to take such measures as might appear, under the circumstances of the moment, to be necessary; and to preserve those interests by negotiation, if negotiation were sufficient, or by other methods should negotiation be unavailing. The hon. and learned Member (Mr. Bankes) wished to know what was the present state of our relations with Spain. The present state of our relations with Spain was this: diplomatic intercourse between the two countries was suspended. The hon. and learned Member wished likewise to know by what means a British merchant in Spain, if he suffered wrong from the Government of that country, could obtain redress. We had a consular officer in Spain, and it was his duty and peculiar function to make representations to the Spanish Government on such matters; and, if the representations of our consular officer on behalf of a British merchant were not attended to, it was well known that every Government possessed means by which attention could be enforced. He (Lord Palmerston) did not consider that the treaties between the two countries were abrogated by the suspension of diplomatic intercourse. When the Government of Spain should appeal to the Government of England for the execution of a treaty which the Spanish Government should think applicable to a particular case, it would be for the British Government to
 184
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The hon. Member has stated that he and I differ very widely on questions of foreign policy. You are very well aware we do, and never were we more completely at issue than, as is evident from his speech of this evening, we are upon the present question. It is quite clear, from the speech of the hon. Member, that whether because of a peculiarity in his natural disposition, or owing to habitual associations with a long residence in Eastern countries, that the hon. Member is quite enamoured with the institution of domestic slavery. Now, here there is an inexorable difference between him and me. I own I have a great, an unmitigable detestation of all slavery whatsoever, whetner that of the domestic slave or the field labourer; and while I admit that the constitution of that bondage to which the domestic slave is subjected differs from that which the field slave has to endure, I nevertheless maintain that the crimes and the horrors which are perpetrated in bringing both the one and the other into the market, are in each case exactly the same. Therefore, although the considerations of humanity which urge us to prevent domestic slavery may not be quite as numerous as those which impel us to discourage the other description of bondage, there is in point of fact as strong a motive of benevolence in the one case as in the other. The hon. Member disapproves of the course of policy we have adopted with reference to the suppression of the slave trade in the Eastern countries. I am surprised that, in speaking of lands in which he passed, as he has often given us to understand, so many pleasant hours, nay, days and years, he did not think fit to include them in the category of cultivated nations. Yet, so it is. After his long and close intimacy with them, the hon. Member regards them and speaks of them as mere and absolute barbarians. With reference to the spirit of the addresses which have been adopted by Parliament with respect to the slave trade, I regret that I cannot agree with the hon. Member. Neither can I agree with him in his interpretation of the general wish of the English people on the subject of slavery. It is my impression that that wish is adverse to slavery. I think it is almost universally so; but, nevertheless, there may be, and, indeed, I now find that there is, an exception. To endeavour to
 179 180 turris excelsœ tabulœ debent esse altiores
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : With regard to the first question, I can only state that the communication made from Baron Weisenberg, through Baron Kohler, was made in his capacity of Minister of Foreign Affairs for Austria. He was at Frankfort, but he is Minister of Foreign Affairs for Austria. With regard to the other question, I am sure my noble Friend must see that it would be improper for me to enter into the particulars of that communication.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  understood the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) to mean, that in case the Bill should not pass, the writ ought to issue, the only object in the postponement being to ascertain what course the House would take with respect to an inquiry. It was not proposed to wait till the Bill had the assent of the other House, which, however, would not be likely to refuse its sanction to such a Bill when sent up from this House.
 MR. W. P. WOOOD  thought the question had a great deal of connexion with the Bill. It was not impossible that the same course might be taken in this instance as in that of Yarmouth. The passing of the Bill would have a moral effect on the conduct of the freemen at the next election.
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  said, that an hon. and learned Member had raised an objection to the Bill, which was of grave importance; and if he could think that it were possible, as that learned Gentleman had distinctly charged, that Her Majesty's Government were intending to make it a machinery and a means by which, directly or indirectly, the Queen should make use of the Pope or the Roman Catholic clergy to rule her subjects, he would decidedly oppose the measure, as a thing derogatory to the Crown of these realms. Her Majesty's duty was to rule Her subjects Herself,
 224 225
 MR. LAW  could not concur with the noble Lord in his construction of the existing law; nor could he admit that the duty of the Sovereign with respect to carrying on relations with the Court of Rome was at all a matter of doubt. He thought it was not candid to state in the preamble of the Bill that it was doubtful whether diplomatic relations could be established with the Sovereign of the Roman States, when a proper interpretation was given of the words" Sovereign of the Roman States." The Pope of Rome was Sovereign because he was Pope. He was not Pope because
 223
 LORD G. BENTINCK  was surprised that the hon. and learned Member for Oxford did not perceive that the cases of Great Yarmouth and Derby were quite dissimilar. In the case of Great Yarmouth, a Bill was introduced for the disfranchisement of the freemen, and that Bill had passed into a law; but nothing of the kind had been proposed with respect to Derby. It was futile to talk of the passing of the Bill having a moral effect upon the freemen of Derby, because the inquiry which would take place would have reference only to the past. The Solicitor General contended that the House was justified in suspending writs when Committees recommended that course to be taken; but the Committee on the Derby case had not recommended the suspension of the writ, and, therefore, he was justified in claiming the hon. and learned Gentleman's vote in favour of the Motion.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that, from the inquiries which his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had made, he had reason to believe that the person appointed to the situation was respectable, and had nothing to do with the politics of the borough of Leicester. The hon. Baronet now stated that he was the brother of a freeman of Leicester; and he (Lord J. Russell) was of opinion, that if that fact was known to Lord Clanricarde, his Lordship ought not to have listened to Mr. Gardner's recommendation in his favour. He believed, too, that at the time Lord Clanricarde was ignorant that Mr.
 201
 LORD J. RUSSELL  would not occupy time by defending the votes of the Members of the Government on this subject, but would content himself with saying, that having twice voted for issuing the writ, he could not be supposed to be prejudiced against that course. But the House having several times decided that the writ should not be issued, it was a question proper to be considered, what ought to be done in conformity with those decisions. Now, there was a Bill before the House for instituting an inquiry with respect to this borough; when that Bill had passed, it would be settled what mode of inquiry was to be adopted, and there would then, as he thought, be no sufficient objection to the issue of the writ. In the mean time, he would move that this debate be adjourned till Thursday next.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I think that the hon. Gentleman who has last spoken, has, in a few words, completely answered the speech of the hon. Baronet the Member
 217 218 attaché 219 Carbonari 220 221 222
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) had distinctly and avowedly, and he would say manfully, acknowledged that he considered Her Majesty incapable of governing Ireland. Such was the conclusion to be drawn from what he had stated to the House. He had always looked on this measure with extreme dislike, and that feeling had been heightened by what had occurred during the debate. It was an attempt to obtain for Her Majesty the cooperation of a Power that never would cooperate, but which would endeavour to supersede the authority of the Government. He would give the Bill the most determined opposition.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  was sorry to find the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) disposed to delay the issue of the writ for Derby. The conduct of the Government upon this question had been very extraordinary. On
 196
 MR. URQUHART , in seconding the Amendment, observed that, after the speech they had just heard, and the able analysis of this Bill by his hon. and learned Friend, the issue of the debate ought scarcely to be doubtful. This Bill was introduced at an early period of the Session into the other House of Parliament; and though it long ago came down to the House of Commons with the full blush of its terrors, yet day after day was allowed to pass away, and no further progress was made with it, and then, at the close of the Session, when Members had gone away, it was proposed to proceed with the measure. Those that were loft were sitting there morning and night; they were quite worn out; and the Government, with its packed majority, thus endeavoured to set through the House such measures as it had the hardihood to attempt to pass. This was a Bill which was sure to arouse political animosities and religious suspicions, and to meet with objections both from Protestants and from Roman Catholics; and there must be some extraordinary reason for proceeding with a measure of such a character. His hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Anstey) had afforded that reason, which was nothing less than the making use of the spiritual prerogative at Rome to further the purposes of the Government of Ireland. He must say, that this was an occasion worthy of the noble Lord, and which did justify this long-delay, and this indecent haste. The noble Lord, in introducing this measure, had
 210 "Having thus established the continental system, Buonaparte used every endeavour to make all the continental Powers accede to it. Prussia and Russia adhered to it after the peace of Tilsit. Denmark soon entered into this French system. Spain acceded to it (January 8th), Austria (February 18th, 1808), and Sweden (January 6th, 1810); so that for some years the continent of Europe had no other medium of communication with England than by way of Constantinople. There was one prince in Christendom who refused his accession to the continental system, and that was Pius VII, This Sovereign Pontiff declared that all alliances which prohibited intercourse with a nation from whom they had suffered no grievance, was contrary to religion. In order to punish his Holiness for this resistance, General Mollis had orders to occupy Rome (February 3, 1808). This was the commencement of a series of aggressions and attacks by which Buonaparte vainly hoped to bend that great personage. To gratify his resentment, he stript the States of the Church by a decree issued at St. Cloud (April 2nd), of the provinces of Urbino, Ancona, Mace-rata and Camerino, which were annexed to the kingdom of Italy. * * 211
 MR. G. BANKES  reminded the House that one borough was rescued from the schedule of the Corrupt Practices Bill by the interposition of a Member for that place; Derby ought to have the same opportunity. It was not certain that the Corrupt Practices Bill would pass this
 197
 MR. MOORE  would only remark that if he had entertained any doubt respecting the Bill, that doubt would have been entirely removed by the speech of the hon. Baronet, inasmuch as the hon. Baronet appeared to give his assent to the substance of the Bill under consideration, and only objected to the manner in which the diplomatic relations should be conducted. As long as those relations were conducted by consuls, the hon. Baronet was perfectly satisfied; that was to say, as long as they were conducted in a surreptitious, clandestine, un-English, and, as he (Mr. Moore) thought, an unworthy way; but the hon. Baronet's religious scruples were aroused when the same thing was proposed to be done in an open and honourable manner, as the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) proposed. This was exactly the whole gist of the question; and because he (Mr. Moore) preferred the open to the clandestine manner—the English mode to the Italian mode—straightforward dealing to underhand dealing—that he was prepared to give his entire assent to the proposal of the noble Lord, and to express his entire dissent from the proposition of the hon. Baronet.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that if he voted against the second reading, it arose from the period at which the noble Lord opposite had brought the question forward. In the other House it had been urged on as a pressing matter; but in that House the noble Lord himself had postponed it nineteen several times during this Session. He thought that the House was justified, at this very late period of the Session, in declining to enter into the consideration of a measure of this sort, deeply affecting the feelings of a large portion of the community, who were necessarily embarrassed to ascertain the grounds upon which it was specifically brought forward. After what they had heard, and the grounds upon which the noble Lord proposed this measure, and especially after the speech of his right hon. Friend near him, without expressing any opinion whether it might not be right to place upon a sounder footing our diplomatic relations with Rome, and considering, also, the conflicting arguments by which the Government supported
 234
 MR. NAPIER  said, the hon. Member who had just sat down had stated clearly, in his opening, the reasons on which he (Mr. Napier) founded his objections to the Bill. The hon. Gentleman stated that if it was the intention of her Majesty's Government to make use of the power of the Pope to govern her subjects in the united kingdom, he would oppose the Bill. The great question was whether the genuine—he would not say the ostensible—object of the Bill was to make use of the Pope for that purpose indirectly. This Bill went to recognise an authority not recognised by this country; and the result might be that that authority would come into conflict with that of the Queen, and divide the allegiance of Her Majesty's subjects. The British constitution protested against the jurisdiction of the Pope in these realms. The great Lord Somers, who took so prominent a part in the last Act of Settlement, said that those who simply adhered to the Catholic Church were good Catholics,—those who dealt with the Court of Rome were Papists, and enemies and traitors to the realms of England, and utterly unfit for any trust in any Protestant country. Lord Somers, by that distinction, evidently meant that those who recognised the power and authority of the Pope of Rome to be superior to that of the Sovereign of England, professed themselves not amenable to the laws of England, and they ought not to partake of the benefits of the English constitution. If the object of this Bill was to enable the Government to have negotiations with the Court of Home, and to acknowledge the Pope, as the spiritual head of the Roman Catholic Church, to control any portion of Her Majesty's subjects, he would join with the hon. and learned Recorder of London in opposing its further progress. If it could be shown that a wholesome policy required any acts to be performed by the Government, such as this Bill would sanction, he would not oppose it; but was it right that
 226 "There is not a Court in the world in which it would be more useful for this Government to he enabled to explain the nature and object of its own transactions, and to lay them open to the head of that Court, with the peculiar influence he possesses in every part of Her Majesty's dominions." 227
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  felt that they would be greatly deceiving themselves and misleading the country if they were to deal with this question otherwise than as with a question deserving much greater discussion in a much fuller House than at this period of the Session it could possibly obtain. If the measure were to be vindicated on the grounds stated by the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, with respect to commercial relations, and also by the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown, in his able and, in that point of view, satisfactory speech, he could not differ from its principle. But in that point of view alone the measure was not and could not be of such pressing importance that it should be urged on the acceptance of the House at this period of the Session, and in the present state of public business; as it was obvious that no time could be devoted to the full and fair consideration of its import and effect, so as to determine whether it did not involve more important principles and consequences than those to which the noble Lord had adverted. The noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs had stated that this measure rested on the ground that this country had commercial relations of some, but not of great, though it might be of growing importance
 228 229
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  could not see any connexion between the question before the House and the Corrupt Practices Bill; that was not a Bill to do anything to Derby in particular, but to institute an inquiry into the case of eight or nine boroughs, new writs having been issued for all of them except Derby and Leicester, and issued for some of them under circumstances much worse, so far as they yet appeared, than in the case of Derby. The passing of the Bill would be as safe if this writ issued, as if it did not.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  rose to move as an Amendment, that the Bill be read a second time that day three months. He said the speech of the noble Lord who had just sat down had occasioned him considerable disappointment, for he had expected to find in it a full and temperate exposition of the objects and intentions of the measure, and some attempt to combat the grave and conscientious objections entertained, not by Protestants merely, but by Roman Catholics also, to the Bill now before the House; but upon these several points the noble Lord had either left the House entirely in the dark, or chosen but slightly to pass over them. He must look to the speeches which were delivered upon the subject when it came before the other branch of the Legislature, in order to get these omissions of the noble Lord supplied. The measure was not to be taken as one declaratory of an already existing law, but as one enacting an altogether new law: its very title proved it to contemplate not merely the removal of doubts—a "Bill for 'enabling' Her Majesty to establish and maintain diplomatic relations with the Court of Rome," must manifestly aim to effect a change in the law of much greater magnitude than the noble Lord was either willing, or found it convenient, to admit. What was the meaning of the term "Court of Rome" in the Bill? There were two Courts of Rome—an ecclesiastical and a political Court; and with which of these was it intended to enable Her Majesty to hold intercourse? This difficulty the noble Lord had altogether blinked. If Ministers had no higher or profounder motive in bringing forward the Bill than had that night been avowed, then he could tell them that their measure was
 205 "That notwithstanding any thing contained in any Act or Acts now in force, it shall be lawful for Her Majesty, her heirs and successors, to establish and maintain diplomatic relations with the Pope of Rome, and to hold diplomatic intercourse with the Sovereign of the Roman States." ad Summum Pontificem, ut 206 discordias componeret 207 208 209 "Salus populi suprema lex."
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he felt it impossible to give a silent vote upon this question; but he would endeavour to compress what he had to say within a brief space. There were, he must confess, several circumstances connected with the question, particularly as regarded the time at which the Bill had been proposed, which made it difficult for him to give the vote which he felt compelled to give in assertion of the principle of the measure. It was an unfortunate incident, as had been observed by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Plymouth, that the House should be called upon, at so late a period of the Session, when the minds of Members were exhausted by the labours which they had gone through, to give judgment upon a question like this, touching upon some of the highest and most delicate matters which could come under the consideration of Parliament. It was also unfortunate, as his hon. Friend and Colleague had urged, that the House should be invited to debate the question at a moment when—looking to the state of affairs in Italy—it was not improbable that in a few months the whole of the subject-matter in dispute would have passed away. It was further unfortunate, as his hon. Friend and Colleague had pointed out, that the House should be called upon to consider the question at a time when the Pope proposed to divide the English territory intoarch bishoprics and bishoprics. He concurred with those who thought that we must stand upon one of two grounds. If we declined political communication with the See of Rome, we had no right to complain of any steps which the Pope might take with respect to the administration of his own ecclesiastical affairs; but an act so directly in contravention of the laws of the land as the partitioning of the country into archbishoprics and bishoprics was a most unfortunate proceeding, not only because it was generally and justly offensive to the feelings of
 230 231 232 233
 SIR G. GREY  agreed with his hon. Friend as to the inconvenience of those annual suspensions. He hoped his hon. Friend would not overlook the fact that the present Bill did not affect tithe; and was one of those measures which just at present could not be placed upon a permanent footing. Still he was perfectly willing to admit that, at an early period of the ensuing Session, the subject ought to occupy the attention of Parliament. But it was a matter upon which he could make no distinct promise.
 SIR H. HALFORD  called the attention of the House to a circumstance affecting the purity of election. On the 31st of May last, the two sitting Members for the borough of Leicester, of whom Mr. Gardner was one, were unseated by an Election Committee for acts of bribery committed through their agents. About a month
 200 "Lord Clanricarde has directed me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter, dated the 13th inst., and to inform you that the situation to which you refer was placed at the disposal of Mr. Gardner, and filled up by the appointment of William Newby upon his recommendation.—I am your obedient servant, "G. E. CORNWELL, Private Secretary."
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that while he cordially concurred in the conclusion of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Youghal, seconded by the hon. Member for Stafford, in rejecting this Bill, he differed so entirely—at all events, to so great a degree—from the opinions and grounds on which those hon. Members had rested their opposition to it, that he could not content himself with giving a silent support to their proposition, and must request the indulgence of the House while he stated the grounds on which, individually, he felt it to be his duty to oppose this measure. In the first place, he must observe, that the noble Lord who introduced it appeared not merely to take a very insufficient view of the importance of this measure—speaking, as he had done, only nine minutes "by Shrewsbury clock"—on a measure that changed the constitutional character of England in regard to foreign Powers; but the grounds on which the noble Lord introduced it, were, as it appeared to him, altogether so utterly insufficient as to fill everybody who heard him with surprise and astonishment. The noble Lord rested his defence of his measure not on any large statesmanlike views, or on any considerations relating to the particular position of the Papal States to other States of Europe in the great crisis which had shaken the Continental Powers; but he contented himself with defending this Bill on these two grounds, namely, the importance of consulting the commercial interests of England, and of facilitating the means for railway communication in the south of Europe. Now, he really must say that this was almost too grave a subject on which to pursue the noble Lord through such a flimsy defence as this. Why, so far as commercial interests were concerned, he had always understood that it was the consuls of Great
 212 totidem verbis 213 Pontifex Maximus Summus Pontifex 214 Tablet Freeman's Journal 215 ex post facto 216
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that the opposition of his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) would have surprised him less, if the grounds on which it rested had been different. He could well have understood, if the Bill to prevent corrupt practices at elections had not only passed this House, but had been sanctioned by the Upper House, and was proceeding regularly and successfully there, that his noble Friend might fairly have said, that a measure affecting, it might be, the future constituency of Derby, or, at all events, the exercise of the elective franchise there, was so far advanced in its stages, that it would become the law of the land in another week; and, therefore, till the expiration of that week, it was inexpedient to issue a writ for a borough so circumstanced. But the case was here entirely different; the Bill had not yet passed this House; and in its actual state was worth no more than the paper on which it was written; indeed, not so much, since, unless it should become law, it was spoilt for paper, and was good for nothing as a statute. If the resolutions of either House did not constitute law, so in like manner the Bills of either House were absolutely valueless, until adopted by the other House, and enacted by the Crown. Under these circumstances, and believing that the exercise of the elective franchise was a right, a privilege, and a duty, and that no subject who is entrusted with it, ought to he deprived of it for a single day, unless on grounds not of expediency, but of justice; and believing, further, that no such grounds exist in the present case, and that the proportion of the guilty in the late election was a mere fraction compared with the guiltless, he was prepared to vote for the issue of the writ.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that he had to thank his right hon. Friend (Sir George Grey) for the arrangement by which he possessed the present opportunity of stating his objections to the measure now before the House. On its first introduction, indeed, he had claimed the right to oppose it; but, though his opposition was to the principle of the measure—particularly in its relation to other legislative proceedings—he had been willing to waive the expres-
 191 192 l l l pro tanto v 193 l pro tanto "And be it enacted, That every rent-charge payable as aforesaid, instead of tithes, shall be subject to all Parliamentary, and county and other rates, charges and assessments, in like manner as the tithes, commuted for such rent-charge have heretofore been subject." 194 l s l 195
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said: Sir, in rising to move the Second Reading of this Bill, it is not my intention to go into any historical details, or to trespass for any length of time on the attention of the House. In point of fact, the grounds upon which it appears to me that this change or declaration of the law is necessary, are so plain and so simple, and he so entirely on the surface of the thing, that it cannot be requisite to have recourse to any abstract or refined arguments for the purpose of showing the expediency of the measure I am about to introduce to the House. Doubts, and doubts only, have existed, whether, upon the interpretation to be put upon words in ancient Acts of Parliament, it is or is not lawful for the Sovereign of this country to hold diplomatic intercourse with the Court of Rome. I believe that the chief doubt has arisen on the construction of the word "communion;" upon the plain interpretation of that section of the law
 202 203 onus probandi primâ facie 204
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  considered that all religious tests should be removed from the business of education. The great universities of this country ought to be open to all Her Majesty's subjects. The Government appeared to be unconsciously following a track loading to the establishment of the French system of education, which was a gross violation of the rights of parents. The great danger was, that the Government might interfere more than was proper in this matter of education.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, he was un-willing to let the debate pass over without stating that he apprehended the Dissenters would not accept the proposal, that after keeping their terms at Cambridge they should be allowed to take their degrees at the London University. He knew no reason why they should consent to being thus rejected as unworthy. The only ground urged for excluding Dissenters was, that there would be difficulties in their attending in the college chapels. The way to obviate these would be for the Dissenters to have a college in the University with a chapel of their own. If there were still difficulties on the subject of their admission
 307
 MR. H. HOBHOUSE , after a few remarks, moved that it he read a third time that day three months.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that he should be very sorry if the Committee were to reduce the vote for professors; at the same time he thought it was a matter for consideration and inquiry whether, in future, they should not endeavour to make some condition by which these professorships might be made useful. There was another subject upon which he would take the liberty of saying a few words, namely, as to the admission of Dissenters to our Universities. He thought that the statutes of the Universities, and the constitution of the Universities, as they at present stood, did prevent Dissenters from being inmates of the colleges in one instance, and in the other instance taking degrees; but it was well known that at Cambridge both Roman Catholics and Protestant Dissenters had been educated, and had continued their education at the University until they came to the point of receiving their degrees. It had been suggested by some persons holding office in the university of London, whether certificates which were given by other colleges should not be given by the University of Cambridge to Roman Catholics and Protestant Dissenters, to enable them to take a degree at the University of London, certifying that they had obtained an efficiency entitling them to receive the degree. Some arrangement of that sort
 306
 LORD J. RUSSELL : This question appears to me to have been brought forward in rather a singular manner. The notice which the hon. Member has given is to call
 300 301
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I agree with nearly all that has been said by the right hon. Gentleman. I am happy to say that the correspondence which has taken place between the Committee of Council for Education, the Archbishop of Canterbury, and others acting with him on behalf of the National Society, has been nearly brought to a close—I trust, satisfactorily to both parties. The difficulty with regard to this question was not of our raising; it was a proposition of the Committee of Council for Education before we belonged to that Committee. The difficulties, however, have not been captiously raised on either side. They belonged to the subject. The chief of these was that mentioned by the right hon. Gentleman, namely, the vagueness of the term, "members of the Church of England." I think the National Society has done very fairly in asking that greater stringency should be given to that definition. There has been some correspondence as to the proper mode of obtaining that stringency; but I believe that part of the correspondence is now even in such a state that no actual differences exist; and I may say that part of the question has been settled. Two points were left on which there was scarcely a shade of difference between us; and I trust these also will be brought to a satisfactory termination. I was very glad to hear the right hon. Gentleman say that he thinks it desirable that the laity should take part in the management, and wherever it is possible they should form a portion of the governing body of these schools; on the other hand, I entirely agree with him that the difficulty has been, not in obtaining the admission of the laity—on the contrary, the great anxiety of the clergy has been that upon them rested not only the greater part of the pecuniary burden, but nearly the whole of the labour and management was left on their hands, in cones-
 263
 The LORD ADVOCATE  agreed that Scotland had overgrown her system of parochial instruction; he conceived that the various suggestions respecting retiring
 260
 MR. HAWES  would not make any reference to what had been said with respect to doubts regarding the validity of the charter, because that was a question to be decided elsewhere; but he could satisfy the House that the arrangement made by the Colonial Secretary was beneficial to the public. Soon after he entered the Colonial Office, many parties manifested a desire to colonise Vancouver's Island. They were invited to send in their plans; but not one of those sent in was accompanied with any thing like a show of security that the parties would be able to carry out the object in view. Several gentlemen continued still in correspondence with the Colonial Office upon the subject; in every instance there was a desire to meet their views; but until the Hudson's Bay Company made their offer, the communications all ended in this—that the parties thought the island might be colonised with great advantage, but that they had not the means of carrying that
 265 266 "I am bound, however, to state, that the result of the inquiries I have made is highly favourable to the Company, and has left on my mind the impression that the authority which they exercise over the vast and inhospitable region subject to their jurisdiction is, on the whole, very advantageous to the Indians. From Colonel Crofton, who resided for a considerable period at Red River, in command of a detachment of troops, I derived much valuable information with respect to their system of administration. More especially, it would appear to be a settled principle of their policy to discountenance the use of ardent spirits. It is indeed possible that the progress of the Indians towards civilisation may not correspond with the expectations of some of those who are interested in their welfare. But disappointments of this nature are experienced, I fear, in other quarters as well as the territories of the Hudson's Bay Company; and persons to whom the trading privileges of the Company are obnoxious may be tempted to ascribe to their rule the existence of evils which it is altogether beyond their power to remedy. There is too much reason to fear that if the trade were thrown open, and the Indians left to the mercy of the adventurers who might chance to engage in it, their condition would be greatly deteriorated." "I unhesitatingly assert that the government of the Hudson's Bay Company is mild and protective, and admirably adapted, in my opinion, for the state of society existing in Prince Rupert's Land, where Indians, half-breeds, and Europeans are happily governed, and live protected by laws
 267 268
 MR. C. BULLER , after having heard the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, could not help asking the House, however proper it might be that this subject should be brought under their consideration, whether it were worth while to stop the Committee of Supply for the purpose of discussing the particular question introduced by the right hon. Gentleman? It appeared to him that another opportunity might have been taken for that purpose; and he objected to the period at which the discussion had taken place, as well as to the mode in which it had been brought forward, seeing that no opportunity was given of testing the sense of the House upon it. The right hon. Gentleman had very inadequately treated the question of Vancouver's Island; indeed, he might say he had almost put it out of sight, and that the greater part of his speech related to anything but to the case of that island. The great question with which the right hon. Gentleman started was one of which neither the House, the Government, nor the public, had received any notice. It did not relate to the propriety or impropriety of giving Vancouver's Island to the Hudson's Bay Company, but to the question of the general administration of the
 290 291 292 "That tills present grant is made to the intent that the said Governor and Company shall establish upon the said island a settlement or settlements of resident colonists, emigrants from our kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, or from other our dominions, and shall dispose of the land there as may be necessary for the purpose of promoting settlements, and for the actual purposes of colonisation, and shall, once in every two years at the least, certify, under the seal of the said Governor and Company, to one of our principal Secretaries of State what colonists shall have been from time to time settled in the said colony, and what lands shall have been disposed of." "And we further declare, that this present grant is made upon this condition, that if the said Governor and Company shall not, within the term of five years from the date of these presents, have
 293 "And we hereby declare, that this present grant is, and shall be, deemed and taken to be made upon this further condition, that we, our heirs and successors, shall have, and we accordingly reserve unto us and them, full power, at the expiration of the said Governor and Company's grant or license of, or for the exclusive privilege of trading with the Indians, to repurchase and take of and from the said Governor and Company the said Vancouver's Island and premises hereby granted, in consideration of payment being made by us, our heirs or successors, to the said Governor and Company, of the sum or sums of money theretofore laid out and expended by them, in and upon the said island and premises." 294 l. 295 296 "On consideration of payments being made by us, our heirs, and successors, to the said Government and Company, of the sum or sums of money theretofore laid out and expended by them in and upon the said island and premises, and of the value of their establishments, property, and effects then being thereon."
 MR. GOULBURN  said, the objection which they made to the grant was this—
 302 303 304
 MR. WYLD  complained that in the remarks of the hon. and right hon. Gentlemen (Mr. Hawes and Mr. Buller) who had defended this grant, they had been contented to argue this question not on its own intrinsic merits, but on the principle of depreciating Vancouver's Island. They ought not to deal with this matter simply as a grant to a certain company, but as one which vitally concerned the safety of our vast colonies. Vancouver's Island was a central position in the Pacific Ocean. It was calculated to form a grand and important emporium. It must one day become the mistress of those seas. It possessed harbours which no other portion of the coast possessed. In the time of Mr. Pitt it was considered to be of vast importance—it must command the whole of the trade with China. The question had not been discussed in an agricultural point of view. The right hon. Member for Liskeard seemed to think that in that respect the island was utterly worthless. [Mr. BULLER: No, no!] Both the right hon. Gentleman and the Under Secretary for the Colonies had spoken very disparagingly of it. [Mr. HAWES: No. no!] The truth was that, as the hon. Member for Montrose said, it possessed great agricultural resources; but the Hudson's Bay Company had withheld all information respecting it. But this country must look upon it as the great commercial  entrepôt
 MR. HENLEY  inquired whether the learned Lord was prepared to advocate the abolition of tests for professorships in universities? [The LORD ADVOCATE: For Scotland and lay chairs.] He considered that the education in Scotland had been good, because it had been founded on religion. He desired to know in what state the question stood between the Church of England schools and the Education Committee of the Privy Council, in respect to the condition offered to the former by the latter. The opinions of the Government being in favour of a combined system of education, led men's minds, justly or otherwise, to mistrust any condition which hereafter might give power to the Government to go further than the condition seemed to warrant. He therefore wished to know whether the Homo Secretary could give the House any information as to how this question stood, and whether any progress had been made in the settlement and arrangement of it?
 MR. HUME  said, when all the other colonies were filled, then they might expect to colonise Vancouver's Island. This was most unreasonable. His hon. Friend had also complained of the time at which the Motion had been brought forward; but the noble Earl (the Earl of Lincoln) had given notice on the subject, which was placed on the books five weeks ago, and the Government alone had prevented him from bringing it forward. Was it fair then to complain that the matter had not been brought forward at the proper time? He was bound also to state that he had Intended six months ago to have brought forward the subject. Other matters turned his attention from the subject. The hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Christy) had written to the Secretary of State for the Colonies, and got from him an answer in writing, which he felt bound to read to the House. It was dated Downing-street, April the 11th, and stated—
 "Sir—In reply to your note of the 4th instant, in which you request to be informed as to whether the Government have not come to a decision as to the requisition of the Hudson's Bay Company, and whether it was intended to give Parliament an opportunity before any fresh proceedings were taken to express its opinion on the subject, I beg to say that you understood correctly that Government had not come to any decision as to the differences existing between the settlers on the Red River and the Company; and, also, before any fresh decision is come to, Lord Grey will give ample notice to the parties." 297 "Three American whaling ships entered the Straits of Fuca last autumn, for the purposes of obtaining supplies; and I think it likely an advantageous branch of business may be formed at Victoria, by supplying the ships engaged in the whale fishery with clothing, marine stores, refreshments, &c, being much nearer the fishing grounds than cither California or the Sandwich Islands, the dangerous bar of the Columbia river interdicting frequent intercourse with that quarter." 298 s d s l. l. "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, that She will be pleased not to grant, as is proposed, to the Hudson's Bay Company, Vancouver's Island, until full inquiry shall be instituted into the complaints against that Company from the Settlers at the Red River, and also until the capabilities and peculiar situation of the Island shall be fully ascertained;"—
 MR. P. HOWARD  seconded the Amendment. He believed that it would be most unwise to confer the proposed extensive powers on a fur-trading Company, whose object was manifestly not the promotion of colonisation, but the furtherance of their own interests. California had lately been ceded to the United States; and it appeared to him a matter of the highest national importance that we should establish
 299
 MR. OSBORNE  said, he should divide the Committee on this vote. It might be very well to provide education for the poor, but it was doubtful policy to pay for the education of the rich.
 MR. CHRISTY  rose to call the attention of the House to the proposed grant of Vancouver's Island to the Hudson's Bay Company. He had taken up this subject, not from any interested motives, but because he believed that the complaints of the settlers were just and well founded. Those complaints had been laid at the foot of the Throne, and he considered that before Vancouver's Island was granted to the Hudson's Bay Company, they should be carefully and thoroughly investigated. In 1670 the Hudson's Bay Company obtained a Charter from Charles II., granting them all the trade and territory east of the Rocky Mountains, and extending to the Oregon boundary on the south. In 1690 they applied for a confirmation of their charter, and an Act of Parliament was passed extending the powers of the charter for seven years. That Act expired in 1697, and, although a Bill for again renewing the charter was submitted to Parliament, so numerous were the petitions against its extension, that the measure was ultimately abandoned. In 1748, petitions were presented to this House against the grasping policy of the Hudson's Bay Company, and they obtained no fresh privileges then. The next stage was when Lord Selkirk, a proprietor in the Company, was desirous of founding a colony of European settlers in that dis-
 264 l.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that nothing but the profound conviction which he entertained that the question before the House involved great public interests, could induce him to delay the Speaker leaving the chair to enable the House to go into a Committee of Supply. He would state at the outset that, although in his opinion the noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Office had committed a most gross error with reference to this matter, yet be believed he had acted only on public grounds, and was uninfluenced by any improper motive. Nevertheless the noble Lord had, with reference to this question, erred in a manner more signal than any person who had ever been intrusted with the administration of colonial affairs had before done in any other instance. The House had heard the speech of the Under Secretary for the Colonies, the organ of the Government upon this occasion, and what did it consist of? Partly of an endeavour to make good the character of the Hudson's Bay Company, and partly of a
 269 270 271 "I am of opinion that the King, without the assent of Parliament, cannot legally grant to any company, or to any individual, an exclusive trade for ever, together with a right to seize the persons and goods of subjects, without process of law; and that such a grant, if made, is illegal and void, and without effect." "Such a charter may certainly be good in some cases, but I am of opinion that the charter in question was originally void, because it purports to confer on the Company exclusive privileges of trading, which I think the Crown would not grant without the authority of Parliament." "Besides that this charter seems to create, or
 272 l. "The legal opinions we have taken upon the whole subject in this country are quite decided as to most of the powers granted by the charter to the Hudson's Bay Company, and especially those under which the Company claim to seize persons and confiscate property; they also leave no doubt as to the invalidity of the grant to Lord Selkirk, or to the extension of any grant or power purporting to be made by the charter beyond the immediate confines of the Bay." 273 l. l. "They are engaged for five years, and after their time has expired the Company are obliged to send them back to England or Canada, if they desire it. Generally, however, when their time expires, they find themselves in debt, and are obliged to serve an extra time to pay it; and not unfrequently, at the expiration of their engagement, they have become attached or married to some Indian woman, or half-breed, and have children, on which account they find themselves unable to leave, and continue attached to the
 274 "Because, in the event of a settlement of the said territory under the control of any other power than that of the Company, private traffic would be carried on between the settlers and the Indians, and clandestinely with traders from the United States and the Canadas, which no ordinance of the Company would prevent. Besides, it has been found that colonisation is at all times un-favourable to the fur trade." 275 Dog California 276 l. l. 277 s d 278 "All that the Hudson's Bay Company required would be the very limited grant of lands which I had in view in my letter to your Lordship of the 7th of September, 1846;"— "When I understood that you were desirous that a part or the whole of the country recently confirmed to Great Britain, should be colonised, I was induced to propose that the whole should be included in a grant to the Hudson's Bay Company; because I was persuaded that the colonisation would be much more successfully conducted under the auspices of the Company than it could
 279 "If you will place them in the hands of Lord Grey, I am persuaded he will submit them to a thorough and sifting investigation." 280 "The power of the Court not to extend to capital offences, nor to civil actions where the amount in issue exceeds 200 l. 281 "Kindness and conciliation in the intercourse of its officers and servants with Indians of every tribe; an absence of interference in the quarrels of individuals, in the internal disputes of tribes, and in the wars which they may wage with one another; and an invariable rule of avenging the murder by Indians of any of its servants, blood for blood, without trial of any kind—are the three and only principles followed out by the Hudson's Bay Company in its transactions with the numerous inhabitants of the extensive territory under its control; and its sole aim is to derive the greatest possible revenue from that territory." 282 d l. l. l. s l. s 283 "Fort Garry, Red River Settlement, August 25, 1845. "Mr. JAMES SINCLAIR, "Sir—I beg to state, that in a private letter from Mr. Secretary Smith, dated the 18th of April last, and received on the 25th inst., I am requested to acquaint you that no goods will he shipped in your name on hoard the Hudson Bay Company's ship for York factory this season.—I remain. Sir, your most obedient humble servant, "ALEXANDER CHRISTIE." 284 Life "I have trodden the burnt ruins of houses, barns, a mill, a fort, and sharpened stockades, but none of a place of worship oven upon the smallest scale. I blush to say, that over the whole extent of the Hudson's Bay territories, no such building exists. It is surely high time that this foul reproach should be done away from among men belonging to a Christian nation." 285 "There is not one clergyman of the Church of England on the farther side of the Rocky Mountains. The Hudson's Bay Company did at one time maintain a chaplain at Fort Vancouver—they have ceased to do so. Within their own proper territories they have one, namely, at the Red River; so that in Hudson's Bay itself there is none." Life "Three Wesleyan missionaries have come in from Lac la Pluie and the Sashatchewan; and furs have fallen from 15 to 20 per cent. Ominous signs these—saying plainly, 'make hay while the sun shines.' " 286 "About the opposition of the Company to the Christianising of the Indians, I can give, after seventeen years of missions amongst them, a number of characteristic instances of this truth. Intoxicating liquors given in abundance, rewards to those who would not listen to the missionaries' invitations, refusal to build a chapel amongst them, menaces of burning it after its erection, &c.—are all things that I can bear witness to." 287 quid leges sine moribus 288 289
 MR. GLADSTONE  thought that the question put by the hon. Member for Oxfordshire was one of great practical importance; and he was sincerely rejoiced to hoar that there was a probability of arriving at a satisfactory conclusion on the subject. He could not find fault with the Government so far as the principle of those management clauses was concerned. He thought that they had good ground for taking security for the bettor constitution of the Church schools; and if those clauses were better framed, and with a regard to the just jealousies of the members of the Church, he believed the adoption of them would confer a very great and substantial benefit. Although arrangements with the National Society did not bind the Church, yet he might express a confident opinion, though without authority, that if the terms—modified as he believed they had been by the National Society, in order to meet the views of the Government—could be accepted by the Government, the vast majority of the clergy of the Church of England at once, and ultimately, he would venture to say, the entire clergy, would be contented with the system that should be so agreed upon between the Government and the National Society. There were real difficulties connected with the subject, arising chiefly out of the ambiguity and latitude attaching to the expression, "members of the Church of England." He believed that, in nine cases out of ten, the complaint of the clergy was, that they could not get the laity to take interest enough in the management of these schools. They were anxious to court, not what was called interference—that was an injudicious term, and tended to prejudice the case—but the assistance and co-operation of the laity in carrying on these schools. Leaving everything to turn on mere pecuniary qualification, they would open the door to faction where local heats prevailed, and introduce the greatest confusion in the management of those schools; but if they could adopt regulations by which in every case persons qualified, members of the Church, that is, living in the actual use of the ordinances of the Church, should be associated with the clergy, a great benefit would be con-
 262
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that this vote certainly stood on a different footing from the gratuitous vote originally taken out of the finances of the country. It was connected with the patronage of the Crown, and the just influence the Crown ought to have with the Universities. As a matter of money, no great value was to be attached to a vote like this—the tax on degrees greatly outweighed this vote. If it were unworthy of wealthy institutions, like the Universities, to receive this 900 l.
 SIR G. GREY  said, a good deal of communication on the subject had passed between the Education Committee of the Privy Council and the Archbishop of Canterbury, the President of the National Society; and with respect to the observation of the hon. Gentleman, that many members of the National Society would not be bound by the rules it might adopt on this subject, he could only say that the most rev. Prelate might be supposed to represent their feelings; and he was not aware of any organ that could be taken as a more satisfactory exponent of their wishes, as well as of the wishes of all other members of the Established Church. He hoped that the
 261
 SIR G. GREY  conceived that many of the points referred to by the noble Lord were deserving of the consideration of the Education Committee of the Privy Council.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, a much larger sum was given to the University of St. Andrew's. This House gave 953 l. l.
 VISCOUNT MELGUND  was understood to complain of the new system of encouragement for schools in Scotland, as tending to promote sectarian differences—the very thing the State should prevent.
 CAPTAIN JONES  said, if anything in the shape of united education at all existed, it would be found in the schools under the patronage of the Established Church. For his own part he had never offered any objection to their national system so far as it went. Let them establish a system similar to that adopted in England, and so modify their rules as to enable clergymen of the Established Church to take advantage of the grant. If they declined to do that, then they ought to give them a separate grant for themselves.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, it was in tended to accompany the grant of Vancouver's Island to the Hudson's Bay Company with certain conditions which would make it imperative upon the Company to do all in their power to promote colonisation. If the Company should accept the grant upon those conditions, his noble Friend at the head of the Colonial Department intended to lay all the papers connected with the subject before the Committee of the Privy Council, and it would depend on the recommendation of that Committee whether the grant should be concluded or not. It was not the intention of the Government to send out a Commission of Inquiry to Hudson's Bay, because that would delay the colonisation project for two years, besides being a source of expense.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the inquiry which the Secretary for the Colonies had directed to be made into the conduct of the Hudson's Bay Company, before any discussion on this subject took place, would proceed; but the Government did not intend to await the result of that inquiry before confirming the grant of Vancouver's Island to the Company. Both he and the Secretary for the Colonies were of opinion that Vancouver's Island was not likely to be colonised for a great many years by any other means than through the instrumentality of the Hudson's Bay Company.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said: Sir, if I do not enter at any length on the present occasion into this question, I am sure the House will readily perceive the reasons why I decline to do so. This is a system which, as the hon. and learned Gentleman who last addressed the House has truly stated, was established by Lord Stanley in the year 1832. It has, since that time, received the support of successive Governments. Having been established by Lord Stanley, it was continued by the Administration of Sir Robert Peel, who refused to make any alteration with respect to those grants, and it has gone on to the present time constantly increasing in the number of its schools and of its scholars. There had at first been at the utmost 100,000 scholars attending the National Schools in Ireland, while there are now upwards of 4,000 schools, and upwards of 400,000 scholars. This is not, therefore, to be considered, as some Gentlemen who spoke to-night appear disposed to consider it—this is not to be considered as an entirely new question, or a proposal now brought forward for the first time by the Government. It is a system which, having been first proposed by Lord Stanley as an experiment, has been found more successful than could have been expected—has extended itself very widely in Ireland—and has been of very great use in that country. Under these circumstances, I say that we have a  primâ facie 359 360 361 362 363
 LORD J. RUSSELL  considered the vote an experiment. Rajah Brooke, by his own genius, activity, and resources, had laid the foundation at Labuan of a considerable trade. He asked the Rajah when in Europe whether he thought that trade would be large? He said he thought it would in time, but did not expect it to grow up very rapidly. The question was whether it would not be advisable as an experiment to foster Labuan for the purposes of commerce. As a station to which our ships might have recourse, it was of considerable importance. Lord Grey stated in his evidence before the Committee, that he expected in a very short time it would, like Singapore, pay the whole expenses of its
 313
 MR. HAWES  observed that this was a new estimate, but Labuan was a position very important in reference to our trade in that quarter; the merchants in all parts of the country had urged the Government to
 312
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  begged to explain the circumstances connected with the hospital to which the hon. Member for Middlesex had referred. The hospital in question had been established in Dublin nearly 10 years ago, and was called the Adelaide Protestant Hospital. It was built by Protestants exclusively, with Protestant money; and the object was not merely to supply medical and surgical relief, but to administer religious consolation to the patients. This latter provision, of course, practically excluded Roman Catholics; but there was nothing in the rules which excluded them.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, it was after much consideration, and not without some hesitation, he had arrived at the conclusion that it was his duty to bring the important subject of the present national system of education in Ireland before the House, even at the present period of the Session. In doing so, he was anxious to confine himself as much as possible to a statement of the position in which the clergy and laity of the Established Church were placed by the rules and nature and principles of the system; and the Motion with which he would conclude his statement was—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to direct that such a modification of the system of National Education in Ireland be made as may remove the conscientious objections which a very large proportion of the Clergy and Laity of the Established Church entertain to that system as at present carried into operation; or, otherwise, that means may be taken to enable those of the Clergy and Laity of the Established Church who entertain such conscientious objections to extend the blessings of Scriptural Education in Ireland. " "The word education is derived from the Latin word  educere 317 "If we confine education to mere reading and writing, and casting accounts, we leave out the principal object for which education is designed—namely, for man's spiritual powers and benefit. In this country great attention has been paid to instruction or the first part of education, but little attention seems to have been paid to the great and principal object of education, namely, spiritual improvement. Now, it is the intention of this meeting, and of the Catholic clergy and laity, who have united themselves in this good cause, that we should lay the basis of education—a good and religious education. We hold that instruction and knowledge are not sufficient unless based on religion. Instruction may enable a man to rise in the world, and aggrandise himself; but a good and religious education teaches him a much higher aim." à priori 318 319 320 321 322 323 324 Tablet "The apparent or outward success of the National Board is referred to as a precedent for the mixed education of the provincial colleges. It is difficult to imagine how any one who is tolerably acquainted with the facts, and is even slightly imbued with the elements of reasoning, can use such an argument as this. It was only the other day that one of the most intelligent supporters of the Board said to us, 'I approve of the national system, because, in fact, it gives us Catholic schools;' this is the real truth. In every parish in Ireland, any number of individuals, and the priest among the rest, can establish a school, appoint their own masters and teachers, call it a school, say the Ave Maria whenever the clock strikes, and get and from the National Board. We have seen this state of things in the south of Ireland with our own eyes—we have seen it in Dublin under the nose of the Government—and we have witnessed with much edification the smile of serene content which often accompanies the utterance of these words, 'Oh, we pay no attention to the rules of the Board.' " 325 326 l 327 "His Excellency most sincerely regrets that he is unable to comply with your desire to have Mr. Thacker appointed to the Union of White-church; but that gentleman having so unequivocally and conscientiously declared his opposition to the system of national education, it would be a violation of the principle by which the Lord Lieutenant has been guided, if he were to relax. I add, by desire of the Lord Lieutenant, his request that it may be conveyed to Mr. Thacker that he entertains no objection to him individually, as from all he has heard, and from his conscientious avowal of his opinions, he considers that gentleman to be entitled to the highest respect." 328 329
 MR. G. THOMPSON  admitted the extraordinary exploits of the Rajah in the Indian Archipelago, but deprecated the establishment of Labuan; believing, as he did, that it would tend, not to the promotion of peaceful and honourable commerce, but to the infliction of the greatest calamities on the population of that part of the world. Every humane man must shudder as he read the proceedings of our ships of war, and the indiscriminate massacres that had taken place, directly or indirectly, in connexion with their proceedings at Labuan.
 MR. REYNOLDS  was astonished to hear from the hon. and learned Gentleman that there was no attempt on the part of Protestants in Ireland to proselytism, for every body was aware that at Trinity College no office of emolument was conferred upon any man who was not a Protestant. While professing to be a national university, it, in a country containing 7,500,000 of Catholics, 500,000 Protestants, and 500,000 Methodists and other Dissenters, declared that none but those who professed the Protestant creed should receive any emolument from it. Its income was 100,000 l
 MR. HUME  said, that having originally approved of the system, having watched its progress from the beginning, and having lately paid considerable attention to its working, he had no hesitation in saying that he thought it one of the best things that had ever been done for Ireland. He could not help, therefore, expressing his deep regret to find it opposed by men of character and station, and especially by clergymen, whose duty it was to promote concord and peace. The hon. and learned
 364
 MR. HUME  declared that he did not wish the Government to send out a Commission of Inquiry; all he desired was that Parliament should have time to consider this subject before the Government came to an irrevocable decision upon it.
 MR. HUME  thought it too much to begin, at such a place as this, with such salaries as "Governor or Commander-in-Chief, 2,000 l l l l l
 MR. NAPIER : * * 336 337 338 339 "The determination to enforce in all their schools the reading of the Holy Scriptures without note or comment was undoubtedly taken with the purest motives—with the wish at once to connect religious with moral and literary education; and, at the same time, not to run the risk of wounding the peculiar feelings of any sect by catechetical instruction or comments, which might tend to subjects of polemical controversy." "For the purpose of ascertaining more exactly the number of those supplementary schools, for selecting proper situations for erecting and establishing them where wanted, for prescribing the mode of education to be pursued, and for the general superintendence of them, we are of opinion that a board of commissioners, as above mentioned, should be appointed, under the authority of an Act of Parliament, empowering them to receive and dispose of Parliamentary grants for building
 340 "In such selection of books for the new schools, we doubt not but it will be found practicable to introduce not only a number of books in which moral principles will be inculcated in such a manner as is likely to make deep and lasting impressions on the youthful mind, but also ample extracts from the sacred Scriptures themselves, an early acquaintance with which we deem of the utmost importance, and indeed indispensable in forming the mind to just notions of duty and sound principles of conduct." "We feel strongly that the unexampled improvement which has taken place within a short period in the education of the peasantry of Ireland, ought duly to be apprehended, before any of the means by which it has been produced shall be destroyed or endangered. In our second report there
 341 342 343 344 Si erro, erro cum Platone 345 346 "Although it is not designed to exclude from the list of hooks for the combined instruction, such portions of sacred history, or of religious or moral teaching, as may he approved of by the Board, it is to be understood that it is by no means intended to convey a perfect and sufficient religious education, or to supersede the necessity of separate religious instruction on the day set apart for that purpose." "Besides works on the ordinary subjects of education, we have compiled and printed two numbers of a series of lessons from the Holy Scriptures, one from the Old, the other from the New Testament; and we propose to go on adding to them, until we complete a copious abstract of the narrative parts of the sacred volume, interspersed with suitable passages from the poetical and didactic parts of it. We proceed on the undertaking with perfect unanimity, and anticipate from the general circulation of the work the best results." 347 "As the introduction of the Bible into schools for common education has created much contention and dispute, and prevented a large proportion of the poorer classes of Ireland from sending their children to schools receiving Government and, it is not to be introduced during the hours set apart for common education, but every facility is to be given for the reading and explaining of the Scriptures, either before or after those hours."—"All books used in the schools during the hours of general instruction, are to receive the sanction of the Board." 348 349 350 bonâ fide bonâ fide 351 352 "Having received your Excellency's permission to revise our existing rule as to religious instruction, we have anxiously considered whether we could effect such an alteration in the letter of it, without violating the principle, as might satisfy any of those who have been hitherto conscientiously opposed to us." "Without violating the principle, as might satisfy any of those who have been hitherto conscientiously opposed to us." "That no child shall be required to be present at any religious instruction or exercise of which his parents or guardians may disapprove,"—to "which they may object." "If I found that the London Hibernian School was one where the rules were strictly adhered to, and that the Catholics were desired not to suffer children to frequent it, yet did so, being apprised of their danger, I should think it proper to withhold the sacrament from them when dying. "Need there be in the schools any other sumbling-block than the Scriptures being read and got by heart?—There need not. "It is enough if the Bible is read there without note or comment?—Yes, that is quite sufficient in order to make such schools obnoxious to us." 353 354 "We therefore propose modifying the letter of the rule, so as to allow religious instruction to be given, and of course the Scriptures to be read, or the Catechism learned, during any of the school hours, provided such an arrangement be made as that no children shall take part in or listen to any religious reading or instruction to which their parents or guardians object;"— 355 "The readings of the Scriptures, cither in the Protestant authorised or Douay version, as well as the reading of Catechisms, comes within the rule as to religious instruction. The rule as to religious instruction applies to public prayer, and to all other religious exercises." "The Commissioners do not insist on the Scripture lessons being read in any of the National Schools, nor do they allow them to be read during the time of secular or literary instruction, in any school attended by children whose parents or guardians object to their being so read. In such case, the Commissioners prohibit the use of them, except at the time of religious instruction, when the persons giving it may use these lessons or not, as they think proper. Whatever arrangement is made in any school for giving religious instruction, must be publicly notified in the school room, in order that those children, and those only, may be present whose parents or guardians allow them." "Do you consider that the Board contributes nothing to the separate religious instruction beyond the school house?—Nothing whatever. "Are there any school books and other means furnished towards it by the Board?—None whatever. "In the time set apart for reading the Scriptures or for religious instruction, do you consider the National Board directs or controls the instruction at all?—Certainly not. "What provision do you make for seeing that the day set apart for religious instruction shall be devoted to that purpose?—We make no provision whatever. "Is the Board considered to employ the schoolmaster to give that separate religious instruction; or is he employed by other parties?—We employ no one to give the separate religious instruction. "The schoolmaster may give the instruction, but the Board do not require it?—Certainly. "It would be open to him to refuse the application from the parents to give such instruction on that day?—Certainly. 356 "Ego G. C. electus in numerum Sociorum hujus Collegii, sanctè coram Deo profiteor, me, sacræScripturæ auctoritatem in religione summam agnoscere, et quæccunque in sancto Dei verbo continentur, verè et ex animo credere, et pro facultate meâ omnibus opinionibus, quas vel Pontificii, vel alii contra sacræScripturæ veritatem tuentur, constantèr repugnaturum," &c. 357 l
 MR. OSBORNE  considered the vote extravagant; it was pretended to be only "to begin with," but, once voted, it would never get less. Next year there would most likely be a bishop; a colony never started with a governor and commander-in-chief without ending with a bishop.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, as the Motion stood, it was opposed to the religious scruples of Roman Catholic parents, and if carried, it would upset the whole system of mixed education. The hon. Member for the University of Dublin had called for a modification of the system; but it appeared that what he proposed was the abolition of the present Board of Education, and the substitution of a system of separate grants for that now in force. He had not denied that Protestant children were already supplied with as much Scriptural education as the greatest stickler for such education could demand; and, in truth, as in every national school several hours were sot apart for Scriptural reading, if Protestant youths did not receive instruction in the Bible, it must be the fault of the Protestant clergy. The effect of passing the Motion would be, to revive the embers of religious strife, which were now dying out. Something had been said about the excellence of the Kildare-place Society system of education. He happened to know that the most extraordinary means had been used to induce parents to send their children to what were called the Kildare-place Schools. Parents had received as a consideration 5 l s in extremis 335
 MR. GLADSTONE  thought that the noble Lord's statement was most unsatisfactory. It appeared that the Government was prepared to confirm the grant of Vancouver's Island to the Hudson's Bay Company, irrespective of the charge now pending against that Company of having exercised illegal and despotic authority over Her Majesty's subjects. The fundamental unfitness of the Hudson's Bay Company for the work of colonisation had been demonstrated; and, whatever restrictions might be imposed upon them for the purpose of preventing positive abuses, it would be as impossible to infuse the active powers necessary for colonisation into the Company as it would be into a corpse.
 MR. GLADSTONE  was a little alarmed at the comprehensive view of his hon. Friend; considering the portion of the earth that we had got, he was more anxious for the cultivation of the field already ours, than for the extension of it, though ready to allow that a post at Labuan might be very wise. The hon. Member (Mr. Osborne) was strangely wrong about bishops. With the exception of a grant which was doomed to extinction on the expiration of a life interest, there was only one vote for a bishop in the whole of the colonial estimates, namely, 600 l l
 MR. MACKINNON  hoped there might be a bishop there some day; nothing was so likely to keep a colony in order and in due subjection to the mother country as an ecclesiastical establishment. Labuan was an important position. Borneo ultimately, in all probability, might belong to this country.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  said, that though a large body of the Established clergy were opposed to this national system, he did not believe that their opposition was shared in or countenanced by the great body of the Protestant laity. If that were the case, how did it happen that the national schools were much more numerous in the province of Ulster than in the other three provinces? The proportions were as follows:—Schools in Munster, 940; in Leinster, 976; in Connaught, 553; in Ulster, 1,659. He thought that the system of reading the Scriptures at particular hours had tended to promote Scriptural instruction even among Roman Catholics, by inducing parents of that religion to allow their children to remain, which they often did, in fact, to hear the Scriptures read. He was sorry to have hoard that the Government had made adherence to the national system
 334
 SIR W. VERNER  did not entertain a doubt that some of the clergy of the Established Church had become converts to the national system; and it was not to be wondered at when they were told by a Lord Lieutenant that if they were not friendly to it he could not give his consent to their promotion. He would mention one case in illustration of the course that bad been adopted on this subject by the Lush Government. Some time since, when the Lord Lieutenant of the day arrived in Ireland, an application was made to him to appoint, as one of his chaplains, a clergy-man of the highest character. The answer was, that the Lord Lieutenant did not intend to appoint any new chaplains, but would confine himself to the list handed over to him by his predecessor. A short time afterwards, a certain reverend gentleman announced himself in the public papers as the advocate of the National Board of Education, and the then Lord Lieutenant, forgetting his former declaration, immediately appointed him one of his chaplains. The best system of education ever introduced into Ireland was that of the Kildare-place Society, which was abolished solely because it was objected to by the Roman Catholic priests.
 MR. GROGAN  said, if the prejudices of the Protestants, or of the Protestant clergymen of Ireland, prevented them from taking any part of the grant under present circumstances, they were entitled to have some portion of the grant allotted to them. As a proof of the efforts made by the Protestants themselves, there were 1,899 Church education schools at present established and maintained by the voluntary system, and they were entitled in justice to ask the Government for some assistance. He would maintain, without the slightest
 333
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  considered
 330 331 332
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  could not allow this conversation to close without saying a few words. The hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets objected to the vote because he thought the interests of humanity and justice would be better consulted by abandoning Labuan; because its establishment would lead us into incessant conflict with the peaceful inhabitants of that region, and even involve the aborigines in indiscriminate massacre. Now, if it were possible for the ingenuity of man—ignorant, as the hon. Member was not, of the circumstances under which that establishment had been formed—to make a statement in every respect the very reverse of the fact, it would be such a statement as the hon. Gentleman had made. What was it that obstructed the increase of the peaceful commerce of Europe and Asia in those islands? What but the prevalence of piracy? The peaceful aborigines! Why, a multitude of those islands were filled with nests of pirates, who preyed on the peaceful aborigines, and destroyed commerce in those distant seas. The object of our naval expeditions had been to put down the most detestable and diabolical system of piracy that ever existed on the face of the globe. Those pirates went out frequently in fleets of 12,000 men, armed, and required a very considerable force to meet and repress them. We were not the only people taking measures to put them down. The Spanish Governor General of the Philippine Islands had sent a large naval and military expedition for the express
 314
 MR. BERNAL  said, all sugars, not merely foreign sugars, but British colonial sugars, should be admitted to the refiners of this country for the benefit of all parties. He believed that to be perfectly practicable, and that the chemical and mechanical skill of the Board of Excise would be sufficient to guard the revenue against fraud. The state of the sugar market showed that the House had been acting most ruinously towards those engaged in the sugar trade. The introduction of the Sugar Duties Bill, and the discussions upon it, had driven down the market 3 s l s s s s
 MR. H. DRUMMOND  said, that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stamford, who had just sat down, had treated the House on the 22nd of August, with a  rechauffé 397
 LORD G. BENTINCK  brought forward a series of alterations in the schedules, to correct, as he said, the blunders of Ministers.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  had an additional clause to propose, and said: Sir, it will be in the recollection of the House that when this Bill was in Committee I moved a clause, the effect of which would be to place the English refiner on the same footing with foreigners. At that time, unfortunately, five-sixths of the House were absent, and having been defeated under such circumstances as these, I think I am perfectly justified in trying my luck on this occasion. All I ask is this, that the Eng-
 377 378 s d s d s d d 379 s d "And whereas it is expedient to admit Sugar, without payment of Duty, to be refined for home consumption, under the lock of the Crown; Be it further Enacted, That it shall be lawful for any person or persons who may be now, or who may be hereafter, engaged, under the provisions of the Acts of the 3rd and 4th Will, IV., c. 61, and 8th
 380
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said: I wish to say only a few words in consequence of what fell from the hon. Member for Inverness. He said that my right hon. Friend ought not to have stated that he meant to propose a measure with respect to refining sugar in bond, unless he fully intended to bring such a measure forward, or if he had not a belief that such a measure was to be brought forward. Now, the sense of what my right hon. Friend stated was this, that it was a subject encumbered with great difficulties, and that he would consider of such a measure during the recess; that if he saw his way to a good and practicable measure, he would propose to introduce it, but that he would not pledge himself to bring such a measure forward until he had fully considered the difficulties belonging to it. My right hon. Friend has had interviews with persons connected with the trade upon this subject; but having asked the Chairman of Customs, Sir Thomas Fremantle, to pay particular attention to this subject, after a very careful investigation, he has come to
 386
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said that the hon. Member for West Surrey tried to laugh the question out of the House. His speech just amounted to—"Lord! what a bore is this currency question. Thank God we are near the holidays. Let us have no more about it." But he (Mr. Newdegate) thought that was not the way to treat the discussion of a system which had involved the suspension of 143 first-rate commercial houses in the months of October and November, 1847. It would not do to laugh such a matter off. The country now presented a most alarming aspect. There was a frightful deficiency in exports; but the deficiency in amount was nothing to the depreciation in value. And in case the present untoward weather should seriously injure the crops, and thereby render the necessary import of grain, and consequent export of bullion, of the present year vastly greater than that of the last, he trusted that the Government would not allow Parliament to disperse without holding out a hope that they would be ready to discuss the great question as soon as Parliament was reassembled, when they recollected the melancholy and distressing effects upon trade from similar causes last autumn. Now, how had this question been dealt with by the Committee, selected at the instance and by the force of a Government majority to investigate it? Had that Committee shown that zeal or diligence which might have been expected in so momentous an inquiry? The Committee on Commercial Distress had sat more than five months, and
 398 l l 399 l l l l l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that no man entertained a stronger opinion than he did on the importance of a discussion relating to the monetary laws of this country, and no question of greater moment could possibly occupy the attention of the House. He did not deny the right of the right hon. Gentleman to introduce this question as early as he pleased next Session; but the course which the right hon. Gentleman was now taking, seemed to him most extraordinary, and, as the hon. Member for West Surrey had said, a most fruitless course. The right hon. Gentleman would have it in his power at the beginning of the Session to bring the question before the House in any shape which he might think proper; and he could not conceive what possible advantage the right hon. Gentleman could gain by a Motion pledging the House to take the subject into consideration early next Session. The right hon. Gentleman did not advance a single step towards the consideration of the question. It might also be inconvenient to give a pledge which circumstances might render it difficult to fulfil; and yet, whether the pledge was given or not, it would be equally in the power of the right hon. Gentleman to bring the matter under the consideration of the House. The right hon. Gentleman gave no reason for asking the House to make such a pledge, and declined even to state his own opinions on the matter. He should not recommend
 402 403 404 l l 405 "Were those houses which have suspended payment during 1847 and 1848, generally engaged in railway speculations?—Yes, almost in every case, more or less. "Their accounts have, I suppose, a good deal come under your notice?—Yes; when I say railway speculations, I should perhaps say speculations in shares as well as railway shares; but the railways were the great source of speculations? "Did you find that parties drawing bills took unusual means of obtaining money for the purpose of carrying on railway speculations?—Yes; a considerable part of the loss sustained by the bank with which I am connected, arose from that cause, from parties ostensibly drawing bills for their business transactions, which turned out upon their failure to have been drawn against railway speculations; they were represented to be business bills, but in reality they were drawn in order to support speculations in railway shares. "Will you explain how that was done?—A cotton manufacturer connected himself with a cotton twist dealer, and the one drew bills upon the other, which we supposed were for the purchase of twist for his manufactory, and it turned out to be nothing of the kind, but merely connected with speculations in shares." 406
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  rose to repeat the opposition which on a former occasion he gave to the proposition of the noble Lord, and expressed his regret that the noble Lord should have thought it necessary to have gone over the same ground again. The noble Lord argued, that certain privileges ought to be granted to our countrymen as a matter of justice. There were undoubtedly great advantages attending a general system of refining in bond. This he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had never denied for a moment: on the contrary, he had stated them on a former occasion. On the other hand, there were great difficulties in the way. The Government at present could not clearly see their way to the adoption of a general system; but between this and the next Session they intended to consider the subject. He had had several conferences on the subject with refiners both of the town and country; and they perfectly concurred in the views of the Government, that though a general system had great advantages, yet it was surrounded with great practical difficulties. If such a system were adopted, it must be adopted universally and at present they did not see their way to it. They stated, in a memorial to the Government, that the subject involved many practical difficulties; that the system would impose many vexatious restrictions; and that at this late period of the Session it would be impossible to prepare a well-digested and comprehensive scheme. A petition had been presented to the House, signed by every refiner in London but two against the proposal of the noble Lord. The noble Lord was not therefore correct in saying, that this was the request of the refiners in London. The noble Lord said, it was to the compulsory part of the Government proposition that
 381 382
 MR. MUNTZ  would admit that, if it was proper to pass the Act of 1819, it was necessary to pass that of 1844 to prevent vacillation on the part of the Bank. In evidence given before a Committee of the House, before the latter measure was introduced, he had stated his opinions that the Bank should keep 500,000 l
 MR. G. THOMPSON , as the representative of the great body of English sugar refiners in the metropolis, felt bound to give his cordial support to the proposition of the noble Lord (Lord G. Bentinck). He had listened with the utmost attention to every word which had been said during the debate, and felt thoroughly convinced that Government, having offered no solid argument for the course they took, there must be some Dutch influence at the bottom of it.
 MR. H. BAILLIE : When last this question was brought under discussion, he opposed the proposition of the noble Lord the Member for Lynn, because he agreed with his right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Goulburn) that it would be very unjust to give a privilege to one class of refiners in this country which was refused to the rest; but having since heard the statement of the noble Lord with regard to the enormous injustice that they were about to perpetrate upon a body of refiners, by allowing the Dutch to refine sugar to the disadvantage of the English sugar merchant, whom they would not permit to refine, he now thought that the alternative of the noble Lord was better than the proposition of the Government. With regard to the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, that the colonies of other countries were suffering as well as those of Great Britain, he had to observe, that the accounts received from Cuba, Brazil, &c., did not justify the right hon. Gentleman's statement.
 MR. GOULBURN  thought it would be well that some general system of refining in bond should be adopted; but as the Session was so far advanced, and the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had held out hopes of a measure on the subject being introduced next Session, he should give his vote against the proposition of the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  complained that the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had failed to show any reasons for his determination to vote for the proposition of the noble Lord the Member for Lynn; he had preferred making an attack upon the policy of the present Government to defending his intended vote. He could assure the House that he would be the last man to deny that the present state of the West Indian colonies was such as to inspire every lover of this country, in common with the Members of the Government, with the greatest anxiety and alarm. He never had disputed the fact that great distress prevailed in those colonies, and that any remedies which they could fairly apply to that distress it was their duty at once to adopt. But the House should bear in mind that the English colonies were not the only ones labouring under distress. Cuba, in which slavery was rife, and the colonial possessions of the French, were at present suffering from great distress. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Herries) opposed the Government proposition because they
 384 Times
 MR. JAMES WILSON  was aware, in consequence of what fell on one occasion from the noble Lord (Lord G. Bentinck), to what house the hon. Member alluded. He (Mr. Wilson) had never had the slightest communication with that foreign house, one way or the other, upon the subject. The present proposition was to give effect to the request of a single refiner in bond, he being at the same time a refiner for the home market. If carried, it would enable him, by dividing his cargoes between his two refining houses, the inferior part to the one and the better to the other, to put in his pocket a certain sum which he would otherwise have had to pay to the revenue; and nine-tenths of the refiners could not in practice take advantage of such a permission.
 MR. HERRIES  said, it was admitted on all hands that the rejection of the proposition of his noble Friend the Member for King's Lynn would inflict great injustice on English industry and English capital; and all the answer that the Government could give was, that they were not skilful enough to find a remedy. The Government would soon have to repent of their policy with regard to our West Indian
 383
 MR. HERRIES  would endeavour to confine himself as much as possible to the subject to which he was anxious to draw the attention of the House. The Motion he had to submit was as follows:—
 "That this House will, early in the next Session of Parliament, take into its serious consideration the Reports from the Committee of this House, and from the Committee of the House of Lords communicated to this House, appointed to inquire into the Causes of the recent Commercial Distress, and how far it has been affected by the Laws for regulating the issue of Bank Notes payable on demand." "I shall at once proceed to call the attention of the Committee to a matter which enters into every transaction of which money forms a part. There is no contract, public or private—no engagement, national or individual—which is unaffected by it. The enterprises of commerce, the profits of trade, the arrangements made in all the domestic relations of society, the wages of labour, pecuniary transactions of the highest amount and of the lowest, the payment of the national debt, the provision for the national expenditure, the command which the coin of the smallest denomination has over the necessaries of life, are all affected by the decision to which we may come on that great question which I am about to submit to the consideration of the Committee." 389 l 390 391 "The evidence which has been given as to the effects of the Act of 1844 has been contradictory. Its beneficial effects, as regards the issues of the country banks, have been admitted by many of the witnesses; and although some have suggested an alteration of its provisions, very few have contested the general principles on which it is founded. "Your Committee have had under their consideration whether it is advisable that powers should be conferred by law upon the Government to enable them to meet the occurrence of any circumstances
 392 "That the principle on which the Act of 1844 should be amended is the introduction of a discretionary relaxing power; such power, in whomsoever vested, to be exercised only during the existence of a favourable foreign exchange." "If the Committee considered that the Act of 1844, which they desire to see amended so far as its restrictive clauses are concerned, was essential to the practical convertibility of the banknote, they would hesitate in recommending any change. But it should never he forgotten that the liability of the Bank consists in its deposits as well as in its promissory notes. The legal obligation to discharge both is the same; the failure of either would be equally fatal. The protection given by the Act of 1844 is mainly given to the banknotes, and in some degree at the risk of the deposits. This appears undeniable on comparing the reserve in the third week of October with the amount of private deposits. Had any unfortunate circumstance interfered with the power of meeting the latter engagements, or had not the Treasury letter been written, there seems little doubt of the fatal consequences which must have ensued. Had it been impossible to pay the deposits, a discredit of the bank-note must have been the consequence. Nor can it be rationally questioned but that such a misfortune might have exposed to risk the convertibility of the bank-notes." 393 394 395 396
 MR. HERRIES  was satisfied, from the course which the present discussion had taken, that he was justified in bringing forward the Motion which he had submitted to the House, and he felt quite confirmed in the opinion that the question could not rest where it now was. In bringing forward the present Motion, he wanted to show that the report was not in conformity with the evidence; that purpose had been fully answered, and he should certainly
 432
 MR. HUME  had been anxious to hear the speech of the right hon. Baronet; but he confessed that, looking to what was expected from this Bill, and what he had just stated to the House, he was utterly at a loss to understand the right hon. Baronet. Much time had been taken up by the right hon. Baronet in stating the principle on which our currency was based; but that was not the question before the House on the present occasion. The Motion of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stamford did not require the House to go back either to 1811 or 1819. The right hon. Baronet had spoken lightly of the report of the Lords' Committee; but it was nevertheless an honest report, and in accordance with the evidence that was laid
 431
 MR. HUME  would vote for the proposition of the noble Lord the Member for Lynn, because he protested against a law which compelled the English consumer to pay the expense which was incurred by the English importer being obliged to take his sugar to Holland to have it refined. The Government should not suffer an inefficient Custom-house to impede a measure of justice and benefit to all classes. The Government said that they were not yet prepared with the necessary arrangements for carrying into effect the intentions of the noble Lord the Member for Lynn; but why
 385
 MR. SPOONER : I strictly limited it to the amount of your expenditure.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he approached the subject with unfeigned embarrassment, not on account of its difficulty, not because he felt any doubt as to the opinions which he had so long entertained, but because he knew that he differed from a largo number in that House for whom he entertained the greatest respect. The right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer thought his right hon. Friend the Member for Stamford had not laid any grounds for the Motion which he had submitted. In his opinion he had had very strong grounds. It was not that any immediate practical consequences were expected to result from it; but the public expected some pledge to be given as to whether the question was to sleep and slumber on, or whether the House was prepared to give that consideration to the subject which, whatever might be the feeling of the House, the nation regarded as one of deep importance. His right hon. Friend never asserted that the Act of 1844 was the sole cause of the distress which afterwards occurred, but that it greatly aggravated that distress, and increased the panic, which would have existed, but not to the same extent, without it. He differed altogether from the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer as to the policy of leaving
 407 l 408 409 410 d 411 l 412 l l l 413 l 414
 MR. SPOONER : No!
 MR. SPOONER : There were other questions put to Mr. Salt on that point.
 Sir R. PEEL : There were: questions put by my hon. Friend, and I will not fail to read them. My hon. Friend, I know not why, seemed ashamed of Mr. Salt as the organ of the Birmingham school: he was very anxious to extort from Mr. Salt an admission that the opinions he gave were not sanctioned by that school. The House shall judge of his success.
 "Mr. SPOONER: Have you ever laid before a meeting of the Currency Reform Association your theory about the average value of metals forming the basis of the standard?—I have, "When was that done?—I cannot say exactly; but we have talked it over several times. "Did you ever get a vote of approbation upon it?—No." "Sir R. PEEL: But did you ever find anybody successfully contend against those views?—No; I never heard anybody attempt it." 421 l
 SIR R. PEEL : Very well, then, I will read to my hon. Friend some of the resolutions moved by Mr. Horner, to every word and letter of which he did and still does so entirely subscribe. This is the first resolution:—
 "That the only money which can be legally tendered in Great Britain for any sum above twelve pence in the whole is made either of gold or silver; and the weight, standard, and denomination at which such money is authorised to pass current, is fixed, under His Majesty's prerogative, according to law." "7. That under the laws which constitute the established policy of this realm in regard to money, no contract or undertaking for the payment of money, stipulated to be paid in pounds sterling, or in good and lawful money of Great Britain, can be legally satisfied in gold coin unless the coin tendered shall weigh in the proportion of 20/21 parts of 5 dwts. 8 gr. standard gold for each pound sterling; nor in silver coin, for a sum exceeding 25 l "8. That the promissory notes of the Bank of England are stipulations to pay, on demand, the sum in pounds sterling respectively specified in each of the said notes. "14. That during the continuance of the suspension of cash payments, it is the duty of the Directors of the Bank of England to advert to the state of the foreign exchanges, as well as the price of bullion, with a view to regulate the amount of their issues. 417 "15. That the only certain and adequate security to be provided against an excess of paper currency, and for maintaining the relative value of the circulating medium of the realm, is the legal convertibility, upon demand, of all paper currency into lawful coin of the realm." "9. That when it was enacted that the payment of the promissory notes of the Bank of England in cash should for a time be suspended, it was not the intention of Parliament that any alteration whatever should take place in the value of such promissory notes." 418 bonâ fide s s s s s s s s 419 "Deputations from Liverpool and Birmingham had communicated with the Government during the period of difficulty; and your Committee thought it best to commence their inquiry by examining certain witnesses connected with Liverpool and Birmingham." "The test I would give would be when all the labourers are taken into employment." … "It is necessary (he said) that the money should be maintained in the country in sufficient amount to employ all the labourers of the country." "Will you state whether I correctly understood you as saying that national paper should be issued  ad libitum "When that object had been achieved, you would fix your standard at that point?—Yes." "Is there not an association in Birmingham on the subject of the currency?—Yes. "Though some individuals may differ from the views which you have expressed, are they not the general views of the Association?—They are. "Did you ever hear any one dissent from them?
 420
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Mr. Speaker, I was quite prepared to hear my hon. Friend the Member for North Warwickshire take credit to himself for entire consistency on the subject of the currency; I was quite prepared to concede it to him; but I confess I was not prepared to hear him declare that he had been a disciple of Mr. Horner, and that he still adopted every principle for which Mr. Horner contended. My hon. Friend says, indeed, that
 415 l l l l l
 SIR R. PEEL : I thought I heard my hon. Friend mention the acres of the country,
 416 ad libitum
 COLONEL, THOMPSON  said, this question stood in an unparalleled position. Here was a gift of money protested against as "an oppressive act of benevolence." There were some men, and some women, who would take any thing they could get; but the majority protested against taking their practice for the rule. And the same persons who protested against the oppressive act of benevolence in the shape of  Regium Donum
 MR. J. A. SMITH  thought it only a fair act of justice to Sir C. Trevelyan to say, that though he had not the honour of his personal intimacy, he had had an opportunity of seeing the extraordinary devotion which he had shown in the discharge of his arduous and responsible duties in superintending the application of the money for the relief of the Irish. He was not saying more than the truth, when he said that thousands and thousands of the people in Ireland owed their preservation to the industry, intelligence and zeal. Sir C. Trevelyan had displayed. It would be a great
 460
 LORD D. STUART  said, that nothing was more popular than to call for these reductions; but when the grant under discussion was minutely investigated, it would be found to be just and proper. The hon. Member for Middlesex had complained that the distribution of the grant was subject
 434 435 436 l. l l. l. l. l. l. l. 437 l. l l.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  hoped his hon. and gallant Friend would divide upon the question. The Committee had been informed that Sir C. Trevelyan had none of the responsibility of this particular office, and, therefore, bore none of its demerit. If so, then he presumed that that gentleman was not in a position to claim any merit that might attach to the office. If it really had been a question of merit, he should have been prepared to challenge Sir C. Trevelyan's claim, for he (Lord G. Bentinck) had read all the evidence, and he was not inclined to think that there had been such a display of ability in the discharge of his duties as some hon. Members seemed disposed to attribute to him. He would refer to one instance only as an illustration of the system which was sanctioned by that gentleman—when oatmeal was being bought for 14 l.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  observed, that the hon. Member for Stroud, in objecting to the vote, did not seem to consider that an immense change was going on in Ireland, nor to make due allowance for the
 464 l l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  would remind the Committee that this was a grant to a number of Protestant Dissenting ministers, and that though hon. Members came down and said that they thought it degrading, and were very reluctant to receive it, and had rather not receive it, those hon. Members were not themselves the persons who received it; they gave it up on behalf of others, and apparently without authority. This was a sum which had been granted
 443 "Are these sums much sought for?" "Very much; we have a great many more applications than we are able to meet." 444
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The hon. Gentleman who spoke last, and the hon. Member who addressed the House before him, object to this vote upon the ground of its being a secret grant; that is to say, that the names of the necessitous and honourable persons who receive this money in sums of about 4 l. l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I beg leave to say that I do not think that a valid objection. It is objected that these alms are given in secret; now I certainly thought that alms given in secret were far better than if given openly. I should have no objection to the proposition made by the hon. Member for Stockport, if assured that the various bodies themselves would guarantee the amount now given in this manner. If I saw that it was secure as a charity, I should have no objection to withdraw this grant; but if I have reason to believe that the publication of their names is only intended for the purpose of holding them up to ridicule—if their names are to be given up here in order that they may be held up to derision by other parties elsewhere—I certainly cannot consent to any such publicity being given to the names of the persons receiving this money.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I have already said that I am afraid the object of obtaining these names is, that the poor recipients of the grant might be held up to obloquy. That being the case, I most decidedly object to the proposition of the hon. Member.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that the reason Admiral Parker was sent with his squadron to Naples was, that it had been stated that the Neapolitan Government were about to raise a forced loan, contrary to existing treaties; but the intention of contracting that loan was afterwards abandoned. Another question had, however, arisen with respect to the use of the British flag by the Neapolitan navy in seizing certain Sicilian vessels; and upon that subject also a satisfactory explanation had been given. After that a question arose as to whether certain prisoners had not been taken on board ship, and there was a doubt whether they were taken in the waters of Corfu; and Admiral Sir William Parker, not being satisfied with the explanations given, inspected the log-books of the Neapolitan captains, and then wrote
 433
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that Sir William Parker had not received, nor had there gone out to him, any instructions for him to take any hostile measure with regard to either party. Sir William Parker had been sent out mainly for the purpose of protecting British interests.
 MR. LUSHINGTON : I beg leave to make one remark with reference to an observation which the noble Lord has ad-
 454 Regium Donum
 MR. LUSHINGTON  rose to object to the first item in the vote—1,695 l. l. l. 440 "7538. Chairman: Generally speaking, I understand from your evidence you consider that this distribution gives satisfaction?—I am sure the withholding of it would be considered a very great calamity. I have reason to know that from very painful representations which are continually coming into my hands. "7539. From your experience, you conceive the applications are so numerous as to show there is no indisposition on the part of the Dissenting clergy to receive it?—Quite so; I have received repeated applications on the subject, expressive of the fears of the parties that it might be withdrawn. "7540. Is that lately?—It has been of late years; there has been no discussion very lately to occasion such communications." 441 442 l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that though this vote was proposed as a temporary one, it had nevertheless been continued from time to time, not only with the full consent and concurrence of the House of Commons, but the House had in one year actually pressed on the Government the increase of the vote from 10,000 l. l. 439
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had now to move two very-heavy votes by way of supplementary estimates, which were necessary to wind up the relief of the distress in Ireland up to the present half year. The first item of the vote was for 132,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l l. 462 s d l. l. l. l. l. l. s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s s d l. 463 "That 262,545 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  would simply say, that so far from this being an unprecedented matter, the Government had only followed the usual mode of remunerating persons who had performed extraordinary services.
 MR. MUNTZ : The noble Lord has stated that there is greater merit in giving charity in secret than openly. I am quite ready to admit the truth of his proposition as applied to individual charity; but when the charity comes from the nation, if it is money voted by the House of Commons, the circumstances are greatly altered. The nation has a right to know to whom its charity is given, and whether it is properly bestowed. As to the plea of its being a grant which has been long established, that certainly is no reasonable ground whatever upon which it can be maintained. We have had too many grants of that sort—too many irregular practices; and whether they have existed for a day, or a month, or a year, is perfectly immaterial; the lapse of time cannot in any way sanction that which is wrong. If it has been a charity which ought not to have been given, the sooner it is stopped the better; the greater the saving of the nation's money, which is not even thankfully received by the body to whom it is pretended to be given, but is repudiated by them. I hope that the House will be decided against this and all religious grants for any particular sects. This has nothing to do with the question of tithe; the question of tithe is a question of rent. I know that it is so from my own experience. I know that where there is no tithe to pay, there is more rent laid on the land. But when you are granting men public money, the public ought to know all the parties, and be satisfied that their circumstances require the grant. Look at the condition in which we as a nation are now placed! I say that the public and the country ought to know who the parties are who are receiving this money.
 MR. GEORGE THOMPSON  said: Sir, the noble Lord has informed the House that this grant has a claim upon our consideration, in consequence of its being 120 years old. Well, Sir, if I am not mistaken, its origin was somewhat as follows:—That celebrated Minister, Sir Robert Walpole, when Chancellor of the Exchequer, in 1723, was extremely desirous, in a certain state of public affairs, to conciliate the support, to some extent, of the Dissenters of this kingdom; and we find him, upon a certain day, closeted with some of the leading Dissenting ministers of this country, and promising, if they would support him and his Administration, he would at some future time—not that year, but perhaps the next—propose some measure for their exemption from the operation of certain penal statutes against them. The next thing we find with regard to the origin of this grant is, that a surgeon receives 500 l. 446 l. l. Regium Donum l. l. 447 l. l. 448 449 Regium Donum Regium Donum Regium Donum 450
 MR. KERSHAW  said, that the noble Lord was quite wrong in supposing that the opposition to this grant originated with the Anti-State Church Association; for, on the contrary the  Regium Donum "On this subject, Dissenters of every name have expressed their unanimous opinion. The Ministers of the three denominations, conjointly and separately; the Congregational and Baptist Unions, the Dissenting deputies of the three denominations, the recent Conferences—to say nothing of county associations, and various local gatherings of Dissenting piety and intelligence—have, without one exception, joined to denounce all grants of public money in support of religion, and this grant in particular. On these occasions, no hand has ever yet been stretched out to arrest the broad seal of infamy which all have agreed that it deserves." 445 l.
 MR. WYLD : Sir, I am quite sure that the expression which has just fallen from the noble Lord, that the Dissenting ministers who partake of this grant are in the receipt of "alms," will in future make them desirous to disconnect themselves from it. The Dissenters of England of the present day still uphold those great principles for which their fathers were expatriated, and for which they suffered the loss of the whole of their property. Of this I am sure, that nearly every Dissenter throughout the empire will repudiate the grant. It is very unfair towards the large body of Dissenters in this country, that it should be stated in these estimates that this  Regium Donum 456 l. 457
 MR. BRIGHT : I ask the noble Lord whether he will consent, so long as this grant was continued, to permit the publication of the names of those who receive it? I ask for nothing more than that; if the noble Lord feels that he cannot grant that request, then we must divide upon the Amendment of my hon. Friend the Member for Westminster. With regard to the plea that this grant is in the nature of alms, and must therefore be given in secret, I know well that a very high authority has said that when we give our alms we must give them in secret; but that precept applies only to cases in which we are giving our own money; but this grant being from a public fund, contributed from the taxes of the country, I think it would be much more desirable that it should be given openly, and in such a manner as that the public should have the means of satisfying themselves that the bounty is worthily bestowed.
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I will trouble the House with one or two remarks with reference to an observation made by the noble Lord, from which it would appear that he is disposed to take the evidence of Dr. Rees as of more value than all the statements made by my hon. Friend the Member for Westminster. Now, there never was an instance in which a Motion was brought forward in this House more entirely in accordance with the feelings of the great body of the Dissenters and Dissenting ministers out of doors. I do not know this Dr. Rees at all, nor do I know to what Dissenting denomination he belongs; but from his evidence I gather, that he is a very illogical person, and one whose opinions cannot be said in any degree to represent the Dissenters. In his evidence before the Select Committee on the Miscellaneous Estimates, he says, that the Dissenting congregations have the means of knowing which of their ministers receive this money; and yet, in another answer, he says, that when a Motion was made for a return of the names of the recipients, he objected to their being given; and the reason he assigned for so doing was, that they would be thereby subjected to the complaints of other parties, who thought they were not acting as consistent Dissenters in receiving these sums from such a source. Well, but if it is known at present—if the congregations are aware of the parties by whom it is received—the evil which he apprehended from the publication of the names was already committed, and the pretext for opposing the publication was destroyed. He states, that these congregations do not object to their ministers receiving the money, although their denominations are strongly opposed to the grant. That is the answer to 7,522. As to Dr. Rees being a Dissenter, I do not know what pretensions he can make to anything of the kind. I will read a portion of his examination, in order that the Committee
 451 "You do not consider yourself bound in the distribution to attend to something approaching to an equal distribution among the localities of Great Britain? " "No; it would hardly be just to do so. Wales is peculiarly a Dissenting country, accidentally from the course taken in the reign of Elizabeth to force a service-book in the English language upon a nation who did not understand a word of it." "Dissent was created to a very large extent before the evil was perceived." 452 l. l. Regium Donum 453
 MR. BRIGHT : No, no; not if they are deserving objects. We propose to relieve them ourselves.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, it appeared from the debates of the time when this vote was first granted, that it was only brought forward as a temporary one; and there was no doubt that if there were no vote these persons would seek a living by employment. He found that one Pole on the list had actually resigned. He thought that if this
 438
 MR. HENLEY  said, that until he had heard the speech of the noble Lord, he had some doubt on the subject of this vote; but he was now convinced that there was no substantial ground for the vote, for if there had been any, the noble Lord would have stated it. When these people first come to this country, there was a very universal feeling that some relief of a temporary nature should be given them; but that was a very different matter from the present proposition. The noble Lord had failed to show, first, that these parties were unable by ordinary skill and industry to support themselves; and, secondly, that they had not had opportunities during a long period of years to return to their own country. If they could have gone home, they had no business to remain here at the charge of the industrious people of this country. There were many Englishmen in trade almost unable to get a living, who would be very glad to receive, like some of these parties, a pension to assist them. Unless he heard from the Government that it was their determination to put an end to this system, he should lend his aid for the purpose of getting rid of the grant.
 MR. HUME  gave credit to the noble Lord (Lord D. Stuart) for humane feelings; but he thought it time that some stop should be put to this system, especially as former debates showed that the vote was only proposed as a temporary one. If, however, his hon. Friend (Mr. Osborne) received a pledge from the Government that they would revise these pensions, he would advise him not to press his Amendment.
 MR. HUME : I beg to state that the facts of the matter concerning the publication of those names are these: I moved for a list of these persons, which was objected to; their return was ordered by this House, but I was applied to not to publish their names, in consequence of the exposure which would ensue. I think it was in 1834 that I brought this matter on. I said "the Dissenters ought to be fairly dealt with in this case." They had not till 1832 been brought before the House; we objected to allow anything that was not sanctioned by the House. These matters were then put on the estimates here, in order that they might be fairly dealt with by the House. As soon as it was known that this money was paid by Dr. Rees, a meeting of Dissenters was called upon the subject, and Mr. Weymouth, whom the noble Lord no doubt well recollects, wrote to me requesting me to vote against the grant, and stating that a resolution had been come to by the Dissenters to oppose it. That was in 1833; in 1834 I brought the matter specially before the House; upon which occasion I read the resolution I had previously received. Therefore, the opposition which is made to this grant has nothing to do in its origin with the Anti-State Church Association, but is a matter which was agitated before that body was established. As I believe that the noble Lord wishes to have no persons upon the list but such as are deserving, let me suggest to him to submit it to competent persons for examination, by doing which he will not be removing the grant from any single deserving person.
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, that he had given notice of resolutions on this vote; but as he could not move those resolutions, he wished to state the absolute necessity of refusing to make grants of public money, in addition to the poor-rates, and should take the opinion of the Committee in opposition to this grant of 132,000 l.
 MR. OSBORNE  objected to the item which was included in this vote of 4,045 l. l. l.
 MR. OSBORNE  opposed the vote. While thousands of our own people were starving we were voting this money for the Poles. The whole of this sum of 10,000 l. l.
 MR. W. J. FOX  apprehended that the only reason why the grant had not ceased in consequence of no application being made to the Treasury for it, was that the distribution of it was not in the least under the control of the body, some of whose ministers received it. One gentleman. Dr. Rees, was selected by the Treasury, and he nominated others, who formed with him a board utterly irresponsible to any body, clerical or lay, connected with the Dissenting interest; they had no auditors but themselves; they were men of unquestionable character, but they were in a minority in their communities. Each of the three denominations concerned had offered to contribute the money its ministers received from the grant; but the answer of the trustees had been, "If you will raise a sum, the interest of which will pay this grant permanently, we will then consent to cease to apply to the Treasury for it." That had been thought unfair and unreasonable. The Dissenters had offered again and again to raise the amount. [Lord J. RUSSELL: For one year you mean.] It would be raised annually; they were never backward in their benevolent subscriptions.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD , as a friend to religious liberty, did not think he was justified in assenting to any grant of this nature. There was, however, an item of 366 l. l.
 SIR J. TYRELL  considered that strong measures with regard to Ireland should now be adopted by Government. He did not mean to be offensive to any Gentleman differing from his opinion or persuasion, but it was quite clear to him that there was a great distinction between Roman Catholics and Protestants. In the Protestant districts of Ireland the poor-rate only averaged Is. in the pound; while in the Roman Catholic districts it varied from 19 s s
 SIR J. WALSH  said, the statement of the noble Lord was satisfactory; but he wished to put a further question to the noble Lord, relative to the existing state of things. He wished to know whether, up to this time. Her Majesty's Government had maintained a strict neutrality between the two contending parties; or whether Sir William Parker had committed any act, either towards the King of Naples or the Sicilians, which could in any respect make England a party to the contest?
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, he had a notice on the Paper for an explanation of the circumstances connected with the recent appearance of the fleet under the command of Admiral Sir William Parker in the Bay of Naples; but perhaps the noble Lord could give some explanation which should obviate the necessity of his bringing forward that Motion.
 MR. DRUMMOND  complained that the House was now compelled to re-enact what it had already finished, to re-discuss on going into Committee a question which they had reason to think had been settled long ago. The hon. Member for Limerick had told them, that they were indebted solely to the priesthood for the tranquillity of Ireland; and so raised a question as to what were the real causes of disturbance there, and what effect this Bill was likely to have upon it. He (Mr. Drummond) did not believe that this Bill would enable Her Majesty's Government to do more than they could without the Bill. He had already stated that it would be most mischievous in its operation, and most insulting both to the Crown and to the Roman Catholics in Ireland, if it were to be used for the purpose of bringing any influence to bear on the Government of that country; nor would he believe that Her Majesty's Government had any such intention. But there might be some fancy that it was possible, directly or indirectly, to rule the Pope, and chain the spirit of the priesthood. Those who thought so could not have read history aright if they did not know that from the days of Constantine to this hour there had been one uniform constant endeavour on the part of the priests, in every country in Europe, to cajole the laity, and take all temporal power into their hands. He spoke not of one bishop or another, but of a class; and, lest it should be said he was calumniating persons behind their backs, he should take the liberty of showing how it was that the poor people in Ireland were shamefully treated. A Roman Catholic bishop wrote a letter to an hon. Gentleman, which letter that hon.
 501 502
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  hoped the House would not accede to the proposal of the hon. Gentleman, for if it produced any effect at all, it would be an injurious effect. It was proposed to establish diplomatic relations with the Court of Rome, in the same manner as with the Court of Russia, Prussia, or any other Court; but if these words were inserted in the Bill, in cases where there was the least ingredient of a spiritual character, it would be injurious. Questions of a mixed character might arise, though in the result they were of a temporal nature, and in such no interference could take place. Suppose the Pope introduced any regulation as to the Roman Catholics of Canada, this qualification would prevent any interference. At present the Pope might divide this country into bishoprics and archbishoprics; and if the Amendment were agreed to, he might do so still; but if we had free diplomatic relations with him, the British Government might interfere to prevent such a division.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  wished to be informed what the effect of the exclusion of the words "Court of Rome" would be on the operation of the Bill, if the week after it passed, it was found that the Emperor of Austria had declared himself Sovereign of the Roman States, or the people of Rome had established a republic, one and indivisible, the Pope contenting himself with the title of Bishop of Rome?
 COLONEL THOMPSON  did not want to know whether it would be lawful to communicate with the Emperor of Austria; but whether it would be lawful under this Bill to communicate with the Pope. Sup-
 514
 CAPTAIN VYSE  moved that the House should adjourn.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  said, if the Bill was strictly confined to carrying into effect the principle of allowing diplomatic intercourse with a temporal prince, he (Captain Harris) was not disposed to vote against it.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said, he wished to put the following questions to the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies:—"1. The expenditure of the island of Mauritius for each of the years 1846 and 1847, and the disbursement made in each of those for emigration? 2. The amount of reduction of taxes in the island, distinguishing the taxes levied for general purposes from those levied for
 497 l
 LORD H. VANE  cordially supported the Bill; it was for the public convenience that diplomatic relations should be established with the See of Rome.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he perceived that the hon. Member for the University of Dublin had just left the House, at which he was not surprised; for, being a Gentleman of the highest respectability, he doubtless had too much regard for his own character to vote for the Motion now made.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : All he had said was, that although the hon. and learned Gentleman was strenuously opposed to the Bill, and would give it his opposition in every stage, still he would not lend himself to any plan of obstruction to the Bill by repeated Motions for adjournment; and he did not wonder that, acting upon that declaration and in accordance with his high character, when we saw that plan adopted, he had left the House.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, both Lord Campbell and Lord Cottenham had no doubts as to the law; but they said there might be doubts, though they had none; and whilst the matter was not entirely clear it would not be safe to act, and it was to remove those doubts that the words were introduced which the hon. and learned Member proposed to omit.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  replied, that if the hon. Baronet would furnish the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland with information which would show that, an offence at law had been committed, the Lord Lieutenant would take the opinion of the legal advisers of the Government on the subject. If, however, it should appear that there was not evidence on which a conviction could be calculated on, he would not advise the Lord Lieutenant to direct a prosecution.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  moved that the debate he adjourned to Six o'clock the same evening.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Difficult as it is to understand the motives of the hon. Member for Youghal (Mr. Anstey), who, after a discussion on the second reading, thought it necessary, in a speech of an hour long, to repeat the arguments he before used, the motives of the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down are still more unintelligible. The hon. Gentleman, it appears, not having a villa at Richmond, has not found it convenient to attend the second reading of this Bill; but, having read in the newspapers some report of the speeches, which were either very inaccurately reported, or which he has not understood, he comes down and asks what the object of the Bill is, and, not choosing to have the benefit of listening to the discussion, expects that we shall again go through the arguments upon which the Bill is supported. And then, with a view of explaining something of his own opinion, he reads what is evidently a private letter; and which is only excusable on the ground of its being entirely a private letter, written with the familiarity and the carelessness with which people write private letters—a letter in which the writer, being provoked with the priests, calls them vagabonds, and very coolly says that they ought to be exterminated. Why, probably, if he was asked to justify his letter, he would say, "I mean nothing but kindness; I wrote this in a hurry, and in the freedom of familiar intercourse; and I never could imagine that anybody would he so imprudent or so blundering as to take it otherwise, or have the indiscretion to produce it in the face of the whole House of Common." I dare say, he is a very respectable gentleman. I observe, however, he gives a very bad account of his friend, of his having deserted his wife and daughters, and run away—an account which I should think he would be sorry to have brought before the House. Every one knows that in Ireland there has been actual outbreak in one or two places, and a great part of the country has been on the eve of insurrection, and there are persons, favourers of that insurrection, whose conduct has been most reprehensible; if the gentleman of whom we
 493 "Gutta cavat lapidem non vi sed sæpe cadendo;" 494
 MR. HAWES said , he would endeavour to give a distinct answer to each question of the noble Lord, in the same order in which they were put. As to the first, he found from a despatch of the Governor of Mauritius, which had been recently laid on the table of the other House of Parliament, that the revenue of 1846 was 278,070 l l l l l l l 498 l l l l l l l
 MR. GORING  believed it was important that the House should now proceed to the Spirits Bill and the Copper Duties Bill; he bogged to move that the debate be adjourned.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that throughout the discussion on this Bill, there had been frequent allusion to "the higher purposes" it was calculated to serve. Now, he thought that the Church of England and the Protestants of this country had a right to be told what those "higher purposes" were. No explanation, however, had yet been given on that point by any Member of the Government; and he was inclined to conclude that the reason of that was, that the Members of the Government were at cross purposes on their own Bill. In his opinion, the immediate though un-avowed purpose of the Bill was to seek to gain, through the Pope's authority, power over Her Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects in Ireland. He believed, however, that in this the Government would prove unsuccessful, and that both the Papal
 503
 MR. C. PEARSON  moved the addition of which he had given notice, to the effect, that the diplomatic intercourse with Rome should be "touching and concerning international, civil, commercial, and political relations." If it was really the intention of the Government to confine the powers of its representative to such diplomatic business as would be conducted with any other State, there could be no objection to his Amendment; but if the exposition of the hon. Member for Oxford was right, and it was intended to qualify the British representative to communicate with the See of Rome regarding our domestic affairs in Ireland, through the instrumentality of the Catholic priesthood, it would be necessary so to qualify the Bill. In either case an Amendment was necessary to remove doubts. The noble Lord would find it more expedient to limit the powers of the
 512
 MR. URQUHART  complained that many Members had been obliged to return from the north at great personal inconvenience, in consequence of this Bill, con-
 499
 MR. MOORE  denied that the Irish priesthood had ever been aught else than the friends of loyalty and order, or that the illustrious Pontiff would ever exert his influence for any purpose which would not tend to the honour and credit of religion. The hon. Member for North Essex had been guilty of a gross libel on the Irish priesthood.
 MR. ROBINSON  had not heard throughout the whole of this discussion a single argument brought forward to show the pressing necessity for a measure of this description. The hon. Baronet who had just spoken had referred to the case of the Sultan; but there was no analogy between the cases of the Sultan and the Pope, because the former did not, like the latter, seek to exercise any spiritual authority. He admitted that it was an unusual course, after the second reading of a Bill had been carried by a majority, to interpose obstacles to it at this stage; but considering the character of this measure, he agreed with the hon. Member for Warwick and others in the propriety of offering every opposition to it in his power.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  denied that the Pope either claimed or exercised any temporal authority in this country. At the present time the temporal power of the Pope was a mere nullity; and, although a Roman Catholic, he rejoiced that it was so, because he held that the mixing up of religion with politics always injured religion. He admitted the Pope's authority over him in religious matters, but he abjured as strongly as words would allow him any right on the part of the Pope to sway his political feelings, or to interfere with his allegiance to his Sovereign; and such was the opinion of all enlightened Catholics. The question before the House was not a question of religion at all, but of pure politics. Because the Pope differed from them in religion, would they hold no diplo-
 504
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the Opposition were pursuing a course which would make it impossible for any Government to carry on the business of the country; they would neither let the Government measures pass, nor take the reins of Government themselves. As for the present Bill, there might not be much good in it, but there could not be much harm. "The British lion" seemed to be frightened at a mere ghost.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  moved, that at the end of the clause, after the words "Sovereign of the Roman States," the words "and Sovereign Pontiff" be added.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL , after condemning the attack made by the hon. Member for Essex on the Catholic clergymen of Kenmare, whose conduct during the season of distress had been exemplary, proceeded to say, that there was no reason to think that the opposition opposed to this Bill was of a factious character; on the contrary, the manner in which the measure was pushed forward by the Government was a factious proceeding. The opposition to the Bill was based on principle; and he, and Catholics generally, objected to it on principle. The policy of the Government, in connexion with this measure, was paltry, unworthy, and unwise. The main object of the Bill was to give the Government an illegitimate influence over the Catholic clergy in Ireland. The empire owed a debt of gratitude to the Catholic clergy for their exertions to preserve the peace of Ireland, more particularly on a recent occasion. The Government and Parliament might obtain a legitimate influence over the Catholic clergy by doing justice to the people of that country. The Government, however, preferred attempting to bribe the ruling power at Rome, in the hope that by his means they might corrupt the Irish clergy; but the Sovereign Pontiff would throw back their Bill with contempt.
 MR. NAPIER  supported the Amendment, and begged to submit whether it were fair, after so many useful Bills had been already postponed on the ground that it was too late to discuss them, that the House should be called upon to give a preference to a Bill relating to railroads in Italy? and whether the hands of Parliament were not full enough with regard to the affairs of this country to justify them at this moment avoiding idle discussions on controversial topics? Many very useful and important Bills in reference to Ireland had been postponed until next year in consequence of the lateness of the Session; but how could he excuse himself to his constituents, if they should be able to say, that while those Bills were postponed, the
 505
 MR. M. POWER  would, in Committee, vote with the noble Lord (the Earl of Arundel and Surrey) against the second clause; but, as a whole, he gave the Bill his cordial support. He supported it on the ground that it was better to have open and undisguised rather than indirect and clandestine intercourse with the See of Rome.
 500
 MR. PHILIP HOWARD  believed that the Bill was brought forward, not to obtain any undue influence over the Pope, but on general principles. As a proof of the feelings entertained by the Pope towards this measure previous to the events to which the hon. Gentleman had just referred, he would read part of a letter from a small publication written by Bishop Wiseman, entitled,  Words of Peace and Justice. "As soon as the Diplomatic Bill was proposed, I not only diligently studied its bearings, but forwarded a copy of it to the Cardinal Secretary of State, from whom I received an answer, dated Rome, February 22, 1848." "In accordance with the desire expressed by your Lordship to the Under Secretary of this department, I immediately placed before Ms Holiness the Bill enclosed in the letter, and how agreeable an impression it has produced on the mind of his Holiness you may easily imagine."
 MR. SPOONER  assured the noble Lord and the House that he was not going to repeat what he had said upon the subject in the morning. All he wished to say was, that he thought the remarks of the noble Lord upon a Gentleman of the high character of the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin—
 MR. SPOONER : That explanation then very certainly threw a slur upon all those Gentlemen who had joined in the late division. If that was to be the way in which the conscientious conduct of hon. Gentlemen was to he attacked in that House, they might be sure there would be no flinching on his side. If faction could fairly be attributed to any one, it was to the noble Lord and Her Majesty's Government. Did the noble Lord mean to pass the Bill with, or without, the concurrence of the House of Commons? Did he mean to say that one hundred Members supporting him was really and unequivocally an expression of opinion on the part of the House of Commons? He had never been in the habit of setting himself up against the opinion of the House; but he must repudiate the unjustifiable charge of the noble Lord, both for himself and those hon. Gentlemen who had joined with him in the late division. He felt bound to resent that charge, and he was not to he bullied out of the. line of conduct which he had laid down for himself, namely, that of an hon. and independent Member of that House. He would still oppose the Bill in every way which the constitutional Parliamentary privileges would allow.
 MR. SPOONER  would shortly state the reasons why he should give a vote in opposition to this question. It might be unusual to discuss a measure again on going into Committee; but if unusual circumstances attended a particular measure, it was not a factious opposition to oppose it in every stage, and by every legitimate means. The Bill, in the first instance, would have conferred a power on the Crown in contravention of the Act of Settlement and the Bill of Rights; but when this was ascertained, the promoters of the Bill in its original form did not dare to go that length, but attempted to turn the whole matter into one of a mere Bill to resolve certain doubts. The Bill had now changed its original character; and the noble Lord (Lord Palmerston) told the House that the Act was only intended to establish com-
 495
 MR. ANSTEY  rose to oppose its further progress. The true object of the Bill had not been laid before the House. He had, on a former occasion, urged the serious objections which were entertained by the vast majority of the Roman Catholics to this measure, but to none of which had the noble Lord the Member for the city of London, in the course of his speech on this question, made any reply; nor was any reply made by any Member who had spoken in defence of the Bill. This measure professed to have a double object—to declare the law, which it was said was in a doubtful state; and also to take away existing disabilities. It was, therefore, at once a declaratory and an enabling Act, which he need not tell any legal Gentleman in that House was an inconsistency. Was it right for the Government, after the many measures of universally admitted excellence which they had recently withdrawn in consequence of the advanced period of the Session, to persist in bringing forward this Bill, which was objected to by Roman Catholics as well as Protestants, and that too at a time when several hon. Gentlemen who entertained the strongest objections to it had left town under the impression that it would certainly be withdrawn for the present? Ought such a measure, under such circumstances, to be thus precipitately and indecently hastened forward? In the debate on the second reading of the Bill, the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. H. Inglis) had expressed a doubt as to a statement which he had made on that occasion, to the effect that there had been open and avowed diplomatic relations between the Court of Rome and the Court of St. James's since the time of Queen Mary. He would support the statement by two quotations from the  Annual Register. Chronicle, General History. Papal Allocution 488 489 490
 MR. ANSTEY  proposed in the 1st Clause the striking out of the words "notwithstanding anything to the contrary now in force, is to be," in line nine, and the insertion of the words "it is" in line ten. The effect of this Amendment would he, to leave the law as it at present is according to the authority of Lord Campbell. [The hon. and learned Member here quoted from  Hansard
 MR. ANSTEY  thought, that the real object and tendency of the Bill had now been indicated. For "Canada" read "Ireland," and a good key to the Ministerial intentions was supplied. He could see no reason why the Government should refuse compliance with the proposal of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Lambeth. If the noble Lord at the head of the Government really meant to deal fairly with the House and the country, and not conceal anything, he would rise and express his willingness to agree to the Amendment of his hon. Friend. He would move that the Chairman report progress, in order that the subject might be more fully discussed
 MR. FORBES  protested against the inferential imputation conveyed by the noble Lord's language. The hon. Member for Manchester, too, had ventured to charge the Members on the opposition side of the House with having obstructed the course of the Government during the Session; but he (Mr. Forbes) appealed to the noble Lord himself whether any Opposition had over acted towards a Government with greater forbearance. The country would not fail to contrast the conduct of the Opposition towards the Government, with that of a section of the House of which the Member for Manchester was one of the leaders, when Ministers de-
 509
 SIR J. TYRELL  called upon the Government to make inquiry into the case which he had brought under the notice of the House, and on the accuracy of which he would stand. If the noble Lord did not give a satisfactory assurance upon the subject, he would move that the House should adjourn.
 SIR J. TYRELL  was unwilling to prolong or interrupt the proceedings of the House; but he held in his hand a letter to which—as this might perhaps be the only opportunity afforded him of doing so—he begged to call their attention. He was of opinion, and he believed it was a popular notion, that the continued protraction of the Session was attributable to the lengthened speeches of the hon. Member for Youghal, who, from his entering the House, had appeared to consider that he was called upon to take a very conspicuous part in its proceedings, and who had brought forward some measures which had not been received by the House in a manner that could be very satisfactory to him. There was also a popular opinion very prevalent with regard to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, who was not considered to feel any strong objections to the length of the Session. The fact was, that the noble Lord now resided in an agreeable villa at Richmond, and he found it much more convenient to go down there than to his constituents in the City. He (Sir J. Tyrell) wished Her Majesty would find the noble Lord a villa at some greater distance from town, for then there might be some better chance of the Session being shortened. He had not the advantage of being present during the former discussion on this Bill; but he believed there was some little difference between the noble Lords opposite (Lord J. Russell and Viscount Palmerston) with respect to
 491 "The vagabond priests ought to be exterminated, as there is not a doubt but that in many cases they urge the people on, and, now they are frightened, pretend to try to quiet them. From what I saw last Sunday, I am quite convinced they are an awful set. Two policemen came over from Kenmare, to post up the proclamation on the chapel gate. The priest met them, and, with a volley of abuse, told them if they put it up, it would be immediately torn down. No sooner were the backs of the policemen turned, than the proclamation was torn to bits, and thrown into the road. The policemen put up another, and it as soon shared the same fate. These are the scoundrels Lord Lansdowne praises in the House of Lords, and the very fellow who thus defied the Queen's proclamation is constantly with Lord Lansdowne when he comes here to see his property, so his information cannot be very good respecting them; but it seems to be his main object, when here, to have no one but priests about him." Tipperary Vindicator, 492 Times
 SIR J. TYRELL  was satisfied with the noble Lord's statement.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  moved asan amendment that it be adjourned to Wednesday next.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  could not accept the compliment which had been offered to him in the course of the discussion, at the expense of those who concurred with him in opinion; for he had no right to suppose that his vote was influenced by purer or higher motives than theirs. There might be incidental questions with respect to railways and commerce, on which negotiation might be requisite; but what he objected to was, the formal recognition and practical reconciliation which this measure involved with the See of Rome. Even in Roman Catholic times, an ambassador from the Pope was required to take an oath that he meditated nothing against the interests of the Crown of England. Then, who was at this moment the real practical Sovereign of the Roman States? Considering the opposition of Protestants and Roman Catholics alike to the measure, and the probability that it would produce neither permanent nor temporary good, he could not think the hon. Member for Warwickshire had pursued an unwarrantable course in opposing the Bill in all its stages.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  wished to ask the
 513
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  begged, in reply, to ask a question of his hon. Friend who had often applied to him to make representations to the Government of Sardinia in favour of the Protestants of the Vaudois, and who had also urged him to use his influence with the Government of Switzerland on the subject of certain religions which interfered with some religious persons in the cantons of Switzerland. Now, would his hon. Friend call that an interference either in "political, commercial, civil, or international" affairs? Such questions would give rise to very disagreeable refinements, and it was not desirable to preclude the Government of this country from making similar representations, if it were thought desirable, to the Court of Rome.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, if the Pope ceased to be a sovereign, there was no law to prevent this country from entering into diplomatic or other relations with the Government which might succeed him. It was only so long as he was Pope that the present Bill applied.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  claimed the vote of the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Napier) in favour of the Bill, for the very reasons which he had given for opposing it. The hon. and learned Member had referred to a number of Bills connected with Ireland, intimating that they ought to be passed, if not in the present, at least in the next Session; and yet in the same breath, with respect to the present Bill, which the hon. Member contended was one of great importance, and required full discussion, the hon. and learned Member, instead of allowing the House to enter into the discussion of it during the existing Session, proposed that its discussion should be put off until next Session, in order that it might then stand in the way of the consideration of those other measures which he had intimated he would support. The hon. and learned Member said that the Bill was being stealthily proceeded with at the end of the Session; but his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) had already explained that no deception had been practised on the House with respect to the intention of the Government to go on with the Bill. The present debate appeared to him to he the most singular in character that he had ever heard in that House; he-cause almost every Member who had opposed the Bill had done so not only on dif-
 506 507 508
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY  said, that the hon. Baronet the Member for North Essex, having yesterday charged him with being in the habit of reading a disgusting book, he desired to explain, in order to prevent all misconception out of doors, that the book alluded to, called the  Garden of the Soul 521
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  said, they had had some little proof of the incompetency of those who attacked the Roman Catholic religion to form a very accurate judgment on the subject; for the most common and ordinary book of Roman Catholic practice was so new to these persons that it absolutely scared them from their propriety. As these objectors appeared to know nothing of the difference between
 523 opiniones doctrinœ et disciplinœ
 COLONEL THOMPSON  believed that the clause contained much that was frivolous, unreasonable, and impolitic; but on reading the words in print on the back of the Bill, he would recommend those interested in its passing, to consider the propriety of accepting it as it stood.
 MR. DRUMMOND  thought, that the country had come to the  ne plus ultra
 LORD G. BENTINCK : Sir, I do not propose to follow the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose, still less to dispute the statement he so frankly made, that he has held stronger language than that given expression to by those lately convicted
 557 … "quickly end, Or turn about again and mend." l. l. l. 558 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 559 l l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 560
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said, the report
 531
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I think I can agree generally with the principles laid down on this subject by the hon. Member for Montrose; but I do not go along with him in thinking that the view which he has so far commended is at one with the object which my hon. Friend the Member for Stroud has proposed. It may be very useful to advance money from the State on particular occasions, with the view of getting work executed for the improvement of estates; and that is what the noble Lord (Lord G. Bentinck) referred to as having been done under the Land Improvement Act. In a case of that kind a loan is advanced to the proprietor, and the Board of Works sees that the particular work is executed; but the work is executed by the ordinary means of giving due wages to those who are employed, viz., the ablebodied labourers, who, in return for those wages, perform the work given them to do. In that way property may be much improved; a fair return may be obtained for the money expended; employment is given; and the whole result of such money being advanced is very beneficial to all parties. There is another mode in which the State may be called on
 532 533
 LORD J. RUSSELL  observed, that the hon. Baronet had, on a former occasion, referred to a book which he said contained very objectionable passages, and which he stated, if he was challenged to do so, he was ready to read to the House. The noble Lord (Lord Arundel) had not challenged the hon. Baronet to read those passages; and he thought, therefore, that the hon. Baronet was quite right in not having read them. This was not at all a question of politics; it was not a question with regard to diplomatic intercourse. It was in fact a question relating to the religious faith of churches to which various Members of that House belonged. Every one knew that certain objections were made by all Protestants to the Roman Catholic religion, and certain answers were given by Roman Catholics to those objections; but, whether those objections were good and sufficient objections, and whether the answers were good and sufficient answers, were questions of religious feeling, which he thought it most unfitting that that House should be called upon to decide. He (Lord J. Russell) would especially regret that any question of religious faith should be introduced in a manner which might be offensive to the feelings of any hon. Member of that House; and he therefore hoped, that not only the hon. Baronet, but every other hon. Member, would refrain from discussions which were irrelevant, and which might be offensive to many Gentlemen.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  observed, that there was no ground to suppose any reason why, with the reductions that had been made, and those that might be undertaken next year, the ordinary expenditure should not be reduced to the income of the country. The hon. Member for Montrose had said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not stated that any further reductions were to be made; but there had been in various debates declarations made by himself (Lord J. Russell), by the hon. Secretary to the Admiralty, and by other Members of the Government, that on every possible occasion reductions would be made with the view of bringing the expenditure within the income. At the same time, he did not at all regret having, in the present year, kept up the naval and military forces at the point at which they were now maintained. When complaints were made of the great amount of the Navy and the Army, he must say, that considering the events which had occurred on the Continent, considering the excitement which such events were likely to produce in this country, giving encouragement to misguided men to imagine that they had only to go out into the streets with knives and pistols in order to effect a revolution, and considering the attempts made in Ireland, he should have been sorry if, for the mere purpose of popularity, the Government had proposed reductions in the Army and Navy. He did trust, however, that
 562
 LORD J. RUSSELL  replied, that though it might be consistent with the forms of the House to take the course which the hon. Member intimated his intention of pursuing, yet certainly such a mode of meeting the present question would not be consistent with the ancient usage of Parliament. It was by no means the practice of that House to have one, two, or three discussions upon the principle of a Bill after that Bill had been read a second time. Generally speaking, the rules and forms of that House had a tendency to promote freedom of debate, and to prevent also the extreme use of Ministerial majorities. If, however, those forms came to be abused, the House must of necessity reconsider them, and would probably substitute new rules and forms of proceeding in lieu of those which
 520
 MR. DISRAELI  observed that when the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in the course of his statement, painted in rather gloomy colours the situation of the country, he not only referred to the bad harvests we had experienced, but especially to the disordered state of Europe; and one of the reasons assigned by the right hon. Gentleman for the disadvantages under which this country at present laboured was the blockade in the Baltic, which he spoke of as likely to last for a considerable time. That blockade, as was well known, occasioned great loss, and inconvenience, and injury to our merchants. He had before called the attention of the noble Lord and of the House to this subject, and especially to the fact that, when the blockade was renewed, it was renewed under much more stringent and severe conditions. He had formerly inquired whether Her Majesty's Government meant to fulfil a guarantee which this country had given to Denmark for the possession of Schleswig, and he quoted the treaty, which was very decided in its language, and which appeared to him scarcely to admit of doubt. The noble
 563 564
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the noble Lord had informed them that, under his advice, the Crown of England had accepted the office of mediator. This being the case, he (Mr. Disraeli) wished to know how it was that, during that mediation more than 40,000 men, being different contingents of the Gorman empire, had arrived at the seat of war—a circumstance which had led to the renewal of hostilities and to the revival of the blockade? He thought that, the moment such a hostile demonstration took place, the noble Lord was perfectly free to drop his position as a mediator, and to enforce the stringent character of the guarantee.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the noble Lord was mistaken if he supposed that the small amount of the opponents to the measure now in the House represented only a small number of opponents out of doors; and vindicated his friends about him from any imputations of factiousness.
 MR. PEARSON  moved that after the words "That nothing herein contained," the following words he inserted," shall authorise any intercourse or communion with the See or Church of Rome upon ecclesiastical and spiritual matters now forbidden by law."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  then rose and said: I am afraid, after the debate on the state of Ireland, the subject I am about to introduce, although of more general importance, will not excite so much interest, especially among Members connected with that country. Nevertheless, it is requisite, for many reasons, that the statement I am about to make should be made to-night; because, according to the forms of the House, we cannot go into Committee of Ways and Means on Saturday; and it would materially impede the progress of public business if I were not allowed to make my financial statement before the close of the week. This was the only reason why my noble Friend suggested the propriety of going into Committee of Ways and Means without further delay; and not in the slightest degree because we were insensible to the importance of the subject, or were unprepared to give our best attention to the condition of Ireland. Having stated this much, which I hope will satisfy the Gentlemen from Ireland, that really good reasons existed for the course my noble Friend has taken in cutting short the debate, I will at once turn to the important subject of the Committee of Ways and Means; and, first of all, I will state what I consider the financial condition of the country, and the means which the Government have adopted since the commencement of the Session in regard to the finances. In doing so, I am aware I shall not have much that is new to state to the Committee; for, in the first place, as the whole of the estimates have been voted, the amount of expenditure is perfectly well known to the House. At the beginning of the Session, and at various other periods, statements were made which put the House in possession of the then precise state of affairs. But, although I have not much to state that may be novel, it is desirable that I should place before the Committee, in one view, the result of the operations of the Session—what the expenditure will amount to—what we expect the income to be—and how I propose to make the income equal to the expenditure. This I
 541 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l l. l. 542 l. l. l l. l. 543 544 l. l. l. l. 545 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 546 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 547 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 548 l. l. "It will be in the recollection of the House that, it the close of the last year, I had to announce to the House the fact of a very considerable deficiency of income. I recommended to the House to make no provision whatever for the payment of that deficiency—not to raise money by loan for the purpose of getting rid of it, but to leave it to be defrayed out of the surpluses of future years, as circumstances might from time to time allow. And I am now happy to announce to the House that the deficit of last year, amounting altogether to 2,749,000 l l. 549 550 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 551 l. l. l. l. l. 552 l. l. l. l. 553 554 "All the tops of the late plantings are becoming withered and black. We are not, however, without hope as regards the early ones, as, while the stalks are affected, the tubers continue generally excellent. Should the disease progress, this country is ruined. On the other hand, should it please God to stay the spread of the disease, from the quantity of ground under potato, much of the evil of the last famine would be forgotten amongst us." 555
 MR. G. DODD  could fully corroborate the statement of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, that he had not interfered in any
 527 528
 MR. MUNTZ  expressed his regret that, after thirty-three years of peace, a deficiency was still to be met by borrowed money, and by an addition to the national debt. If the expenditure were necessary and just, it ought to be met by existing resources.
 MR. ROBINSON  wished to put to the Government some questions with respect to the treatment of the convict Mitchel. He was induced to do so because it had been communicated to him that Mitchel was not treated as a convict, but, to use the expression of his informant, who was a resident in Bermuda, rather as a State prisoner. He was also informed through other sources that the convict was allowed the use of two rooms, with a servant to wait upon him—that he was not subjected to any kind of labour—that he were no distinctive dress—and that his position was better than that of many officers in Her Majesty's service in that island. Before however, he put the question he would say, he had no wish to press harshly upon that unhappy individual—far from it; but his object was to ascertain, what was so important to the public, whether the law of this country was fairly, justly, and impartially administered. The first question he would put was to the gallant Admiral opposite with reference to the treatment of Mitchel on board the  Scourge.
 MR. BRIGHT : From the speeches that have been delivered in this debate, and from what we know of Ireland; it is clear that country is so entirely disorganised, that it is extremely difficult to suggest any means by which relief can be extensively given without causing two evils: first, the waste of a great portion of the money which is granted; and next, the demoralisation of a large number of those to whom the relief is given. It is on account of these difficulties that I am disposed to make great allowances for the measures which the Government have undertaken, as well as for any propositions which may be made by the hon. Member for Stroud, even when they appear somewhat inconsistent with correct economical principles. As this is probably the last opportunity during this Session when the question of the condition of Ireland can be discussed, I am anxious to avail myself of it to offer a few observations to the House, and to explain briefly what I conceive to be the course which ought to be taken with regard to that country, to enable its population to place themselves in a position of comfort and independence. The past of Ireland is known to us all; it is a tale of idleness, and poverty, and periodical insurrection; and the present of Ireland is like the past, except that at this moment all its ordinary evils are exhibited in an aggravated form. But there are one or two points with regard to this subject to which I wish especially to ask the attention of the House. Have you ever fully considered the effect which this state of things in Ireland has upon the condition of certain districts in England? We have had some threatenings of disturbances in England, and of disaffection—I hope it is not wide-spread—here and there in various parts of the country. Take the county of Lancaster as an example, and you will see something of the consequences of a large influx of the Irish population into that district. In Liverpool and Manchester, and in all the belt of towns which surround Manchester, there is a large Irish population—in fact, there is an Irish quarter in each of these towns. It is true a great number of these persons are steady, respectable, and industrious, but it is notorious that a large portion of them are the directly opposite of all this. They bring to this country all the vices which have prevailed so much in Ireland; their influence
 534 535 536 537 538 539
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  wished to say a few words with regard to Ireland. No doubt in some parts of the country the gloomy anticipations which had been entertained would not be realised to the full extent. The potato disease was perhaps not so active or malignant as it had formerly been, but it was to he feared that it was making a steady progress; and it was much to be apprehended that if famine visited the country to anything like the extent that was threatened, the people would be in a most frightful condition, inasmuch as in the year 1846 and 1847 they possessed resources from which in the autumn and winter of 1848 they could not hope to derive any advantage. The case of Ireland was most melancholy; it called for extreme and anxious attention, the more especially as the recent attempts to create disturbance were not the acts of the people, they were merely the proceedings of rash, mad, and criminal persons. As regarded the conduct of the Government, it was in this matter most merciful; and he earnestly hoped that they would continue to show the same spirit.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, that he concurred in what had fallen from the hon. Member for Stroud, as regards the principle, that whatever money was advanced by this country to Ireland, ought to be expended in productive labour, and not in useless works. The rental of Ireland was estimated at thirteen millions, and the incumbrances amounted to six millions; but with regard to some particular estates the interest on the mortgages amounted to nine-tenths of the rental. Although the poor-rate, taking the whole country, might not average more than a shilling in the pound on the annual rental, yet in particular localities the rate amounted to five, and in some cases to ton shillings in the pound. Now, as landlords were liable to pay half the rates of their tenants whose holdings were under five pounds a year, it sometimes happened that the whole rent derived from an estate heavily incumbered, was absorbed for poor-rates. He (Mr. Brotherton, had found from experience and observation, that it was easier to point out evils, and to find fault, than to prescribe remedies and carry them out. One thing, however, he considered desirable in reference to Ireland. He would have a property-tax levied in that country, to form a general fund, which might be appropriated to the relief of distressed districts where the population was great, and the poor-rates much above the general average of the country. The burden of supporting the poor would thus fall upon the property
 540
 MR. HUME  said, that whore men found themselves not in quite so bad a position as they anticipated, they were in the habit of congratulating each other on their good fortune. The House was in such a position, and was evidently in the vein to he pleased with a very little. It was a matter of serious consideration to find that after reducing the deficiencies from 3,000,000 l. l. l 556 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. HUME  thought the portions of the report to which the noble Lord had referred were in favour of the propositions of the hon. Member for Stroud. He concurred in the principles laid down by the hon. Gentleman, and he thought the House was obliged to him for calling their attention to the way in which future payments for works in Ireland ought to be made. He was clearly in favour of a system by which ablebodied paupers should be relieved by means of labour, provided that labour was of a productive character; and he did not see, therefore, why the proposal of the hon. Gentleman should not be agreed to by the House.
 MR. P. SCROPE  rose to move—
 "That no future appropriation of moneys taken from general taxation be made in and of the Poor Rate of Irish Unions except on condition—1. That it be expended in the productive employment of the able-bodied poor. 2. That repayment be secured by a lien on the property improved by the works, as well as on the rateable property of the Union." 530
 MR. COBDEN  happened to be one of a deputation from Manchester who waited upon the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) some months ago upon this subject. They stated the vast importance to them of the trade with the Baltic and Hamburgh, and they urged the noble Lord to act the part of the mediator, and not to change this character for that of belligerent; and the noble Lord would best meet the wishes of the manufacturing community if he could with honour maintain his present pacific posture of mediator. Now, as to the vote before the House, this was, after all, a little loan; disguise it as they might, call it selling stock or issuing Exchequer-bills, still they were going to add to the permanent debt of the empire. But they would not act thus as individuals; individuals, if they had not the money to spend, would retrench, and diminish their expenditure. A reduction of 800,000 l. l. 567
 MR. SPOONER  said, he should oppose the Motion, for he objected to the passing of any such measure, especially at a period of the Session when so many Members were out of town that not above one hundred remained. He objected to the Bill also as a direct and injurious interference with the Bill of Eights and with the Act of Settlement; and he further objected to it because it was a matter within his own knowledge that amongst the most enlightened portion of the people of this country, an opinion was gaining ground that there was some mystery behind this Bill, and he was bound to assure the House that it was a measure looked upon with great suspicion. It was apprehended that secret negotiations were to be carried on with the Pope, for the purpose of inducing that personage to consent to those clauses which at present were opposed by every Roman Catholic Member of that House. It was also apprehended that an intention was entertained of forming an alliance between this country and the Pope, for his better security, both as a secular and an ecclesi-
 519
 MR. ANSTEY  moved the omission of the word "not," contending that the enactment of such a disqualifying clause as the one proposed would render the Bill inoperative.
 MR. WAKLEY  presented a petition complaining of the treatment to which the Chartist prisoners lately convicted as misdemeanants at the Old Bailey were subjected at the house of correction, and said he had presented upon a former occasion a petition of the same kind. The petitioners stated their belief that the Secretary for the Home Department had issued special orders for the coercive treatment of the prisoners in the house of correction, and they thought it quite useless to petition the Home Office on the subject, and consequently now appealed to that House. He (Mr. Wakley) believed that the statement was altogether unfounded; and in his
 526
 SIR G. GREY  said, before he answered the question of the hon. Gentleman, he might be allowed to advert to that part of the petition which had reference to himself. He should, however, state, that although the petition was written in the plural number, it was signed by one individual only, as the chairman of a meeting, without any reference to any meeting in that petition. [MR. WAKLEY said it was agreed to at a public meeting.] With respect, however, to himself, as having sent special instructions for the treatment of these prisoners, he begged to give his most unqualified contradiction to that statement. He had no power to give any such special instructions, and the magistrates would not be performing their duty if they observed them. The prisoners were classed by the magistrates, subject to the approval of the Secretary of State, under Act of Parliament, and he had no authority to alter those regulations. As to another statement in the petition, that it was useless to address the Home Office, he could state that that was not the fact; for two of the prisoners had addressed him, and he had referred it to the justices, with an intimation that every statement that was made by the prisoners should have every reasonable consideration.
 SIR G. GREY  believed he could answer both the questions of the hon. Gentleman as far as any information was in the power of the Government. With respect to the first, he could say that no such information
 529 Tenedos Tenedos
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, all they had heard amounted merely to a postponement for one year of the imposition of fresh taxes, and the only thing Ministers seemed able to do, was to go on borrowing more money. On referring to a paper recently presented to the House, he found that the additions to the national debt, from the 1st of January, 1847, to the 1st of January, 1848, made a total of 7,933,259 l. l. l. 561
 SIR J. TYRELL  said, with reference to
 522
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  thought the hon. Gentleman had very unfairly thrown blame on the Poor Law Commissioners for not doing that which the law did not empower them to do. He complained that the ablebodied paupers were not provided for by the Poor Law Commissioners, and kept in employment. Now, it was enough to say that the law absolutely prohibited the Commissioners from giving relief in the way the hon. Gentleman proposed. The law might be right or wrong; but, unquestionably, it prohibited the ablebodied being relieved except in the workhouse. He entirely differed from the hon. Gentleman in the view he took of the question. He did not think that the employment of pauper labourers on what the hon. Gentleman called "reproductive works" would he attended with success; he did not think they would be reproductive works at all. The hon. Gentleman did not say what those reproductive works ought to be. He merely quoted from Alison's pamphlet on that part of the question. Now, the essence of Dr. Ahson's plan was, that forcible possession should he taken of waste lands; but it was impossible the Poor Law Commissioners could do this, as no such compulsory powers were given them. He believed that if such a plan as that proposed by the hon. Gentleman was carried out, they would turn the whole country into one mass of pauperism; and he therefore, hoped that the propositions submitted by the hon. Member would not receive the sanction of the House.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Undoubtedly, if Her Majesty's Government had thought fit to declare war against Ger-
 566
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  did not undervalue the importance of the subject to which the hon. Gentleman had called attention; but he was sure both the hon. Gentleman and the House would feel that, although it might be right on proper occasions for Ministers in that House to give full explanations with regard to matters in which the British Government alone was concerned, yet that it might not be altogether competent or proper for them to afford full explanations with respect to transactions between other Governments, in which transactions the English Government was only incidentally concerned. He must certainly admit that he had been very much disappointed with regard to the armistice. On several occasions he had held out to the House hopes and expectations which had not been realised; but he could assure the House that this had not arisen from any want of activity or earnestness on the part of Her Majesty's Government. The transaction in question was one in which many parties were concerned—the Danish Government, the Prussian Government, and the Government, varying from day to day in its character, at Frankfort, beginning with a Diet, passing into a National Assembly, and ending in a Vicar-General of the empire. The question had thus been embarrassed and complicated by the varying disposition and character of the Central German authority. If he were to go into details, he would have to explain the transactions which had taken place between the German authorities at Frankfort and the Government of Prussia; and he did not think, if he entered into those details, that he would advance the object they all had in view—a satisfactory solution of the Schleswig-Holstein question. He might, however, state generally, what he believed was in substance pretty well known, that the terms of an armistice between the Government of Prussia and the Danish Government were substantially agreed upon; that those terms were considered by the Prussian Government to require the assent of the Frankfort authority; and that that Frankfort authority had coupled the ratification with certain conditions which had for a time created delay and difficulty. He still hoped, however, that there might be, on the part of all concerned, a sufficient
 565
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  thought the hon. and learned Member for Youghal was almost bound to vote against his own Amendment. The hon. and learned Member had opposed the Bill, apprehending great danger from it; and now he said, that if the present clause were retained in its existing shape, it would entirely defeat the operation of the Bill. The hon. and learned Member would, therefore, accomplish all he had sought to effect in opposing the Bill, if he allowed the clause to stand unaltered. He was opposed to the removal of the disqualification inserted in the Bill in another place, because he thought its retention only a proper deference to the feelings of a large class of the population. It must be recollected, too, that the Government of Rome was now constitutional and secularised. He believed an ecclesiastic had now been appointed to the office of Foreign Affairs, who was, however, the only ecclesiastic in the Administration. The Government of Rome was now lay, responsible, and constitutional; and the probability was, that the lay advisers of the Pope would be desirous that some opportunity should be afforded of employing in diplomatic relations the nobles of the Roman States. This clause would only make that the law of this country which was now the practice of other non-Catholic Governments—Russia and Prussia for instance. Both those countries had diplomatic relations with the Court of Rome; but they refused to receive an ecclesiastic as the representative of Rome; and the consequence was, that while there had been Prussian and Russian Ministers at Rome, there had not been a Roman representative either at Berlin or St. Petersburgh. Supposing, then, that in the case of this country a similar result should follow the maintenance of this clause, our diplomatic relations with the Roman States would not be put upon a singular footing. He considered, therefore, that it would be inexpedient to disturb the clause.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  could by no means assent to the proposition; all who had preceded him in the office which he had now the honour to hold, had taken the course which he now proposed to take—all loans had been raised upon similar principles, and he saw no sufficient reason for departing from the existing practice.
 MR. HUME  merely wished to place his opinion on record, and he did not desire to do more than to divide upon the Bill.
 MR. HUME , referring to the resolutions, and to that part of the Government proposition which related to the raising the 2,000,000 l ne plus ultra l l 568
 MR. BARCLAY  recommended that the grant proposed to he made under this Bill should not be placed at the control of the colonial legislatures, for if that were the case, the money might probably be misapplied, and appropriated to jobbing purposes. He hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would give an answer to the question of the hon. Member for Montrose. In Jamaica the public officers had not received their last quarter's salary, and he believed the same was the case in other colonies. In his opinion the colonists, when they received further intelligence from this country, would be still more indisposed to vote the supplies.
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  also complained of the powers given to policemen and constables, who had not studied the law on these points, as officers of Excise deemed it their duty to do.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the calculations which the hon. Gentleman seemed to think derived from some peculiar source were founded on and deduced from certain documents laid on the table of the House, namely, returns with respect to spirits in England, Scotland, and Ireland, moved for chiefly by the hon. Member for Limerick. The main ground on which the hon. Gentleman rested his Motion was, that the Excise allowances ought to be put on the same footing as the Customs allowances. But the whole system of the Excise duties was entirely different from that of Customs duties. When articles were imported from abroad, the policy of the country had for its basis to give every possible facility for warehousing, so as to make this country the great depot for foreign goods; nay, so far was this principle carried out, that goods which might never directly benefit the country, but which were warehoused here, were allowed to be exported, that being for the advantage of the foreign trade. Every possible freedom was given with respect to goods under the Customs; and therefore the duties were taken on goods under the Customs at the last possible period at which they could be levied. With respect to the Excise duties, again, the great object was to levy the duties at the earliest possible period, that the supervision of the Excise might thereby be terminated. Such was the case with respect to soap, malt, spirits, and other articles chargeable with duty under the Excise. If the hon. Gentleman said the method of charging the spirit duties was an exception to the ordinary rule, he proceeded on fallacious grounds; for the rule was, that the Customs levied duties at the last moment, and the Excise at the earliest. The hon. Gentleman had said he had altered the duty proposed to be levied on colonial spirits. No doubt he had. But he stated in 1846 that in the then state of information 1 s 593 d l 594
 MR. MONSELL  was happy to be able to confirm the statement of the right hen. Gentleman with reference to the general tendency of the Bill. The proposed relaxations had given the greatest possible satisfaction to the Irish distillers. At the same time, however, they felt that they suffered unjustly from the charge of the duty on decreases, which served entirely to neutralise the benefit held out to them by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, of allowing them to bond their spirits in England.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  expressed his surprise at the extraordinary statement which had been made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer with reference to the distinction between the duties of the Customs and the duties of the Excise. It might be true in the case of soap, malt, glass, printed cotton, and some other articles, that it was desirable the duty should be paid at an early stage, because in those cases there was no waste, and the duty was thus paid upon the amount of these various articles that finally came into consumption. But the complaint here was, that the distillers were charged a duty upon what might never come into consumption. The right hon. Gentleman had said that, as spirits improved by being kept in bond, and became more valuable, it was right that a higher duty should be paid upon the article; but did not the same rule apply equally to colonial spirits—to foreign gin, hollands, and brandy, for instance? All that the Irish and British distillers sued
 595
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that the Bill did not go far enough, and that if the right hon. Gentleman should refuse his assent to the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Kerry, he would inflict deep injustice upon the distillers of Ireland and Scotland. As to what the loss to the revenue would be, the calculation was guesswork; but if the storing of spirits were encouraged, the consumption would be increased, and so far the revenue also. Coupling this Bill with the Rum Duties Bill, it seemed clear that the Government
 596 d
 MR. BERNAL  said, that the civil lists for the support of the colonial establishments in Jamaica had been adopted when the colonies were in a state of prosperity, and it could not be expected that colonies on the verge of bankruptcy could support those establishments.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, it had struck him with profound astonishment, to hear that the savings banks were not what in popular parlance was called "as good as the bank." He should as soon have dreamed of having payment of his dividends at the Bank of England refused, because a clerk had gone to America. On the numerous occasions where be had advised servants and others in the less wealthy classes to invest their savings la the savings banks, he would assuredly have done no such thing if he had had the slightest conception they had anything but Government security for their money. If they had not, the only inference was that they ought to have, and the sooner it was set about the better. Why did not the Government give them its security, chargging for the same; for it was no economy to toll the poor man his banking should be done upon a cheaper plan, but it was on condition he should take the chance of having his money run away with altogether. Governments were for no purpose but doing for individuals what individuals could not so well do for themselves; and therefore the matter must be set at rest.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said: As happened on a former occasion, there is a party concerned that has not yet been heard. There are two ways of obtaining copper and lead. One is to dig them out of the Cornish mines; and the other is to make cloth at Bradford, and elsewhere, and bring copper and lead from foreign mines in return for it. And the interest of the public clearly is, that Cornwall should work its mines to the extent consistent with competing with Bradford, and Bradford bring home copper and lead to the extent consistent with competing with Cornwall. But we are told there is destitution in Cornwall. Is there none in Bradford? Hon. Gentlemen descant on the badness of the potato crop in Cornwall. Are there no curled-tops in Yorkshire? Cornish men are stated to be on short commons; and for this, Cornish Members propose an easy remedy, and say "take the dinners of the people of Bradford." The whole is, in principle, an attack on foreign trade; it is a demand that foreign trade shall be put down, whenever a man will stand up and say he engages to furnish the article at a dearer price If the manufacturers of Bradford and elsewhere demanded a tax on copper dug in Cornwall, in order to increase what would be brought from abroad, they would do no more than had been done by the Cornish men to them. And there is one reason why this would in truth be the worst for the public interest of the two. Do not hon. Gentlemen see the bearing it would have on our mercantile marine, our wooden walls? He would, therefore, propose a duty on Cornish copper, as a sort of new navigation law; and he would regard the way in which the Conservative side of the House supported this proposal, as a measure of the regard they had for navigation laws where their own interests were touched.
 MR. BROWN  said, that the staple manufactures of Bradford were not protected at all—linen, cotton, and woollens, on importation, were not subject to any duty whatever; that the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had acted most wisely in bringing forward a Bill for the reduction of duty on copper ores, for the duty acted as a bounty to the infant smelting works that were springing up in Hamburgh, Belgium, Franco, the United States, and South America; and if this duty was not removed, we should soon lose both the duty and the trade. The noble Lord (Lord G. Bentinck) had said that coals in the United States cost 1 l s d s d l "By the last mail from Valparaiso, we had letters of the 30th March, which state that the Americans and Germans continued to buy copper ores, at prices considerably beyond what our correspondents could pay for shipments to this country, to be subjected to the duty. Smelting in Chili proceeded with increased activity, and it is anticipated will produce 10,000 tons of copper this year; and to such perfection has it arrived, that some parcels we have received within the last six weeks, intended for sale on the Continent,
 610 l s d l s l s l s 611 s s l s d l l s l s d l l s
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said, be considered the punishment to be awarded under this clause was monstrous compared with the offence.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said, that even the concession of the right hon. Gentleman as to the power of imprisonment left it in his opinion a monstrous punishment.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said, the hon. Member for Bodmin (Mr. Wyld) had a notice on the Paper that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. In the absence of the hon. Member, he should make that Motion. He believed the Bill had now been postponed not less than two-and-thirty times; and now, when five-sixths of the Members had abdicated their Parliamentary functions for the present Session, the Government was about to press it forward. The repeated postponements that had taken place, showed that they had no confidence in the merits of the Bill. For his own part, he thought it exceedingly indecorous, when the Government was in a state of insolvency, and obliged to borrow 2,000,000 l ad valorem 598 ad valorem l. l l l. l. 599 l. l s d Cornwall Gazette 600 ad valorem 
 
 Chili (of the finest quality) 12 tons. 
 Cuba 14 tons. 
 Cornish (an inferior ore) 20 tons. s 
 
 France £1 2 0 
 Hamburgh 0 16 0 
 United States 1 11 6 l s l ad valorem 601 
 
 1846 5162 tons. 
 1847 4017 tons. 
 
 1846 was 25,035 tons. 
 1847 18,896 tons. 
 1848 27,155 tons. l. 602
 LORD G. BENTINCK  hoped the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) would grant what the Chancellor of the Exchequer refused to concede, viz., that instead of the period of imprisonment at hard labour being not more than six months, and not loss than one month, the words "not exceeding six months" should be inserted.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  would intreat the Chancellor of the Exchequer to take fuller powers—which he need not exercise if he should hereafter find it expedient to do so—extending the provisions of the Bill, so as to enable him to make advances on the coming crops in the colonies. This would confer a great benefit under the present circumstances of pressure. He thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer need not be ashamed to follow the example of Mr. Pitt, who in a time of difficulty advanced 5,000,000 l
 MAJOR BLACKALL  wished to call the attention of the Under Secretary for the Colonies to the condition of the island of Ceylon, to which this Bill did not apply. He believed that if better facilities of communication were afforded in Ceylon, by the construction of roads and railways, it might be restored to the state of prosperity which it had attained some years ago.
 MR. HAWES  said, this loan was to be devoted entirely to the sugar-producing colonies, upon which great difficulties had been entailed by the measure of negro
 586 587
 MR. NEWDEGATE  supported the Amendment, and complained that the Bill had been delayed so long that forty placemen were of serious importance upon a division at the present period of the Session. The House, too, sat at such hours, and so long, that their debates were necessarily compressed into the smallest possible compass, and the consequence was, that their constituents would never know what arguments were used by them upon the question, or at least not until long after the Bill had passed. He could not avoid commenting upon the appearance in the debate of the hon. and gallant Member
 609
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  would have no objection to make the  minimum
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was not insensible to the weight of the noble Lord's suggestion, although he did not anticipate such a result in our colonies as the noble Lord had adverted to. Upon the whole, the course pursued by the Government was, he thought, best calculated to promote the permanent interests of the colonies; and, indeed, the words standing in the Bill, or very nearly those words, had been adopted at the suggestion of an hon. Gentleman, after a communication with the West Indian body. The Bill drew a distinction between the cultivation of private estates and objects which were of a more general or public benefit, such as road making, drainage, &c., and proposed to assist the latter; and he must observe, that the amount of capital not drawn from private individuals for these
 585
 MR. E. TURNER  was prepared to support the Bill. He denied that any petitions of any consequence had been presented from the mining districts of Cornwall against it. Indeed, he believed that the great mining interest of Cornwall was in favour of the proposition of the Government.
 MR. MUNTZ  opposed the Amendment. Unless the copper manufacturers of this country had the raw material as cheap as the foreigner, it was impossible they could compete with him, or hope long to enjoy the superiority in smelting which this country possessed at present. He denied that the smelting trade was a monopoly, for any person who had adequate capital might engage in it.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  called attention to the report made to the Government by Mr. Tidd Pratt on the affairs of certain savings banks in Ireland; the report contained charges of fraud, but he was informed that a portion of these charges could be distinctly disproved, while for others it was denied that Mr. Tidd Pratt had just ground for his statements.
 MR. LABOUCHERE : Considering that this question debated to-night, has been discussed at a much carlier period of the Session—as early as the 17th of April—in the presence of many persons of great experience and authority, I am sure the House will readily excuse me if, upon the present occasion, I do not occupy much of its time. The noble Lord has blamed the Government for having allowed the second reading of the Bill to he brought forward at this period of the Session; and he stated had it been discussed at an earlier period that it would have been less favourably received. On the 17th of April, when this subject was discussed, there were 102 in favour of it, and only 35 against it. The charge, therefore, that the Government purposely delayed the measure till a late period, because they believed it would not be favourably received by the House, cannot be fairly made against the Government. I should be surprised if the House did not support this measure; I cannot conceive that it is necessary to state arguments to show that the reduction of the duty upon a raw material which enters into the staple manufactures of the kingdom, would not be an act of justice and of policy. The only reason why it was not sooner brought forward arose from a question of revenue. But as regards that question, I still adhere to the declaration which I originally made, that the revenue was slipping from the Chancellor of the Exchequer's hands—it had come down to the sum of 40,000 l 605 606 607
 MR. WYLD  seconded the Motion. His reason for taking this course was, because Her Majesty's Government had brought it forward at such a late period of the Session, and because the people of Cornwall would, at no distant day, be reduced to a state of utter ruin. The county of Cornwall had been known from the earliest date for its minerals. During late years a large and important interest had sprung up, and a population of 118,000 were solely dependent on the prosperity of the mining trade. The mining interest of Cornwall had found out what would be the ultimate effect of this measure if it passed, by the recent large importations of foreign ore. The result of this importation already was, that a fall of nearly 20 per cent had occurred; and this reduction had plunged the entire mining interest into a state of great embarrassment, he might almost say ruin. The case of the miner was different to that of the manufacturer. The manufacturer, if thrown out of work, could find employment elsewhere; but the miner had no such resource—he could only find employment at that sort of labour in which he had been brought up, and only in mining districts. He could confirm the statement of the noble Lord, that the returns from the Board of Trade were erroneous. This was not a question of free trade, but a question of employment of the people. They might change their markets to Chili or to Cuba; but would that change benefit the people in England, or make up for the people who would be thrown out of employment by the operation of this measure? At present the
 603 s 604
 MR. HENLEY  thought the hon. Member for Montrose had understated his case; for seizures might be made not only by policemen, but by parish constables, and even by special constables.
 MR. HENLEY  believed that the charge made by the noble Lord was expressly directed, not against Mr. Fonblanque or Mr. Porter, or any other subordinate, but against the right hon. Gentleman himself. The noble Lord had stated distinctly that he would not charge any subordinate, but that he would make his charge against the head of the office. The right hon. Gentleman said that, from the time the resolution passed the House, that the duty was charged, not on the metal, but on the copper ore. The printed paper gave the copper ore for the whole six months. How was it to be distinguished upon which part the duty was charged? How was any one to distinguish, out of the 27,000 tons, which was charged one way and which was charged the other way? It was not the mode in which a public account ought to be kept. Any one looking at it superficially would be deceived. There was nothing to indicate when that mode of charging the duty had taken place. It had the effect of making the importation appear in value far less than it really was. It was a clumsy way of keeping accounts, and did not make plain the true state of the case. Suppose this Bill did not pass, how would they charge their duties? The right hon. Gentleman said that the only reason why what was now proposed had not before been done, was on account of the state of the revenue. What was there in the present situation of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to make him able to give up revenue? In 1842 he took a very different view of this question; he did not urge it on the ground of the revenue, but said they must see that they did not inflict injury on the great mining interests of Cornwall. Would he pretend to say that the great mining interests of Cornwall were in a better state now than they were in 1842? Did he take care that this measure did not necessarily injure the Cornish miner, whom in 1842 he was so anxious to protect? Unless they could show that the advantages would be greater than the loss to the people whose bread depended upon it, he must say that they were running the imminent risk of increasing the misery of this country, by throwing out of employment a most loyal and industrious set of people.
 MR. HUME  considered it intolerable that the power of seizure in such circumstances
 590
 MR. HUME  thought it would only be fair that, as Mr. Pratt's report had been published on the one hand, the evidence taken before the Committee which had just reported on savings banks in Ireland, should be made public also. He was inclined to think, that this Bill had better be limitted to the appointment of auditors to audit the accounts and examine the depositors' books periodically, and not extended to the regulation of the liability of trustees.
 MR. HUME  was not satisfied with the way in which the penalty stood. He would therefore propose that the penalty should in all cases be mitigated as the magistrate should think fit.
 MR. HUME  moved that the  maximum l.
 MR. HUME  observed, that the West India colonists had almost abandoned hope. The Colonial Office, instead of leaving the colonists to their own self-government, interfered in the most trifling matters. At St. Lucia, for instance, a quarrel had recently taken place between Judge Reddie and Colonel Torrens with regard to some letters, assailing the character of the Bishop of Barbadoes. Earl Grey had directed that an inquiry should be instituted, the result of which was that Judge Reddie, who had been suspended, was restored to his office; but he (Mr. Hume) complained that Earl Grey had directed that the expenses of the inquiry should be paid out of the colonial funds, while, as the quarrel was of a merely personal nature, the expenses of the investigation ought to have been borne by the parties immediately concerned. He had reason to believe that the colony of Guiana would refuse to vote any more money for the public establishments. The taxation of that colony, for the year before last, amounted to one-third of the value of the colonial produce, and it was not to be expected that such a state of things could continue.
 MR. CAREW  felt bound to state, that the mining community in the eastern division of Cornwall were suffering the greatest distress, and he had several documents in his possession which would fully bear out this statement. He had been assured that the great bulk of the population in the min-
 612
 MR. G. CRAIG  reminded the hon. Member that the Bill was framed upon the
 588
 CAPTAIN BERKELEY  denied that the assistant surgeons in the Navy were unfairly treated. The subject had been fully considered by former Boards of the Admiralty, and by a Commission appointed for the purpose, and they had decided that there were practical difficulties in the way of permitting assistant surgeons to moss in the ward room. A cabin was, on the recommendation of the Commission, appropriated, in some instances, as a place for study; but, instead of being devoted to that purpose, it was used by the assistant surgeons as a withdrawing room, where they used to drink more wine than was allowed to be drunk at the mess. With regard to the difficulty of obtaining candidates, he could only state that since the report of the Commission in 1840 no less than 261 assistant surgeons had entered
 630
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  said, that if the question simply involved the recording of au opinion, he would have no hesitation in voting with the hon. Member for Montrose; but, unfortunately, the duty of the House of Commons did not consist in merely recording opinions, but in carrying on the business of the country. He had therefore to consider what would be the effect of carrying this Motion against the Government. Notwithstanding what he had said the other night, he was perfectly certain that no economical reforms could be safely carried out, except by the Government themselves. The thing which the country had yet to understand was the amount of the evil, for people generally had as little idea of the immense amount of 800,000,000 l 645
 MR. J. A. SMITH  would vote for the proposition of the Government, because he believed that they had done all that was in their power to avoid the position in which they were placed. They, in the first instance, proposed a tax to meet the deficiency; and it was with regret that he saw them compelled to abandon it. The present peculiar position of affairs justified the course they were now taking. That was the ground upon which his vote would be given. He believed that the present state of Europe, and of the whole world, justified the Government in conceding and yielding to what he understood to have been the deliberately pronounced opinion of the House of Commons, that it was not expedient to increase taxation this year; if so, then there was no other way of making the expenditure and the revenue equal than by a very large reduction of the expenditure. But he was one of those who believed that the state of Europe and the world made it most inexpedient that England should reduce her expenditure more than she had hitherto done. He was not afraid either in that House or elsewhere to avow it to be his belief that even the reduction which had already taken place might not have been wholly prudent. At the same time, he would not lend himself to any party that would raise a cry of war to induce the Government to maintain largo establishments; and he had heard with the most sincere regret the expression of an opinion on the part of the hon. Member for the West Riding, that the necessity of being prepared for war had been propagated by professional men for merely personal and most unworthy objects. He believed that was a sentiment unworthy of those to whom it was attributed, and it was with astonishment that he heard such an imputation proceed from a Gentleman of such general knowledge as that hon. Member. He believed that there was, both out of the House and in it, but one general feeling—namely, that of gratitude to God for the peace and tranquillity which had prevailed in this country during the disturbances which had agitated the rest of Europe; and that they owed that tranquillity to the wise foresight which prevented them from being agitated by discussions necessarily attending great political changes, and to that preparation for resistance, if attacked, which was the
 652
 COLONEL THOMPSON  desired to know the amount of tendency in this Bill to increase the security of the depositors in the savings banks. He supposed nothing was clearer than that if there were final defalcations, they must be made good out of the public purse. It would justify a  jacquerie 662
 MR. J. A. SMITH  believed that a responsibility limited to the extent of 100 l
 LORD G. BENTINCK : Sir, as the Government seem determined to persevere, and to have no regard for the just remonstrances of the independent Members of this House, I am necessitated to act in a manner which will at all events mark my disapproval of their conduct, and of the provisions of this most crude and undigested measure. Sir, I move that this Bill be committed this day three months. The evidence upon which this most important Bill is founded is that of four or five witnesses—men connected with Ireland exclusively, with the exception of Mr. Tidd Pratt, who is the Registrar General of Savings Banks. Their evidence is not published—the Committee sat but nine days—and yet it is upon such a foundation as this that a Bill, affecting an immense number of the people of this country, and dealing with no less a sum than 26,000,000 l "Your Committee has proceeded with the inquiry entrusted to them by the House; but owing to the late period of the Session they have found themselves unable to bring it to a satisfactory conclusion; and they are of opinion that it is advisable that a further inquiry should take place, either during the recess or in the next Session of Parliament, into the existing system of savings banks. They are of opinion, however, that it is expedient that a Bill should be introduced in the present Session of Parliament, regulating the liability of trustees of savings banks, and providing for the appointment of auditors of savings banks." 663 "And be it enacted, That the rules of every savings bank shall specify a number of days, not loss than two in every year, ending on the 20th of November, on which the book of each depositor shall be produced at the office of the said savings bank for the purpose of being inspected, examined, and verified with the books of the institution by the auditor; and in case the said book shall not be produced on the second of the days mentioned in any one year ending as aforesaid, the said account shall be closed, and all interest shall cease to accrue on the sums deposited from the last day on which the said book should have been so produced; provided, nevertheless, that the trustees or managers shall have the power to reopen the said account, but only to allow interest thereon from the time when the same shall have been reopened; and an extract of this provision shall be enrolled as one of the rules of every savings bank." 664 s l
 LORD G. BENTINCK  thought the hon. Gentleman the Member for the West Riding was the last person, either in or out of the House, who should have charged his opponents or any other persons with having created wicked delusions. The hon. Gentleman had his crotchets. He might think that our expenditure might be reduced 17,000,000 l 653 l l l l 654 l 655 l s d s s s d s d s d s d s s s l 656 d
 LORD GEORGE BENTINCK : I rise to move—
 "That the petition of the Speaker and Members of the House of Assembly of Tobago, [presented 7th August] be printed." 631 l l 632 l l s d 633 l l 634
 LORD J. RUSSELL , after all he had heard, did not come to the conclusion that it was unwise in the Government to propose to increase the income-tax to meet the expenditure of the country. It was the opinion of Lord Ashburton, and one which that noble Lord pertinaciously held, and which deserved some attention, that, instead of keeping the expenditure equal to the income, it would be more prudent to keep 2,000,000 l l l 657 s s 658 s s
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the present deficiency was the necessary result of the policy of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, who had given up eight millions of Customs duties, and imposed an income-tax in their place, yielding some five-and-a-half millions. The question which he had to ask himself was, would he refuse the supply, because a vicious legislation had left no means of raising it; and he must say that he was not prepared to do so. He was not prepared to leave the people of Ireland to starve, or to reduce the establishments at a time when Europe was in such a a state of inquietude as she was now in; but this he was prepared to say, that their deficiency was their own act.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, no case had been made out for an interference which would only create alarm.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  deprecated the idea that seemed to pervade the mind of the hon. Member for Pomfret, that zeal for a religious principle was of the same nature with bigotry. He (Mr. Newdegate) thought the history of this country was a proof to the contrary. But the hon. Member did not seem to understand the nature of a religious principle, or he treated different religions as alike—a view, he was sorry to say, which was very apt to infect those who had travelled much. With regard to the Bill itself, he hoped his hon. Friends would not divide; they had already divided often enough; and he had risen only to warn Her Majesty's Government that, though by rejecting the Amendments of the hon. Member for Lambeth, they may seem to have a loophole for carrying out their covert views, still they would be acting against the letter of the Bill, and against the intentions of the House of Lords, if they were to use this measure as a means of entering into spiritual relations with the Roman See. Allusion had been made to the conduct of Russia. That country alone, of all the Powers of Europe, had been able to resist the authority of the Pope. Far from being a Conservative Power, as the hon. Member for Pomfret had asserted, the Pope had of late years proved a disturbing influence in Europe. It was the Pope who first acknowledged the new French Republic, and went to war with Austria. But the right hon. the Master of the Mint said, we had once before interfered in the affairs of the Pope. He did not object to that; but what he did object to was, that we should reciprocate that intervention, and allow the Pope to interfere with us.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, this was another instance of the difficulty of legislation in the present Parliament, for he had imagined that this Bill would excite no opposition, and yet here was the noble Lord charging them with legislating on this subject merely for the sake of extorting additional foes. [Lord G. BENTINCK imputed no sinister motives to the promoters of the Bill. He merely stated, as one of the inconveniences of this legislation, the undoubted fact that additional fees would be charged upon the alteration of the rules that this Bill would render necessary.] He was glad to find he had misunderstood the noble Lord. The sole object of the Bill was to insure a better management of the savings banks, for the benefit of the depositors; and with that view he proposed to make trustees liable to that extent which the hon. Baronet opposite himself proposed in 1844. At present there was no liability of trustees, and consequently no inducement to them to perform their duty. It had been proved that in one or two cases in Ireland they had neglected their duty; and in England, where the noble Lord said there was no complaint, it was a fact that one trustee had paid 7,000 l 666
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  proposed to make an alteration in the first clause of the Bill; he proposed to
 660 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  would be the last person to complain of the course pursued by the hon. Member for Montrose with respect to the reduction of expenditure; but whether the reductions proposed by the hon. Gentleman were practicable, consistently with a due regard to the permanent interests of the country, was an entirely different question. If on former occasions he had been obliged to the hon. Gentleman, he was certainly obliged to him to-night for having given the best vindication that could be offered of the course of conduct which Her Majesty's Government had pursued. The hon. Gentleman had stated the various divisions which took place in that House on the different propositions he had made with the view of reducing the establishments of the country; and he very fairly stated, not so much imputing blame to the Government as imputing blame to the House, that an overwhelming majority of that House, when such reductions were proposed, con-
 640 641 l l 642
 MR. URQUHART  said, that the noble Lord at the head of the Government had distinctly stated at the commencement of the Session that the House would have either to grant the increased property-tax which he had asked for, or to reduce the establishments. With that alternative before them the House refused to grant the tax, and yet the noble Lord left the establishments as they were. As he could not concur in the necessity of the expenditure, he should be prepared to vote in favour of the Amendment.
 MR. URQUHART  said, the debate completely justified the grounds of opposition which he stated when the Bill was first introduced—namely, that it was intended by means of this Bill to use the Pope as an instrument to govern the Roman Catholic Church of Ireland, in dependence upon the English Ministry. The discussion had brought out two conclusions—one, that all the legal men in the House concurred in opinion that there was nothing in the state of the law to prevent merely secular intercourse with Rome; and the other, that there was some secret religious purpose concealed under this Bill, which Ministers did not dare to avow, and which would be in complete contravention of the present law. He had no hesitation, there- 627
 MR. WODEHOUSE , as one of the very few survivors of the large host who had resisted the reductions proposed by the hon. Member for Montrose in the earlier period of his life, begged to say that he looked back upon the course which he then took with unmitigated satisfaction. Sir H. Taylor, who was secretary to the Commander-in-Chief at the time, told him that, in consequence of yielding to the hon. Member for Montrose, the 50th and 92nd regiments were sent out from this country at an improper season of the year—they arrived at their destination in one of our colonies at an improper season—they were exposed to a peculiarly unhealthy season, and in the course of a year and a half these two regiments thereby lost 600 men, and between 20 and 30 officers. So much for the hon. Member's proposal with reference to the Army. With regard to the hon. Member's proposal to withdraw the African squadron, he begged to say that the unqualified withdrawal of that squadron—looking to all the circumstances that had taken place on the subject of the slave trade—would be the most ignominious course of conduct this country could pursue.
 MR. WODEHOUSE  moved that the operation of the Bill be limited to Ireland, and that the words "Great Britain" be left out of the clause.
 MR. MUNTZ  explained. He did not think it was the duty of the Government to find work for the people; what he said was, that if Government understood the real principle of governing, every industrious man would naturally have employment.
 MR. MUNTZ  seconded the Motion, and complained that the Government not only proposed a loan, but had brought out their budget at an unusually late period. It was the latest budget that ever he had heard of. The Government had led the House and the country to believe that they should be able to do without additional taxes, or the adoption of any extraordinary measures, and having done so, the House had felt comparatively easy on the subject. But the Government seemed to have been waiting until so few Members were left in the House that it could carry whatever it liked. The system of funding was like a man who had spent more than his income, making up the deficiency by borrowing; and, in a nation as in an individual, such a system must load to ruin. It was the resource of all bad Governments when other means failed of making both ends meet. When he first came into the House, he found the Whig Government in the last stage of existence, trying to patch up its own want of management by a measure which never had and never would succeed. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Portsmouth (Sir F. Baring), in trying to meet the diminution of the revenue, talked—as all Chancellors of the Exchequer talked—a great deal of nonsense about the elasticity of the country, and proposed new taxes. These measures failed, and the great physician was called in and the fees paid. Never had he seen the great physician in such a state of anxiety as he was for many months; and the first thing he resorted to was a property-tax, which he carried, although opposed by the Whig Government, and every man of the Liberal party except himself. They all abused him for supporting
 638 639
 MR. H. CURRIE  complained of the present measure being brought forward at so late a period of the Session, and of adding to the debt in a time of profound peace. Had the Chancellor of the Exchequer come down to the House and frankly stated that he had cut down the expenditure to the lowest possible sum, and that there was still a deficiency, the people would have at once submitted to increased taxation rather than to an increase of the debt. He begged to enter his protest, therefore, against the principle of the measure, and to express his regret that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had brought it forward at the eleventh hour, when there was no opportunity of making any alteration in it.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  contended that the Government was alone responsible for the late period at which this measure had come under the consideration of the House, and urged that the depositors who had lost money by the failure of Irish savings banks were entitled to the favourable consideration of Parliament; because, whatever might be the effect of the law rigidly interpreted, 99 persons out of 100 who deposited their money in savings banks, believed that the Government was responsible for the deposits.
 MR. HEYWOOD , considering the peculiar circumstances of the country, thought the measure perfectly justifiable.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, the cost of maintaining an army in Ireland was ordinarily 1,000,000 l l l 650 l l l
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  rose to state the
 628
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, the Bill, as it stood, did not meet with his approbation; but he could not understand how hon. Gentlemen opposite could object to the measure when they made no objection to ambassadors from the Sultan, the Great Mogul, or Shah of Persia. If he had any influence with the Pope, which he had not, he would recommend him to appoint, as his ambassador, the hon. Member for Youghal. With regard to the Bill itself, he hailed it as a proof that bigotry was declining, and he was sure the people of Ireland entertained no apprehensions on the subject.
 MR. REYNOLDS  felt called upon to say that there was not the least ground for the hon. Member for Salford's assertion. It was too much the practice of hon. Members representing English constituencies to look only at the dark side of Irish character. There was scarcely any act, however discreditable, which was not at once imputed to the Irish. The instances of mismanagement which occurred in Ireland, he believed would, on inquiry, be found to have proceeded from local unskilfulness; and he did not conceive that either the present or any other Administration was to blame for the unfortunate events that had occurred.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, it appeared to him that the opposition to this Bill was founded upon the wish some Gentlemen entertained to vest in local authorities the power of appointing unworthy managers of savings banks, and then to come to Parliament and demand compensation for the losses sustained by depositors on account of their misconduct. It was true that the Government were answerable for the money placed in the savings banks which they received, but they were not answerable for the faults of managers. The savings banks in England were well managed; but the managers of Irish savings banks, instead of transmitting to Government the money which they received, put it into their own pockets. The managers of the Manchester savings bank, in which there were 20,000 depositors, caused the book of every depositor to be exhibited once a year as a precaution against fraud.
 MR. HENLEY  thought that there had been a great deal of wandering from the real question before the House. That question, he believed to be, whether the two millions were to be borrowed or not. He was surprised that the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not explained the reasons which had induced the Government to change their minds on the subject. The right hon. Baronet had originally asked the House to agree to the continuance of the existing income-tax for three years more, on the understanding that it would be sufficient to enable them to meet the wants of the country, or, as the right hon. Gentleman had termed it, to tide on, for that period. The question to be considered was, had there been any change since to account for that engagement being abandoned? and on that question he was surprised that the right hon. Gentleman had not afforded the House more precise information. When the right hon. Baronet had made that promise, the anticipated deficiency was throe millions; and since then the estimates had been reduced 700,000 l l 644
 MR. HENLEY  concurred in the greater part of what had fallen from the hon. Baronet who had just sat down, and thought the measure had not been well digested, and could not at this late period of the Session, be well considered. The only complaint he had ever heard of the English savings banks was, the low rate of interest, arising from the expenses of audit. The Bill would cause panic and alarm, and he entreated the Government not to persevere with it.
 MR. HENLEY  thought the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman more poetical than argumentative, and could not agree in his sentiments. It was a difficult and a complicated question. From the best attention he had given to the subject, he could not get over the difficulties, and, therefore, he would be constrained to oppose it.
 MR. HUME  said, that this was a Bill to create a loan of 2,000,000 l l l l 635 l 636 l l l l l 637
 MR. NAPIER  said: Sir, I have to move that the Bill be read a Third Time this day three months, and as this Bill has been resisted by some, on peculiar grounds, I am desirous to state clearly and candidly the exact reasons which influence me in giving to it a decided but a constitutional opposition. It is presented for our adoption in this way—"Here is a State," it is said, "with which it is important we should have diplomatic intercourse; that such intercourse has been carried on in an underhand manner hitherto; it should be open and avowed. The law which regulates it has been doubtful, and should be made clear, in conformity with usage and reason." And then it is stated that this is opposed by stale and bigoted prejudices, which are at variance with the spirit of the times in which we live. In the first place, I answer, no case has been stated requiring any legislation to facilitate our intervention in the affairs of Italy. I have the high authority of the noble Lord the late Secretary for Foreign Affairs, that, in reference to such a purpose, this measure would be not merely useless, but objectionable; and after what has taken place in this House, I cannot for a moment doubt that it is not for the sake of Italy this Bill is now forced upon us by the mere power of Government. It is abundantly evident that the real object is to facilitate a policy which proposes to make use of an influence which may seriously affect the character of the constitution, the lawful supremacy of the Sovereign, and the allegiance of the people. On this principle, I have throughout consistently opposed this Bill. I abstained from any interference in Committee, except so far as I supported by my vote the Amendments of the hon. Member for Lambeth, regarding them merely as tests of the real motives of the Minister; and on mature consideration of the statements made, the statements suppressed, and the votes which have been given, I
 616 617 618
 MR. COBDEN  was at a loss to understand the meaning of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down; he had reiterated the opinion he had just stated at least a dozen times in his own hearing. Now, he wanted to put a plain question to the hon. Member. The hon. Member had said that the revenue had fallen in consequence of the adoption of free-trade measures. Now he (Mr. Cobden) would ask him whether the gross revenue for the last twenty years had ever been so great as it had been this year? [Mr. NEWDEGATE: The revenue is larger, but the necessities of the country are greater.] He wanted to fix the hon. Gentleman to this one point; because if he could by coming to an understanding on it, succeed in putting an end to the reiteration of which they had been the victims during the present dreary Session, he should think he had done a great service to the House when they mot again. It was now admitted that the gross revenue was larger in the present year than it had been for the last twenty years. [Mr. NEWDEGATE: The hon. Member misrepresents me. I ad-
 646 647 l 648 l l l l 649
 MR. M. MILNES  said, he should not have ventured to address the House immediately after what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin, had he not known that his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Reading (Mr. Serjeant Talfourd) was prepared to supply any deficiency in his reply to the legal arguments which had just been addressed to the House. He did not wish to say anything offensive to the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin; but it did appear to him that he had quibbled considerably upon the word "constitution." He believed that the English constitution did not in any way admit or recognise the Interference of the Papal authority with the ecclesiastical authority of this realm. But the arguments of the hon. and learned Gentleman would go to this, that every time the Roman Catholic hierarchy of this country manifested any submission to the Papal authority, they did something that was illegal and unconstitutional; nay, his arguments went so far as to justify and to render it logically necessary that all the violence and
 619 620 621
 MR. SHEIL  would be exceedingly succinct and brief in his statements, and would confine himself to the diplomatic part of the question. By the 103rd Article of the Congress of Vienna, the rights of the Holy See were defined and secured. England was a party to that treaty. The name of Clancarty—orthodox to this House—was attached to that treaty. It was laid before this House, and there was not a single remonstrance to the ratification of the treaty by which England became a consenting party to the securing of the rights of the See of Rome. Was it not, then, preposterous that England should secure to the Pope the enjoyment of a portion of his ecclesiastical dominions, and yet that she should deny diplomatic intercourse with the Power of which she was the virtual protector? He would pass then from 1815 to 1832. At the accession of Gregory XVI., reforms were demanded by the
 626
 MR. SPOONER  would not have risen to take part in the discussion had it not been for the observations of the hon. Gentleman the Member for the West Riding. He (Mr. Spooner) denied that the revenue in the present year was equal to that of 1845, as in 1845 the revenue was 54,417,615 l l l l l l 651
 MR. C. ANSTEY  denied, if there were secret intrigues carrying on at Rome by Ministers, to govern Ireland through the Irish Church, that that could justify the Bill before the House. But when Ministers had a recognised agent at Rome, such as this Bill went to appoint, the independence of the Irish Church would be most materially affected; for then the Irish prelates and clergy could hold no intercourse with the Holy See, unless through the medium of that agent, as such communication would still be interdicted by the third section of this Bill. Parliament had refused to pass the Catholic Relief Bill, which would have thrown open that intercourse to all; and now it proposed to restrict all communication with the centre of Catholic unity to the Protestant Ministers
 622
 MR. SERJEANT TALFOURD  had been an attentive listener to the debate, and watched with anxiety the progress of the Bill through every stage. He had maintained an entire silence up to this time, not from any indifference to the Bill, but because there seemed to be quite speakers
 623 624 625
 MR. WAKLEY  called the attention of the House to the case of assistant surgeons in the Navy, who were required by the Admiralty regulations to be very highly educated, but who were compelled to pass their whole period of service as assistant surgeons in the-midshipmen's berth, and mess with the naval cadets. They, therefore, had no opportunities of prosecuting the study of their profession. The assistant surgeon in the Navy ought to be treated in the same manner as the assistant surgeon in the Army; but their relative positions were as different as could be conceived. He ought to be allowed to mess in the ward room with the lieutenants. The consequence of the treatment received by this class of gentlemen was that it was difficult to obtain competent candidates for the office. A cabin was appropriated to the admiral's butler, but none to the assistant surgeon. Cabins had been found also for the first engineer, and for the gentleman who was formerly called "schoolmaster," but who was now dignified with the title of naval instructor. He expected that the assistant surgeons would obtain justice from the present Board of Admiralty.
 MR. KEOGH  opposed the Bill because it was calculated to do harm. It was proposed to repeal the 9th George IV., and the provisions it substituted would make
 667
 MR. MONSELL  understood that the argument of the noble Lord and the hon. Baronet against the Bill was founded upon the want of confidence which any change in the law would produce on the English depositors. Well, then, he could tell them that unless they produced some such Bill as the present, the want of confidence which at present existed with regard to the Irish savings banks would be continued, and the most injurious consequences would follow. He had no objections that it should not extend to England and Scotland,
 665
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, the proposed amendments of his right hon. Friend entirely altered the nature of the opposition which he should offer to the first clause of the Bill. A trustee, by the proposed alteration, would only be liable for such losses, &c., as should happen through his wilful neglect or default. His right hon. Friend simply proposed to repeal the 7th and 8th Vic, cap. 83, sec. 6. [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: Exactly.] So that to that extent the trustees and managers of savings hanks in this country would be restored to the same condition as they were in before 1844. [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: They will be exactly in their former condition in that respect.] The change of 1844 was made in the teeth of the expressed declarations and wishes of all parties interested in English and Scotch savings banks. But there was another great objection to the Bill, which, if not removed, would prove most fatal to the whole working of the Bill. He perceived that, by the third clause, auditors were to be appointed. Now, it was a very important matter to know how these auditors were to be paid. For his own part, he thought that the auditors were an excellent body of officers; but he was quite certain that, in consequence of the reduction of the rate of interest now payable on moneys in saving banks, he knew that small banks had no funds out of which they could be paid. With regard to the fifth clause, which was the most objectionable of all, it was quite impossible to ascertain in two days what were the feelings of the immense body of depositors who were scattered throughout the whole of this country, and many of them abroad. Many of them were servants. He felt persuaded that rather than run the risk which this Bill would entail upon the trustees, they would resign their trusteeship. He believed that the third clause could not be worked as it stood. He should really like to know what had occurred in the working of English and Scotch savings banks to induce the Go- 661
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, he had on a previous occasion presented a petition, signed by 41,000 depositors in various provident societies, representing a sum of 762,000 l l l l
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, that if the hon. Member for Montrose should press his Motion to a division, he would divide with him, because he held that in a time of peace it was the duty of the House to resist the system of borrowing money, and thereby adding to the debt. If, however, the Chancellor must raise the required 2,000,000 l
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  understood the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to argue that the introduction of foreign copper would be an advantage to the British smelter. If the introduction of foreign wool were taken as a precedent, the illustration was an unfortunate one; for the exports of wool had on the whole diminished, while the imports had increased.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had used a singular argument, the long and the short of which was, that the greater the supply of copper ore, the higher would he the price of the article produced in this country. [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: No!] What, then, was the meaning of his argument when he said that it would be for the good of the copper producers in Cornwall that copper should be imported from Chili and Cuba? There was the strongest reason to believe that the price of the produce of the Cornwall miners would be considerably reduced by the measure of the right hon. Gentleman. The House might know very well what its effect would be, because, by anticipation, the price of Cornish copper had fallen 11 per cent since January last. The noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown had boasted that the Government had succeeded in suppressing sedition, quelling an incipient rebellion, and
 725 "Are the Government mad? Will they throw this unfortunate county into a state of open insurrection by their acts? You know the people of this district well; you know their loyalty, their intelligence, their patient endurance of severe labour, their extreme temperance, their natural contentedness under circumstances of even more than ordinary suffering; but you know also that, with all their industry, their loyal feeling, their high order and intelligence as labourers, in consequence of the necessary requirements for the effective prosecution of their labours, there is mixed up a determination of character which suffering will call into action, and which it will be dangerous to test or tamper with beyond a given point."
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The Committee was appointed in February, but I had agreed to it in December.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I must, in the first place, thank the hon. Gentleman for consulting my personal convenience as to the time of bringing this question before the House; I will next thank him, as a Member of this House, for the very diverting speech he has made, although in what it originated, or to what object it was directed, I am at a loss to discover. With respect to the origin of his speech, indeed, the hon. Member read a paragraph from a Sunday paper, referring to the day fixed for the fish dinner. I asked the hon. Member whether he was reading from the  London Gazette 708 Gazette Quis vituperavit? 709 710 711 712 "That, looking to the state of distress which has for some time prevailed among the commercial classes, and to the general feeling of distrust and alarm by which the embarrassments of trade have been aggravated, it is the opinion of this House that Her Majesty's Ministers were justified, during the recess of Parliament, in recommending to the Bank of England, for the purpose of restoring confidence, a course of proceeding at variance with the restrictions imposed by the Act 7 and 8 Victoria, c. 32." 713 714 s s 715 716 717 718
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : That was in December.
 MR. DISRAELI : Nothing is more painful to me than to make any misrepresentation—I thank the noble Lord.
 MR. DISRAELI : * * 670 671 London Gazette? London Gazette; London Gazette 672 "We have authority to state"— "We have authority to state that the fish dinner, which was fixed for the 19th, is postponed till the 26th. This postponement is occasioned by the vexatious discussions in the House of Commons. This mania for talk among the Members has now reached such a pitch that something must really be done to arrest the evil. We have, however, authority to state that the fish dinner will positively take place on the 26th." 673 674 675 "The embarrassments of trade were at one period aggravated by so general a feeling of distrust and alarm, that Her Majesty, for the purpose of restoring confidence, authorised Her Ministers to recommend to the Directors of the Bank of England a course of proceeding suited to such an emergency. This course might have led to an infringement of the law." 676 677 678 679 680 681 682 l s l l l 683 684 685 686 687 d d d s d s 688 689 690 691 692
 MR. DISRAELI : The noble Lord is quite right—I am much obliged to him. On the 4th of February, the noble Member for King's Lynn made a statement, and a Committee, after some discussion, was appointed. But although the noble Lord is correct in saying that in December he agreed to a Committee, he will not find me incorrect in saying that on the 4th of February, when the Committee was appointed, he stated that he would not alter his policy. The Committee was nominated. It was little heeded at first. I believe, for the first month, except those immediately connected with the colonies, hardly a person was interested about it, or aware of its being in deliberation. The Committee was most impartially appointed, at least as regards the opinions which my noble Friend supports; for there was a preponderance of those who are favourers of the new commercial system. But at last, after a month or six weeks, rumours of the labours of this Committee, and the results of those
 693 s 694 695 696 697 698 699 imbroglio 700 701 quod vult valde vult 702 703 704 705 706 707 finis fatorum
 MR. DISRAELI  wished to explain, with reference to an observation of the hon. Member for Middlesex, that on turning to the red book he found that Sir T. Denman was Attorney General at the time the Reform Bill was passed.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  was well aware that many of his constituents in Birmingham had suffered like others in various branches of trade; but in the copper trade their prosperity had lasted longer, risen higher, and been better secured, than that of most of the interests which had been exposed to the free-trade system. England produced more than one-half the fine copper of the world. It was hard to suppose that the course taken by this country would
 723
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  admitted, that the hon. Gentleman had very fairly raised the question; but the point was one which had been already settled by the House; for it had been decided that there should be no distinction in the duty imposed on the copper or copper ore imported, whether from the colonies or from foreign countries. He had always expressed his opinion that not only the consumers but the producers in this country were benefited by the introduction of foreign ore, as there was a great advantage derived from mixing the two ores together. There was, however, another view of the question. Was it for the advantage of this country that the copper which met us in the way of competition on the Continent should be smelted in foreign countries rather than in our own? Yet that would be the effect of preventing the importation of foreign ores, as proposed by the hon. Gentleman. The export of copper had largely increased. In the four years from 1838 to 1841 the unwrought copper exported amounted to 33,000 tons; and in the four years from 1843 to 1846 to 34,000 tons, showing an increase of 1,000 tons. In the four years ending 1841, the quantity of wrought copper exported amounted to 24,000 tons, and in the subsequent period to 35,000 tons; showing an increase of 11,000 tons on the last four years. The home manufacture of copper goods had derived considerable benefit, therefore, from the mixture of foreign ore with the copper of this country; and it was equally for the benefit of the British miner, smelter, manufacturer, and artisan, that foreign ore should be introduced at a low duty.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that there were no fewer than 10,000 persons employed in the mines in Ireland, and about 50,000 persons in all dependent upon these mines. These parties were under the apprehension that, if the free importation of copper ore were allowed, their interests would be seriously injured. He therefore supported the Amendment.
 MR. HUDSON  complained of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, after he had, in June, stated that he should content himself with deficiency bills, now coming forward and deranging the commerce and money market of the country by announcing his determination to take another course. He would take that opportunity of observing, that notwithstanding the late weather, he believed that the wheat crops were good; in fact, in the north of England he had never seen finer.
 MR. MUNTZ  thought, the proposition of the hon. Member for Oxfordshire adverse to the interests of his constituents, as it would raise the price of the raw material. The House having determined to carry out the principle of free trade, he, for one, was desirous that it should not be carried out partially. He thought, that when a principle was once adopted, it ought to be fully carried out; and if it should be found not to work well, then let them endeavour to find out why. He would not object to the principle of protection, provided it was extended equally to all classes and to all
 724
 MR. ROBINSON  confessed he thought there was a good deal of fairness in what had been said by the hon. Member for Birmingham, that as he was in favour of the principle of free trade, he wished it to be applied generally, not partially. For his part, however, he (Mr. Robinson) was disposed to agree rather with the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, that, as he considered the principle of free trade a bad principle, he would not be a party to carrying it further than he could help. He would therefore on this, and on all other occasions, enter his protest against it. The error of the free-traders, he thought, was in attaching an undue importance to the consumers, as contradistinguished from the producers of the country. Now, in his opinion, if cheapness was produced at the expense of the producer, the effect would ultimately be to place the consumer, notwithstanding the cheapness, in a worse position than before. That was his reason for supporting the principle of protection.
 MR. WYLD  wished to call the attention of the House to the fact that this was the first occasion since the passing of the Slave Emancipation Act on which they had seen a liberal Government putting the miners of Cornwall in competition with the slaves of Cuba. If the principle of putting slave labour in competition with the free labour of Her Majesty's subjects were to be adopted, a new era would commence, a new order of things would be introduced which the whole mass of the people of England, whatever might be their opinion in favour of free trade, would deprecate.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he meant to move an Amendment. As the schedule stood, a duty of 1 s 722 s.,
 MR. HUME  regretted the observations of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire as to party. He believed that party had been the bane of the country; measures were carried for political aggrandisement without regard to administration of affairs, and it was in that manner that so much of our national debt had been incurred. He would acknowledge that during the time he had been in that House, if he had observed one thing more satisfactory than another, it had been the break up of that aristocratic party which had hitherto ruled the country, and prevented beneficial measures being carried; he, therefore, must protest against the hope which the hon. Gentleman had expressed of reviving that party.
 MR. OSBORNE  said, that on the one side of the question everything had been said by the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, and on the other by the noble Lord, and that debate would close like many modern duels. Both parties seemed satisfied; but there was another party whom neither the noble Lord nor his hon. Friend represented, and however able the speech of his hon. Friend, or however witty the speech of the noble Lord as to the measures of the Government, that party—namely, the people—would look with indifference on the attack of his hon. Friend, or the defence of the noble Lord. They had heard something of the fish dinner of the Government, and he really thought the House required some defence, because the noble Lord had said that owing to the tedious speeches of hon. Members the public business had been impeded; but it would have been much more apposite if his hon. Friend had defended the two hon. Members for Stafford and Youghal instead of the House of Commons. As the House was fond of statistical information, he would state that an hon. Friend of his had calculated the speeches of those hon. Members, and they amounted to five weeks ordinary debates of the closest printing—speeches, too, not from metropolitan Members, or Gentlemen representing large constituencies, but from Members for two small boroughs, the reputation of one of which was certainly not the most brilliant. But with reference to the fish dinner. He had the pleasure of dining at Greenwich a few days ago, and had some conversation with the waiter. He asked the waiter how the dinner of the Ministers went off. "Oh! Sir," said he, "they looked quite like a family party, but they were more moderate than the last Ministers." He agreed with the waiter—and he thought the country would agree with him too-the Ministers were like a family party, and were moderate men. He would refer to one of their measures, the Sugar Bill. Was there ever a greater failure than that measure of the great economist of the Government? With reference, however, to another measure—that of the Corrupt Practices at Elections Bill—he must say that his hon. Friend was too apt to presume on the ignorance of the House. In order to make a joke against the present Attorney General, his hon. Friend stated that the Bill was thrown out in the other House on the Motion of Lord Denman, who was Attorney General at the time of the Reform
 720 721
 MR. SPOONER  thought, if British manufacturers were exposed to the competition of foreign countries, they ought to be enabled to get the raw material of their manufacture at as cheap a rate as possible. The case of copper produced by slave labour was exceptional. But he recognised only two exceptions to the principle of free trade, namely, in cases involving slave labour, and in the case involving the national defences, namely, the navigation laws. He, therefore, could not support the Motion of the hon. Member for Oxfordshire, unless it were limited to copper, the produce of slave labour.
 SIR J. HOBHOSE , referring to the numerous discussions which had taken place upon this subject, and to the impossibility of stating a single fact with which the select audience whom the hon. Member had been addressing [ there were not more than a dozen Members present 743 l l 744
 MR. GEORGE THOMPSON : I have but little to say in reply to the right hon. Baronet, who, I must say, has not grappled with the two main branches of the question before the House, namely, the confiscation of the private property, and the illegality of the dethronement. He has said nothing of the violation of the solemn pledge of the British Governor, nor even condescended to notice the official documents which I placed before the House to prove the engagement which was entered into, and the actual existence of the property of which the Rajah was deprived. I have now a letter before me, written by Colonel Ovans, describing his property, and the manner in which it had been accumulated, and stating that there would be no difficulty in discriminating between what was public and state property, and what was private and personal. All this property was acquired by thrifty management of that part of his revenue which the Rajah had, from the commencement of his reign, set aside for his personal expenses. If I wanted further proof, I would quote the admission of the right hon. Baronet, that a large amount of treasure was left by the Rajah, which was applied by his brother to certain purposes which he has described. In fact, there had been no defence of this act of spoliation. The existence of the property was proved by the Governor's letter and pledge, by his despatch to the supreme authorities, by the letters of Colonel Ovans, by the detailed inventory of the property which had been made out, and by the admissions of the right hon. Baronet himself. All that had been advanced went to prove the violation of as distinct a pledge as had ever been given by any British Governor in any part of the world; and unless justice was at length done, the transaction would bring indelible disgrace upon all parties concerned in
 748 749
 MR. GEORGE THOMPSON : Sir, in rising to address the House on the Motion of which I have given notice, it is my intention to be as brief as possible, and to avoid, if I can, giving occasion for controversy or debate. In renewing, at this late period, the discussion of the Sattara question, I yield to a sense of imperative duty, conceiving the subject eminently entitled to the consideration of the Government, and of this assembly, bound as that Government and this House arc, to watch over the exercise of the power which has been entrusted to the hands of a chartered company to govern a hundred millions of the subjects of Her Majesty. If I may be permitted to refer to the past debates in this House, I will do so to observe, that in my opinion this question has never yet been fairly dealt with. It has always been capable of solution, by a reference of the papers in the case, to the calm and judicial investigation of an impartial Committee, aided in their labours by the evidence of persons in this country, who have from time to time been concerned in the proceedings.
 729 ex parte 730 "When the Rajah was consigned to my charge, early in 1840, I considered it neeessary, for the efficient discharge of my duties, to make myself fully acquainted with the causes of his dethronement, his general reputation for intrigue, and other circumstances connected with his character and conduct, to enable me to form a just estimate of the man with whom I had to deal, and to guard against the consequences which might arise from any laxity of surveillance on my part. To this end I carefully studied the whole of the voluminous documents connected with his case, and the result was, a belief in his innocence; and this belief has been confirmed, beyond a doubt, by subsequent disclosures, and by his pledging himself to prove it, if permitted to do so, in his letter to Sir Henry Hardinge of the 12th December, 1844,
 731 "The preamble of the conditions which his Highness was called upon to sign entangled him in an admission of guilt; it also involved the Government in the glaring inconsistency of propounding a principle, which required the strongest proofs of the Rajah's unworthiness to reign, as a necessary condition on which he was to continue on the guddee. Who will deny that his rejection of the proposal furnishes presumptive evidence of his innocence, and raises him more in the estimation of the world, than if he had ignominiously complied for the sake of retaining his sovereignty?" "8. You will be careful to provide, in the most effectual manner, for the personal comfort and convenience of the Rajah and his family, and to require the Sattara Government to furnish everything that may be necessary for their accommodation. He is, in fact, to be regarded and treated as an object of sympathy, and not of punishment. You will inform him that he will be permitted to reside within the honourable Company's territories, at such place as may be selected by the right honourable the Governor General of India, and that an annual allowance will be assigned from the Sattara revenues for the support and respectability of himself, and those members of his family who may choose to accompany him. Further, that all property belonging to him  bonâ fide 732 "With reference to your Highness's private property, I beg to observe, that that will be at your own disposal, as distinguished from the public property of the State—namely, jewellery, robes, dresses, &c., money, furniture, plate, and other necessaries which your Highness may require. On your Highness intimating the same, I will order the articles to be sent to you." "Par. 8. The ex-Rajah has in his possession three letters, signed by Colonel Ovans, the Resident at Sattara, and dated the 5th, 6th, and 13th of September, 1839, respectively, to the effect that his private property would be surrendered to him; and suggesting that lists of such portions thereof as he wished to take away, as well as of those articles he desired to leave in his palace, might be furnished, that which properly belonged to the State being retained." "9. I have carefully examined the documents referred to in the preceding paragraph, and therefore believe the statements it (viz., a letter from the ex-Rajah to the Resident, remonstrating against the claims of Appa Sahib to his private property), contains to be substantially correct; and if it be the pleasure of the right hon. the Governor General in Council, the originals or translation thereof shall be submitted to his Lordship's further consideration." 733 "32. My instructions to the Resident enjoin, that every effort should he made to obviate collision, but that should such unhappily occur, that every precaution should he taken to prevent injury to the well-disposed, and to guard against irregularities on the part of our troops. They like wise enjoin that every attention be paid to the personal comfort and convenience of the Rajah and his family, and secure to him his private property and a suitable maintenance for his future support. The question of his future disposal is left for consideration hereafter. I have every confidence in Lieutenant Colonel Ovans' judgment and discretion, that he will secure that these instructions are scrupulously attended to." bonâ fide "There can be no question but that the treasure
 734 bona fide l l 735 l 736 "'The Rajah informs me that since his deposition he has been much distressed for want of funds, which I really believe to be the case, and I know he has not oven had the means of purchasing necessary clothing for his family since their arrival in Benares, as my advances to him have been merely sufficient to subsist his family, followers, and cattle, lest I should exceed the spirit of your instructions.' [With regard to the private property Major Carpenter observes] 'I have taken pains to ascertain from what source the said property was derived, and it appears that in Captain Grant's time two treasuries were established by that officer's advice—the one private, in which the sums allotted for the support of the prince and his family were deposited; the other for the public purposes of the State, wherein there were upwards of six lacs and 40,000 rupees, at the time the Rajah was dethroned, which form no part of his claim; but be declares the whole of the money, jewels, and other property, claimed by him as private, are the savings of his privy purse, or surplus of the private treasury." 737 738 "Admitting that the Rajah was guilty of an infraction of the treaty, it does not follow that it was such as to cause his blood to he attainted. If the Rajah should have no legitimate issue, it was competent to him to adopt, and his heir might be perfectly innocent, and be justly entitled to the inheritance under the treaty." "The Government of Bombay seem to anticipate that the principality may escheat at no distant period to our Government by the demise of Appa Sahib; but the principality is hereditary, and should the Rajah leave no issue or natural heirs, he may adopt, and adoption with a Hindoo is not only a right but a duty. I have the highest authority for stating, that even in the case of a fief or dependency, a legal adoption cannot be barred by the Government or lord paramount." "That the raj (kingdom) of Sattara having recently become vacant by the death of Appa Sahib, the late Rajah, they have heard with the greatest surprise and concern that the assumed guilt of the Rajah, Pertaub Sing, is advanced as a pretext against the admission of the claims of the rightful heir under the treaty of September, 1819. But they humbly pray that such member of the Rajah's family as fills the character of 'heir' in the terms and according to the true meaning of the treaty, may be recognised and admitted as his successor, and that this House will not permit the violation of that treaty, by sanctioning any act, in contravention of the rights of such 'heir,' secured and guaranteed as those rights are by the faith of the British nation." "That forasmuch as to pursue schemes of con-quest and extension of dominion in India are measures repugnant to the wish, the honour, and the policy of this nation, it shall not be lawful, either for the Governor General of India, or for the governor of any presidency, to make or issue any order for commencing hostilities, or levying
 739 "His Lordship in Council would close the proceedings, apprising the Rajah that, although several suspicious circumstances regarding his Highness has been dieted during the progress of this inquiry, yet the British Government is unwilling, without the clearest proof of guilt, to condemn any of its allies, especially one who has been so pre-eminently the object of its favour and generosity; that further investigation is deemed inexpedient with reference to the general inconvenience it creates; and that the right hon. the Governor in Council is therefore pleased to close the inquiry, with the expression of his hope that the Rajah will so conduct himself for the future as to avoid the predicament (no less painful to the British Government than to his Highness) in which he has been recently placed." 740 741 742 "That in the opinion of this House it is required, by justice and good faith, that the private property of the late Rajah of Sattara, Pertaub Sing, of which he was possessed at the time of his deposal, and which was seized in violation of the written pledge of Sir James Carnac, the Governor of Bombay, should be transferred to Shahoo Maharaj, the adopted son of the late Rajah, or compensation be made in lieu thereof."
 MR. HUME  cordially united with the
 745 746 l l
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  vindicated the character and motives of Sir James Carnac, who on his return to England had explained and justified his conduct. He contended that the Rajah had broken the second and fifth articles of the treaty, which, whether right or wrong, he was bound to observe. The Rajah, as a sovereign prince, could not have a formal judicial trial. The question was one of treaty, and a violation of the treaty carried with it a forfeiture of the sovereignty. With respect to the private property, he trust-the Government would treat it in the most handsome and liberal manner. The Rajah, according to the statements of the hon. Mem-for the Tower Hamlets, had received during his exile 100,000 l 747
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that hon. Members who were acquainted with the Lord Chief Justice of the Common Pleas would he satisfied, without any statement from him, that that learned individual would not he neglectful of any duty attached to his high office. He had, however, communicated with the learned Judge on the subject, and received from him the following statement, dated August 30, which he would read to the House. The Lord Chief Justice of the Common Pleas, in a letter addressed to him (the Attorney General) stated—
 "I am much obliged to you for your note and the copy of the petition about to be presented by Mr. Anstey. The only observation which I have to make upon its contents is, that so far as they refer to me, they are founded in error. I am not on the rota for attendance at chambers, nor is it any part of my duty as a Chief Justice to attend. In the arrangement of the judicial duties, that of the routine attendance at chambers has always been performed by the puisne judges; and neither the Chief Justices nor the Lord Chief Baron are in the habit of attending, although, under special circumstances, "and as an accommodation to their brother judges, they may have attended on particular occasions. Previously to the appointment of the three additional judges, in 1832, there was no regular attendance at chambers during the long vacation. In 1838 a resolution was adopted by the judges, that the last newly-appointed judge who had not before performed the duty should be the attending judge in the long vacation. The Chief Justices and the Chief Baron have considered that resolution to refer to the judges charged ordinarily with the duty of attending to chamber business, and have never held it to refer to themselves, or acted upon it. In the long vacation of 1816, following my appointment, I had an intimation
 754
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  believed that there had been a misconception of the intention of the Act of Parliament introduced by the noble Lord opposite with respect to the authority or duty of the Attorney General to prosecute in cases of this sort. He believed that that duty of the Attorney General existed only in respect
 755
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  understood the question of the hon. Member for Youghal to refer to the advertisements in certain newspapers respecting different "sweeps." He was not at all anxious to take any steps in the matter, as such proceedings were always painful; but the subject had been so much pressed on his attention, that he felt bound to exercise the power vested in him.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  inquired whether the Russian troops were not still in Moldavia; whether the noble Lord the Foreign Secretary had had any communication from Russia upon this subject; and whether the troops were likely to he speedily withdrawn?
 LORD G. BENTINCK : I think I should he wanting in duty to the House, if I did not rise to express my indignation at the outrage which has been committed against the five honourable men who were the Members of this Committee. I hope that the noble Lord opposite, representing the Government, will also express the indignation which is universally felt by us that a gentleman, once a Member of this House, should have dared to make such an attack as this on Gentlemen acting judicially in their office of Members of an Election
 766
 LORD G. BENTINCK  trusted that there would not be one law for the rich, and another for the poor. If these "sweeps," which were the lotteries in which the middle classes took part, were to be put down, it was to be hoped that all lotteries of every description at the clubs and among the higher classes would be treated in the same way.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  moved, as an Amendment, that it be read a third time that day month.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  wished to put a question to the Home Secretary, of which he had given notice, with respect to the treatment of the convicted felon Mitchel. His object in putting this question was to obtain a contradiction of certain reports, in which he (Lord G. Bentinck) certainly did not place any credit. Those reports, which related to the treatment of Mitchel at Bermuda, had been so widely circulated, that he (Lord G. Bentinck) thought it absolutely necessary, in order to show the determination of the Government to visit persons of all stations who might be convicted of offences with equal punishment, that some contradiction should be given to them. He had received a letter on this subject from a person who was connected with the legal profession, and who did not wish his name to he publicly mentioned, although he (Lord G. Bentick) had stated
 758 Scourge "It is well known here that he did. It is also reported that, on taking leave of him, the officer of that steamer shook hands with him." New York Herald
 MR. HAWES  stated that Her Majesty's Government had received two despatches from the Governor of Ceylon, dated in July, which stated that a noisy meeting had taken place in Kandy on the subject of ordinances recently issued by the Colonial Government; that Sir E. Tennent, the Colonial Secretary, had been despatched to Kandy to explain the ordinances to the people; and that they were perfectly satisfied with his explanation. The Governor, in a despatch of the 12th of July, stated that every thing was quiet. It was quite true the troops had been ordered out, but it was rather for show than use, on account of the police feeling some alarm; and the appearance of the soldiers had the immediate effect of producing tranquillity. With regard to the ordinances in question, he (Mr. Hawes) might state that the Governor had repealed a very large portion of the taxation of Ceylon; he had equalised the import duties, and had reduced the export duties, but he found it necessary to substitute some other taxes. That taxation was not, however, as had been stated in another place, in the nature of a poll-tax. It was a tax for the improvement of the roads, similar to the old statute-labour in this country, the inhabitants of certain districts in Ceylon being required to give six days' labour in the year, or to pay 3 s.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  quite agreed with the observation which had fallen from the hon. and learned Member, that unless this very unjust accusation had been made against the constitution of the tribunal appointed for the trial of the petition, it would not have been worth his while to bring the matter forward. He regretted exceedingly that a gentleman, who was formerly a Member of that House, should, in the excitement of an election, have indulged in the unjustifiable language which he was reported to have uttered. It was a most unfair thing to cast an imputation upon any Gentleman for speaking as a friend to gentlemen with whom he had a professional acquaintance. He was not a member of the bar, but he was acquainted with many of the Parliamentary counsel, and he should think it very hard if he were accused of a want of impartiality because he had exchanged a word with Mr. Serjeant Wrangham or with Mr. Serjeant King-lake.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said: Sir, I feel it my duty to address to the House a few observations on a matter affecting in an important degree my own character, and that of every other Member of the House who was associated with me in the discharge of the duties imposed on us by our being selected to try the merits of the petition presented against the late return for the borough of Cheltenham. This a matter which concerns not myself only, and those Gentlemen, but it concerns also the dignity and character of this
 762 Cheltenham Examiner "Gentlemen, when Mr. James, my counsel, and myself, saw the constitution of the tribunal before which my cause was to he tried, we viewed the result of their decision with serious apprehension and alarm. I will tell you how that Committee was constituted; and now, gentlemen of the press, take my words down and report them correctly, for I intend my opinion of that Committee to go east, and west, and north, and south." 763 "Now, the Gentleman selected as Chairman of that Committee was Sir William Clay, the Member for the Tower Hamlets—an empty-headed coxcombical fop, possessing that which no other person possesses of him—the very best opinion of himself—a man, to use a common expression, who, for any one to buy at his own valuation, and sell at his intrinsic worth, the purchaser would be very much the loser." "The next Gentleman upon that Committee was Mr. Roundell Palmer, the Member for Plymouth, a Puseyite lawyer, who has bolstered up his somewhat questionable reputation by means of one or two lucky hits in the Court of Chancery. He is perfectly ignorant of the law of evidence, and perfectly ignorant of the common law of the land, and of the practice of the ordinary tribunals of justice in this country." "Now, Gentlemen, I contend that a Parliamentary Committee once formed, becomes a judicial tribunal, and that it is bound to decide on such evidence, and such alone, as would be admitted in a court of common law. Did the Committee act upon that fair and honourable principle? Why, if this petition had been brought before any jury of twelve honest Englishmen, chosen from any county in the empire, I don't care where, they would never have left the box to consider their verdict, which must have boon an unanimous verdict in my favour." "I will now return to the constitution of the Committee. I have disposed of two of them, and I appeal to you whether I have not fairly, and justly, and honestly, disposed of them. And here I am reminded that one of these Gentlemen (Mr. Roundell Palmer) committed during this investigation one of the most indecent acts which it was possible for a man in his situation to be guilty of. Mr. Roundell Palmer was in frequent conversation and colloquy with the counsel and agents for the petitioners during the hearing of the case. I ask you, if any man were being tried for an offence at Gloucester, what would the country say, if during the hearing of the case any of the jurymen were to be seen in consultation with the counsel
 764 "Now, Gentlemen, the third Member of the Committee is Captain Harris, the Member for Christchurch, and brother to Lord Malmesbury. He is a Tory of the old school, and he went to that Committee with his mind made up, and perfectly convinced that it was his conscientious duty to unseat the Liberal Member. The two other Members of the Committee are very estimable and amiable men in private life; but I assert that they are both totally unfit to sit upon a legal tribunal. Whatever Mr. Roundell Palmer said, Mr. Ogle and Mr. Thicknesse immediately assented to." 765
 MR. ANSTEY  said, that some time ago he had put a question to the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department as to the illegal "sweeps" advertisements; and as to the intention of the Government to prosecute the parties who offended in that respect. The answer he received was, that the matter would be referred to the proper authorities; and he now asked the hon. and learned Attorney General, whether any decision had been come to on the subject? He asked the question in the interest of certain newspapers, which had hitherto refused to insert such advertisements.
 SIR G. GREY  said that he had stated, on the occasion alluded to by the hon. Baronet, that he had referred the matter to the Attorney General. Since that period the offence had gone on increasing.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that a question similar in purport to that asked by the noble Lord, had been put to him some time since by another hon. Member; and the answer he had now to give to the noble Lord's question, would be substantially the same as he had before given. On that occasion, the hon. Member placed in his hands copies of the information which had reached him on the subject. He communicated with the noble Earl at the head of the Admiralty, who stated that he had not
 759 Scourge Scourge Shearwater "In reply to your Lordship's separate despatch of the 29th of May," [which transmitted the warrant authorising the Governor to receive and detain John Mitchel, and which warrant was
 760 Scourge Dromedary "The medical superintendent has stated it to be his opinion that the prisoner, John Mitchel, has a chronic affection of the lungs, and, acting under his advice, I have caused Mitchel to be removed to the  Tenedos "I have the honour to submit to your Excellency some observations that have presented themselves to my notice in the medical inspection which I have made to-day on board the hulks in the Chamber. According to the regulations of the service, my attention was directed to the state of health of a recently arrived prisoner, named John Mitchel, now on board the  Dromedary
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  thought that some acknowledgment of public thankfulness ought to be offered to Mr. Vernon for the unparalleled donation he had made to the country. He could not allow the report of the Committee on Works of Art to be laid on the table without expressing his opinion, that an act so unprecedented as that of Mr. Vernon should not pass without acknowledgment. Something ought to be done to mark the public gratitude. If a
 756
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, an answer precisely similar to the one which the House had just heard had boon given to a question put by him three months ago.
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  assured the hon. Baronet that the Committee on Works of Art expressed their sense of the great and splendid generosity exhibited by Mr. Vernon in the donation he had made to the country.
 VISCOUNT MORPETH  brought up the report of the Committee on Works of Art.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : These Russian troops entered Moldavia, some time ago, at the request of the Hospodar, and without any orders from the Cabinet of St. Petersburgh. I believe, in fact, that when it was made known at Constantinople, the Russian Minister there sent a communication to the general, that a commissary was going to those provinces, and that therefore their presence was not wanted, and that upon that they were going to withdraw. Since that, I believe, orders have been received from St. Peters-burgh that they should remain till further instructions. The corps is not large, but it does remain there. I have had recent communications from St. Petersburgh, stating that the purpose for which it is there is the maintenance or re-establishment of order, that its stay is only temporary, and that it will be withdrawn when the occasion has ceased; of course, no definite period was stated, but it was avowed to be only a temporary occupation. Russia has certain relations with those principles as a protecting Power, by virtue of treaties; and therefore it is not entirely a case of the entrance of the troops of one Government into the country of another with which it has no concern. The entry is on the authority of the Hospodar, and there is no disposition for the acquisition of territory.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I feel no difficulty in expressing my deep regret, that my hon. Friend the late Member for Cheltenham should have been led away by the irritation of the moment, to express himself in terms so unbecoming and undeserved of five Gentlemen who were acting in the performance of their duty, and under the obligations of an oath, because they have come to a decision which is in accordance with strict justice. I am sure, however, that the Members who have been so unjustly attacked must feel too strong in their own personal character, and the respect which that character inspires, not only in this House, but elsewhere, to suffer in any degree from the unfounded aspersions which, in an unfortunate moment, my hon. Friend was led to cast upon their character and conduct. I think that the hon. and learned Gentleman was quite right in giving a contradiction to the statement which he brought forward; and I am sure that he will be satisfied with the explanation which he has afforded the House. I doubt not that my hon. Friend, whose speech has been the subject of this discussion,
 767 *
 LORD G. BENTINCK  had given notice of his intention to move for returns of the entries of British West India sugar, &c, as reported in the Customs Bill (A) of entry, because it had been said, the other day, that he had found a "mare's nest." If any Member of the Government, however, would get up and say that his statement was correct, he would not ask for the returns.
 LORD G. BENTINCK  did not see how it was possible for both statements to be correct; but he was satisfied with the acknowledgment that his own was accurate, and therefore he would not press for those returns.
 LORD J. HAY : Having been one of the Friends alluded to by the hon. Baronet (Sir W. Clay), I think it my duty to state to the House—a duty I owe also to my hon. Friend—that, having been consulted by him to preserve his honour in the course which it would be proper for him to take, and having given my best consideration to the speech said to having been made by Mr. Craven Berkeley at Cheltenham, I unhesitatingly came to the decision that my hon. Friend was not justified in seeking private redress for an indignity offered to him when in the discharge of a public duty in the Committee upstairs. But, anxious as I was, not being sufficiently acquainted with the forms of the House, to guide me Friend in the true path of honour, I appealed to the opinion of a noble Friend of mine, a most distinguished military officer, who, taking the case into his consideration, came with myself to the opinion I have already stated to the House, that my hon. Friend would not be justified in seeking private redress for the indignity offered to him in that speech of Mr. Berkeley at Cheltenham.
 MR. PARKER  was sorry that his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade was not present; but he believed that the statement made by the noble Lord was correct, and that the statement made by the Board of Trade was equally correct. Both sides were right, the returns having been made up in two different ways.
 SIR W. CLAY  said: I beg leave to move that the evidence taken before the Select Committee on the Cheltenham Election Petition, together with the proceedings, be printed. In doing so, I trust the House will allow me to allude to a very extraordinary attack which has been made, impugning the decision of that Committee, of which I had the honour to be Chairman—an attack not only upon the decision of the Committee, but also upon the character of the Members of that Committee. In the few observations with which I am about to trouble the House, it is my intention to abstain from all comment upon the expressions used in the speech of Mr. Craven Berkeley to a public meeting at Cheltenham which applied personally to myself. I was absent from town on Friday, and it was not till the afternoon of that day that I received a paper, in which I saw the report of that speech; I immediately came to London, but the House had already adjourned. It has been the opinion of the friends, of high and unquestioned honour, in whoso hands I thought it right to place myself, that as the expressions of which I think I have a just right to complain, were used towards me in consequence of a decision to which I had come when sitting in a judicial character under the instructions of this House, I was not justified in taking notice of those expressions otherwise than in this House, and in my character as a Member of this House. Being thus precluded by opinions to which I feel bound to defer, and not having the opportunity of noticing those expressions elsewhere than
 786 787 788
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I am sure the House will think that it required no explanation from my hon. Friend, and no vindication, to prove to this House and to the country that the attack made upon him by Mr. Craven Berkeley had no foundation whatever, and is perfectly undeserved. In regard to the course which my hon. Friend thinks that this House might take upon the subject, I would venture humbly to submit to him and to the House, that under all the circumstances of the case it might be a sufficient satisfaction to himself and to the other Members of the Committee, whose conduct on this occasion is impugned, that this House has shown by the most general, and, indeed, universal expression of opinion on the part of all the Members present, that it considers there is no foundation for the charge, and that therefore their characters and conduct stand perfectly unimpeached by anything that may have passed in relation to the matter. I am persuaded that any friend of Mr. Berkeley's whom he may consult upon the subject, will tell him that the course which he was led in a moment of irritation to pursue, strikes at the root of the administration of justice in this coun-
 789
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the House would recollect, that on Friday, in answer to a question put to him by the hon. Member for Youghal (Mr. Anstey), he had read a letter from Lord Chief Justice Wilde, relative to the attendance of Judges at Chambers. On his (the Attorney General's) arrival in town this morning he found a letter from Mr. Justice Cole-
 796 "My attention has been called this morning to the  Times "I have this advantage, that I was present at the meeting referred to, took part in the discussion, and have had occasion to refresh my memory on the subject. It is perfectly correct that until 1838 it was not considered the duty of any judge to attend in town during the long vacation. At a meeting of the Judges, either in that year or the preceding winter, the subject was taken into consideration, and a resolution was come to, that, for the future, the junior judge who had not once performed the duty should, in every year, undertake the attendance at chambers during the long vacation. In the course of the discussion it was distinctly considered whether the Chief Justices and Chief Baron should attend in turn, and it was, without any division, resolved in the affirmative, on the ground that, as we were all undertaking a new duty—incumbent on none of us when appointed—there was no reason for exempting them; and the rather as they in their turn, and according to seniority only of appointment, claimed to take the chamber business during the circuits; the practice as to both having grown out of the same circumstance, the appointment of three additional judges. Lord Denman and the late Lord Chief Justice Tindal were both present, and, speaking from recollection, I am certain that neither of them expressed any dissent. Lord Abinger was not present, and he did dissent from the whole resolution, and declared that he would not be bound by it; not, however, because he took any distinction between the chiefs and the puisne judges, but because he thought that some recreation and cessation from labour was necessary for every judge in every year, and that he was not called on to add spontaneously to the duties which he had undertaken on his appointment. He died before it came to his turn, and whether he would have adhered to his resolution, of course, cannot be known. I was not aware that any judge who was present at the framing of the rule had ever expressed a doubt as to its construction or operation; and I had only heard in so vague a way, before the circuit, of the Lord Chief Justice of the Common Pleas questioning it, as to make me think it possible he
 797
 MR. HAWES  replied, that the period for which the Court had voted supplies had not yet expired, and that, therefore, no deficiency had occurred. The determination of the Combined Court to vote supplies only for a certain time appeared to have arisen from their dissatisfaction at Earl Grey's refusing his assent to certain reductions of expenditure which they had proposed. That noble Lord had, however, stated most distinctly to the Lieutenant Governor of British Guiana that he would be ready to give his most earnest attention to any well-considered system of reduction and economy which had been calmly prepared, with something like discrimination and justice, but that he certainly could not sanction an indiscriminate resolution for reducing the salaries of all officials 25 per cent, without any regard to the nature of the duties they had to perform.
 MR. HUME  said, a specific resolution had boon proposed to reduce the salary of the next Governor from 5,000 l l
 MR. HUME  begged to ask the Under Secretary for the Colonics whether any measures had been taken in consequence of the Combined Court at Demerara having separated without voting any supplies beyond the 30th of September?
