 MR. SPEAKER  reported Her Majesty's Speech, and read it to the House ( See
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, that in moving an Address in answer to the gra-
 74 75 76 77 78 79 "MOST GRACIOUS SOVEREIGN, "We Tour Majesty's most dutiful and loyal Subjects, the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, in Parliament assembled, beg leave to express to Your Majesty our humble Thanks for Your Majesty's gracious Speech from the Throne. "We beg humbly to assure Your Majesty that we participate in the satisfaction which Your Majesty has been pleased to express, that both in the North and in the South of Europe the contending parties have consented to a suspension of Arms for the purpose of negotiating terms of Peace. "We thank Your Majesty for informing us, that the hostilities carried on in the Island of Sicily were attended with circumstances so revolting that the British and French Admirals were impelled, by motives of humanity, to interpose and to stop the effusion of blood; and we rejoice to learn that Your Majesty has availed Yourself of the interval thus obtained to propose, in conjunction
 80 "We humbly thank Tour Majesty for the assurance of Your anxious endeavours, in offering Your good offices to the various contending Powers, to prevent the extension of the calamities of War, and to lay the foundation for lasting and honourable Peace; and we beg to acquaint Your Majesty that we derive much gratification from the expression of Your constant desire to maintain with all Foreign States the most friendly relations. "We thank Your Majesty for informing us, that the Papers connected with these transactions will be laid before Parliament, by direction of Your Majesty, as soon as the interests of the public service will permit. "We regret to learn that a Rebellion of a formidable character has broken out in the Punjaub, and that the Governor General of India has been compelled, for the preservation of the peace of the country, to assemble a considerable force, which is now engaged in military operations, and we cordially rejoice at the information which Your Majesty has imparted to us, that these unprovoked disturbances have not affected the peace of British India. "We humbly assure Your Majesty, that the restrictions imposed upon Commerce by the Navigation Laws will engage our most earnest attention; and that it will be our duty to consider whether it be right to repeal or to modify their provisions if we shall find that these Laws are in whole or in part unnecessary for the maintenance of our Maritime Power, while they fetter Trade and Industry. "We beg to express our Thanks to Your Majesty for having directed the Estimates for the Service of the year to be laid before this House, and for acquainting us that they will be framed with the most anxious attention to a wise economy. "We rejoice to learn that Your Majesty has been enabled, on account of the present state of affairs, to make large reductions upon the Estimates of last year. "We beg leave humbly to express the satisfaction which we participate with Your Majesty, that this portion of the United Kingdom has remained tranquil amidst the convulsions which have disturbed so many parts of Europe. "Whilst rejoicing that the Insurrection in Ireland has not been renewed, we unite with Your Majesty in deploring the existence of a spirit of disaffection; and our serious consideration will be devoted to the intimation of Your Majesty, that Your Majesty is compelled, with regret, to ask for a continuance, for a limited time, of those
 81 "We most sincerely share with Your Majesty the satisfaction which Tour Majesty feels at the revival of commerce from those shocks which, at the commencement of last Session, were to be deplored: and we learn with gratification that the condition of the manufacturing districts is likewise more encouraging than it has been for a considerable period, and that the state of the Revenue is one of progressive improvement. "We fully participate with Your Majesty, in the great concern which Your Majesty has been pleased to express on account of the very severe distress in some parts of Ireland, which has been caused by another failure of the Potato Crop. "We can assure Your Majesty, that our best attention will be devoted to the subject of the operation of the Laws for the Relief of the Poor in Ireland, and we beg to convey to Your Majesty the expression of our thanks for Your gracious intimation, that any measure by which those Laws may be beneficially amended, and the condition of the people may be improved, will receive Your Majesty's cordial assent. "We humbly thank Your Majesty for the gracious manner with which Your Majesty has been pleased to advert to the loyal spirit of Your people, and to that attachment to the institutions of their country, which has animated them during a period of commercial difficulty, deficient production of food, and political revolution. "We join with Your Majesty, in humbly looking to the protection of Almighty God, for favour in our continued progress; and we beg to convey to Your Majesty the assurance that we will faith-fully assist Your Majesty in upholding the fabric of the Constitution, founded, as it is, upon the principles of freedom and of justice."
 MR. E. H. BUNBURY  said, that in rising to second the Motion of the noble Lord, he must assure the House, that if he began with entreating their indulgence to so inexperienced a speaker as himself, this was no mere matter of form, or idle compliance with established custom. It was impossible for him to find himself placed in a situation which led him almost necessarily to look back upon the events of the year just past, and to look around him on the events which were still passing on the continent of Europe, without feeling that the circumstances of the times were such as to lend no ordinary degree of significance to matters which on other occasions would be scarcely worthy of a passing mention. The very fact that they were now again assembled in the ordinary course
 82 83 84 l l l 85 86 87 88 89
 MR. SPEAKER  then read the Speech and the Address. On the question being put that the Address be agreed to,
 MR. GRATTAN and Mr. DISRAELI  rose together. The former Gentleman, however, gave way, when—
 MR. DISRAELI  rose and said: I am sure, Sir, that Her Majesty, since Her accession, has never yet delivered a gracious Speech to Her Parliament in which She has felt it Her duty to allude to subjects of such great importance as in that Speech to which we have listened to-day; but I am bound to say, that both in that Speech, which Her Majesty has been advised to address to Her Parliament, and in that answer which has now been proposed for us to offer at the foot of the Throne, I do not find that a fair and candid statement is conveyed as to the condition of this country—not a candid statement either as regards the internal condition of this country or its external relations. At this moment, important and numerous as are the subjects for our consideration, doubtless the most exigent would seem to be the state of Ireland. The language which I find in the note that I have made of the Speech, does not convey to me the impression that Her Majesty's Ministers are of opinion that the state of Ireland requires any immediate remedy. The language is obscure; and if it can be satisfactorily explained, it will show the advantage of discussion in the present instance. I find it stated that "the operation of the laws for the relief of the poor in Ireland will properly be a subject of early inquiry;"
 90 91 92 93 and some murmurs 94 l l l l 95 96 l 97 Mercantile Journal "It is truly alarming to think what may be the result of a continuance of imports, not only in the face of a very limited inquiry, but at a period of the year when trade is almost always at a stand. Why cargo after cargo of goods he sent hither is an enigma we cannot solve. Some few vessels have yet to arrive; and, although trade may probably revive in the beginning of 1849, what will become of the goods received and to be received? This market cannot consume them. Stores, warehouses, and the custom-house, are full to repletion; and if imports continue upon the same scale as heretofore, and sales have to be forced, we may yet have to witness the phenomenon of all descriptions of piece goods being purchased here below the prime cost in the country of production." 98 99 100 101 102 "I have availed myself of the interval thus obtained, to propose, in conjunction with France, to the King of Naples, an arrangement calculated to produce a permanent settlement of affairs in Sicily. The negotiation on these matters is still pending." "It is my constant desire to maintain with all foreign States the most friendly relations." 103 104 National 105 106 107 108 109 110 l l "Quibus divitias pollicentur ab illis drachmam petunt De divitiis deducant drachmam." l l l l 111 l 112 113 114 115 "We regret, however, to be compelled humbly to represent to Your Majesty, that neither Your Majesty's relations with Foreign powers, nor the state of the Revenue, nor the condition of the Commercial or Manufacturing Interests, are such as, in our opinion, to justify us in addressing Your Majesty in the language of congratulation; and that large portions of the Agricultural and Colonial Interests of the Empire are labouring under a state of progressive depression, calculated to excite serious apprehension and anxiety." 116 117
 MR. H. GRATTAN  rose and said, that he had an Amendment, to propose which, as it related to a paragraph preceding that upon which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) had just moved an Amendment, would require to be put first. The Amendment he intended to propose referred to the paragraph relating to Ireland—which he regarded as an insult to the people of that country. The hon. Gentleman who had just spoken had talked of mock mediations abroad; but he forgot to allude to the mock insurrections at home. The insurrection in Ireland—which was alluded to so gravely in Her Majesty's Speech—was a mere mock insurrection. There was no evidence laid before them against the persons who had been apprehended under the Act suspending the Habeas Corpus; and he objected to the proposed continuance of that suspension. With respect to that passage in the Speech relating to the Irish Poor 'Law, it could not be acceded to by any Irish Member who wished well to his country. There was no use in appointing a Committee to inquire into the law—it ought to be entirely altered. Those laws had been condemned by resolutions passed at county meetings summoned by the high sheriffs of those counties, as having signally failed in their operation. Where was the use of further Parliamentary inquiring respecting thorn? Action, not inquiry, was wanted. Already they had had numerous Committees and reports, but all ended in nothing. The Devon Commission had received abundance of evidence on the subject, but the Government had not proceeded on it. It was not therefore the means, but the will that was wanting to change the character of those laws and render them more efficient. This country, he admitted, stood in a proud position, but it was because under a free constitution she
 118 119 120 121 quasi 122 "That the disturbances in Ireland have not been renewed, but a feeling of discontent, augmented by the distresses of the people, still exists, which it will be our duty to watch, and as speedily as possible to remedy."
 MR. JOHN O'CONNELL  said, he rose to second the Amendment of his hon. Friend. When Irish Members addressed themselves exclusively to Irish questions, they were often met with the taunting assurance that they were interested in the external as well as in the internal affairs of this great empire. But he had never received any consolation from such assurance; for he found that their representations as to their own country were without any weight or authority in that House. He would leave the foreign policy of Ministers to be settled between them and the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire; it was a pretty quarrel as it stood; he would only observe that the Government seemed to have adopted doctrines and principles in some part of their foreign policy which it would be well for them to inculcate in their policy towards Ireland. In dealing with the affairs of Sicily they had put forward the doctrine, in which he most entirely concurred, that a country, while continuing bound to a superior country by the golden link of the Crown, had the right to manage its own affairs by its own Parliament. Why had they not applied that principle to the case of Ireland, and why did they now make a pretext of the wretched, partial, and miserable outbreak of July last for obtaining powers to be directed, not against an insurrection, which they themselves confessed did not exist, but against legitimate and constitutional liberty in Ireland—against that principle which they had themselves asserted in the case of the Sicilians as against the Parliament of Naples? It would appear that they had put I forward., in other countries, principles in-consistent with their love of order and their support of constitutional authority in this country. The secret mission of Lord Minto was not yet forgotten. If the tree might be judged by its fruits, it yet remained to be proved that the sad occurrences in Rome, the assassinations, outrages, and violence that reigned there now, had not been encouraged by the coquetting which the secret envoy of Great Britain had had with the parties foremost in that insurrection. Lord Minto in Rome had encouraged the rioters there—those who
 123 124 125
 MR. W. FAGAN  requested the attention of the House for a few minutes whilst he touched upon three points in the Speech from the Throne relative to Ireland. The Speech declared, that in certain parts of that country great distress prevailed, in consequence of the failure of the potato crop. If he were to form any judgment of the intentions of the Government from that paragraph, he should premise that Ministers were about to come down to Parliament and to ask for some relief for the suffering people; and though he was one who preferred that Ireland should struggle through her difficulties by herself—yet knowing as he did the state of penury that existed throughout the poor-law unions there, and that even 20 s l l 126 127
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli), who spoke first in this debate after my noble Friend the Mover of the Address, and the Seconder, paid a tribute, which I think natural, to the noble Lord who long led that party with which he was connected, and whose loss he most justly deplored. Sir, I could not hear that tribute without remembering I, too, since the last Session of Parliament, have lost Friends with whom I was politically connected; and I must say that I think it is not only natural, but right, that such losses should not be passed over in silence in this House, because the loss of men of undoubted integrity, of high spirit, of great talent, and of indefatigable industry in the transaction of public business, are not private but national losses. Sir, in referring to the various topics which have been raised in this debate, I will state but briefly the remarks that I have to make with regard to Ireland, because there is no subject connected with that country which is not likely, in a short time, to form the subject of a separate discussion. With regard to the particular Amendment which the hon. Gentleman the Member for Meath has moved, relating to the powers of which the Government propose to ask the renewal, I will only call upon the House to defer its judgment until they hear the statement which my right hon. Friend shall make, founded upon the opinion, certainly, of the Lord Lieutenant; but that opinion, formed not only upon his own judgment and his own strict and sagacious observation of passing events, but likewise upon the testimony of those from whom he is accustomed to obtain information with regard to the state of the country. I will only say, further, that I hope this House will bear in mind, when they come to that discussion, how long a Government must pause, supposing no such power to exist, before it comes down to ask Parliament for such powers—what menaces, what agitation, what interruption of trade and commerce, what disturbance of the public peace, must occur; and that if the Suspension Act should expire, and agitation
 128 129 l 130 l 131 132 133 134 135 136 de facto 137 138 l l l 139 l l l 140 141 142 143
 MR. ROCHE  said, that in considering
 144 l d 145 146
 MR. HERBERT  said, that after the speech of the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government, it would be impossible for him to do otherwise than vote for the Amendment of the hon. Member for Meath. The declaration of the noble Lord that evening, that Government were not prepared to apply any remedy to the abuses of the present Irish Poor Law, did materially aggravate the distress of all classes in that country. The reason which the noble Lord had given for this inaction was, he thought, of no weight whatever. If he waited till the Irish Members were agreed among themselves, that was tantamount to saying that there should be no legislation at all upon the subject. But that appeared to him to be only an additional reason why Her Majesty's Government should have come forward with a distinct proposition of their own upon the subject.
 MR. HUME  said, he was anxious to express his feelings on the topics alluded to in Her Majesty's Speech; but at that hour of the night he thought it would be better to move the adjournment of the House. If a division was to take place, he would take that opportunity of stating his opinions, not so much on what was contained as on what was omitted in the Speech. He thought that at a time when the public were in expectation of the announcement of most important measures of relief, the Government should have been prepared to state how they were about to meet those expectations. On looking to the Speech, he could not find that any portion of the recommendations of the popular Members on that most important subject—the inequality and burdens of taxation—had been attended to. He proposed last year that the income-tax should only be continued for one year, in order that a revision of our taxation should be gone into; but he was then told that matters were not ripe for such a change, but that Her Majesty's Government would prepare some measure during the recess. And now, in the whole course of the noble Lord's address, there was not the slightest allusion to the subject. The noble Lord had indeed claimed credit for the reduction of the national establishments during the coming year, though he doubted if after all it would extend so far as his own proposal last year, to reduce the Army by 13,000 men. But had the noble Lord said one word as to the reduction of the burdens of the people. No hope was held out to the people that the subject should be taken into consideration at all. He complained of that as a great omission. The hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) never spoke but to interest and instruct the House; but the greatest portion of his speech was devoted to the foreign policy of the country, into which he (Mr. Hume) did not feel disposed to follow him. He would rather put in a claim on the part of the people of England; for he thought while the attention of Her Majesty's Ministers was directed to the affairs of other States, they were neglecting the interests of the country at home. He asked the Government whether they intended to meet the wishes of the people, and have an investigation into the state of the taxation of the country? The noble Lord had taken great credit to the Government for their proposed reductions. But what did they amount to? He proposed
 148 Cheers from the Opposition 149
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he did not oppose the adjournment, if the hon. Member wished for it; but he certainly had expected that before the House rose that night, the first Amendment would have been disposed of. He proposed, therefore, that the House should divide on the first Amendment then, and take the second tomorrow.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  thought there should be ample opportunity given for discussing the Amendment.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  supported the proposal of the noble Lord.
 MR. DISRAELI : But perhaps the hon. Member for Meath docs not wish to divide.
 MR. GRATTAN : Certainly, Sir, I will divide.
 MR. A. STAFFORD  withdrew his Motion for the adjournment, and
 MR. SPEAKER  acquainted the House that he bad issued Warrants for New Writs for several places ( See Minutes
 MR. A. STAFFORD  resumed the adjourned debate, by stating that he thought the course the most convenient to be adopted was to move the adjournment of
 155 156 157 l 158 159 160 161 162 163 164
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, it was not his intention to have taken any part in the debate, and he now rose merely in consequence of the most extraordinary speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He would only trouble the House, however, with a very few remarks, those having reference to the subject of the Irish Poor Law. The hon. Gentleman brought an accusation against the Government for having consented now to appoint a Committee upon the Irish Poor Law. Why, he (Sir W. Somerville) remembered that last Session, when his hon. and gallant Friend (Colonel Dunne) brought forward a Motion for a Committee upon that same law, great objections were taken to the course which the Government pursued on that occasion. The Government were accused of resisting the almost unanimous opinion of the Irish Members; and when they asked the House to wait until they should receive the report of the Commission, that they might have some evidence as to the working of the law, that was not admitted to be a valid excuse, but they were taunted with an indisposition to the wishes of Irish Members upon a question vitally affecting the interests of the country. Well, the hon. Gentleman said that the Government had got the information now upon which they might act—
 165 166 d d d d 167
 MR. GRATTAN  explained. He thanked Heaven that he was not an Irish Secretary. The rate which the right hon. Gentleman had referred to was 1 s d s d d l l l l
 SIR J. WALSH  blamed the Government for not devising, ere the meeting of Parliament, measures to remedy the defects in the present poor-law. The feeling throughout the whole of that country was universal in favour of an immediate amelioration of that law. He did not think that his hon. Friend near him (Mr. Stafford) was at all open to the charge of inconsistency for the course which he now advocated in respect to the Irish Poor Law. Among every class of persons in Ireland, whether landlords or tenants, but one feeling prevailed, namely, that immediate legislation was necessary on this subject. And, he would ask, had they not some reason to apprehend that, as the right hon.
 168 169 in propria motu 170 171 172 173
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he did not think he should accommodate him-self to the spirit of the debate by following his hon. Friend the Member for Northamptonshire either through his discussions on the corn law or the Irish Poor Law. He had himself been in one of the smallest minorities ever seen in the House on the question that the words "1st of February, 1849," be omitted from the measure which settled that law; and while he considered the question now as finally disposed of as one of protection, he trusted it would always be considered open as one of revenue. With regard to the question of the Irish Poor Law, which the Irish Members had pressed so much, he trusted that Her Majesty's Government would do all they could to settle that question without loss of time. He had hoped, when he saw the hon. Member for Northamptonshire rise, that it was for the purpose of telling the House that, after the speech of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, he thought it would be no longer just in the Opposition to persist in pressing their Amendment. He had hoped so, because an Amendment of this kind, brought forward by one who, he presumed, was now the recognised leader of the Opposition, was, in fact, of a very serious and solemn nature, and one which they would hardly have been justified in taking so hastily, even if we had actually been plunged into a Continental war, or if every kind of misfortune had accumulated on the head of the country by the imprudence of Government. But when the charges upon which the Amendment professed to be founded, had been proved to be erroneous, he really thought the Opposition would not
 174 175 176 177 178 179 180 181
 VISCOUNT MANDEVILLE  supported the Amendment. Our interference in Sicily might have been warranted by our connexion with that country, particularly in 1812, but he could not but agree in the condemnation which had been pronounced by the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire on the conduct pursued by the British Government with reference to Austria and the States of Lombardy. The most important of the many omissions in the Speech—not one of which had been satisfactorily explained by the noble Lord—was that it did not contain one word as to the condition of the agricultural interest in this country. Next to that was the absence of any allusion to the state of the colonies. He thought that our colonial interests, having no representatives in that
 182
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, in moving his Amendment, had adopted a course that prevented many hon. Gentleman from giving a mere formal assent to the Address, and the discussion had turned upon matters involving questions so important that he for his own part felt unwilling to give his vote without drawing a distinction between those portions of the Address to which he could cordially give his assent, and those to which he thought there was some objections. The hon. Member for Buckinghamshire in moving his Amendment had entered at great length into all those questions of political and commercial policy which had agitated the public mind of late, and had entered into the history of all the legislative measures discussed during the last few years, going particularly into the question of free trade, to which he had given his constant opposition, and respecting which he had, at the time of its discussion, pronounced many predictions. The hon. Member had proceeded to show that the experience of the last three years had fully verified those predictions which he had made, and having gone into statistical details, and exhibited his view of our financial and commercial condition, proving all that he wished to the satisfaction of the party with which he was connected, he very consistently concluded his speech by moving an Amendment in accordance with the statement which he had made. The last paragraph of that Amendment stated "that a large portion of the agricultural and colonial interests of the empire are labouring under a state of progressive depression, calculated to excite serious apprehension and anxiety." He (Mr. Hors-
 183 184 185 186 187 188 189
 MR. F. SCOTT  was astonished how, after the able and convincing speech of the hon. Gentleman, he could make up his mind to oppose the Amendment. For his own part, he thought that the Royal Speech pointed very clearly to the propriety of several reductions in our national expenses. It seemed to him that if, as was to be inferred from that Speech, we had no foreign relations, that we could and ought to bring down our diplomatic expenditure to a great extent. As for the Foreign Office and the Colonial Office, there was, he believed, this distinction between them—that the former had two sets of despatches, one meant to be seen, and the other secret, while the other had only one set, which it was very difficult to procure entire. Altogether, he regarded the mischief done by the Colonial Office system as greater than that springing from the department of Foreign Affairs. It was certainly to be regretted that there was not on that occasion any Gentleman on the Treasury bench connected with the Colonial Department, to tell the House on what grounds the Government had conducted themselves so strangely with regard to the colonies, and why all reference to our colonial system of government had been omitted in the Speech from the Throne. He trusted, however, that the hon. Gentleman who presided over that department would explain, not merely to that House, but to the country and to the colonies of the British empire throughout the world, why it was that, upon this most important of all occasions, and in the present most critical period in our colonial history, our colonies were not even mentioned in the Royal Speech. Like most other Speeches from the Throne, the present was so very vague and general, that it never condescended upon a fact without greatly qualifying it, while sometimes the qualifications amounted to an actual contradiction. Thus, the first fact he found stated was, that a British Admiral was a humane man, while in the
 190 l l l 191
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  contrasted the admirable speech of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire with the Jesuitical, the weak and imperfect reply of the noble Lord at the head of the Government. He admired the one as much as he despised the other. As for the Queen's Speech, it was not a speech from the Queen, but a mere  omnium gatherum 192
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  trusted, that the Government would immediately commence the revision and more equal partition of the taxation which bore upon the country; and that they would not forget the legacy duty, which pressed most unequally on different descriptions of property. Adverting to the foreign policy of the Government, and the speech of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, he confessed that he regarded the address of the hon. Member, sparkling and amusing as it was, rather as a parody on, than a grave statement of, the facts with which
 193
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  said, that he could not support the Address, because he believed that every paragraph it contained was wanting in sincerity. He confessed that he felt the greatest astonishment at what he could not help calling the effrontery of the Government, when he found them congratulating Parliament on the condition of this empire at a time when a cry of despair, mingled with angry remonstrance, was proceeding from our West India colonies in consequence of the misery which the policy of the Government had created there, and at a time when the agricultural interest in this country was exposed to great and unusual suffering—the harvest in the southern and western and some of the midland counties having been almost swept away by a continuous and unprecedented deluge, whilst the markets were swamped by the arrival of foreign grain. He knew that a fair trial must be given to the free-trade experiment, before the public, excited as they had been on the subject, could come to a fair conclusion; but in the mean time the agricultural interest had a right to ask for relief from those burdens and unjust assessments to which they were subjected. It was to this grievance, universally recognised, that he would presume to call the undivided attention of the country party, and more especially of those Gentlemen
 194 "Lord John Russell would have formed his Ministry on the basis of a complete free trade in corn, to be established at once without gradation or delay. He would have accompanied that proposal with measures of relief to a considerable extent, of the occupiers of land from the burdens to which they are subjected." l l 195 bonâ fide
 MR. B. COCHRANE  could not agree with the hon. Member for Pontefract in applying the term constitutional struggles to those miserable events which had desolated Europe during the past year. The hon. Member had formerly complained that he could not identify himself with any party; but he could now congratulate himself on having joined the party which might be called "The Mountain" in that House. He did not rise to object to the omission of any allusion in Her Majesty's Speech to the condition and prospects of our colonial possessions; but he must offer a few observations respecting what he deemed to be indications in the Speech from the Throne that Her Majesty's Ministers were about to allow themselves to be influenced by the public agitation out of doors, with respect to the finances of the country. Call them clubs or associations, or whatever name by which they pleased
 196 "He warned the Ministers and the aristocracy, and the landowners of this country, to beware how they forced upon the nation the question of taxation. Extensive as was the fraud and injustice of the corn-law, he considered that if they examined the subject of taxation for the last hundred and fifty years, they would find as black a case against the landowners. He advised them to beware, unless they wished to provoke another league to rise up on the death of this one. If they wanted another organisation, lot the middle classes know how they had been cheated, robbed, and bamboozled in the subject of taxation." "He confessed that he would not pretend to have that respect which some men entertained for successful warriors. The duke (alluding to the Duke of Wellington) was an old man; he was fast passing to the last verge of existence, and might almost be said, without any figure of speech, to be tottering upon the brink of the grave." 197 "He did wish the people to be so represented that they might control—that they might control the House of Lords. What was to be done for the future? There was nothing they could wish that was unattainable if the same means were only used; and the people of England had begun to find out that they really had some power." 198
 MR. BANKES  said, the noble Lord at the head of the Government bad expressed a wish that the House should not pass a vote of condemnation upon their conduct on the first night of the Session. The condemnation, however, was one charging omission rather than commission, and such a condemnation could only be passed on the first night of the Session. It was said that the Addresses moved on occasions like the present were merely echoes of the Speech from the Throne; but the noble Lord would not deny that these Addresses should be also echoes of the opinions of the people. Now, when they observed the large interests that were at stake, and the large portion of the empire that had been wholly omitted from the Speech, it was the duty of those who represented the opinions of that portion of the people to take notice of these omissions; and the noble Lord might, if he pleased, call that a condemnation on the first night of the Session. He regretted to observe that no allusion to the interests of most important portions of the empire was made in the Speech which had been submitted to the Queen by Her Ministers. He agreed with the noble Viscount (Viscount Mandeville) that it was their duty to take care that the interests of the British colonies, which had no specific representation in that House, should not be neglected; and this was especially necessary at the present time, when it was notorious that the colonists were suffering extraordinary pressure. The hon. Member for Montrose had brought charges of the grossest misgovernment against the noble Earl at the head of the Colonial Department, which had not been satisfactorily answered. He (Mr. Bankes) considered it the duty of the party with which he acted, from respect to the memory of a noble Lord (Lord G. Bentinck), who was most zealous and indefatigable in supporting the interests of the colonies, to endeavour, as far as was in their power, to promote the welfare of those dependencies. He believed, indeed, that the indefatigable application of his noble Friend to the interests of the colo-
 199 200 201
 MR. URQUHART  would support the Amendment which had been proposed by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire. He could not give a silent vote in support of that Amendment, and therefore would state some of the grounds on which his vote would be given. The Speech they had heard from the Throne was one of the most important documents recorded in the archives of this country, and the occasion was one of great peculiarity as regarded the branch of the Speech on which he should principally dwell, and which had reference to the convulsions that had taken place in Europe. The course adopted by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, in his reply to the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, had, he would confess, placed the Opposition in the most favourable point of view. He had listened in vain to the speech of the noble Lord for anything like an answer to the charges brought forward against the Government by his hon. Friend. With respect to the events in the north and south of Europe, the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire had pointed out the failure of the attempts at mediation on the
 202 203 204
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I have three objections to state to the Amendment which we are now discussing. In the first place, it calls upon the House to declare that it will give no opinion on a matter on which no opinion has been asked; secondly, it gives an opinion on two other matters with regard to which that opinion is inconsistent with facts; and, thirdly, it endeavours by a side wind to extract from the House an opinion on matters of great importance, and on which the opinion of the majority is adverse to that of those who framed the Amendment. It happens sometimes that the pith of a letter is contained in the postscript; and the real views of the framers of the Amendment are contained in the last paragraph. That paragraph, which adverts to the omission of any mention of the colonies and of agriculture in the Speech, is dexterously worded; but we have had revelations elsewhere, if I am not misinformed, and even if we had not, the Amendment itself sufficiently shows that the real object of that last paragraph is to record the opinions of its framers against the doctrine of free trade, against the repeal of the corn laws, and against the removal of discriminating duties. That intention, I believe, has been manfully acknowledged in another place. But, I must say, that it would be more fitting for those who entertain those opinions, more respectful to the House, and more fair towards the people of this country, to bring those opinions before the House by a substantive Motion, instead of endeavouring to trick the House out of an opinion on pretence of an Amendment to an Address. In the next place, the Amendment proposes to the House to state that it can find no subject for congratulation in the improvement of the revenue, and in the beginning of a revival of trade. Why, Sir, I can easily understand that those who have resisted the improvements in our commercial system, who regret the abolition of protection, and deplore every movement which has been made in the direction of free trade, can find no subject for congratulation in an improving revenue and reviving commerce; because improving revenue and reviving trade negative the predictions which they made, and are the best refutation of their opinions. Then we come to the first paragraph of the Amendment,
 205 206 207 208 209 210 ad referendum 211 212 213 214 215 Here the noble Lord pointed to the Opposition side of the House amid great cheering and laughter 216 217
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he would take the sense of the House upon that proposition. At a comparatively late hour, when no other Member seemed to disposed to address the House, the hon. Gentleman the Member for Stafford rose, and expressed his opinion, at some length, upon foreign affairs. The hon. Gentleman had been answered by his noble Friend, and surely the question was now ripe for decision. There had now been two nights' debate upon the Address, in the course of which the matters contained in it had been considerably discussed, and they would be frequently discussed hereafter in the course of the Session. Under these circumstances, he put it to the House whether, if the debate should be adjourned to another night, they would not be setting rather a bad example—whether, in fact, it would not be better to decide the question now, in order that they might begin the next week by practical discussions upon practical subjects.
 MR. HERRIES  defended the course of the noble Lord, and advocated the adjournment of the debate. At least, if the debate were now terminated thus imperfectly, the noble Lord who had last spoken must not be surprised if some of the statements he had now made were afterwards brought under the consideration of the House.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he should certainly never complain if the topics comprised in the Address were hereafter brought, as they must be, under discussion. He thought the noble Lord opposite must see that the general wish was that the debate should now terminate.
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  said he should press his Motion for adjournment.
 MR. DISRAELI  stated that, after this division, he would not press his Amendment to a division. Amendment accordingly withdrawn.
 The EARL of LINCOLN  said, that as the noble Lord who represented the Woods and Forests Department was now removed to the other House of Parliament, and as that noble Lord, who, from his position, could best sift the subjects which were likely to come before the Committee, could not sit on it, he wished to know whether the Government would appoint an efficient Member of the Government to represent them on the Committee?
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he was aware of the disadvantage which the absence of Lord Carlisle would occasion. He would, therefore communicate with his noble Friend, and some one of his right hon. Friends would take the place of his noble Friend. Although they would find it difficult to find so efficient a Member as his noble Friend, they would endeavour to supply his place in the best manner they could.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he might as well say at once that Her Majesty's Government did not mean to introduce a number of measures which there was no prospect of carrying. The notices already given upon the part of Members of the Government, would occupy the attention of the House for a very considerable time.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The whole subject is under the consideration of the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and of the President of the Poor Law Commission. I cannot precisely answer the question of the hon. and gallant Member; but I can assure him that both my right hon. Friend and the President of the Poor Law Commission are anxious for the fullest inquiry, in order that the dreadful scenes that have lately occurred at Tooting shall be prevented in future.
 Lord J. RUSSELL , in reply, said it was true that the Directors of the East India Company, and the members of the Board of Control, had sent out despatches desiring that the territory of the late Rajah of Sattara should be resumed by the Government. It was not true, however, that any person had been deposed, because there was no person who had a right to the territory.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that with regard to the first subject referred to by the hon. Gentleman, he had had some correspondence with the Bishop of Durham, and the right rev. Prelate had informed him that be believed the district was satisfied with the arrangements he had made. What those arrangements were, he was not at present able to state. Whatever they might be—though he should be happy to give all the information in his power—he bad no means of altering or modifying them. With reference to the other question, he could only state that he had thought it necessary, as a preliminary measure, to advise the Crown to appoint a Commission to inquire whether the property of the Church might not be made more available for instruction, without trenching upon the reasonable claims of lessees, and to ascertain the income of the Church which should be available for the further extension of religion. That Commission had been only lately appointed; and until some progress had been made, it was impossible for him to state cither what measures would be prepared, or when he should bring them forward.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, this question might be a fit subject for consideration in some other way; but as it had nothing to do with the duties assigned to the Commissioners, he did not see how they could deal with it.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : It will be an unpaid Commission; but the secretary of course will be paid.
 Lord J. RUSSELL : I thank the hon. Baronet for having put this question. If he had not put it I was about to have stated that I do mean to propose several resolutions in pursuance of the report of the Select Committee which sat last Session. I mean likewise to propose some other resolutions upon the subject of the Sessional Orders, which will, I think, make an improvement in the mode of carrying on the business of this House. I will take care that the resolutions which I mean to propose shall be in the hands of Members to-morrow morning, as I propose to bring on the question the first thing on Monday. There are, however, some resolutions which it would be desirable to pass immediately, such as those affecting orders and notices; but with regard to the others I shall be quite ready, if the House require time for further deliberation—that is, with regard to those not immediately pressing—to consent to the consideration of them not being immediately proceeded with.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  inquired whether the Commissioners were to be paid?
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  asked the noble Lord if he was able to promise that a searching inquiry should be made by the proper department into the conduct of all parties connected with the farming out of pauper children at the establishment in Tooting?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to consolidate the Boards of Excise and Taxes into one Board of Commissioners of Inland Revenue, and to make provision for the collection of such revenue. This had already been partly done by the Treasury, and his object was now to carry into complete effect what had already been partially done. He proposed this alteration with a view to public economy. By the consolidation of the Boards of Excise and Stamps and Taxes, he estimated that he would effect a saving of between 70,000 l l
 MR. HORSMAN  said, the Commission was appointed upon certain subjects totally independent of the measures which were promised to be brought forward. He would call the attention of the noble Lord to those measures on Monday, for the purpose of asking whether any of them were intended to be brought forward this Session.
 MR. HORSMAN  reminded the House that he had yesterday given notice of a question to the noble Lord respecting the future distribution of the temporalities of the rectory of Bishopwearmouth. As that rectory was in the patronage of the Bishop of Durham, and as the intended arrangements were exciting great interest in the neighbourhood of the parish, it might be convenient that the noble Lord should have some further communication with the right rev. Prelate before he answered the question. With that view, he (Mr. Horsman) would postpone the question till this day week. He now begged to ask the noble Lord what measures of ecclesiastical reform were intended to be introduced by Her Majesty's Government in the course of this Session, to what subjects they referred, and when they might be expected to be brought forward?
 MR. HERRIES  said, that he should be glad that a saving of between 70,000 l l l l l l
 MR. HUME  asked if there were any objection to instruct the Commissioners to inquire to what churches, and in what places, large incomes or allowances were attached, though they had little or no congregations. For instance, in the city of London there were seventy or eighty churches with congregations of no more than eight or ten persons. Was it not
 154
 MR. HUME  asked the noble Lord whether it was correct that the Court of Directors of the East India Company, or the Secret Committee of that court, had, with the sanction of Her Majesty's Government, sent orders to take possession of the territory of the late Rajah of Sattara, and thereby to depose the legal and the adopted heirs of the territories guaranteed by solemn treaty with the East India Company to them and their heirs for ever?
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  asked the noble Lord at the head of the Government if it was the intention of Her Majesty's Ministers to propose any alterations in the rules and orders of the House for the regulation of the business of the House, in conformity with the recommendations of the Select Committee appointed last Session to inquire into the best means of facilitating the despatch of public business?
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND : I rise to order. I beg to know if the hon. Member's observations relate to the question of adjournment?
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, as this was the first of what might be called the new resolutions, he wished now to express his opinion that he did not think that this resolution standing alone, would
 243 Hansard 244
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  said, that any proposition to curtail the privileges of debate, should receive from him the most strenuous opposition. This was the only place where a debate was practicable—it was the only place where a one-sided opinion could not be got up—it was the only place where men were made to listen to things they did not like to hear. The real fact was, that the Duke of Wellington had never received an answer to the question he had asked long ago—how, under the Reform Bill, was the Queen's Government to be carried on? and now, as part answer to the question, Her Majesty's Ministers came forward to tell them they were in a dead-lock, and that they did not know how to get out of it. He did not think, however, that the blame of this ought to rest
 245
 LORD H. VANE  having brought up the report on the Address to Her Majesty,
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  rose and begged to be indulged with the attention of the House for a few minutes. He laboured under a very strong conviction that the Speech of Her Majesty did not convey a fair representation of the condition of the country with reference to the manufacturing interests and the agricultural districts. He was anxious to make a very
 259 "A rebellion of a formidable character has broken out in the Punjaub, and the Governor General of India has been compelled, for the preservation of the peace of the country, to assemble a considerable force, which is now engaged in military operations against the insurgents." "The insurrection in Ireland has not been renewed, but a spirit of disaffection still exists, and I am compelled, to my great regret, to ask for a continuance, for a limited time, of those powers which, in the last Session, you deemed necessary for the preservation of the public tranquillity." 260 s s s s d s d d s d s d s s d s d d s d s d s d s d s 261
 MR. BANKES  said, he wished to take that opportunity to put one or two questions to the Government. He did not see the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade in his place, but perhaps the noble Lord at the head of the Government might know something of the matter on which he wished to obtain information, He (Mr. Bankes) had seen in a newspaper that day—the  Morning Herald 262 263 l l l s 264
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he believed it to be true, as the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bankes) had stated, that this country was threatened with differential duties by Brazil, and that Brazilian trade was not in so satisfactory a position, or the personal rights of English merchants in Brazil so well respected as they ought to be. But he (Mr. M. Gibson) thought this was to be attributed to that hostile policy which this country had pursued towards the Brazils with respect to the slave trade. At the present time we were acting hostilely towards the Brazils under the authority of an Act which had no foundation in treaty, but was the mere assumption of might over right. We were acting towards the Brazils in a manner calculated to excite hostile feelings in that country; and to our conduct might be attributed the unsatisfactory position in which our merchants engaged in the Brazilian trade were placed. He would ask any Gentleman in the House whether it could be matter of surprise that trade had still difficulties to contend with, considering the restrictive policy which had for years been pursued by this country—whether it could be wondered at that there should still remain some of the difficulties which had been created by a system of restriction? The country had not yet entirely got over the effects of its past restrictive policy. With all respect for country Gentlemen and the agricultural party in that House, he must tell them that he thought they had occupied rather a peculiar position during the debate on this Address. Disclaiming any thing like levity of tone in the expression of his opinion, he must say he thought that, with respect to the tenant occupiers, those honourable Gentleman had taken a very extraordinary course. First of all,
 265 266
 SIR J. TYRELL  said, having lately attended an enormous meeting of the tenant-farmers and agriculturists of this country, he wished to make an observation or two on that occasion. He had nothing whatsoever to do with the getting up of that meeting, but he acknowledged that two things at it astonished him much. The first was the great numbers which attended it; and the second was the language held at it, and the confirmed manner in which the speakers expressed their respective views upon the state of this country. They had spoken at that meeting against the carrying out of those principles of free trade which the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Milner Gibson) advocated, but which a Chancellor of the Exchequer might find so very inconvenient. He was aware that it was disrespectful to vote against an Address to the Crown; but he had been brought up in the school of the two noble Lords opposite. He well remembered how those noble Lords were in the habit of tearing to pieces Royal Speeches in days
 267 268
 MR. WODEHOUSE  wished to express his entire concurrence in all that had fallen from the noble Lord the Member for Stamford (the Marquess of Granby). He could not but agree with him that the Speech from the Throne, and the Address of the House in reply to that Speech, had been framed in a too congratulatory tone, and were not justified by the circumstances in which the country was placed. He felt it his duty distinctly to declare that there was at present a prospect of continued suffering among all classes connected with the occupation of land. In all parts of the kingdom the agricultural interest were exposed to losses and to perils of the most serious character, and which might have been entirely averted, or, at least, greatly mitigated, if more wisdom had been shown in our recent commercial policy. He found that in the year 1841, the noble Lord at the head of the Government, in submitting to the House his proposal for a fixed duty on corn, had used the following language:—
 "He thought likewise he could have shown that a fixed duty had been supported by some of the ablest writers, who considered the subject I not with a view to popular applause, but calmly in their closets, and with a view to the improvement of the people." 269
 MR. FREWEN  said, he believed the noble Lord the Member for South Durham (Lord H. Vane), who bad moved the Address, was a Sussex proprietor, and, what was more, the noble Lord was, as be understood, much against his will, a Sussex farmer. Some years ago, the noble Lord bad purchased an estate in that county, and a considerable portion of it had since been thrown on his hands, and remained still unlet. But, as one well acquainted with the state of property in Sussex, he could assure the noble Lord if his farms had become vacant in the year 1845, he would within a single week have found good and substantial tenants for them. He could quote many similar instances in that part of the country, where there were at present many farms unoccupied which could not be let even at greatly reduced rents; and he believed the hon. Member for West Kent, whom he did not then see in his place, could state many similar cases in the district which he represented. The fact was, that farmers were at present losing their capital in attempting to keep their land in a state of cultivation. He hoped that the noble Lord the Member for South Durham (Lord H. Vane) would join the Members of the protectionist party in impressing on Her Majesty's Government the state of the farmers in the weald of Sussex, and throughout the country generally. He could assure the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that it would be perfectly impossible for the Government to collect the bop duty during the ensuing spring. He had been that morning in conversation with a very ex-
 270
 MR. JOHN O'CONNELL  desired to offer a few words in explanation of what bad fallen from the noble Viscount the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, with respect to some observations of his (Mr. J. O'Connell). He (Mr. J. O'Con-nell) had referred to a report that Lord Minto, during his mission to Italy, had invited Count Sterbini to a dinner, and that, at that dinner, encouragement was given to the outrage which afterward occurred in Rome. He (Mr. J. O'Connell) had made that statement according to the report which bad reached him; but, of course, was unable to vouch for its accuracy. He believed, however, that Lord Minto was receiving Count Sterbini, and a son of Cicerachio at the very time the rioters made their appearance in the streets.
 MR. P. BENNET  said, he certainly felt surprised that no allusion had been made to the state of the agricultural interest in the Speech from the Throne; and he also felt bound to complain of the little attention paid in the House to that interest. At a recent meeting held on the borders of Cambridgeshire many statements had been made of labourers thrown out of employment in consequence of the low and unremunerating prices of corn. The hon. Member for Bury St. Edmunds (Mr. Bunbury) could bear testimony to the present depressed state of the agricultural interest. He could tell them that good wheat was sold in that town a fortnight since for 38 s s 271
 MR. HENRY  said, that some doubt had been expressed as to the present condition of the manufacturing interest; and, he confessed, he was much surprised at the want of information which had been exhibited by some hon. Members opposite. This was a subject on which he was able to speak with confidence; for he was connected with manufacturing establishments in Lancashire, Yorkshire, Leicestershire, Glasgow, and Belfast, and was also a very extensive exporter of manufactured articles to all parts of the world. He could assure hon. Gentlemen—and he was certain the House would hear it with great satisfaction—that the manufacturing interest was now in a state of considerable prosperity. The evidences of this on all sides were so unmistakeable, that any person who would take the trouble to inquire might satisfy himself that a great degree of prosperity was dawning over the manufacturing interest, and that it had already commenced.
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to take that opportunity of stating what, in his opinion, the Government ought to have done, in conformity with the wants and wishes of the country. But before he passed to that subject, he would tell the hon. Member for East Sussex (Mr. Frewen) and his party what they ought to do for the relief of the agricultural interest. The hon. Baronet the Member for North Essex (Sir J. Tyrell) had candidly acknowledged that he and his friends had voted for the maintenance of our enormous establishments, and that without them the Government could not have carried their budgets. Then he (Mr. Hume) and his friends were justified, upon the hon. Baronet's own authority, in attributing no small share of the culpability of the long-continued extravagance and intolerable burdens under which the people groaned to the country Gentlemen. Now, if those hon. Gentlemen seriously wished to benefit the farmers, he would recommend them
 272 273 
 
 Petitions. Signatures. 
 9,005 For an extension of the elective franchise 290,559 
 5 For reform of Parliament 222 
 3 For the Charter 2,018,080 
 5 For vote by ballot 4,736 
 6 For retrenchment of expenditure 42,710 
 5 For revision of taxation 40,837 
 167 For retrenchment of naval and military expenditure 162,864 
 38 For ditto and militia 15,854 
 1 For reduction of Army 34 
 9,235 2,565,896 274 275 "And we assure Your Majesty, that we shall also without delay, direct our serious attention to the consideration of the rebellions which have unhappily occurred in the course of last year in the Island of Ceylon and at the Cape of Good Hope, in order to ascertain the extent, as well as the causes, of those rebellions; and we shall endeavour to trace the causes of the distress and discontent that exist in British Guiana, in the Mauritius, and in other British Colonies." "But we are, at the same time, compelled earnestly to represent to Your Majesty that the amount of Taxation is excessive, and the burdens more than the industry of the Country can support; that millions of the people are thereby affected both in their physical and moral condition, causing great privations and consequent discontent amongst Your Majesty's faithful people: "We desire to inform Your Majesty, that numerous Petitions presented to this House, and recorded in its proceedings of last Session, complain of the present system of National Taxation being unequal and unfair in its bearing on the several classes of the community; that the system, therefore, requires a complete revision, with a view to a more fair and equal distribution for the future: "Our duty to the people further requires, that we humbly represent to Your Majesty, that great and well-founded anxiety exists in this Country respecting the Elective Franchise and the Constitution of this House; that millions of Your Majesty's loyal and industrious people preferred their Petitions for a great extension of the Franchise, and for protection to the Electors, with other measures of reform, by which this House might be so constituted as to fully and fairly represent the people."
 MR. BANKES  seconded the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montrose with respect to the colonies, because it was essential that they should mention in the Address what was both publicly and privately known with reference to the calamities that had occurred in the colonies specified, and which, if they were to believe the papers, had certainly occasioned a very great loss of life—a loss far exceeding any that had occurred in Ireland. He certainly concurred with the hon. Member for Montrose,
 276
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  thought the Amendment too important to be allowed to fall to the ground without ascertaining what number of Members Mould vote in support of it. He therefore appealed to the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hume) not to permit it to be swamped in that way, but to take the sense of the House upon it.
 MR. HUME  said, he had already pledged himself not to go to a division under the circumstances he had stated; but it was competent to any other hon. Member to act as he chose in the matter.
 MR. SADLIER  said, he could not forget that the extremely onerous and important duties of Secretary for Ireland, conjointly with those of a Poor Law Commissioner, and a law officer of the Crown, all devolved upon the right hon. Baronet (Sir W. Somerville) opposite, for whom he felt disposed, therefore, to make very great allowances. He hoped, however, that those pertinent questions which had been put by his hon. Friend the Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Stafford) would be distinctly answered before the close of the debate; and in the meantime he must complain that the Irish Secretary had altogether abstained from laying before the House those matured views upon the question which he should have thought he must have formed as the head of the Irish Poor Law Commission. He should have thought that the right hon. Gentleman would have shown them something of the unanimity that prevailed amongst his Colleagues, and that the opinion of Mr. Twisleton would have been laid before the House. He trusted, moreover, that some Member of the Cabinet would explain to the House the principle upon which the poor-rates were at present collected in Ireland. As he understood the matter, it was done
 293 l s l l d l 294 295
 MR. ST. GEORGE  said, he wished to
 300 l
 MR. F. MAULE  said that, from the manner in which the army in Ireland was
 301
 MR. GRATTAN  said, his object in moving for the returns was to show that the word "insurrection" in the Queen's Speech did not mean insurrection.
 MR. LAW  said, he wished to make a suggestion with regard to this resolution. He ventured to submit that it was desirable to except from the Orders of the Day, which might be discussed on Wednesdays, such Bills as involved the repeal of public statutes. The greater part of the Wednesdays last Session had been taken up with discussing measures of this nature, when Members were harassed by being continually brought down to the House to discuss a Bill on which nothing was determined, owing to the uncertainty of attendance of Members on Committees. If a measure was of importance enough to be pressed forward on Wednesdays, the Government ought either to take charge of it, or at least to express their opinion fully with regard to it. He submitted that it required a full attendance of Members whenever it was proposed to change an existing law; and therefore, it was a very improper measure to be brought forward on a Wednesday, when numbers of Members were excluded by other important business from attending. He ventured to suggest that they ought to except from this resolution all Bills the object of which was to repeal the public statutes.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that when the question first came before the Committee, he certainly thought the resolution now proposed by the hon. Baronet would not be objectionable. But the more it was discussed, the more difficult did it appear for the Committee to recommend it. For instance, it was suggested that there were cases in which the House of Lords might introduce a Bill by which a tax might be levied, which, although applied to local objects and not to the general service of the State, might nevertheless affect the subjects of the country generally. Let them suppose, for example, that in Scotland a rate should be levied for the support of schools exclusively for Church purposes, from which Dissenters should be excluded, the object would be local, yet the effect would be generally felt. There were various other cases in which similar and very considerable difficulties might arise.
 248
 LORD J. RUSSELL  should beg to call the attention of the House to the very great change that had taken place of late years in the mode of conducting public business in it. At the beginning of the present century, although public business was by no means so pressing as it had become of late, Orders of the Day had precedence on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thurs-days, and Fridays; and it was only now and then that notices of Motion appeared. It was then found that the notices of Motion increased so much that it was no longer possible to carry on business in the existing form; and the House appropriated two days, Mondays and Fridays, exclusively to Orders of the Day, Government business having precedence on those days. But that was done chiefly for the purpose of securing nights for Committees of Supply. And there had been a still greater change since then. Thus, when measures of importance were brought in, whatever might be the Government in office, it was the general opinion that if there were to be legislation on any great subject, it should be undertaken by the Government, and that individual Members had nothing else to do than to approve or to criticise the merits of such measures. That being the case, the House enabled the Government to introduce the estimates, and the supplies
 249
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  rose for the purpose of moving the Sessional Resolutions; and as it was proposed to adopt some alterations in them, at the suggestion of the Committee which sat last year on the despatch of public business, he would take the liberty of saying a few words in Introducing the Motion to the notice of the House. The first resolution was that which had been in operation in
 230 "9.  Resolved "10.  Resolved "11.  Resolved 231 "12.  Resolved "13. That with respect to any Bill brought to this House from the House of Lords, or returned by the House of Lords to this House, with Amendments, whereby any pecuniary penalty, forfeiture, or fee, shall be authorised, imposed, appropriated, regulated, varied, or extinguished, this House will not insist on its ancient and undoubted privileges in the following cases: "1. When the object of such pecuniary penalty
 232 "2. Where such fees are imposed in respect of benefit taken or service rendered under the Act, and in order to the execution of the Act, and are not made payable into the Treasury or Exchequer, or in aid of the Public Revenue, and do not form the ground of public accounting by the parties receiving the same, either in respect of deficit or surplus: "3. When such Bill shall be a Private Bill for a Local or Personal Act:"— 233 "1.  Resolved
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that he should not occupy many minutes in discussing the question, and he, therefore, should not
 251 252
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I beg to say it is an authentic document, passing between two Members of Her Majesty's Government, and presented to both Houses by command of Her Majesty.
 MAJOR BLACKALL  expressed his satisfaction at the course pursued by the Government, and he trusted that one result of the inquiries of the Committee would be to show that Irish Members in asking for an investigation had not been actuated, as they had been accused of being, by a wish to get rid of the poor-law altogether. He could answer for the majority, not only of Irish Members but of Irishmen, that they had no desire to shift from their own shoulders the burden of supporting their own poor. Their sole reason for asking for inquiry last year was, to stimulate as much as possible the energies of the people and the labour of the country. The great object to be kept in view was the development of the agricultural resources of the country; whereas hitherto employers had found that by giving labourers employment, they had not relieved themselves at all from the burden of taxation, which had, at length, become intolerable. In amending the poor-law, care should be taken to adapt it to ordinary years, to what he hoped would be the condition of Ireland. A great difference of opinion naturally prevailed amongst Members representing different districts. The amount of destitution varied. In some parts it was frightful, while in others it was comparatively light, He recollected hearing a gentleman observe at a meeting held in Dublin, that the poor-law must be working very well in a certain district of Wicklow, seeing that there were no complaints about it. The ex-
 286
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that it was not often he had the satisfaction of hearing a speech from the hon. Member for Manchester in every word of which he most entirely concurred. It was his most decided opinion, that unless they dealt at once with the land question in Ireland, and made a poor-law which would develop the resources of the country, they would do nothing, and would have to come down year after year for million after million of the public money, which would impoverish even the resources of this great empire, and, instead of affording real and lasting relief to Ireland, it would only tend to perpetuate the very evil in question. The  Economist 289 290
 MR. TYNTE  said, that he thought the love of speaking had increased very much with the perfection to which shorthand writing had attained, and that the House was greatly indebted to those gentlemen up at the back of the chair for the length as well as the accuracy of the debates. It was an inducement to hon. Members to speak when their speeches were sent through the country; and he hoped those gentlemen (the reporters) would use a little patriotic discretion in distinguishing that which was worthy of being reported.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he was in favour of condensing their discussions, but that he was surprised at the quarter from which the present proposition for the arbitrary limitation of speeches to a certain length of time, without reference to the matter contained in them, emanated. Did they not know that the hon. Members for Manchester and for the West Riding had established a system and means for discussing questions out of that House? And it seemed strange that the hon. Member for the West Riding, after repeating the same arguments against the corn laws for seven years, and having succeeded by so doing, should now complain of repetition. It might be disagreeable to him to discuss those questions in a place where there was a difference of opinion; but surely that was salutary for the public, since the laws to which they were to submit were based upon these discussions, which could not but be partial if only one side was heard. He (Mr. Newdegate) had been much struck by an observation which lately appeared in one of the daily publications, which are
 257
 MR. SPEAKER  asked if the right hon. Member for Manchester objected to the withdrawal of the resolution, or consented to it?
 MR. SPEAKER  having again put the question, upon the withdrawal of the resolution,
 MR. SPEAKER : Certainly the observations we have just heard from the hon. Member do not relate to the question of adjournment.
 MR. SPEAKER  said: The hon. Gentleman is out of order. There is no question before the House.
 MR. SPEAKER  was about to put the question upon the withdrawal of the resolution, when—
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Gentleman has not mentioned to me his intention of making a Motion of this description, and I was not aware, till he rose, of the nature of the paper of which he complains: but I understand him to allude to a paper presented to both Houses of Parliament by command of Her Majesty. It cannot, therefore, in any way be a breach of the privileges of this House.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  rose to observe, that Wednesday was a day generally appropriated to the smuggling of Bills through the House, and to the malappropriation of the public money. The Members of Government usually came down on that day, and availed themselves of an empty House to smuggle through their Bills or to malappropriate the money of the public. He had seen business of the utmost importance going on in the House when there were not more than
 242
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  wished to explain that the object of this resolution was, not to give the Government the power of disposing of their Motions before those of private Members, but to give the Government the power of placing their own Motions in such an order as they pleased.
 MR. HORSMAN  wished to offer a few observations upon the subject before the resolution was withdrawn. In the last Session of Parliament there were no less than forty-nine Bills read a first time after the 1st of August, and there were seventy or eighty Bills passed during the mouth of August. They had crowded their Statute-book with Acts; and he did not understand that that subject had been brought before the Committee last year. He did not see the weight of all the objections made by the right hon. Gentleman opposite to the limiting of the days for introducing new Bills. There was no occasion for naming a very early day. They might name the 1st of August, for instance; and one of the results would be that when the period was limited, and the day arrived on which the last introduction of Bills could take place, the Session would be felt to be drawing to a close, and that very fact might tend to shorten the Session.
 MR. F. FRENCH  said, that as an Irish Member, and as an individual who had from the first represented the ruinous consequences which must follow from the course pursued by Her Majesty's Government, he hoped the House would allow him to make one or two observations. His right hon. Friend had taunted the Irish Members on account of their hesitation to acquiesce in the appointment of that Committee for which they had struggled with so much unanimity last Session; but the House must recollect that last year their
 279 l l 280 l l l s d s d s d 281 s l l 282
 COLONEL DUNNE  observed, that the resolutions to which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Fagan) had referred, were not, in point of fact, resolutions, but simply suggestions, emanating from various parts of
 291 l s s 292
 MR. GOULBURN  thought that at all events the days on which Government Bills were to have precedence ought to be left out.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that he thought there were some alterations which might be judiciously introduced into the resolutions, and which would aid in carrying out the object which the noble Lord had in view—that of facilitating the despatch of public business; and it might be more convenient if he were to state the purport of them at that stage, instead of waiting until each resolution was proposed. With regard to the 3rd Resolution, which had been somewhat hastily adopted last Session for the first time, the language of it was, he thought, rather obscure. By it the right was reserved to Her Majesty's Ministers to place Government Orders at the head of the list in the rotation in which they were to be taken, on the days on which Government Bills had precedence; but then the difficulty arose, what was a Government Order, or a Government Bill? Was it intended to apply only to Bills introduced by the Government? He thought it would be desirable to alter the wording of the resolution so as to leave Her Majesty's Ministers at liberty to have all Orders taken in the order in which they were placed on the Paper. The next alteration which he would suggest was in the 10th Resolution, which relates to the appointment of Committees of Supply and of Ways and Means. He believed that the former arrangement had been made in order that Members might know when votes on particular subjects, in which they felt an interest, were likely to come on; but at the same time he (Mr. Goulburn) quite agreed with the noble Lord, that from the practice of discussing notices of Motion on going into Committee of Supply, the Government business was very materially impeded. But he thought that by a slight alteration in the resolution, both objects might be secured. He would suggest that the 10th Resolution should stand as follows:—
 234 "That the Committees of Supply and Ways and Means may be appointed to sit on any Monday, Wednesday, or Friday, or on any other day of which notice shall have been given on the preceding Friday."
 MR. GOULBURN  thought the hon. and learned Member had misunderstood the order of 1651, which had no bearing upon the subject. If this proposition were agreed to, the opponents of a Bill would be apt to go into minute points of detail on the second reading, which would render the debates inconveniently long. He
 246
 MR. H. GRATTAN  then rose, but as he commenced by stating that it was not his Intention to second the Motion, he was immediately met by loud cries of "Order, order!" The hon. Gentleman, however, was endeavouring to proceed, when
 MR. GRATTAN  then resumed his seat, and the Motion fell to the ground for want of a seconder.
 MR. GRATTAN  then moved—
 "For a return of the number and names of persons arrested under the Suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act in Ireland, the length of imprisonment, and if let out on bail or otherwise."
 MR. GRATTAN  observed, that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Monsell) laboured under a mistake if he supposed that the evils of which he complained existed only in the county of Limerick, for they were general in Ireland. The capitalists were going away from every part of the country; and if the principle were to be adopted of leaving the ablebodied to be fed on charity, then the owners had better leave the country at once. The right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey) seemed to be a sort of red republican; for he appeared desirous of carrying out in Ireland measures which had utterly failed in France. If the Government did not change their policy, they would have to feed a population of eight millions.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, that it was not his intention to enter into any details as to the working of the poor-law: both the hour of the night and the occasion rendered that course inexpedient; but he might be permitted to say a few words to explain why he had determined, with great reluctance, to vote for the Amendment of the hon. Member for Meath (Mr. Grattan). He had come to that determination in consequence of the declaration of the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government, that the Ministers were not prepared with any measure to remedy the abuses of the present Irish Poor Law. It was stated in the proposed Amendment, that a feeling of discontent, augmented by the distresses of the people, still exists. He thought that too self-evident a proposition to be denied, and he confessed that he shared in that discontent, and that it was much augmented by the declaration of the noble Lord. The reason that the noble Lord had given for doing nothing, namely, the want of unanimity among the Irish Members, had, he thought, no weight whatever. It had been stated, that at a meeting of Irish Members in Dublin, at which only nine attended, there were five distinct plans proposed for the alteration of the poor-laws. This appeared to him to be only an additional reason why Her Majesty's Government should have come forward with some distinct proposition of their own upon the subject. If the noble Lord said, that he would wait until the Irish Members agreed amongst themselves, that was tantamount to a declaration that there should be no legislation at all, which declaration
 298
 MR. BRIGHT  said, although he had no fault to find with the appointment of the Committee, but, on the contrary, was of opinion that, considering the feeling which prevailed in Ireland, it would be wholly unjustifiable to refuse inquiry, yet he was anxious to state his belief that Irish Members deceived themselves when they fancied that the evils from which they suffered resulted from the working of the corn law—[ Laughter 287 288
 MR. HERRIES  said, there might be some difficulty in understanding what were to be considered as Government Orders, as there were many Bills to which that character was given, though they might as well have been introduced by private individuals as by the Government. Of course, there could be no difficulty with regard to Bills of Supply or similar orders; but there were many other Bills which might be improperly attempted to be covered by this word Government. It was hardly a Parliamentary expression at best; and though he did not venture to suggest any alteration, yet he thought the phrase was too vague and loose.
 MR. HERRIES  said, that the resolution distinguished itself very materially from others, inasmuch as it was proposed to the House by Her Majesty's Government that a power should be surrendered entirely to them which was usually heretofore given only when the pressure of public business required it. Now, to such a course he thought there was very great objection. When the requirements of public business needed the grant, it would be time enough for Her Majesty's Ministers to ask the House for it; but at present he thought they were asking rather too much. Would it not be wise to leave it, as in former Sessions, to the discretion of Parliament, for there really seemed no reason for adopting it at the present period of the Session?
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  thought the question involved in the document, of such grave importance that the dignity of the House would be best consulted by an immediate adjournment, for the purpose of giving consideration to the document which he had to bring under their attention. And he put his Motion on that ground; therefore, being in order, he must bog to say that if the House did inherit any of the spirit of its predecessors, the present was the occasion on which it could be best displayed. History informed him that the House of Commons had always been nobly jealous of the liberty of the subject, and of the integrity of the constitution. If the liberty of the subject was not a mere pretence, he must then say that there were serious grounds for considering whether there was not matter enough to frame an impeachment of the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. If the fatal precedent now offered was accepted—if the liberties of Ireland were to be complimented away at the beck and will of one man, where, might be ask, were the Irish people? It was an entire mockery of admitting the Irish to equal rights, if such a document as he had to bring under the notice of the House was admitted. The Lord Lieutenant of Ireland had shown himself completely ignorant of the condition of the country which he governed. He had been guilty of grave misdemeanor in giving vent to such recommendations as he had done with regard to the people of Ireland. The Lord Lieutenant called upon the Legislature to agree, out of compliment to him, to vote away the liberties of the Irish people. Now, let it be clearly understood, he (Mr. J. O'Connell) did not deny the capacity of the noble Lord; but he denied his merits as a governor of Ireland. What was it that the document of which he had to express his condemnation contained? The head of the Executive Government in Ireland was therein seen to take upon himself to declare that a constitutional object was unattainable in Ireland, and therefore that the people of Ireland were to be deprived of their constitutional
 228 229 Laughter "Nought can escape the vigil long Of him who treasures up a wrong."
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, he was then reduced to moving that the House do now adjourn. ["Oh, oh!"] He believed he was perfectly in order, and that he could now proceed with his observations. He must denounce the paper of which he spoke as a most unconstitutional document. It was hardly creditable that a paper containing such propositions should have proceeded from one Member of the Government, or that it should have been sent to another. At the risk of his unpopularity he had no hesitation in saying that the document was unconstitutional, yet they were assured by
 227
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, he did not know whether that was the time for submitting to the House a matter which he considered to be a breach of privilege. He wished to draw the attention of the House to a document he held in his hand, and which he must say, under all the circumstances of the case, he really did hope would turn out to be a breach of the privileges of that House, and a fabrication. A copy had been left at his residence of a printed paper, purporting to be presented to both Houses of Parliament by command of Her Majesty, and to be a letter from the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland to the Secretary of State for the Home Department, He should conclude his remarks, by moving
 "That William Clowes, the Printer of this document, be called to the bar of this House, to answer for himself and his instigators to such a breach of privilege."
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, he should be happy to bring his proposition before the House, if he thought it would meet with general support. What he wanted was to prevent hon. Members from moving the adjournment of the House merely for the sake of discussing some question which they could not otherwise introduce; he thought that was wrong, and that the House would do well to adopt some resolution to prevent it. He did not complain of the Committee for not reporting his resolution to the House; for he thought it was not a desirable thing to alter old established rules, except with the general concurrence of the House. If he found reason to believe, that a great majority of Members were in its favour, he would press it upon the attention of the House.
 MR. HUME  said, he had no wish to perplex the attention of the House with a load of business at a time. On the contrary, he recollected that the opinion of the Committee, of which he was a Member, was unanimous that when a Bill was once introduced it should be prosecuted  de die in diem 241
 MR. HUME  could not then state the precise nature of the objection to the resolution proposed by the hon. Baronet when it was originally submitted to the Committee. He could only say that, after a discussion of two hours' duration, these words were rescinded. He, therefore, hoped his hon. Friend would postpone his Amendment for the present.
 MR. HUME  said, that this resolution had been originally submitted by him to the House as an experiment, and though he certainly considered such a step necessary at the time, he felt bound to admit that many hon. Gentlemen who usually acted with him had subsequently expressed their regret that the order had been agreed to. Many of these hon. Gentlemen concurred with him, that the best mode of saving the time of the House would be by limiting the duration of speeches. ["Hear, hear!"] Hon. Gentlemen who cried "hear" would perhaps be surprised to learn that when he brought forward a resolution to that effect in the Committee, though there were seventeen Members present, he could not "ret one to second his Motion. He was still of opinion that a limit should be put to the length at which individual Members impressed their views on the House; and if the period were fixed at one hour, they would no longer have any necessity for retrenching other privileges which they now found it necessary to abandon. It had been stated, that there were seventeen different stages in which a Member might have an opportunity of making observations on a measure as it passed through the House, and he thought half the number of these stages would be quite sufficient
 238
 MR. HUME  said, that having taken part in this subject formerly, he might state, that by the phrase Government Orders was understood any Bills of which Her Majesty's Ministers had charge, and the public Bills which they brought forward. That was the interpretation which was put upon it at the time; but whether it was a right one or not, he did not pretend to say.
 MR. HUME  said, this proposition had been made with a view to give facilities to the public business; but he thought it would be of still greater utility if they dealt with Government as they did with private Bills, which was to fix a certain time beyond which no Government Bill should be received, unless in cases of emergency. Hitherto the practice had too much been to allow the Session to go on with very few Bills, and then towards the close to introduce a great number. Let a day be fixed after which the Government would not be allowed to introduce a Bill; and if any emergency should afterwards arise, it would be easy for the House to suspend its Standing Orders. But if the Government were aware that after a certain day they would not be allowed to introduce any new Bills, they would then
 240
 MR. HUME  did not go the length of the noble Lord. The noble Lord trusted to the discretion of hon. Members, but hon. Members had no discretion. He thought speeches should generally not exceed half an hour; and no one should go beyond an hour. He was perfectly satisfied that any one could express all that he had to say in that time.
 MR. P. SCROPE  expressed a hope that the Committee about to be appointed would be supplied by the Government with all the necessary statistical facts that would throw light on the affairs of Ireland, for facts were much more important than mere opinions delivered in the House. He hoped that the returns, of which notice had been given for a future day, would be submitted, tending to show the movements which had taken place among the population of Ireland during the last few years. The effect produced by clearances throughout the country during several years past should be stated, otherwise the Committee would scarcely know the effect of the narrowing of the area. The Committee should know how many tenants were evicted from their holdings for the last few years; they should also be made acquainted with facts relative to the condition of the people, the amount of emigration, and the number of vagrants passing through the country; and as these several returns were of essential importance to enable a right judgment to be formed, he hoped the right hon. Secretary for Ireland would furnish them.
 MR. COBDEN  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. COBDEN  said, that as he had taken part in the Committee on this important subject, he would take the liberty of stating to the House the grounds upon which he would support the Motion. In the Committee there had been a general admission that there was a great grievance in that House, owing to the long delays which took place in carrying on public business; but he believed everybody came out of the Committee with a belief that they (the Committee) had done very little by their report to remedy the evil. He made a Motion in the Committee which had the support of four Members out of the twelve. That Motion was substantially the same as the one now before the House. There had not been a strong feeling against it, nor was there a strong feeling
 255 256 Hansard He went on refining", And thought of convincing while they thought of dining."
 MR. WALPOLE  said, by this resolution three stages of a Bill were going to be merged into one. He had not the least objection to that; but he would suggest to the noble Lord whether it would not be more advisable to return to what was an old standing order of the House, and to say that no Bill should be presented to the House unless a copy of it had been left with the clerk at least three days before it was moved in the House. Such an order had been agreed to in 1651, and he thought if it were now adopted it would give Members an opportunity of seeing and considering the Bill before leave was asked to bring it in. In this way two advantages would follow: first, no Member would bring in a Bill unless he had first well considered the subject; and in the second place, when a Bill was introduced the House would no longer be loft to the vague statement of its contents given by the Member who introduced it.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  rose and said, he thought that was the proper time when they should take into consideration a Motion for the limitation of hon. Members' speeches. The subject was a novelty, and therefore he did not wish to go the length of limiting speeches to half an hour or forty minutes, although he thought about forty minutes would be the best period for limitation; but he would propose, in the first instance, one hour, by way of commencement. If the noble Lord was about to withdraw the resolution, he would, if permitted, propose it as an original Motion: or, if it did not interfere with the views of the noble Lord regarding the resolution, he would move as an Amendment—
 "To leave out from the word 'That,' to the end of the Question, in order to add the words 'the Speeches of Members be limited in duration
 250
 MR. M. GIBSON  said, that he should object to the Motion being withdrawn, in order that he might move his own resolution by way of amendment; and, that the House should have an opportunity of expressing an opinion solely upon the merits of the Amendment, he should move to leave out all the words of the noble Lord's resolution after the first word "that."
 MR. MILNER GIBSON , before he could consent to the withdrawal of the resolution, wished to know if the House would allow him to propose his as an original Motion? The subject was before them, and they might as well waive forms and decide upon it at once.
 MR. EWART  said, to his mind the expression "Government Orders" perfectly conveyed the meaning it was intended to convey—that was to say, it meant all Bills introduced by Government. But he thought it would be better if the Amendment of the right hon. Member for Cambridge University were adopted, because that would give the Government the power of putting-forward Bills introduced by other Gentlemen.
 MR. EWART  thought, that if the objections of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Law) were of value, they ought to be carried further, and to apply to all business of an important nature that was brought before the House. In opposition to the observations of the hon. and learned Gentleman, he would place the recorded opinion of the Speaker, who stated before the Committee, that of all days in the week, the debates on Wednesday were conducted in the most satisfactory manner; and he particularly cited the discussion on the Factory Bill, as one where there was the most close attention to the subject, and the greatest amount of well-balanced argument that he had ever listened to. For his part, he was content with this expression of opinion, and he saw no reason whatever for the proposition of the learned Recorder.
 MR. W. FAGAN  said, it was very unfortunate that the forms of the House required that his hon. Friend (Mr. J. O'Connell) should introduce his Amendment into the debate on the Motion of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, (Mr. Disraeli), in order to its being at all received. Under the circumstances the House was not disposed to attend to an Irish debate, while another and more agreeable, because a party one, was pending. Still the topics having reference to Ireland were too important to be passed over; and therefore he looked for the indulgence of the House while he made a few short remarks on the three points in the Speech from the Throne which had reference to Ireland. The Speech states somewhat too vaguely that great distress exists in some parts of Ireland owing to the failure of the potato crop. If this vague sentence indicates an intention on the part of Her Majesty's Government to ask the assistance of Parliament for relief of the districts alluded to—then, though he felt very unwilling to come, in any mendicant form, to ask aid from the Imperial Exchequer, he would support such a proposition, because of the utterly hopeless and deplorable condition of the south and western districts of Ireland. To sustain the destitute population in these parts, imperial aid is requisite—the entire income of the land is absorbed in some places, and still is inadequate for the purpose. In was the case in Con-naught—it was so in some portions of the county of Cork, in Bantry, and Skibbereen, and also in the remote districts of Kerry. The House may easily judge how inadequate to meet the present emergency are many unions in Ireland, when he stated that some electoral divisions are valued so low as 9 d 283 284 A laugh 285
 MR. MONSELL  said, that the real difficulty which that part of Ireland with which he was connected, had to struggle with was, the flight of those tenants who possessed capital, and the consequent danger of a great portion of the land becoming waste. He did not object to the Committee, as he thought it might perform many important services; but at the same time, he trusted that Government would not delay submitting the report of the Commission to the House for consideration. If they did they might depend upon it they would have to propose a grant next year for Munster, which would by that time he in as had a condition as Connaught. He begged the attention of the House while he read a few sentences from a letter he had recently received from a gentleman, better able than any man he knew to come to a just conclusion as to the actual state of the south of Ireland. The hon. Member proceeded to read the letter in question, the substance of which was, that multitudes of large holders of land in Ireland were throwing up their farms; that thousands of acres were being surrendered—that a large extent of land must consequently be unproductive—that the owners had no money, no capital, and no credit wherewith to carry on their pursuits—that, to a great extent, the better class of farmers were leaving the country and emigrating to America—that many more were winding up and remaining at home, waiting the issue of events; and that by and by these latter might resume their former holdings, or take others at more moderate rents than heretofore. He (Mr. Monsell) assured the House that there was a vast emigration now going on from the south of Ireland, particularly from the port of Limerick, and that that emigration consisted not of the cottiers, or of persons without capital, but, on the contrary, that the capitalists were the persons who were going away, and that the persons for whom employment must be found were remaining. It was most important that some steps should be taken to remove the panic which was the cause of such a disastrous state of things. Was it not necessary, then, to avert the panic which was causing the evil?
 299
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  said, the reason the farmers of Ireland were emigrating and carrying away their money, was because they had no security for the investment of capital in that country. He wished to call the attention of the Government to this point—that as an accompaniment to any amendment of the Irish poor-law, a measure must be introduced to give security to the farmer for the improvement of the soil, which security he did not now possess. Industry would only exist where it had a right to that which industry created; and, in a country where the industrious man had no prospect of receiving a return for his labour, there could be no industry and no employment. A want of employment was the cause of all the evils in Ireland, and employment would be given if the necessary security were afforded to the industrious.
 SIR G. GREY  begged it to be distinctly understood that he had not said anything to lead the hon. Gentleman to suppose they would attempt to feed eight millions of the people. The Government were determined to adhere to the principle of the Bill, and had no intention of retracing their steps.
 SIR G. GREY  said, there was no objection to grant this return. He could not give the offences charged against each individual, but the number and names of the persons arrested under the suspension of the Act would be laid on the table tomorrow.
 SIR G. GREY  observed, that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Sadlier) had adverted to a variety of topics, all of them of great importance; but with respect to the details of the operation of the poor-laws, they were better fitted for a reference to a Committee; and he thought it would be much more convenient for the despatch of the business to abstain from following him in the consideration of those details. There were a few portions, however, to which he would refer. First, as to the collection of rates. The hon. Member had said that an estimate having been made of what was required for a given parish, the collector who had gone to collect the rates had returned to the guardians stating that a considerable portion had remained uncollected, not from positive inability to pay them, but from an evasion of the law, and that the law had not been enforced. [Mr. SADLIER: From both causes; chiefly from their destitution.] They could not frame a law for the collection of rates where there was a positive inability to pay. [Mr. SADLIER: Yes, from
 296 297
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that this resolution was precisely similar to the one adopted last Session, and no difficulty had been found in its practical working.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  considered that this resolution was defective on
 239
 SIR LUCIUS O'BRIEN  deprecated the delay of the Government in taking the alteration of the poor-law into consideration.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, the professed object of the hon. Member for Manchester was to save the time of the House. But how was that illustrated? It was proposed that one Member should speak upwards of an hour, and that another should speak upwards of an hour, and so on. They would thus multiply speakers and not save time. They would make the maximum time allowed to one Member the minimum time to another; and then every Member would consider himself justified in speaking as long as he was permitted. He hoped the Motion would be negatived.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that on the first resolution he apprehended there would be no difference of opinion. There would also be probably no opposition to the second and third resolutions. As to the fourth resolution, he did not exactly understand it, and he thought it would be better if the apparent ambiguity was explained. The Fifth Resolution—
 235 "That the House do meet every Wednesday, at Twelve o'clock at noon, for private business, petitions, and orders of the day, and do continue to sit until Six o'clock, unless previously adjourned,"— 236 "That in order to facilitate the passing of Bills through Parliament, this House will not, after the present Session, insist upon its privileges in respect of any Bills, clauses, or amendments, which may be brought from the House of Lords, whereby tolls, rates, or duties are authorised, imposed, or regulated, provided the same shall be assessed and levied by local authorities, and for local purposes, and shall not be applied to the public service." "I believe this House, with the most perfect safety, might abandon the privilege of insisting that all Bills imposing local rates and taxes should commence in the House of Commons, and that the effect of such a relaxation would be, that the business of the Session would be distributed more evenly between the two Houses; that the House of Commons would not be incommoded, as at present, by a great mass of legislation, private and public, at the commencement of a Session; and that many Bills, such as Railway and Canal Bills, Turnpike Bills, Highway Bills, Poor-law Bills, and other Bills of that character, might be matured in the Lords, and come down in a more perfect state for the consideration of the House of Commons later in the Session. I must here observe, that we have frequently been obliged to waive our privileges with regard to Poor-law Bills and to Municipal Bills. We were obliged to waive our privileges on the English Poor-law Bill, on the English Municipal Bill, and on the Irish Poor-law Bill. There is a Bill just returned from the Lords, called the Evicted Tenants Bill, which
 237 seriatim,
 Sir R. H. INGLIS  thought that any measure would be desirable which would induce hon. Members to give some attention to their own legislation. The crude state in which many measures were brought forward was one great cause of delay. "10.  Resolved "11.  Resolved "12.  Resolved "13. That with respect to any Bill brought to this House from the House of Lords, or returned by the House of Lords to this House, with Amendments, whereby any pecuniary penalty, forfeiture, or fee, shall be authorised, imposed, appropriated, regulated, varied, or extinguished, this House will not insist on its ancient and undoubted privileges in the following cases: "1. When the object of such pecuniary penalty or forfeiture is to secure the execution of the Act, or the punishment or prevention of offences. "2. Where such fees are imposed in respect of benefit taken or service rendered under the Act, and in order to the execution of the Act, and are not made payable into the Treasury or Exchequer, or in aid of the public Revenue, and do not form the ground of public accounting by the parties receiving the same, either in respect of deficit or surplus. "3. When such Bill shall be a Private Bill for a Local or Personal Act."
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  wished to call attention to the resolution originally proposed to the Committee of last year upon the subject of Money Bills in the House of Lords. He considered that the fact of the majority of the Committee having agreed to the resolution of the 17th of July was  primâ facie 247 "To leave out from the word 'That', to the end of the Question, in order to add the words 'in order to facilitate the passing of Bills through Parliament, this House will not insist upon its Privileges in respect of any Bills. Clauses, or Amendments which may be brought from the House of Lords, whereby tolls, rates, or duties are authorised, imposed, or regulated, provided the same shall be assessed and levied by local authorities, and for local purposes, and shall not be applied to the public service.'"
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  withdrew his Amendment, and the Resolution was agreed to.
 " Resolved
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  had great objections to the last proposition of the hon. Gentleman. In the first place, he thought it was unwise in them to debate a rule which they foresaw must often be suspended. There was always a great tendency to relax the authority of a rule which was liable to frequent suspension; and any one who had experience in public business must foresee that if they laid down a rule that all Government Bills must be introduced by the last day of March, there would be constant applications for the suspension of that rule. Unforeseen events were constantly occuring, and no doubt could be entertained that in that case the rule must be suspended. But, besides this, he doubted the policy of introducing a great number of Bills at once; he thought it was much better that the Government should introduce only a few Bills, which the Government were determined to pass, rather than to distract the attention of the House with a great number at a time.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Perhaps the hon. Gentleman has a strong feeling that every speech would have been greatly improved if it had been limited to an hour. I must say, I have often heard the hon. Member himself exceed an hour in his speeches. But I quite agree with him that we have all been delinquents in this matter. I think there has been a tendency of late to make speeches of undue length; and I think there are few speeches that would not be improved if they were of less length, and more condensed in argument. I think if there were a general feeling to that effect, it would be much better than a special rule of limitation. If hon. Members should be limited to an hour, I am very much afraid that many would think they had a vested right to that time, and that they would be doing a great favour to the House when they occupied anything less than the full hour. But I am sure I have heard a great many speeches during the long time I have been in Parliament which I should be very sorry to have found subjected to such a rule. Surely there have been speeches made by Mr. Burke, when he was neither proposing a new measure, nor speaking as a Cabinet Minister in reply, which every one would have re-
 253 254
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, he rose pursuant to the notice placed on the Paper, for the purpose of proposing the appointment of a Select Committee, with a view to inquire into the operation of the Irish Poor Law. It would be in the recollection of the House that his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Portarlington (Colonel Dunne), proposed a similar Motion in the course of the last Session. That Motion did not meet with the sanction of the House; and the Government were blamed for the course they took with respect to it. He did not think that blame was deserved. He thought then, as he thought still, that any inquiry into a law, which it was no exaggeration to say had not then been fairly tried, must have been founded on insufficient information, and could not have led to any satisfactory result. Any legislation founded on such information,
 277 278
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, it was impossible to produce all the returns to which allusion had been made, but that every return he could give, calculated to throw light upon the subject, he should have great pleasure in producing.
 The EARL of LINCOLN  wished to know whether there would be any objection to lay on the table of the House the charter or grant of Vancouver's Island to the Hudson's Bay Company, and also any correspondence which might have passed on the subject since the last papers moved for in the past Session? He wished also to know whether there would be any objection to lay on the table a report, which he was given to understand had been received from the officers appointed by the Governor General of Canada, under the direction of the Colonial Office, to investigate certain complaints made by persons inhabiting the Red River Settlement in the Hudson's Bay territory, as to the conduct of the Company's officers, with any correspondence relating thereto?
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I rise, Sir, in pursuance of the notice given on the first night of the Session, to ask for leave to bring in a Bill to continue, for a limited period, the Act of last Session for suspending the Habeas Corpus Act in Ireland. Sir, Her Majesty's Government would gladly have arrived at the conclusion, if they felt that they could have done so consistently with their duty, that the time had arrived when the extraordinary powers conferred by the Act of last Session, and the continuance of which I now propose to the House, could be entirely withdrawn, and when the ordinary powers of the law with which the Executive is, in ordinary times entrusted, would enable the Lord Lieutenant to adequately discharge the responsible duties attached to the office with which he is entrusted. Her Majesty's Government are deeply sensible of the gravity of the proposal which I have on their part now to make to the House. They are not unmindful of the objection which must and ought to be entertained against the temporary suspension of any portion of the constitutional rights of the people of any part of this realm; but they feel—at the same time that consistently with the most jealous regard to the liberty of the subject—a conviction has been entertained by the ablest statesmen, and in the best times, that there are occasions and circumstances in which the very spirit of the constitution demands its temporary suspension, in order to enable the Government of the country to maintain the constitution itself against the attacks of those who are seeking to effect its overthrow by secret plotting or open insurrection. And it was on one of those occasions, and circumstances of that kind, which, in the opinion of Her Majesty's Government, justified the appeal that they felt themselves obliged to make to Parliament in July last—an appeal to which Parliament responded with a promptitude which had the effect of giving a moral weight and efficacy to the measure then passed, which greatly increased its value. And it is with a deep sense of the responsibility attached to those to whom the administration of the affairs of Ireland is entrusted, that we have determined to recommend to Parliament to continue for a limited period those extraordinary powers that are now about to expire. In stating the grounds on which the Government have arrived at this con-
 307 308 309 New York Morning Herald "There are three dates to be borne in mind in reference to this movement—the month of February, when the Continental revolutions began; the 24th of July, when the Habeas Corpus Act was suspended; and the harvest time, which, in Ireland, does not come until September." "In 1847 Young Ireland was busy in gaining over the inhabitants of the towns from 'moral force,' and, with the examples of pius IX. and the revolutions of last spring, we succeeded. At any time during the last six months the townspeople were, in terms, committed to attempt a forcible expulsion of British power. This township organisation consisted of 500 clubs, in the total of about 30,000 men of the fighting ago. Of these less than half were more or less armed in July, and the other half were acquiring arms as fast as they could, where money was scarce and military weapons dear. I have known half-employed tradesmen to stint themselves of their daily meals in order to buy a gun. Each club was divided
 310 "The object of making the warfare a guerilla one was, to drag these concentrations to pieces, as the Spanish patriots did Napoleon's armies of occupation; and by bringing them into districts where only infantry could act with case, to put them more on a level with the raw levies of the people. The remainder of the course that might be taken would be to burn the towns and cities, as the Athenians did Athens, and the Russians Moscow. This, I believe, would have been the result on the news of the first royalist blood being drawn in the rural districts, whither these considerations and the Habeas Corpus Suspension Act had driven our leaders. But the rural districts would not move without their clergy, and the clergy were openly adverse or inactive. It is not fair to assume that there was no system of operations agreed on among the confederates. There was a feasible and well-understood plan. What it was, it is not advisible for me publicly to explain. Besides, I had rather a future success should publish it than I. I have no objection—quite the contrary—to explain it to any committee or circle of the friends of Ireland; but printing it would servo no purpose except to arm the enemy." 311 Nation 312 "It was with deep regret that on a former occasion I felt myself compelled to ask for the enactment of this measure, but circumstances have since fully confirmed my opinion of its urgent necessity, and I can have no doubt that the course then adopted by Her Majesty's Government, and the moral effect produced by the almost unanimous support which the Bill received in Parliament, mainly contributed to the suppression of the rebellious movement which unhappily broke out in this country. While availing myself of the extraordinary power confided to me by the Act, it has been my earnest endeavour to limit its operation as far as possible, and to confine the deprivation of personal liberty to the cases of those individuals who were actually engaged in treasonable designs, or who, by encouraging the disaffected, endangered the peace and tranquillity of the country. No instance occurred of any arrest taking place except on sworn informations; no person was retained in custody longer than the public safety appeared to require; and, although the number of individuals whom it was my painful duty to place in temporary confinement was considerable, having amounted in all, at different times, to about 120, yet, considering the extent to which treasonable organisation had been carried, not only in the metropolis, but in several
 313 "An extraordinary publication will appear on the first Saturday of March, 1840, denominated  The Clubbist New York Nation 314 315 "On the part of Her Majesty's Government, and on my own, I can assure you that there exists a sincere desire carefully to investigate the causes of discontent in Ireland, and, as for as possible, to remove them by improved legislation. To rely, however, upon legislation alone as a cure, or even a palliation, for evils that are chiefly social in their character, would be to foster a vain delusion, and to neglect those remedies which are within the reach of individuals, and must depend
 316 317
 MR. JOHN O'CONNELL  said, that before proceeding to the consideration of the Motion before the House, he wished to refer for a moment to the remark made by the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey) with reference to his comments on the letter of the Lord Lieutenant. He wished that House, as the guardians of the constitution, to take notice that a Member of the Executive was to decide what objects were practicable and what were not practicable. He thought it too bad that any Member of the Executive should presume to say to the subjects of a free country that they were not to agitate for the repeal of an Act of Parliament because he thought it impracticable. To be sure the doctrine was now only used with reference to Ireland—to that portion of the empire which was hereditarily insulted and ill-treated, but which treatment caused their Ambassador to be insulted in Spain, and which would one day bring a heavy responsibility on the head of this country. But if they allowed such a system to be introduced even with respect to Ireland, a wicked Minister might hereafter try the same law in England also. Let every Irish Gentleman who heard him, no matter what his politics might be, remember that for the next six months, and indeed it might be later—for the Government had given indications of renewing it again for an indefinite period—but that, at any rate, for the next six months, they dared not hold any meetings in Ireland for any purpose whatever without first going to the Lord Lieutenant hat in hand, and saying to him, "May it please your Excellency to convey to us your opinion whether our object is practicable or not; if you think not, we are your slaves—you have despotic power over us—you can tear us from our business and from our families at your pleasure. You can drag us to gaol without the power of resistance from any one, and no matter whether the informa-
 318 319 Hansard 320 ipse dixit 321 322 323 324 325 326 327 328 329 330 "The continuance of this Bill is rendered necessary by the existence of disaffection in Ireland; by the avowed determination of the enemy to invade that country; and the preparations notoriously made for that invasion; by the fact of the collection and association of a number of Irishmen with the forces designed for that purpose; and the actual sitting of a Committee of United Irishmen at Paris, corresponding with the United Irishmen of Ireland, and stimulating them to continue in acts of treason." "Are there no circumstances in which the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act without previous inquiry may not only be necessary, but strictly justifiable? What are tile reasons, the strong reasons, at this moment? We are at war with a powerful and active enemy, whose object professedly is to overturn our constitution and liberties. His attention is first turned to Ireland, where his emissaries are perpetually at work. To assist him, those who have fled from their own country are embodied in a kind of regiment. They maintain a correspondence with the disaffected, and have given occasion to the melancholy insurrections we have witnessed. It is not solely on the grounds that there are a number of disaffected; but coupled with the fact that we are now engaged in a war with an enemy who will let slip no opportunity of turning the remains of sedition and treason in Ireland to his own advantage." "Much as I have been alarmed at the opinions of the Ministers of this country for several years, yet I confess I never felt an equal degree of alarm to that which the sentiments just uttered by the
 331 332 "That a Committee, consisting of twenty-one Members, be formed by ballot, to examine such documents as may be laid before them; and to report to the House their opinion upon these documents, whether the continuance of the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act be a measure necessary to the tranquillity of Ireland at the present time."
 MR. FEARGUS O'CONNOR  said, he did not feel much astonished at the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department making such a proposition to the House, when he saw so much difficulty on the part of the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. J. O'Connell) in finding a seconder for his resolution. He (Mr. F. O'Connor) had listened with great attention both to the right hon. Baronet and to the hon. Member; and he should say, that the right hon. the Secretary of State brought forcibly to his recollection the story of the lawyer, who said he would much prefer to have a good subservient jury to the best case that ever went before a court. The right hon. Baronet had altogether abandoned his case, and relied entirely upon the subserviency of the House to destroy the last remnant of Irish liberty. He had praised the constabulary force of Ireland, as being so brave and so loyal that they could of themselves put down any attempt at insurrection. But those men were all Roman Catholics, whilst those in power over them were. Protestants. The men were taken from the body of the people in Ireland; and what did that prove, but that if the people had employment they would be as loyal and as quiet as any in the world. The right hon. Baronet said, that he was not at liberty at present to say why he asked for the extension of this unconstitutional Act, but that it was to enable the Lord Lieutenant to carry out his policy in Ireland. But the right hon. Baronet had not stated to the House what the nature of that policy was. Why, it was merely a repetition of the old story when they wanted to stop the complaints of the Irish, or to frighten the English people. To-morrow the Chancellor of the Exchequer was going to ask for a vote to relieve Irish distress, but before doing so the present Act should be asked for; and in support of it the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department could only read a letter published in Now York, by an individual whom the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. J. O'Connell) called a refugee, but whom he (Mr. F. O'Connor) called a banished man. And before going further he should observe, that it ill became the hon. Member for Limerick to cast a slur upon those who resisted the very tyranny to which he, and those with whom he acted, were constantly opposed. With reference to the speech of the right hon. Baronet, it appeared to him that he (Sir
 334 "I am Sir Oracle, And when I ope my mouth let no dog bark." 335 pointing to the Treasury benches pointing to the Opposition benches 336 337 "Quum duces faciunt talia, quid non milites faciunt." Hue and Cry 338 l l l 339
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  said, the motto of the Treasury beaches that night seemed to be,  sic volo sic jubeo 340 341 l 342
 MR. W. FAGAN  said, it never had been his wish to offer any factious opposition to the present Government, but he regretted, in common with other hon. Members in that House, that the Administration had not shown more activity and energy in carrying out those measures towards Ireland which they had promised whilst occupying the Opposition benches. However, he was willing to believe, that since they came into power there might have been some justification for them in not fulfilling the pledges which they had formerly given. He could not forgot what some Members of the present Government had done at various periods for his country; but at the same time he felt it to be his duty to give the proposition which they now brought forward his most strenuous, most energetic, and most continuous opposition. Ever since the time of the Union, it appeared that the policy of the English Government in Ireland was to rule by means of Coercion Acts, and suspensions of the Habeas Corpus Act. But he thought no Government ever came forward to propose such a measure upon such weak grounds as the present. Last year, when they asked for this Act, there was some show of argument for it, for they were told it was to prevent insurrection. That was not the case now. Even the letter from America, upon which so much reliance had been placed, was repudiated by men of all parties in Ireland. He totally denied that there was any such thing as a general disposition towards disaffection in Ireland, as had been alleged. With regard to one insurrection, as it had been called, he could bear his own testimony that it was little more than the riots of a starving population; and the respectable farmers in the neighbourhood frequently remained out for nights in the fields, to avoid being compelled to join the disaffected. When first he heard of the present measure, he thought it was on account of
 343
 MR. GRATTAN  said, that it appeared to him that this experiment of the Government was somewhat hazardous. He believed, too, that it was an experiment which would fail, as similar experiments had already. There was nothing in the character of the people of Ireland to disqualify them for the enjoyment of liberty—
 "The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, But in ourselves, that we are underlings." 344 345 346 347 348
 MR. ANSTEY  said, that he could not concur either in the Motion of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, or in the Amendment moved by the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. J. O'Connell). It would be necessary, in the first instance, to state the reason why he would deny to those charged with the executive power those means which, in their judgment, they deemed necessary for the preservation of the public peace. He would acquit the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey) of the imputation cast upon him of concealment and management in the conduct of his case. The grounds on which the measure rested had been laid before them fairly, and without reservation, and neither the right hon. Baronet nor the Lord Lieutenant were liable to the accusation of affecting an air of mystery, or leading the House to suppose that they were in possession of information which it would not be wise to communicate. The common law, the permanent statute law, and the occasional legislation of Parliament, had conferred on the Government powers quite sufficient in ordinary and even in extraordinary times for its conduct. But if these powers were not sufficient, it lay on the Government to show the necessity of the additional powers which they asked for, more especially when the powers they requested concerned the personal liberty of the subject. This had been effected in times of great excitement, by the suspension of the Act of Habeas Corpus. He admitted that the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act now asked for was of a mitigated nature compared with the suspensions which took place at various periods during the reign of George III. But still it was a direct encroachment on the personal liberty of the subject, and it was necessary for the proposers to make out a strong case to justify it. Let the House pause for a moment, and consider what the evidence was on which it was contended this measure was necessary. That evidence was contained, first, in the fact that there had been last year an insurrection in Ireland, and that it was put down; secondly, in a letter supposed to have been written by one of the refugees who fled from justice in consequence of the part he had taken in that insurrection,
 349 ruat cœlum 350 351 352
 MR. BOURKE  regretted that, on rising to address the House for the first time, he should feel himself compelled to speak on a subject that must be equally painful to the feelings of all true Irishmen. But representing, as he did, a county that was little, if at all, implicated in the melancholy circumstances of the last summer, he felt it to be his duty, on the part of his constituents, as well as on his own, to express his painful conviction that there did exist a necessity for the continued suspension of this Act. From the statement he had heard that night from the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, as also from his own knowledge of the feelings of parties and men in Ireland, he felt convinced that the Government were justified in the course they had taken. If this were a measure that was calculated to excite feelings of alarm in the minds of men—if it were a measure that would impress on the minds of men the conviction that a blow was still intended by the rebellious section in Ireland against the Government—if it were a measure that was calculated to cramp the transactions of commerce, or retard the operations of agriculture—if he thought there was an intention on the part of the Government to make this measure in any degree permanent, he should, though deeply impressed with its necessity, feel himself bound to oppose it. He felt, however, that the contrary was the case, and that the powers sought by this Bill were necessary in order to prevent the recurrence of those events which had been so detrimental to the interests of Ireland during the last year. Seeing, then, that there was no intention on the part of Her Majesty's Government to render this a permanent measure, and seeing also that it was not likely to produce any of those effects which had been anticipated, he thought that all who were desirous of seeing peace and order established in the
 353 354 prestige
 SIR H. W. BARRON  said, he had recently left that part of Ireland which was considered to be most imbued with an insurrectionary feeling in the summer of last year, and he could affirm, upon his honour, that he never knew the country to be in so tranquil a state as at present; that he never knew political discussion to be so completely at a discount; that he never knew the leaders of that violent party in Ireland, whom he had always opposed, to be so completely prostrate. In the sixteen years during which he had been a Member of that House he had never previously witnessed so little agitation in Ireland. He could not point out a single individual in that country who was even attempting to produce anything like a dangerous or insurrectionary feeling; while the humblest peasant in his neighbourhood, who was imbued with any bad feelings last summer, was now completely convinced of the folly, the weakness, and the wickedness of the men who had led him into insurrection by means of the ideal benefits which they had promised to the country. From the bishop to the humblest curate of the Roman Catholic religion, in that part of the south of Ireland with which he was more intimately connected, there was not one to be found to lend his sanction to anything of an insurrectionary nature. Even the few younger clergy, who were imbued last summer with something of feelings approaching to an insurrectionary character, were perfectly cured, and convinced they were wrong in the views they then took. They were so completely changed that there was not one man among ten of them (if, indeed, there were ten who held those opinions, and to his knowledge there were not), to whom he could point his finger as entertaining any such feelings at the present time. [ Laughter 356 357
 MR. MOORE  said, that having duly weighed the case put forward by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, he wholly failed to perceive in it any justification of the demand now made upon the House. He would tell the Lord Lieutenant to his face that he first made the giants, and then he slew them. There was a saying that if rats once got into a house, they were never to be got out again. If the viceregal rat-catching mania were to, be indulged, Ireland would never again be free from coercion. The Lord Lieutenant had implicated the whole of the people of Ireland in his charge of disloyalty and treason. The noble Earl's statement respecting the disaffection that reigned there, so far from being exaggerated, was under rated. But he (Mr. Moore) must assert that there were only a few disloyal persons, whilst nine-tenths of the people of Ireland were disaffected to the Government of the country, and dissatisfied with the treatment they experienced. During the last year the case was totally different from I what it now was, for then an insurrection was inevitable; but no rebellion actually broke out, as the people of Ireland had no intention to rebel. Although the  Felon United Irishman "This country," said the Lord Lieutenant,
 358 "To secure for Ireland that continued repose which is so vitally essential to her prosperity—to protect the country from the renewal of an agitation for objects that cannot be attained, and; which for many years has disturbed its tranquillity, scaring away capital, destroying confidence, and rendering impossible the steady application of industry."
 MR. MUNTZ  felt it to be impossible to give his support to the Government on the present occasion, and he regretted it. He was always anxious to give Ministers his vote when he could honestly do so. But if the same circumstances which they had represented to exist in Ireland bad taken place in England, he would not consent to vote for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act. There were circumstances that might justify such an extreme measure; but since last year they were so much altered, even according to the statement of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, that
 359
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, it is very easy to follow the course of the hon. Gentleman who spoke last but one, and when the immediate urgency of the danger is past to laugh at the risk, and when the security is obtained to make light of the precautions by which that security was gained. Sir, I admit at once that the case which we have to lay before the House at this time is not similar to that which we had to announce last year, when insurrection appeared to be impending, and when the urgency was so great that this House almost unanimously passed in a single day a measure of such vital importance—I will say so hostile to the general liberties of the country—as that which is now under consideration. But, Sir, when the hon. Baronet the Member for Waterford (Sir H. W. Barron) gave his reasons against the measure, I own that they appeared to me to be reasons which my right hon. friend (Sir G. Grey) might very well have urged in his opening speech. The hon. Gentleman says that Waterford was in a
 360 361 362 363 364 365
 MR. G. THOMPSON  said, that he must repudiate the imputation cast upon certain Gentlemen for their votes on a former occasion. He believed they were influenced by the same feelings that influenced him on that occasion, viz., that it was neither expedient nor necessary on that occasion to divide against the Government, inasmuch as they had information they should almost immediately afterwards be called upon to discuss the merits of the particular measure then referred to. He had paid the utmost attention to the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), in the hope that he would justify Members of the House in voting for the measure; but he confessed that if the defence of this measure which was sot up by the Secretary of State for the Home Department was weak, the defence set up by the noble Lord at the head of the Government was still weaker. When the noble Lord introduced the measure six months ago, he assigned distinct and intelligible reasons for so doing: he informed the House that he consider it his bounden duty to make out a case of urgent and instant necessity; he called on the House to repudiate the measure then introduced, if he should fail to make out such a case, and produce reasons convincing to the understanding and judgment of the House; and as the measure was precisely the same, the reasons for it should be equally strong now as those which were considered necessary and justifiable then. The noble Lord on that occasion did not
 366 367
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  wished that the debate might be adjourned. Irish Members ought to be heard on such a subject as this.
 MR. SCULLY  then proceeded to speak to the original Motion. He hoped that, as representing a county which had been the principal scene of the late disturbances, he should be allowed to say a few words on the subject under consideration. The noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had failed to impress upon him the necessity for a measure so coercive as the present. The noble Lord had urged its acceptance, not so much upon the ground that there was any disloyalty existing in Ireland, as that it
 368
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  should have wished to state his reasons for opposing the Bill; but he thought he would better consult the time of the House by taking another opportunity of doing so.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  trusted the hon. Gentleman would not think him guilty of any want of courtesy towards him, even although he found himself compelled to refuse the appeal which had been made to him. But when the House was told that the Bill was the same in substance as the Bill on which the House had pronounced an opinion in 1847, and the same as the one on which the House had also pronounced an opinion in 1848, he really felt it right to ask, considering the change which had within the last twenty-four hours taken place in the rules of that House, whether this was not the time, if the Bill was to be introduced, to enter upon the discussion of it. He did not exaggerate the fact, when he stated to the House, that for twelve Wednesdays of last Session, the House was occupied with the consideration of that Bill. The hon. Gentleman, who had, no doubt, a keener recollection than he possessed on the subject, would correct him if he were in error; but he believed, speaking from recollection and without reference to the almanack, that no less than twelve divisions took place on the question, and that not one of the Cabinet Ministers voted either on one side or the other, giving thus a tacit assent to the majorities recorded against the Bill. Under these circumstances, he did think that it would be found essential to the despatch of public business, if the opinion of the House was now strongly expressed on the question of the introduction of the Bill; and in case it was adverse, it might be considered as conclusive against proceeding with the Bill this Session. He was reluctant to oppose the introduction of the Bill, but he felt bound to take that course.
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY  appealed to the hon. and learned
 372
 MR. C. ANSTEY  meant no disrespect towards the noble Earl, when he said he did not agree with him that he had been a warm supporter of the Bill. He considered that the noble Earl, and those who sat upon the same benches, had lost the Bill upon a former occasion; or, at least, that the absence of many Members from that side of the House was owing to the course taken by the noble Earl. He could not, therefore, concede either this or any other point to the noble Earl.
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman had arrived at a most monstrous conclusion, so far as he was concerned; but he was not surprised at it, when he remembered the treatment which many of the hon. and learned Member's supporters received at his hands towards the end of the last Session.
 Sin G. GREY  feared that if the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Anstey) would not take the hint from his noble Friend (the Earl of Arundel), he would not take one from him. But, certainly, after the opinions that had been expressed, he (Sir G. Grey) could foresee nothing but waste of time, if the Bill was pressed. He had himself supported it upon a former occasion—he would not say very warmly—because he did not anticipate any very great benefit from it; but after what had occurred, he thought it would be well if the hon. and learned Gentleman were to take a little more time to consider whether it would be advantageous for the object he had in view to press the measure this Session.
 LORD NUGENT  also urged the hon. Member to withdraw his Motion, but without effect.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  had no objection to lay on the table the papers first alluded to by the noble Earl, namely, those respecting the grant of Vancouver's Island. With respect to the report of which the noble
 304
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I certainly did not clearly understand the hon. Gentleman's (Mr. Horsman's) questions when he put them on a former night. With regard to the first, it is intended to propose a Bill in the present Session with respect to the composition of the Ecclesiastical Commission; and that measure will be founded partly upon the Bill that was formerly proposed to the House by the Government, and partly upon the report of the Committee to which he has alluded. With respect to the next question, as to the union of the episcopal and common funds, the Government have decided to propose a measure upon that subject also, and that, too, in the present Session, With regard to proposing changes in the cathedral establishments, the hon. Gentleman is aware that great reforms have already been made in those establishments; and I am certainly of opinion that further improvements may be made, but I cannot at present undertake to introduce any measure upon the subject.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  replied, that, so far as a further grant of public money was required to provide accommodation for the paintings, Government had not resolved upon any measure for that purpose. The present arrangements were, however, merely temporary.
 MR. URQUHART  asked the Foreign Secretary if he would lay on the table of the House the papers connected with the now concluded negotiations which led to the presence, in the course of last year, of a British squadron in the Bay of Naples.
 MR. URQUHART  wished to know when that time would be?
 MR. HORSMAN  wished to put some questions to the noble Lord at the head of the Government. First, with respect to the composition of the Ecclesiastical Commission, he begged to ask if the Government had any measure in preparation with a view to altering and making it more in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee who reported upon the subject in the last Session of Parliament? Next, whether the noble Lord intended to propose any measure for the fusion of the episcopal and common funds? Thirdly, whether the Government were prepared to legislate with regard to the reform of cathedral establishments, so as to render them more generally efficient and useful for the purposes of religious instruction? And, lastly, whether they intended to propose any one or all such measures during the present Session?
 MR. BRIGHT  wished to know if the prospective operation of that alteration of the tariff of Brazil had reference to any alteration expected in the legislation of this House, or in the course which the British Government might take with regard to Brazil? He alluded especially to a Bill which was passed here in 1845, giving authority to English ships to seize Brazilian vessels which might be engaged in the slave trade. The postponement to 1850 seemed to be rather a lengthened postponement, and he wished to know if the Government understood it to have reference to any alteration of our policy which might be decided upon with respect to Brazil?
 MR. HUME  wanted to know why the order was not extended to all?
 MR. HUME  asked the First Lord of the Treasury whether any steps had been taken, as recommended by the Select Committee of the House of Commons of the last Session, to provide a proper situa-
 305
 MR. HUME  wished to know whether, as medals had been given to the Army for past services in the Peninsula, as well as to the Navy for the exploits of the last war, the veterans of the Armies of the Crown and the East India Company were to have a similar attention paid to them for the battles of Assaye, Lasswaree, Maheidpoor, Kirkee, &c?
 SIR J. C. HOBHOUSE  begged to state, in answer to the question put by his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume), that the medals could not be granted upon the occasions to which he alluded, as the regular course was that they should only be granted to the officers and men for those battles for which they had already been granted to the generals commanding, or other superior officers. If his hon. Friend would look to the order issued June 1, 1847, he would see that these were the conditions on which medals were to be granted. If they were to extend the occasions, it must he done by another order.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that in the course of the speech of the hon. Member for Dorsetshire (Mr. Bankes) last night, that hon. Gentleman asked if the tariffs of Spain and of Portugal had been presented? In reply, he (Viscount Palmerston) begged to say, that they were presented in March last, and printed. The hon. Gentleman also asked whether any recent alteration had taken place in the tariff of Brazil? He (Viscount Palmerston) understood that an alteration had been ordered; but it was not to take effect until the 1st of January, 1850.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Speaking from recollection, I should say certainly not.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  would do so at the proper time.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  could not say.
 LORD E. HOWARD  felt called upon, as the representative of a borough situated in a poor agricultural district, to make a few remarks on the important question before the House. It was with regret he had heard the opinion of the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Christopher), because he believed it expressed the opinion and policy of a large and influential party, which policy was, not to agree in a vote in favour of the proposition of the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He (Lord E. Howard) regretted, when a moderate sum of money like the present sum was asked to provide for urgent distress in another part of the kingdom, that a strong objection should be raised to it. He was not ignorant of the quantity of money which this country had already voted for the relief of Ireland; but when they read the accounts of distress which appeared in the papers before the House, he thought it
 403 404 405 406
 MR. FAGAN  said, that he concurred in opinion with the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down, that that was not the occasion to discuss the poor-law. He would, therefore, not follow his hon. Friend the Member for Kerry (Mr. Herbert), nor the Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Stafford) into that difficult question, nor would he discuss with them the area of taxation project. He admitted that the opinion of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire was entitled to great weight on that question, by reason of his experience as a poor-law guardian; but still, when the proper time came, he (Mr. Fagan) was not afraid to enter into the discussion. He was connected with the oldest union in Ireland, and being a guardian since that union was formed, he felt himself competent to express an opinion on the point to which the hon. Member attached so much importance. But the present question was, whether the population of twenty-one unions should be saved from starvation by the vote of this House; and to that he should direct his attention. He regretted his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) should feel it consistent with his duty to vote against the proposition of Her Majesty's Government. He did not know whether the hon. Gentleman was connected by property or otherwise with Ireland, or whether he was connected by property with the West Indies; but he asked him whether he divided the House last year on the vote for the West Indies? That vote was for increasing labour in those colonies; the vote of to-night was to save a whole population from starvation; and yet the hon. Member allowed the one to pass without resistance, and now strenuously opposed the other. The hon. Member was a Scotchman. Did he come annually to that House and oppose the vote of 14,000 l. l. l. l. l. 429 s. l. d. l. s. 430 "That the condition of the whole people is immeasurably below what the most heartless would consider the lowest depths of wretchedness." l. l. l. l. l. l. 431
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that the considerations which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli), who had just spoken, submitted to the House, as to the proposition being new, and as to the papers having been only lately in the hands of Members, and there being naturally therefore some doubt upon the question, were undoubtedly reasons why the further consideration of this vote should be postponed. On the other hand, he (Lord J. Russell) thought it was the bounden duty of Her Majesty's Government, in accordance with the Treasury Minute, dated Jan. 16, to lose no time, so soon as Parliament should have assembled, in laying before the House of Commons what they had done, and what they proposed to do. Otherwise they would have been placed under the necessity of refusing any grant or loan in Ireland, thereby exposing the distressed millions in that country to great loss of life; or they must have incurred the responsibility of granting the public money during the sitting of Parliament, without coming to that House for authority. With respect to the subject itself, he thought the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli)
 434 l. 435 436
 MR. STAFFORD  praised the tone and temper of the speech of the noble Lord (Lord E. Howard); but before the noble Lord proceeded to pass such a severe censure on hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House, he should have recollected something of their former conduct in respect to the Irish Poor Law, when it came under discussion. It was then stated that this poor-law contained a fatal principle in some of its provisions. The principle on which the electoral divisions were to be divided was most important, and one on which the whole question of equitable taxation rested. When the Irish Poor Law was introduced, a clause was inserted, in the House of Lords, directing the Commissioners so to divide the country as to stimulate productive employment; but that, except in Ulster, had not been carried out; and it would be found that all measures of improvement—emigration, the sale of encumbered estates, or the question of relief from the public treasury—all hinged upon that one principle of the area of taxation. It was only fair for him to state to the House, from his knowledge of the districts referred to in the book that had been submitted to them, that so far from things having come to the worst, they would, in every succeeding year, if the present system were sanctioned, be under the absolute necessity, not only of repeating the grants from the public treasury, but each of such grants would be larger than the former. When money was first asked for Ireland, he had, at the risk of personal unpopularity, ventured to predict what would be the result. He had said that the money would evoke no gratitude and do no good. As men of business, let them look to the working of the present system in the province of Connaught. If they referred to one part of this book they would find the number of unions; in another part they would find the population of those unions; and he had been at the pains of adding up the population of those
 412 l. 413 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. d. l. 414 l. 415
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I rise to make a suggestion to the Government, which I do not despair they will accede to, and it is, that they will not on this occasion call upon the House to give a vote. I think this is an instance in which the House has not enjoyed that opportunity for consideration which is requisite on so important an occasion; and even if it were only to avoid the inconvenience of an adjourned debate, I should be glad if the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) would rise and appoint another day for the discussion of this question. I cannot agree, myself, in the belief expressed by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon (Sir J. Graham), that this is the last vote that we shall he called upon to give on this subject. The right hon. Gentleman has qualified that conviction, because he says that he has no doubt Her Majesty's Government are prepared to bring forward a comprehensive measure on the subject of local taxation in Ireland, and indeed upon other Irish subjects, and it would, therefore, be extremely agreeable to this (the Opposition) side of the House to hear from Her Majesty's Government that such is their intention. If Her Majesty's Government would come forward and say, "This is really only a solitary vote, and if you accede to it we are prepared to call your immediate consideration to a comprehensive measure which we have matured, and which will render it unnecessary for us to apply to the House for further votes of this description," no doubt it would very much influence the conduct of hon. Members in giving their votes; but I have not heard any intimation of that kind from any Member of Her Majesty's Government, and, indeed, I collected from what I did hear an inference very much the reverse. But if that be the intention of Her Majesty's Government, and if they would so frame the vote that the House could clearly understand that this is the only vote of the kind about to be taken, and that a measure is about to be brought forward which will render unnecessary any future appeal of this kind, I have no doubt we should come to a satisfactory conclusion. But we must recollect that the only question now under consideration is put before
 432 l. l. 433
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he rose, in pursuance of the notice he had given, to move that the Committee agree to a vote for the purpose of affording relief to certain unions in the west of Ireland. Gentlemen would probably recollect that a similar vote was proposed at the end of last Session. When the failure of the potato crop was apprehended, questions were put to his noble Friend and himself as to the course the Government intended to pursue; and they were urged at that time to bring forward some measure for the purpose of affording relief to the destitution prevalent in some parts of Ireland. The answer they gave was, that they did not think it expedient at that time to bring forward any large measure whatever; and that if circumstances should be such as to render it necessary, it would be their duty to call Parliament together before any step of that kind was taken; but they did ask the House to entrust them with some small discretionary power, in order to enable
 375 l. l. 376 l. 377 "That the Commissioners may have a clear conception of the grounds on which I found my opinion, it may be expedient to give a brief sketch of the circumstances under which a largo proportion of the landed property of the union had been placed for many years previous to the failure of the potato crop. When this was a potato-growing country, and the crop flourished, the landlords and the middlemen found it an easy and certain mode of increasing their incomes, to permit every tenant or branch of his family to erect hovels of any description on every patch of and among the glens and rocks of the mountains or along the sea-coast, and rather to countenance than discourage the establishment of swarms of cottier tenants on their lands. These contrived, either by taking con-acres from the larger occupiers, or by cultivating patches of their own holdings, to grow sufficient potatoes to fatten a pig or two to pay the rent. Hordes of this class of cottier tenantry, when they had planted the patch of potatoes in spring, shut up their cabins or left them in charge of the aged and infirm, and led an idle, vagrant, bogging life throughout the summer months. To some of these cottier holdings was attached the privilege of grazing a cow, and a few sheep or goats, upon the adjacent mountains—and from each of these tenements the landlord or the middleman contrived to squeeze out a rent from 1 l. l. 378 "I do not believe that there are a sufficient number of labourers in this union to bring it to the same degree of cultivation and productiveness as some parts of the county of Down and Antrim: and yet the whole labouring population are starving, while hardly an acre is drained or improved. At a very moderate computation I believe that four times the quantity of food might be produced." 379 "The rates are being well and cheerfully paid, and the influential classes, however embarrassed they may be, do not evade their payment, or encourage others in opposition." "The utter absence of employment of any kind throughout the union is almost incredible, and where such is given it is in exchange for food alone, a very limited number of persons in the union giving wages. I can see no solution of the difficulties and distresses of this union save by a well-directed effort on the part of proprietors and occupiers to give reproductive employment; such, however, under existing circumstances, will not or cannot be given, though all practical men agree in its necessity, and that a finer or more profitable field for labour cannot be found. The Land Improvement Act has conferred no benefit on this union, a very trifling sum having been applied for or taken under it. A universal distrust and want of confidence exists between all classes, which prevents the useful efforts of individuals having their desired effects. The extensive dispossession of the small landholders, and consolidation of farms, will require time to produce their anticipated good effects, while the suffering and embarrassments are immediate and undoubted." "There is quite enough of land in this district to employ all the ablebodied population, without taking into account the bog and mountain land that might be reclaimed; the improvement of which, with very few exceptions, I believe to be a ruinous speculation." 380 "I have lost nearly one-third of my smaller tenants since 1846. Most of them have emigrated to America, or have become labourers, occupying cottages and gardens." l. l. "I look entirely to the improvement on the waste lands to give me enough to feed and clothe my family: for as to carriages, wine, and other luxuries, I have long since given them up, and my establisment is now like a mere rent-paying farmer, struggling to pay by exertion of skill and industry a high rent, which the rates and county cess are on waste lands." 381 "In conclusion, I may state that up to the present the rates have been comparatively light in this union, but they have been as heavy as could have been borne. As I before said, I am surprised that they have been paid so well, considering the state of the union—a state which I do believe requires to be seen to be believed. At all events, I have seen nothing to equal it, although I have no doubt there are some of the neighbouring unions just as bad. I do not attribute the present insolvent state of the ratepayers to the amount of rates which they have been called upon to pay; neither do I attribute the present deplorable condition of the recipients of relief to the potato failure of last year. The ratepayers will, no doubt, be benefited; but I do not believe that an improved condition of the majority of the recipients of relief is at all contingent upon the success of the potato or any other description of crop. What the latter classes require is the circulating medium, without which they cannot honestly profit by an abundance of food at any price. If the labourers were inclined to work hard, and employers
 382 s. d. l. l 383 "Denis Bingham, esq., Binghamstown, 194 l. s. "Daniel Madden, esq., Ballyeastle, 69 l. s. d. l. "Mrs. William Bingham, Belmullet, 41 l. s. "Mr. Short is in distressed circumstances. The collector will serve a fifteen days' notice. There is hardly anything on the lands. "Mr. Fowler died lately. There is hardly anything on the lands." "The lands are a complete waste." "These lands are nearly all waste. It would be useless to take proceedings against any of the parties; they have scarcely the means of supporting themselves." 
 
 The not value of union £19,986 
 Ditto, at and under 4 l. 7,434 
 Ditto, given up to landlords, not occupied, and now waste 9,449 
 Ditto, of holdings, the occupiers of which are so poor that it is impossible to recover rates from 1,673 l. 384 l. l. l. l. 
 
 In the year ending Sept. 29, 1846 £371,846 
 In the year ending Sept. 29, 1847 638,403 
 In the year ending Sept. 29, 1848 1,627,700 385 l. l. l. l. l. l. l l. l. 386 l. l. "That the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland be authorised to direct the issue out of the Consolidated Fund of the said United Kingdom of any sum, not exceeding 50,000 l.
 Mr. E. B. ROCHE  would support the proposition of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, not because the right hon. Gentleman had suggested the best remedy that could be devised, but because
 422 l.
 MR. F. FRENCH  said, that, notwithstanding the strong language of the hon. Member for Lincolnshire (Mr. Christopher), the Imperial Parliament would always be ready, if necessary, to make advances from time to time for the relief of the people of Ireland. He thanked the right hon. Baronet (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) for his sympathy with the western parts of Ireland; but begged to tell him that it was the Government's present specific, the poor-law, which was destroying the farmer, demoralising the peasantry, annihilating the property of the landlords, and which would not leave a vestige of the capital expended by the Imperial Parliament ill that country in improvements. He regretted the right hon. Baronet had followed the bad example of attacking the landlords of Ireland, and that he should have quoted for that purpose the report of Mr. Inspector Lang, a gentleman who had only been stationed at the Bantry union a month, and had, therefore, very naturally mistaken the circumstances under which the population was suffering. He considered Mr. Lang's opinion as worthless; and he thought the House would concur with him, when they referred to page 21 of the report, and saw what was the opinion of the vice-guardians of this very same union, with which they had had a long and intimate acquaintance. They stated that the rate was willingly paid by those who could pay; and that the landlords in some cases allowed the entire rate, to enable the tenants to pay. Was this, then, a fit district to select for the reprobation of its landlords? With regard to the credit taken by the right hon. Baronet for the beneficial operation of the poor-law during times of distress, he denied its justice altogether. He did not say the law aggravated the present distress; but he denied that it had ever alleviated it. Distress had visited Ireland; but, after it had been surmounted, it had never left the people in the condition they now were. The law had destroyed all the self-reliance of the people. The poor-law had universally failed in every portion of the kingdom which required it; and it was only in districts which did not require it that it stood
 394 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. "Tenants running away, having sold their effects, and many overholding possession, rents unpaid, lands waste, the gentry and people equally distressed, famine increasing, and the taxation of the poor-rate crushing the few who endeavour to adhere to the land—everything in such a state as will render the country a desert. "Within this year two rates have been struck in this division; one at 3 s. d. d. s. d. "From constant observation on the condition of the parties seeking admission to the workhouse, from our intercourse with those within the House, and from our frequent attendance, with the relieving
 395
 Mr. H. HERBERT  felt, in common with many other hon. Members, and with the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Stafford), that he had a right to complain of the conduct of Her Majesty's Government. He, however, came to this conclusion, that if the House should reject the proposition of the Government, it would be a sentence of death upon starving people. He believed that the distress which was detailed in the papers before the House arose, if not wholly, yet in a great degree, from the neglect of Her Majesty's Government, who had turned a deaf ear to every suggestion which had been made to them by the Gentlemen of the country, who had forewarned them of the fatal consequences of the system which they were pursuing. He begged to say, that he disclaimed any sympathy with those who were of opinion that there ought to be no poor-law in Ireland. He found in the union in which he resided, which he had constantly attended for the purpose of doing his duty, that, with two exceptions only, it had paid the largest amount of any union of Ireland. The average amount of the collection was 5 s. d. 421 s. d. s. d. s. d.
 Mr. H. HERBERT , in explanation, said, that he had not declared that he was an advocate for townland areas. He had alluded chiefly to his own union.
 MR. HUME : The hon. Gentleman asked that the money should be lent to employ the people; but on what security was it to be lent? They were told the land was worth nothing. If there was property that could be sold, he would say there was a fair claim for a loan; but otherwise, he would say it was giving the money. Let not his hon. Friend deceive himself into the belief that it was not giving the money; and the Government must know it was giving the money. He protested against giving that money, and would state to the House what ought to be done. They should negative the proposition of the Government, and to come to that they must first negative the proposition of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Stroud (Mr. Poulett Scrope).
 411 l.
 MR. HUME  was not sorry that he had given way to the noble Lord (Lord E. Howard) who had just sat down, because he would hold out his speech to the House and to the country as an example of that which had hitherto led the country astray, and what would, he apprehended, lead it still further astray. He had no doubt that the motives of the noble Lord were most humane, and that the distress in Ireland was as great as he said; but the question the House had to decide was, whether the principle on which they were called upon to vote this money was the principle that would benefit Ireland? He was sorry to hear the last part of the noble Lord's speech, where he said that if they did not give money to the Irish people they would rebel. But what did their experience teach them on that point? In the year 1847 they gave them seven millions of money, and they rebelled in 1848. He held that the doctrine announced by the noble Lord was founded upon the principle of communism; the principle of supplying the idle and lazy with money at the expense of the industrious. Need he add to that the proposal of his hon. Friend the Member for Stroud (Mr. P. Scrope)? It was adding to it Louis Blanc's principle of supplying money to create workshops. The House should cautiously take care what they were
 407 408 409 l. l 410 s. d. s. d. s. d. l. l. l. l l. l. s. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d.
 MR. POULETT SCROPE : I beg the hon. Gentleman's pardon. I merely pro-pose that the money should be lent, and not given.
 MR. P. SCROPE  apologised for presenting himself so early in the debate; but as this was a vote for the disbursing of funds from the Imperial Exchequer, he thought that an English Gentleman was entitled to express his opinions upon the subject. He thanked God to find that the Government had discovered at length the futility of relying upon the voluntary exertions of the Irish landowners, who as a body either would not, or could not, or at any rate did not employ the people, or apply a remedy which was fitted to rescue them out of their present horrible condition. He had placed a Motion on the Paper to-day which he should now press in the form of an Amendment to the present Vote. He by no means dissented from the proposition that it was necessary for the Government to step in and advance public money for the relief of these distressed unions. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman (Sir C. Wood) that it was impossible they could support themselves,
 387 l. l. 388 l. s. 389 l. l l s. d. 390 l. l l. l. l. "It is not we of the Westport union who have expended this money, but it is the Government who have insisted on spending it unproductively, and in the establishment of soup kitchens, the consequence of which is that we are not able to repay you your money, not aide to maintain our poor, and are getting less able to maintain them every day." 391 "But that no appropriation of Monies taken from general Taxation be applied in aid of the Poor's-Rate of Irish Unions, except on condition that its repayment be secured by a lien on the rateable property of the Union."
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  said, that the House was again asked to vote relief to the Irish poor out of English means. He stood there as an English representative, and he said he was not prepared to concur in such a vote. When they considered that it was only a very short time ago that this country stept out of its usual course, and granted no less than four millions of money to the people of Ireland; when the House had agreed to grant in the way of loan an additional four millions to the people, a very small portion of which had been repaid, and,
 392 l. 393
 MR. MEAGHER  wished to know from the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland, whether there was any probability of Bills being brought forward for the registration of births, deaths, and marriages in Ireland, and for sanitary regulation?
 SIR G. GREY  wished, before the question was put, to say a few words in reference to the charge brought against the Government by the hon. Member for Kerry (Mr. Herbert) for not having introduced a Bill with respect to the reduction of the area of the rateable districts. The House had heard from his right hon. Friend (Sir W. Somerville) near him, as well as from other Members, that nothing could have been easier than for the Government to come down to Parliament with a Bill for that purpose, and that the requisition of Government for more convenient boundaries might have been prepared and at once presented to Parliament. He wished it to be understood that to accomplish this
 423 424 l. l. 425
 SIR J. GRAHAM  observed, that he could assure the Committee that he had listened to the discussion with great interest, and it was with some difficulty that he had arrived at a conclusion as to the vote which he should give. From the opinion of the House, expressed in the discussion which took place the other night on the Sessional Orders, it appeared that brevity was to be the future rule for the speeches in their debates. He, therefore, would at once get rid of all extraneous matters. He would not go into a discussion on the provisions of the Irish Poor Law; nor would he enter into the question of the area of taxation; nor would he advert to those matters which yesterday had been referred to a Select Committee. He would strictly confine himself to the two questions which were then immediately before them. The first question was the Amendment of the hon. Member for Stroud (Mr. P. Scrope), to the effect that if any money was voted on the present occasion, it should be in the shape of a loan. He distinctly differed from the hon. Gentleman as to his first proposition. He was extremely jealous, under the peculiar circumstances of the case, of the relations of debtor and creditor between England and Ireland. He would rather give a grant to double the amount than a smaller sum as a loan which was not likely to be repaid, or which was to be recovered by a process quite inconsistent, as he (Sir J. Graham) thought, with the peace of Ireland, and dangerous to the best interests of the country. He firmly believed that it would be altogether impossible to reclaim the money; and it would be only loading Ireland with burdens in addition to those which she was now found unable to pay. On this ground he would much rather consent to a grant than to a loan. The second proposition of the hon. Member was, that the sum to be advanced should be laid out in reproductive
 426 l. l. "Report that without this timely aid it is probable that not less than 200,000 persons would have perished last year for want of food in the distressed districts." "It must be expected that the charge upon those distressed unions for the relief of the poor during the present season will again exceed the amount of rates which, in their present exhausted state, it will be possible to collect." 427 l.
 SIR JOHN WALSH  could not remember having been called upon to give a vote on any question which involved so many considerations of pain and difficulty as the subject now engaging the attention of the House. The right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer had strongly appealed to the feelings of the House, and had drawn an unexaggerated picture of the appalling distress which was now prevailing throughout the greater portion of Ireland. It was important for the House to recollect that they were not dealing with small portions or obscure quarters of that country, but to remember that, out of the 131 unions into which Ireland was divided, twenty had been pronounced, by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to be in a state of bankruptcy; that ten or cloven more of those unions were in a state bordering upon bankruptcy; and that there was reason to believe that nearly one-fourth of the population of the sister country were at this moment involved in absolute ruin. The question which the House was now dealing with was not a light one; and the proposition of the right hon. Baronet should receive the most deliberate consideration. The hon. Member for North Lincolnshire (Mr. Christopher) had truly stated that England herself was in no flourishing-state, that she could not boast of much prosperity, that we had a deficient revenue, and that many classes of our population were themselves involved in deep distress and suffering, and had to struggle against great privations. He (Sir J. Walsh) fully concurred in those remarks, and therefore felt that it was the bounden duty of the House, at this present moment, to exercise the strictest vigilance over every sixpence of the public money. In addition to the natural difficulties which beset this question of relief to the people of Ireland, it
 396 l. l. 397 398 l. 399 400 401 402
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, he felt that his hon. Friend (Mr. Stafford) who had just sat down had been guilty of some little contradiction: for he had submitted that the pith of the whole law, and its improvement, depended on the settlement of the question of the area of taxation. Now, he (Sir W. Somerville) begged his hon. Friend to remember that the Government had separated those two questions—that the area of taxation had been separated from the other details of the Bill; that a Commission was appointed last year to enter into that particular part of the operation of the poor-law; that that Commission made a report; that that report was laid on the table of the House; and that, therefore, that vital part of the poor-law, which involved a very grave question, need not be submitted to the consideration of another Committee, but that it was ripe for the adoption of the House now, if the House conceived it right to adopt it. Therefore, so far as the area of taxation was concerned, that question might be considered settled. He fully believed the statements made by English Members with reference to the proposition of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer; and he admitted that it was no doubt a painful thing for the Government to come down there and ask for the present grant. It was a painful position for the hon. Members for England or Ireland either to refuse a grant asked as this had been asked for, or to sanction a system which an hon. Gentleman (Mr. Stafford) had deemed vicious in principle, particularly after what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that he would not undertake to say that he would not increase the grant now proposed at some future day. Now the House might turn and twist the question asked by the hon. Member for Radnorshire (Sir J. Walsh) as
 416 417 l. l. 418 l. s. d. s. s. d. 419 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. 420
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  had to state in answer, that a Bill for the registration of births, deaths, and marriages in Ireland was under consideration. He could not undertake to say, that it would be in his power to bring it forward this Session, but he hoped it might be. With respect to a Health of Towns Bill, he had a Bill prepared which he hoped it might be in his power to submit to the House shortly.
 MR. W. S. S. LASCBLLES (COMPTROLLER OF THE QUEEN'S HOUSEHOLD)  appeared at the bar of the House and stated that he had yesterday presented the Address of the House of Commons to Her Majesty, and that Her Majesty had been pleased to return the following Answer:—
 "I thank you for your loyal and dutiful Address. "I rely with confidence on your co-operation with Me in advancing the welfare and happiness of My People, whose interests it is My constant desire to promote."
 MR. HENRY  said, he wished to increase the number to twenty-two, in order to introduce the name of a Gentleman without whom he thought the Committee would not be perfect.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, he believed that Committees of this description usually consisted either of fifteen or twenty-one Members. Twenty-one was
 449
 MR. HENRY  was not particularly anxious to have twenty-two Members. Perhaps the right hon. Baronet (Sir W. Somerville) would withdraw a name, in order that he (Mr. Henry) might add one. [ Cries of
 MR. GRACE  said, that as a representative of one of the western counties of Ireland, he felt called upon to express his strong objection to the names which had been proposed to be put upon this Committee. The western districts were especially unrepresented. It was meet that those who were oppressed by the unfortunate working of the system in the country, should have an opportunity of making it known, and endeavour to have all those errors corrected.
 MR. F. FRENCH  said, he thought hon. Members had some reason to complain of this matter. He had no objection to the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), or to any other of the Members of Her Majesty's Government, being placed upon the Committee, especially as the noble Lord stated yesterday that he was prepared to explain to the Committee what were the plans which Her Majesty's Government meant to propose for the amendment of the Irish Poor Law. At the same time, he could not forget that the noble Lord also stated, that if the Committee should differ from him in opinion, he would not pledge himself to be bound by their conclusions, but would propose his own plans to the House; so that it was plain the Committee was to be made the authority for the Act if they should happen to agree with the noble Lord; but if they did not, then their opinions were to be altogether disregarded. Now, how was this Committee proposed to be constituted? There was a large proportion of Ministers and of official persons. There was the First Lord of the Treasury, the right hon. Baronet the ex-Secretary of State for the Home Department (Sir James Graham), the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland; there was the hon. Member for Leitrim (Mr. Clements), who had been an Assistant Poor Law Commissioner; and there was
 450
 SIR G. GREY  said, every one who had had experience in the nomination of a Committee must be aware of the difficulty there always existed in making out a list that should be free from exception; and in the present case the difficulty had been greatly increased. His hon. Friend (Mr. French) seemed to think that every Gentleman who was not on the list was branded with a stigma, as if he were unfit to serve. Now that was not the case. On the contrary, the Government had been most reluctantly compelled, on account of the limited number of the Committee, to exclude many Members from the Committee whose services they were most anxious to obtain; and two days' notice of the Committee had
 451 452
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, it appeared to him that the landed interest of the country was not sufficiently represented. There were only eight Members of counties upon the Committee, and as the landed interest which they represented was the most pressed by the working of the poor-law, he thought they ought to have more representatives. He certainly did not object to Mr. Scrope's name; but as that hon. Gentleman had voted against the Committee last year, he did not think that Mr. Scrope would have consented to serve on a Committee which he had voted against. Other Members were objected to because they entertained decided views in support of the worst parts of the Irish Poor Law. For himself, he did not object, because he thought, however decided a man's views might be, when he came to hear the evidence adduced he would change them. He would only add, that it was not supposed but that every man named on the Committee was fit to be there; but they knew others who were still better qualified. He would not recommend any substitute for them, but he would follow the example of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and say, that if the Committee did not agree with his views, he would dissent from the Committee.
 SIR R. PEEL  suggested that the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) should reconsider the question of limiting the number of the Committee to twenty-one. During last Session there were several cases in which they had imposed considerable inconvenience, upon themselves from restricting the number of Members on Committees. He (Sir R. Peel) knew it had been felt of late years that there was an advantage in limiting the numbers; but there were certain
 453
 MR. SADLEIR  suggested that the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) ought to bear in remembrance the first sentence in the first of the three remarkable reports furnished by Mr. Nicholls—that whatever general knowledge or general views might be formed from books and reports, it was absolutely necessary that you should have the advantage of personal examination into the state and condition of the poor of Ireland in order to acquire that knowledge which would qualify you to suggest any practical measure for remedying destitution in Ireland. That was the spirit of the first sentence in the report. He thought they ought not to confine the Members for Connaught to the two smallest divisions of that province, but that it would be advisable also to place on it the representatives of the two largest counties. He thought that these two points ought to be considered in the selection of the Committee. It was also worth remembering that, however important a practical experience in the working of the English Poor Law might be, practical knowledge of the working of the Irish Poor Law was still more important. He felt it as most desirable that Gentlemen placed in the position of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Stafford) should be on the Committee, because they combined acquaintance with the practical working of the poor-law in Ireland, and an equal knowledge and experience of the working of a similar law in this country.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, that the Committee excited a great deal of interest in Ireland, but it was not likely to give satisfaction. It was a question whether it was not better to divide the unpopularity amongst as many as possible. It was very
 454
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  also took the liberty of pressing upon the Government the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth (Sir R. Peel), and thus admit several highly respectable Gentlemen who were at present excluded. The Government had honoured him with a request to serve upon the Committee, and he undertook the task most willingly, and would devote his best attention to the subject; at the same time, he felt that all he could do would not be sufficient to press upon the Committee the extreme distress of the western counties.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, as the Motion stood, the Committee was restricted to twenty-one Members; but if the House would agree to the Committee as now named, he had no objection to adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, and name some additional Members.
 MR. MONSELL  said, as it seemed settled that there were to be additional Members, he hoped the Government would see the desirableness of adding some Scotch Gentlemen to the Committee; and he would also suggest that the predecessor of the right hon. Baronet in the Irish Secretary-ship (the Earl' of Lincoln) should be added to the Committee.
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  hoped the Government would not adopt the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman with regard to Scotch Members, because the administration of the poor-law there was very different from what it was both in this country and in Ireland.
 MR. HENRY  repeated his notice, that when the additional Members were nominated he would move that Mr. John Bright be one of the number.
 MR SPEAKER  explained, that the Member could not move any name in substitution; he must confine himself at that stage to objecting to any Member nominated.
 MR. GROGAN  than moved, that Mr. Scrope's name be omitted.
 SIR J. WALSH  defended the nomination of Mr. Lewis, as that Gentleman had lately written a book upon the subject, which showed great acquaintance with the matters that would come before the Committee.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  contended that this was not entirely an Irish question; and be thought the real ground of complaint was, not that there were too many, but that there were too few English Members on the Committee. If any additions were to be made to the Committee, he would endeavour that some independent English Members should be added.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that some objections had been made to Gentlemen holding strong opinions; but he must observe, that there were others who held opinions as decided in an opposite direction who were selected Members.
 CAPTAIN TAYLOR  then withdrew his Motion, and the Committee, as originally proposed, was appointed.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  thought there was no necessity for a call of the House, as, in all probability, the Irish Members who had been absent on Tuesday would be in their places to-morrow. He would take that opportunity of mentioning that the debate on the Habeas Corpus Act would stand first for to-morrow.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, it would be in the hands of hon. Members to-morrow; but it would be precisely the same as the Bill of last year.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, I will say at once that there is no official communication from the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland to Earl Grey upon the subject of the rank of persons described as prelates of the Roman Catholic Church in Earl Grey's circular; and it does not appear to me to be a fit matter with regard to which the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland should correspond officially with the Colonial Secretary. But what the Earl of Clarendon did was this—in the Charitable Bequests Act there is so far an acknowledgment of the rank of certain ecclesiastics belonging to the Church of Rome, that they are in several of the clauses in that Act called archbishops and bishops of the Church of Rome. Now, being archbishops and bishops, the usual titles by which we describe such dignitaries is "the most reverend," and "the right reverend;" and, in addressing them in conversation, or by letter, they are usually termed, "your grace," and "your lordship." Now, the Earl of Clarendon was of opinion, that when he saw certain prelates of the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland, it would be fit, lest they might feel themselves in any respect not placed in the rank which they ought to hold, not only to call them archbishops and bishops, in the place of "doctor," as they were formerly called—Dr. Troy, and the like—but to address them as "your grace," and "your lordship." Having done that, I believe that he communicated privately to Earl Grey, some time afterwards, that he found there were Roman Catholic bishops in the colonies, one of whom was then, I believe, residing in Ireland, and that he thought what had been done in Ireland might very
 445
 LORD J. RUSSELL  explained that what he had stated was, that it would be very offensive if the Roman Catholics of Trinidad were to be told that they were Dissenters from the Established Church of the colony.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he did not believe that any precedence had been given to the Roman Catholic prelate in Sydney by what had been done, or that the letter of his noble Friend (the Earl of Clarendon) had at all altered the forms of precedence there. At the same time, he was well aware that some unpleasant feeling might exist in the colony on this subject, because he recollected that some years ago the Protestant bishop complained of the Roman Catholic prelate having waited on the Governor wearing the episcopal ring and other insignia of his order. The matter had been referred to him (Lord J. Russell), and his reply was, that he thought it unfair to object to a man wearing any dress he pleased. The proceeding had, he believed, annoyed the Roman Catholic prelate a good deal, as he had complained at being interfered with in wearing the dress that distinguished his order in every part of the world.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, there was a public impression, which it was certainly inconvenient should remain, that in the colony of Sydney, to which his hon. Friend (Sir R. Inglis) had referred, in consequence of the Roman Catholic Church having placed an archbishop there, while the Church of England had only a bishop; the effect of the letter of Earl Grey was to give precedence to the former, be (Mr. Goulburn) wished to know if it was the
 446
 MR. GRATTAN,  in rising to move that there be a call of the House for the 9th instant, said, be did not know if Her Majesty's Ministers would object to the Motion.
 457
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  complained that the Bill was not as yet in the hands of Members.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, he thought that one of the most obvious deductions to be drawn from the speech of the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. Inglis) was, that the Catholic Church ought to be the established church of Ireland. He had confessed that it would be quite right for the Scottish bishops to retain possession of their sees, and that England was entitled to her own Church; and the natural inference was, that the people of Ireland ought to have their religion also established by law. He (Mr. J. O'Connell) did not say that this was his opinion, because he would much regret any connexion between his Church and the State. He would remind hon. Gentlemen that those very sees which they now had in England had been originally established by the Pope. As to the titles conferred under the Charitable Bequests Act on the Catholic prelates of Ireland, he did not attach any importance to them. He did not, for instance, think there was much honour in being degraded down from Archbishop of Dublin to Archbishop Murray, or Archbishop Murray of Dublin. The Catholics of Ireland believed their own bishops to be alone entitled to assume the names of their sees. He should protest against the wording of the Motion, in which the prelates of his own Church were called "persons described as prelates of the Roman Catholic Church;" and he also protested against the noble Lord's (Lord. J. Russell) supposition of Roman Catholics being called Dissenters. The Roman Catholics were not dissenters from the Established Church, but they regarded Protestants as being dissenters from their Church.
 MR. PLUMPTRE  wished to know whether,
 447
 MR. SPOONER  seconded the Motion.
 MR. EWART  begged to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether there was any objection to lay before the House the evidence taken by the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the constitution and management of the British Museum?
 SIR G. GREY  said, he did not apprehend that any objection would be made to giving a portion of the papers required, but there was an objection to have all the papers given for the present.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that he had before explained that only a portion of the papers could be given at present. As to the point alluded to by the hon. Baronet (Sir R. Inglis), he would reserve his opinion upon it for the present.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  appealed to the right hon Baronet (Sir G. Grey) whether he would consent to lay papers on the table when only half the case had been heard? He wished to know from the right hon. Baronet if he was aware that the trustees of the British Museum had not received any communication from the Commissioners until nine months after they had begun their inquiry?
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  replied: He had hoped that his noble Friend would have informed the House that the despatch of which he complained, had, so far as Bishop Broughton was concerned, been practically withdrawn; because he had reason to believe—but the statement would have come more graciously from his noble Friend—that the Protestant Bishop of Sydney was no longer placed below the Roman Catholic, whom the Pope had sent there as archbishop; it having been ascertained that Bishop Broughton, as metropolitan, still held the pre-eminence. The general question, however, remained, had the Pope, a foreign Sovereign, a right to create ranks in the States of Her Majesty? In the  Sydney Chronicle "As the bull of his Holiness, Pope Pius IX., appointing Dr. Goold to the episcopal bench, bears date prior to the letters patent under which Dr. Perry hold office as the Anglican Bishop of Melbourne, Dr. Goold will be entitled to precedence." 448 nil
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  could hardly hope that the House would recollect, that in the course of the last Session of Parliament he had called their attention to the subject which stood in his name on the Mo-
 440 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to lay upon the table of the House a Copy of any Communication from the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland to the Earl Grey, on the subject of the rank of persons described as Prelates of the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland, to which communication the Earl Grey adverted in his Circular Despatch of the 20th day of November, 1847." "My attention has lately been called by the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland to the fact that the prelates of the Roman Catholic Church in the British colonies have not hitherto, in their official correspondence with the Governor and authorities, been usually addressed by the title to which their rank in their own church would appear to give them a just claim." 441 "As Parliament has, by a recent Act, the Charitable Bequests Act, formally recognised the rank of the Irish Roman Catholic prelates, by giving thorn precedence immediately after the prelates of the Established Church of the same degree—the Roman Catholic archbishops and bishops taking rank immediately after the Protestant archbishops and bishops respectively—it has appeared"— "to Her Majesty's Government, that it is their duty to conform to the rule thus laid down by the Legislature; and I have accordingly to instruct you hereafter officially to address the prelates of the Roman Catholic Church in your Government by the title of 'your Grace,' or 'your Lordship,' as the case may be." Gazette Gazette 442 inter se jure coronœ 443 444
 MR. J. B. SMITH  wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether any steps had been taken by the Government to carry out, wholly or in part, the resolution of the House of the 30th of May last, proposed by Dr. Bowring; and whether the gross receipt of revenue, averaging about 7,000,000 l
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, if the Chartists had ever got the length of necessitating the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act, few English Members would have hesitated to consent to a further suspension on the credit of the Government. But there were many English Members now who were anxious to show that, though fully disposed to support the Government in every necessary power, they were also jealous of every suspension of popular rights. More Members than himself were in straits with their constituencies on this
 513
 LORD CLAUDE HAMILTON  agreed with the right hon. Gentleman (Sir W. Somerville) who had last spoken, that no person could feel satisfaction in any vote which he might be called to give on this question. As the representative of a large Irish constituency, he (Lord C. Hamilton) must say that he thought it but just that such an Act as that which they were now discussing—an Act which went to deprive so large a portion of their fellow-subjects of their liberties, on the score, as it was said, of humanity—should not he allowed to pass without the Government, which had brought it forward, coming and showing how it happened that so large a portion of Her Majesty's dominions had been brought into such a state of social disorganisation as to require the imposition of such a measure. He (Lord C. Hamilton) must ask the House to remember what party it had been in that House which had uniformly advocated the measures which had mainly contributed to the present state of things. The right hon. Baronet (Sir W. Somerville) had stated that this measure was to be regarded somewhat as a vote of confidence in Her Majesty's Government and the Earl of Clarendon. He would vote for it irrespective of all party considerations, for he should be ashamed of himself if he did not
 524 525 Laughter 526
 LORD C. HAMILTON  explained, that in what he had said he had no wish to raise a personal question. What he said was, that the first important vote on Irish subjects at the time to which he referred was with reference to the Appropriation Clause, and that on a division on that question, Gentlemen opposite obtained the Government; while, for a period of six years, when they were in office, the question had never been carried out. He did also venture to say, that the course taken by those hon. Gentlemen did somewhat encourage agitation.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The hon. Member has asked mc a question, and I will answer him. My opinion is, Sir, that the hon. Gentleman would wish to carry on what he may think a wholesome, but which I
 545 546 547 Cries of and 548 549
 LORD J. RUSSELL  explained: In respect to the Motion of 1835, I do not believe I said—at least, I did not mean to say—that it was not a party Motion; what I said was this—that having consented to separate from my own friends in the Cabinet upon that question, I was not to refrain from bringing it forward because the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) was in power, inasmuch as I had advocated the same views while in office.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : No; it was three years afterwards.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, the House appears to have so far made up their mind as to the necessity and policy of this measure, that I thought it would not be necessary for me to address the House to-night; and I should not do so, were there not certain misconstructions of the measure to be set right, in consequence of the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland, and certain allusions to my past conduct, that I cannot pass over, though I regret I am obliged to take up a portion of the time of the House in doing so. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) who has just sat down said, I think excusably enough, after the speech of the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. J. O'Connell), that parties would be allowed to carry on a system of agitation, free from any interference from this measure. The hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Roche) says that this Bill will have the effect of putting an end to all discussion in Ireland, no matter upon what subject, however constitutional—that petitions could not be proposed, nor grievances complained of, if this measure were
 544
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, it was the intention of his right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland to propose an enlargement of the Committee, and he believed it was his intention to add the name of Mr. Bright.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that from the 30th of May the staith and wayleave rents and coal rents were to be paid to trustees for their benefit.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, it was not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce any Bill on the subject. His hon. Friend the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) had given notice of a Motion which would bring the subject under the consideration of the House.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that, on receiving notice of the hon. Member's (Mr. Horsman's) intention, he had written to the Lord Bishop of Durham on the subject, stating at the same time that it was quite optional whether he chose to give any information on the subject or not. The bishop, had, in reply, stated that he did not recognise any right of questioning him on the subject, unless there was some general inquiry instituted; but that he did not object to give such information as was requisite to him (Lord J. Russell). When the vacancy occurred in the rectory of Bishop Wearmouth, by the death of Dr. Wellesley, a correspondence took place, which was succeeded by a deputation from the ancient select vestry of Bishop Wearmouth, accompanied by the mayor of Sunderland, who waited on the bishop. The deputation stated to his lordship their wishes with respect to the new division and distribution of the revenues of the rectory of Bishop Wearmouth. Those revenues consisted of tithes, the rents and
 498 l l l l l "Bishop Wearmouth, Nov. 30. "My Lord—I had the pleasure of submitting your lordship's letter of the 27th instant to a meeting of the ancient select vestry, held this morning, when it was unanimously resolved, that, as the chairman of that meeting, I should convey to your lordship our warmest thanks for the kind manner in which your lordship has received the suggestions we ventured to make, and for the great anxiety and care your lordship has shown towards the spiritual welfare of this great and populous parish. The appointments and arrangements your lordship has made appear most excellent, and, under the blessing of Providence, we confidently trust will be productive of the greatest good to every class of the inhabitants.—I have the honour to be, &c. "JOHN SCOTT."
 MR. HENRY  wished to know if the number of the Committee on the Irish Poor Law was to be augmented, and whether the name of Mr. Bright was to be added?
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  said, that he had not heard one single argument advanced which could induce him to agree to the present oppressive measure. It was stated to be necessary for the purpose of putting down political agitation in Ireland. So far from there being any symptoms of agitation in Ireland at the present time, he believed the feeling of the people of that country amounted to an absolute disgust at agitation. But it was constitutional agitation that the Government wanted to suppress; and he warned the House, and English Members in particular, that they were arming Ministers with a power which would come in the end to be turned against themselves, and used to put down freedom of expression in Lancashire and Yorkshire. The present measure was to be accompanied by another for the relief of the distress which existed in some parts of Ireland. He would not oppose that vote. On the contrary, he warmly advocated the proposal to save the poor starving people from death by hunger. But he must express his conviction that votes for the relief of Irish distress were the result of the misgovernment of that country, and as long as the present system of governing her continued, so long would similar votes be required. He had looked for some large measures from the present Ministry for effecting a change in the administration of public affairs in Ireland, and for amending her institutions. He felt disappointed, and he must record his vote against the Bill.
 MR. DISRAELI said : Sir, it was my intention to have given a silent vote in favour of the measure of Her Majesty's Government. When this measure was introduced to our notice last Session, I felt it a duty to express the reasons why I supported it, and I did so without reserve. But after the speech of the Chief Secretary (Sir W. Somerville), I feel that I might be under misapprehension of the motives which induce me to support the Government, if I remained silent on this occasion. Sir, the reason why I support the measure of the Government is, that I think it is demanded by the exigency of the case. The circumstances since it was proposed to our consideration may have in some degree varied; there may have been some features of an alarming character then very evident, which no longer are visible;
 540 541 542 543
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  hoped this reduction would not fall, as it was usually made to do, upon the clerks.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that no new appointment would take place under the consolidation proposed. All the Commissioners to be retained under the present Bill were now in office and were receiving salaries, and he did not suppose hon. Gentlemen would put them in a worse situation under the Consolidation Bill than they now occupied.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the amount was less than last year.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, their salaries would be the same as was now received by the Commissioners of Excise. They would, of course, be voted by Parliament, but he thought it better to postpone that question till the Bill was before them which provided for the amalgamation of the Excise and Customs Board.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : There were now twelve—they would be reduced to seven.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the immediate reduction would be 16,000 l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that steps had been taken by the Government to carry out in part the resolution proposed by Dr. Bowring on the 30th of May last. As to the latter part of the hon. Gentleman's question, it was difficult to give a general answer. He was not prepared to say that all the sums which were received would be paid into the Exchequer, and placed under the direct control of Parliament.
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  observed, that one of the most remarkable features of the present debate was the studied silence of the Members of Her Majesty's Government upon this question. He had heard but two reasons for the measure alleged during the evening. The one was that of the hon. Member for Tavistock (Mr. Trelawny), touching the alleged progenitive tendencies of the Irish, and the other was the reason of the noble Lord (Viscount Bernard), who had just spoken, and who wished the constitution to be suspended because the grand jury of Cork were in a great fright. He could not help thinking that the great body of English Members were about to pursue a very extraordinary course upon this Bill. He had often acted with these hon. Members, particularly with reference to the free-trade question, at the risk of his own seat; and he saw with great pain the course upon which they were now bent in reference to the suspension of the constitution in Ireland. It was quite clear that the Earl of Clarendon's letter meant that the constitution ought to be suspended, in order to put down agitation for the repeal of the Union. Now, all he wished to say upon this point was, that a very large party in Ireland thought
 519 520
 MR. HORSMAN  rose to put a question to the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), of which he had already given notice, and he begged to say that he did so for the purpose only of eliciting information on the subject of the mode in which the patronage of the Lord Bishop of Durham had been exercised in a recent case. It had been generally understood that when the Rectory of Bishop Wearmouth, in the diocese of Durham, should become vacant, some new arrangement was to be effected in the distribution of the revenues of that wealthy rectory. He now begged to ask the noble Lord whether he was able to inform the House what that new arrangement was, more particularly whether any portion of the revenues was to be appropriated to other clergymen and chapelries of the district?
 MR. HORSMAN  asked whether the four incumbents were to have the 1,600 l
 MR. MOORE  read an extract from a former speech of the First Lord of the Treasury, to the effect that measures to suppress crime in Ireland should not be introduced unaccompanied by such other measures as might enable the peasantry of that country to obtain subsistence. He (Mr. Moore) refused his assent to the present Bill on similar grounds, and he entreated the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) to suspend its progress until he had had time to introduce such remedial measures as the state of the country required.
 MR. G. R. ROBINSON  asked the President of the Board of Trade if he intended to lay his resolution on the subject of the Navigation Laws upon the table of the House, before proposing that the House should go into Committee thereon?
 SIR H. W. BARRON  opposed the measure of the Government, because it would give  pabulum 509 510 Times Times l l l Times Delenda est Carthago 511
 MR. GRATTAN  said, the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), in his speech in favour of the Bill before the House, had animadverted on certain inconsistencies which he professed to have seen in the conduct of his hon. Friend (Mr. J. O'Connell). But he (Mr. Grattan) was of opinion that the hon. Gentleman, in the course of his speech, had cleared his conduct just as little as did that of the right hon. Baronet near him (Sir W. Somerville). Now, among the reasons urged by the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) for voting in favour of this measure, he had set forward the character of the present Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. The Earl of Clarendon was said to be a man of ability, of great industry, great personal exertion, and great caution; and in all that he (Mr. Grattan) perfectly agreed. But then that could not be offered as a reason for justifying or proving the necessity of the measure. The Earl of Clarendon, it ought to be recollected, was an executive magistrate; they were legislators—he acted as the case required; they advised as the case demanded, and they were bound, as legislators, to advise in accordance with the principles of the constitution; but the Earl of Clarendon asked them to do away with the constitution itself. There were two classes of principles that guided legislation, and induced men to submit to government, The one was derived from property, the other from liberty. Property was vanishing in Ireland, and they were now called on to vote away her constitution.
 536 537 538 corpus 539 l l
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the hon. Member would probably recollect that some
 497
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  explained, that while he had expressed satisfaction with the course taken by the Ministers, that satisfaction only went so far. For he had likewise said that the Bill now before the House was outrageous, fatal, and dangerous, as applied to freemen.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL : Does the noble Lord mean to say that I have been guilty of treasonable practices?
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, he had to beg pardon of the noble Lord (Lord C. Hamilton) who last addressed the House, for having interrupted him in the course of his speech. The noble Lord had stated an inaccuracy with reference to a deceased Gentleman, whose character was very important to him (Mr. J. O'Connell); he alluded to the late Mr. D. O'Connell, who had never induced nor countenanced the people's taking up arms, as the noble Lord had represented. [Lord C. HAMILTON: I did not mean to convey any impression of that kind.] He was perfectly satisfied with the noble Lord's explanation, and he had only interrupted him to correct what he (Mr. J. O'Connell) had understood him to assert, but which he had now disclaimed. The speech delivered by one hon. Gentleman that night (Mr. Trelawny), he (Mr. J. O'Connell) would scarcely con-
 527 528 529 "That it be an instruction to the Committee to introduce such provisions into the Bill as shall guard and save intact the right of the subject to hold meetings, to petition for the enactment, repeal, or alteration of Acts of Parliament, or for redress of grievances, or other constitutional object, without other or further restriction of that right than existed under the operation of the Common and Statute Law of the Land, previous to the passing of the Habeas Corpus Suspension Act of last July." 530 531 l 532
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  asked whether the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland adhered to his own words as uttered in the course of the debate on the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act, or whether he adopted the entire contradiction of them by the noble Lord at the head of the Government?
 MR. REYNOLDS  observed, that last Session, on the second night on which the House sat, they had been called upon to pass a Coercion Bill for Ireland. Soon after, they had been called upon to pass another; and about the termination of the Session, they had been asked to suspend the Habeas Corpus Act. Upon these occasions he had felt it to be his duty to vote with the minorities; but notwithstanding this, he felt that there were then some grounds for calling for these coercive measures. It was then said, and truly, that an active and angry agitation was being carried on in Ireland. It was then said,
 516 517
 MR. SADLEIR  said, he did not mean to deny the importance of maintaining the constitution of the country unimpaired; but he maintained that no case whatever had been made out by Her Majesty's Ministers to justify them in appealing to the House at this moment for a further suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act in Ireland. He had felt it to be his duty in 1847 and 1848 to give his support to the proposition then brought forward by the Government, and he had done so under the conviction that tranquillity and the absence of political excitement were essential for the social amelioration and improvement of the country; and he believed that every man acquainted with the condition of certain parts of Ireland admitted at the time the
 501 "It is to secure for Ireland this continued repose which is so vitally essential to her prosperity, to protect the country from the renewal of an agitation for objects that cannot be attained, and which for many years has disturbed its tranquillity, scaring away capital, destroying confidence, and rendering impossible the steady application of industry, that I desire strongly to impress on Her Majesty's Government the importance of applying to Parliament for a renewal of those powers which the 11th and 12th Victoria, c. 35, placed at the disposal of the Executive Government in Ireland." 502 503 504 505 l 506 507 508
 MR. TRELAWNY  intended to support the Bill, thinking that Government deserved great credit for the promptitude and energy with which they had acted, and for the success with which they laboured to preserve the public peace. As regarded the future prospects of Ireland, he could not see any hope for that country so long as the people indulged their progenitive tendencies without having means at hand for the support of a rapidly increasing population. He blamed the conduct of the Irish Members in opposing the Bill. They were too apt to delay and thwart all Irish measures which did not include a grant from the Treasury in behalf of their constituents.
 MR. HENLEY  thought it important that the House should guard against the Commissioners being put in a better position than they were at present, and that it should not be supposed that Parliament shut the door against future alterations.
 MR. HENLEY  hoped it was clearly understood that the Commissioners would take office subject to such recommendations as Parliament might make, for at present the House were going on rather in the dark.
 MR. HUME  thought that money and time would alike be saved if the arrangements under the Bill were placed in the hands of one able individual.
 MR. HUME  said, if he was anxious to address the House after the speech of the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Roche), he was still more so after that of the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. J. O'Connell), who had indulged in an attack on the free-trade Members on his (Mr. Hume's) side of the House, accusing them with cowardice and everything discreditable; because, as he (Mr. J. O'Connell) alleged, they had deserted their principles. But the hon. Gentleman seemed entirely to forget the charges to which his own conduct that very night laid him open to—the very charges which he had been so liberally dealing out against others. Where was his own consistency in saying what he had just said (for really this was what his speech after all amounted to)—" I thank the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland (Sir W. Somerville), for leaving our Repeal Association alone—provided you do not interfere with my agitation, I
 533 534 535
 MR. HUME : What is 80,000 l l l
 MR. HUME : And what will be the reduction in the expenditure?
 MR. HUME  asked how many Commissioners there would be under the new arrangement?
 MR. HUME  said, that the real purport of the resolution of his hon. Friend (Dr. Bowring) was to bring the salaries, allowances, and other payments made out of the gross revenue, annually under the notice and sanction of the House.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, it had not been his intention at that stage of the Bill to offer a single observation upon it, but that after the speech of the hon. and gallant Officer who had just sat down, he felt that he could not refrain from expressing his opinion, particularly when he found an hon. Member, possessed of the pure intentions of the gallant Colonel, imposed upon by such a letter as that written by the Earl of Clarendon. Now, when the present measure was first brought before the House, he (Mr. Osborne) gave it a willing support, because he considered then that Ireland was placed in a very perilous position, that the insurrection was not a mock one, and that a single success upon the part of the rebels would have plunged the country in blood. But he must say that there was a different state of things in Ireland now. Without at all depreciating the efforts of Lord Clarendon, he thought there had been a most unnecessary mead of adulation paid that noble Lord, and he could not for the life of him see what his Lordship had done to warrant the general conspiracy of all parties to bow down before his shrine. The Lord Lieutenant had simply done what any other able general officer would do. He had had an army of 30,000 men, commanded by most able officers, besides the patronage of Dublin Castle at his disposal, and with that assistance, he had succeeded in putting down the factious proceedings in Tipperary. He was quite prepared to give credit to the Lord Lieutenant, or to the Government, had they proposed some comprehensive scheme for the future policy of Ireland, and not, what he would call, the policy of kicks and halfpence now proposed—the object of which was to take away the liberty of the subject. Had the overtures lately made by the noble Lord at the head of the Administration to a distinguished individual on the opposite benches (Sir J. Graham) been successful, he (Mr. Osborne)
 514 l 515
 MR. GRANGER  beged to ask the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) whether the Government intended to bring any Bill forward this Session to relieve clergymen seceding from the Church of England from the penal consequences incurred by their preaching in other places of worship?
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  wished to state briefly his reasons for refusing his assent to the proposition of the Government. If the only consideration to be taken into account in the matter were the personal qualifications of the individual who was to administer the law, the character of the Earl of Clarendon would make him (Mr. S. Crawford) hesitate to refuse to entrust such powers to him. But it would be a bad principle to grant unconstitutional powers on account of the personal character of the administrator. The reasons, therefore, which were put forward by the Earl of Clarendon for demanding the continuance of those powers, should be examined by themselves and upon their own merits; and in his (Mr. S. Crawford's) opinion those reasons were totally insufficient. The first question was, that—
 "On the part of those engaged with the late treasonable movement, no indication whatever of sorrow or repentance for their misdeeds had been observed." "That there was no reason to believe that the recent orderly conduct of the people in the districts where disturbances prevailed, or were threatened, proceeded from any improved feeling as regarded either the law or the Executive Government," 512
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  wished to know how it was proposed to pay the Commissioners provided for in this Bill, as there was no allusion to that matter in any of the clauses? He wished to know what amount of salary these gentlemen were to receive, and whether the sum would be brought annually before Parliament.
 SIR R. PEEL : Well, it took the noble Lord three years to make them cool. I appeal to any man whether it would have been decent for them to lose their heat at an earlier period. They were gradually exposed to the mild influence of office; it is no imputation upon them whatever to say that under a Whig Government they got their fair share of official patronage; and about two or three years afterwards their hostility to the Established Church abated, and they fairly told the noble Lord they could give him no cordial support in an attempt to divert its revenues. I trust that if they should again press the noble Lord upon any particular measure he will ask them to pause—that he will remind them of the Irish Church—that he will tell them to wait two or three years, and he will then possibly find that, in the interval, their zeal will be less ardent. There can be no doubt that in deciding on the merits of Irish questions, it docs make a very material difference who are the persons who occupy that [ pointing to the Treasury 554 555
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, it is my intention to support the proposition of Her Majesty's Government, and to give my vote in favour of the second reading of this Bill. I do so with the reluctance which every friend of constitutional liberty must feel in giving a vote for restraining that liberty; but my firm belief is that there is public danger in now permitting that
 550 551 552 553 personnel
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  replied that there had not been any contradiction of them given by the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), and that nothing more surprised him than the extraordinary misconstruction of his (Sir W. Somerville's) words by the hon. Member for Limerick.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that he should not trespass upon their attention with more than a very few remarks. His hon. Friend (Mr. Roche), who had just sat down, had paid himself a very bad compliment, which he (Sir W. Somerville) certainly should not have ventured to have uttered. His hon. Friend, in addressing himself to this measure—a measure of great importance, involving the interests, not only of Ireland, but of the empire—had endeavoured to establish what he (Sir W. Somerville) might be permitted to call a  quid pro quo 521 522 523
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  was anxious to have an opportunity of thanking the Government, and especially the Earl of Clarendon, whose conduct had been beyond all praise, for the manly way in which they had come forward to suppress rebellion in Ireland.
 518
 SIR F. BARING  said, that the general instruction to the admiral on that station, was to attend and give protection to trade. He had already received a communication from that officer, which showed him that the subject had not been neglected by him; but he could not hold out any expectation that a ship would be permanently stationed in California.
 MR. GREENE  said, that the question would be best answered by looking at the Houses themselves. It was rather difficult to state what progress had been made in the several departments. He could not state when this House would occupy the New Houses of Parliament; he did not imagine it would be during the present Session. A certain delay had arisen from want of money for carrying on the works, which were not proceeded with so rapidly as the architect desired.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, he apprehended that the proposition of the hon. Member for Meath could not be entertained. It was a Motion affecting the Crown rents. It was, therefore, not competent for the hon. Gentleman to submit such a Motion.
 The CHAIRMAN : The hon. Gentleman will perceive by the terms of his proposition that he intends to deal with the revenue of the Crown. It is not competent for any hon. Member to bring forward a Motion professing to deal with the Crown revenues, unless with the consent of the Crown signified in a proper manner.
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  said: I entirely concur with the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) in thinking that it would be a most unfair and ungenerous proceeding on our part to attempt to saddle on the poor of Ireland the consequences which I believe to have been occasioned by the negligence and indiscretion of Government. But while we are prepared to vote this sum for the relief of distress in Ireland, we do think we have a clear right to require that we should be furnished with some definitive estimate of the total sum which Her Majesty's Ministers propose should be expended in this manner. What we contend for is, that the continual application of sums of money raised by the general taxation of the country to the purpose of relieving local distress in Ireland, is injudicious even so far as the suffering districts are concerned, as being calculated to destroy the spirit of self-reliance, at the same time that it fails to furnish a permanent remedy for the distress of the people. That the people in certain districts of the west of Ireland are enduring dreadful hard-, ship, and are exposed to a degree of suffering which it is appalling to contemplate, is impossible to doubt after perusing the papers which have been recently put into
 619 l. l. "As to the degree in which destitution prevails, and the prospects of its cessation or diminution—destitute is a term usually and fitly applied to the lowest and most dependent grade in civilised society. It is, however, a term that conveys no idea of the privations and sufferings of a largo proportion of the people in this wretched union, without clothing, without food, without employment, and with no hope whatever, save from the relieving officer, or from the chilly protection of the workhouse. We have given much and most earnest attention to their whole condition, and we have also had pretty extensive communications with well-informed parties from each of the
 620 l. 621 l.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  rose to move an instruction to the Committee. It was intended to bring out what might be the real meaning and scope of the powers to be given by this Bill, because as yet he said they were not able to judge of the whole extent and bearing of those powers. There was a difference amongst the parties to whom they were referred. In the first place, look at the Queen's Speech. He saw that Her Majesty's Ministers in drawing
 569
 MR. O'CONNELL  resumed. He had pointed out these four contradictions, and as the Bill itself gave no information on the subject, he thought it had now become absolutely necessary to make that other half of his speech which he received permission from the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) on Friday night to do. He begged to thank the noble Lord for that permission. It was something to be permitted to speak
 570
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  again resumed, and said, that the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had implicated the Repeal Association most unfairly in the charge of tending towards insurrection and conspiracy. But he (Mr. J. O'Connell) begged to remind the House, that not one member of the Repeal Association had been for a single hour imprisoned by the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland under the powers entrusted to him by the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act. And when he (Mr. J. O'Connell) and the other members of the Association had been tried for sedition, it was proved that not one breach of the law had ever been committed at any of the meetings held under its auspices. It should be recollected, too, that that was proved after every means had been tried to catch them. They had an able reporter, sent by the Government, present at each of their meetings, and two constables to watch them. They were watched, in fact, as a cat watches a mouse. And, after all, the noble Lord was obliged to make the most he could of the—he would not call it
 571 The hon. Gentleman read the letter, which has so often appeared. 572 573 "Compound for sins that were inclined to By damning those we have no mind to." Locke's Essay on Government "Absolute power is inconsistent with civil society, and can be no form of civil government at all. Wherever any two men are who have no standing rule and common judge to appeal to for the determination of controversies of right betwixt them; there they are still in a state of nature and under all the inconveniences of it, with only this woful difference to the subject, or rather slave, of an absolute ruler, that whereas in the ordinary state of nature he has a liberty to judge of his right, and according to the best of his power to maintain it; now, when his right is invaded, he has
 574 "Vast and extraordinary powers ought not to be delegated merely because some mischievous persons had been taken out, and that the persons to be entrusted with them were of a mild and moderate disposition. We ought to be most tender in granting vast and extraordinary powers with respect to Ireland; not only a power exercised at a distance from control and inspection, but also because there is an obligation of honour and consciousness to be delicate in granting power, the "weight of which would fall exclusively on others, while it could not touch ourselves." 575 576 "That it be an instruction to the Committee to introduce such provisions into the Bill as shall guard and save intact the right of the subject to hold meetings, to petition for the enactment, repeal, or alteration of Acts of Parliament, or for redress of grievances, or other constitutional object, without other or further restriction of that right than existed under the operation of the Common and Statute Law of the Land, previous to the passing of the Habeas Corpus Suspension Act of last July."
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that it was not his intention to follow the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. J. O'Connell) throughout his very discursive speech. He would confine himself strictly to the resolution which the hon. Gentleman proposed as an instruction to the Committee, and he would endeavour in a very few words to show that that Amendment was totally inconsistent with the scope of the Bill, and would, if adopted, fail in advancing the end which the hon. Gentleman himself had in view. The House would observe, if it looked to what the object of the measure was, that the Bill before them was a Bill solely for the purpose of empowering the Lord Lieutenant, or the Chief Governor of Ireland, to apprehend and detain persons whom he should suspect of conspiring against the Government or the person of Her Majesty. Now, it was possible that there might be many acts apparently of an extremely innocent nature in themselves, but which, coupled with other acts, and viewed in respect to information which might be in possession of the Lord Lieutenant, might constitute proofs that the persons who had committed these apparently innocent acts had really been conspiring against the Government or the person of the Queen. But how was a Bill providing for such cases to prevent, or act as a curb upon, legitimate public meetings held for legitimate purposes. In the case
 577 578
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  said, that the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Solicitor General had only tended the more strongly to convince him of the undesirableness—to use the mildest term—of this measure. What a difference of opinion there appeared to exist in the minds of Her Majesty's Government, as to the intention of this measure! They had the noble Lord at the head of the Government and the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland saying that this Bill was intended for one purpose; and they had the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland and the Solicitor General saying that it was intended for another purpose. Now, the right hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down had distinctly stated that this Bill was not intended to
 579
 COLONEL RAWDON  said, the object of the Bill was to put down treason and treasonable practices, in Ireland, and that if he thought any Portion of it would obstruct the free right of discussion for the repeal of an Act of Parliament, no one would more readily vote against it than he would himself. But he (Colonel Rawdon) took a very different view of its provisions, and believed that neither the noble Lord at the head of the Government, nor the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland, would have placed their names to a Bill of this description, unless they felt the heavy responsibility which would attach to the Government if a measure of the kind were not introduced. They conceived it essentially necessary for the prosperity and tranquillity of Ireland. He believed the Act was considered to have more the character of a protective Act. He understood that during the time of the violent meetings in Ireland, a father had gone to the authorities with his misguided son and said, "Take this young man, and keep him from taking part in the insurrectionary movement. "He believed that in these days of newspaper power and free discussion, there was nothing whatever to dread from any abuse of the power which now, for the second time, was about to be entrusted to the Lord Lieutenant. He
 580
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that as there seemed to be some misconception with respect to the provisions of this Bill, he would read to the House the first three or four lines of it, which bore upon the powers to be conferred upon the Lord Lieutenant. The Bill stated—
 "Whereas an Act was passed in the last Session of Parliament, intituled 'An Act to enable the Lord Lieutenant, or other Chief Governor, or Governors, of Ireland, to detain until the 1st day of March, 1849, such persons as he or they may suspect of conspiring against Her Majesty's person." 581 Resurgam. l. 582 583
 MR. ANSTEY  also rose to appeal to the hon. and learned Member for Limerick (Mr. J. O'Connell) not to press his Amendment to a division, as it seemed to him it would be impossible for the House to come to a satisfactory vote upon it. He thought the Amendment took more the shape of a question to be moved in Committee than any other. In the Committee, the Act might be amended so as not to press upon persons engaged in the agitation for the repeal of the Union. Now, if that was a treasonable agitation, the matter was ended;
 584
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  rose to explain. He wished to know whether he rightly understood the hon. Member the Solicitor General to state that the letter of the Lord Lieutenant and the commentary of the Irish Secretary, in both of which it was said the powers of the Bill were to be used against an agitation described by the one as for an object that could not be attained, and by the other as for an impracticable purpose, did not refer to the agitation for the repeal of the Union?
 SIR G. GREY  said, neither the letter of the Lord Lieutenant nor the speech of the Chief Secretary for Ireland could be supposed to have the force of law. He was quite willing to concur in the opinion expressed by his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General, and the hon. and learned Member opposite (Mr. Anstey). He thought the hon. and learned Member (Mr. J. O'Connell), who proposed the Amendment, would act wisely in attending to the suggestions which had been thrown out.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  then withdrew his Motion, intimating that its substance might be embodied in a clause in Committee.
 Mr. ANSTEY  rose to propose, pursuant to notice, several Amendments of which he had given notice. In moving these Amendments, he avowed himself opposed totally to the principle of the present Bill; but as the House had affirmed that principle, he conceived that the Bill would be modified and improved considerably by carrying out his suggestion. He would propose the very reverse of what the Bill contemplated, and would only give the extraordinary powers which it invested in the hands of the Lord Lieutenant to a Committee of the Privy Council. It appeared to him strange that so many hon. Members on both sides of the House should feel so apathetic about a measure which went so much to infringe upon one of the oldest and most important principles of the constitution He concluded by announcing his intention of dividing the House on the first of his Amendments; and if it should be lost, he would not divide upon the
 586
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he was sorry he could not accede to the hon. and learned Member's Amendment. The hon. and learned Gentleman had said he wished now to take the sense of the Committee not merely upon the technical alteration of the words embraced in his first Amendment, but practically upon the broader question as to the effect of the whole of his Amendments generally. But when the Committee contrasted for a moment the real effect of the hon. and learned Gentleman's Amendments, with the title of the Bill itself, which they had just affirmed by so large a majority, they would see at once that when they had voted the second reading of the Bill, they had virtually decided upon negativing these Amendments. For what was the object of these Amendments? Why, the hon. and learned Gentleman proposed to omit the whole of the 2nd clause of a Bill consisting of but three clauses. He proposed to strike out the power now given to the Lord Lieutenant and the Government to apprehend persons suspected of treasonable practices, and only gave authority to proclaim them. The Bill was brought in for the purpose of continuing the Act of last Session, whereas the hon. and learned Gentleman did not wish to do that, but to introduce an entirely new Act for a different object. His (the Attorney General's) answer to this was—he admitted that the powers demanded by the Government were very large, and granted that they might be abused, although he hoped the House had confidence in the Government, and believed that it would not not abuse its powers. If they were abused, however, the Government would still be open to responsibility and inquiry quite as much if the Bill were passed as it now stood, as they would be if it were altered in the mode which the hon. and learned Gentleman suggested. But his (the Attorney General's) further answer was this—that in dealing with large powers of this doubtful nature, it was far better to follow the old established form; and when Bills like this were renewed, so far as his recollection extended, it was always done  ipsissimis verbis
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  wished to bring up some additional clauses. The first clause he would move was to the effect—
 "Provided always, and he it enacted, That nothing in this Act contained shall be construed or taken to warrant the arrest, committal, or detainer of any person procuring, or seeking to procure, in a legal and constitutional manner, the holding of meetings to petition Parliament, or to address the Queen, in accordance with the law and constitution, or of any person attending or taking part in the proceedings of such meetings," 588
 SIR GEORGE GREY  hoped the hon. and learned Member for Limerick would see the propriety of withdrawing his Motion. He (Mr. J. O'Connell) had already occupied a considerable portion of time in laying before the House the grounds for the instruction which he wished to be given to the Committee, and which instruction was substantially the same as the words of the present Amendment. The discussion upon that instruction had altogether occupied the House about two hours, and the opinion of hon. Members had been so generally expressed against it that the hon. Gentleman had been prevailed upon to withdraw it. He (Sir G. Grey) thought the hon. and learned Member ought to be satisfied with the clear explanations of the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. Anstey), and the equally clear argument of his (Sir G. Grey's) hon. and learned Friend (the Solicitor General) near him. They had convincingly shown that the instruction could not be entertained, and the same remark equally applied to the present Motion, which was practically the same as the instruction that had been withdrawn.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  was proceeding to reply, when
 The CHAIRMAN  interrupted him, and said, a question arose upon a matter of form, as to whether the Motion could come within the scope of the title of the Bill.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, if the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey) could answer one question fairly, he would withdraw his Motion. Was it intended by this Bill to interfere to prevent the subject in Ireland from agitating for the repeal of an Act of Parliament—that Act being the Act of Union?
 SIR G. GREY  said, the Lord Lieutenant would adopt such a course, in carrying out the powers of the Act, as he thought proper; but he would assure the hon. and learned Gentleman that neither his Excellency the Lord Lieutenant, nor any other Member of the Government, would promise or hold out an immunity to any person bringing himself within the suspicion of entertaining treasonable designs.
 MR. O'CONNELL  said he must persist in taking the sense of the Committee upon his proposition.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  recommended the hon. and learned Member for Limerick not to press for a division. It was impossible to make the Bill any better; and if he (Mr. J. O'Connell) was so anxious to get a practical answer from the Minister as to what course he should take with respect to the Repeal Association, it was very easy for him to do so. He (Mr. J. O'Connell) had only to go over to Ireland and begin again to agitate, and he would then soon find out the truth.
 CAPTAIN TAYLOR  said, as originally constituted, there was too great a preponderance of borough Members upon it; but above all men, he did not see why the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) should be added. What he (Captain Taylor) wanted was a fair, and at the same time an effective Committee; but he had yet to learn why the Manchester school should be allowed to send its delegates to this already large Committee, and perhaps delay its proceedings by pressing the marvellous doctrines which were heard from that quarter, upon all subjects and upon all occasions. He, therefore, objected altogether to Mr. Bright, and with the less hesitation, because he bad a distinct and an unhappy recollection of the hon. Member having served as a selected Member upon a former Committee. That Committee certainly sat upon a different question; but having watched the proceedings of it, he now looked with jealousy and no small fear at the hon. Member for Manchester being commissioned to deal with interests for
 633
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  supported the nomination of Mr. Bright, and called the attention of the House to the enormous interest which Manchester and Lancashire had in the proper administration of the poor-law in Ireland. A very large proportion of the poor's-rates both of Manchester and Liverpool had arisen from the enormous amount of Irish pauperism thrown into those towns. He could not exactly call to recollection to what previous Committee the hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite (Captain Taylor) alluded in his objection to his hon. Colleague; but he (Mr. M. Gibson) must express his conviction, that if his hon. Friend were selected, he would do his duty faithfully.
 SIR W. VERNER  said, that after what had taken place, it was not his intention to offer any opposition to the composition of the Committee, although he might have taken exception at the way in which Ulster was represented on it. The addition of Members to those originally proposed was a change, but he did not consider it an improvement.
 LORD C. HAMILTON  had no personal objection to the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) serving upon this Committee. He admitted the great interest which Lancashire had in this question; but he contended that it would be adequately represented by the hon. Member for Rochdale (Mr. S. Crawford). He objected to the number of English borough Members which had been selected. Out of eight English Members upon the Committee as originally constituted, six represented boroughs. Now, he submitted that, as this inquiry involved questions of poor-rates, some county Members ought to be consulted. If the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) were appointed to serve, there would then be nine English Members upon the Committee, of which seven represented boroughs. He appealed to the House whether this was not a very unusual proportion. He recommended the Government to add to the Committee some Gentlemen representing a large agricultural county.
 MR. F. MAULE  said, that allusion had been made to the conduct of the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) on another Committee. The hon. and gallant
 634
 MR. BATESON , as an Irish Member, would state the reason which induced him to think that in Ireland this Committee would be considered "a mockery, a delusion, and a snare." In the first place, it was calculated to bolster up all the evils and abuses of the present system of poor-law, for there were placed upon it one or two ex-poor-law officials—men wedded to the present system, who looked upon their bantling with true fatherly affection, however worthless it turned out. And now, by way of mending the matter, it was proposed to add the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright). Why, if the hon. Gentleman possessed such peculiar qualifications, how was it he had not been called upon in the first instance? Was it that the light of the hon. Gentleman had hitherto
 635 Hansard. "With regard to Ireland, you have everything Protestant—a Protestant clergy, which monopolises the places and emoluments of the Protestant Church; a Protestant magistracy before whom a destitute peasant could not hope for justice. They had not only a Protestant, but an exterminating landlord, and a Protestant soldiery, who, at the beck of a Protestant priest, had butchered a Catholic peasant in the presence of his widowed mother."
 SIR G. GREY  said, that there was only one portion of the speech of the hon. Member (Mr. Bateson), to which he would allude. The hon. Member had stated, amongst other reasons for objecting to the nomination of the hon. Member for Manchester,
 636
 MR. BATESON  protested against the uncalled for lecture which the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey) had read him. He (Mr. Bateson) did not say a single word against the members of the society to which the hon. Member for Manchester belonged; and he entertained for them as deep a respect as the right hon. Baronet himself could feel.
 MR. HENRY  observed that he had suggested that the name of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) should be placed upon the Committee, not only because he represented a community which suffered much from the immigration of Irish vagrants, but because he (Mr. Henry) had heard the hon. Gentleman make several remarkable speeches on Irish subjects; and also on account of his being connected with that religious society whose efforts had been productive of so much good during the late urgent season of distress in Ireland.
 MR. SCULLY  contended that agricultural Ireland was not fairly or adequately represented in the Committee. He found, from consulting the map, that half of the Irish counties would be unrepresented by the proposed constitution of the Committee.
 COLONEL DUNNE  was of opinion that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), was perfectly fitted, both by talents and integrity, to be placed upon the Committee; but his interests were not identified with those of Ireland, while the agricultural districts of that country
 637
 Mr. HUME  observed, that this was an English as well as an Irish question. He could not see, therefore, why the hon. Gentlemen to serve should be nominated exclusively from the body of Irish Members. He might take this opportunity of remarking, that during the course of a pretty long experience in Parliament, he had never before heard personal motives attributed to an hon. Gentleman in the discharge of his public duties. He must add that the hon. and gallant Member (Mr. Bateson) who had made the charge, had shown great neglect of his duty, in not having brought any accusation against the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) which he had to adduce, at the time the alleged misconduct took place, and while the subject was fresh in the minds of the House. He hoped that no division would take place on the present occasion.
 MR. REYNOLDS  would not have taken any part in the debate had he not perceived that it was assuming a very serious aspect. There appeared to him to have been a military attack made on a Gentleman belonging to the Society of Friends. Already had that Gentleman been attacked by three Colonels and a Captain. There was his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Portarlington, a Colonel (Colonel Dunne); the hon. and gallant Member for the county of Dublin, ditto; the hon. and gallant Member for Armagh (Colonel Verner); and the hon. and gallant Member for the county of Londonderry, a captain (Mr. Bateson)—[Mr. BATESON: I am no captain.] He believed that, although the hon. Member had parted with his military rank, it still belonged to him. It had been said, "Once a priest, for ever a priest;"—once a lieutenant, for ever a captain. He would not, therefore, willingly rob the hon. Member of a title to which he had still a clear right. Now, it was quite evident that the attack which had been made on the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) was prepared; the reading of the extract from  Hansard 638 Cries of
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  deeply regretted that Her Majesty's Government had not themselves proposed a measure on the subject of the Irish Poor Law. The mere appointment of a Committee of Inquiry left the question in uncertainty.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, he wished to move the addition of the following names to the Committee:—General Sir De Lacy Evans, Colonel Lindsay, and Colonel Dunne.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Gentleman should give notice of that Motion for to-morrow.
 MR. B. OSBORNE : But it is now tomorrow, Sir (it was at that time near two o'clock).
 COLONEL PEEL  said he felt hound to complain of the absence of any officer connected
 641
 CAPTAIN BOLDBRO  also complained that there was not a single individual connected with the Ordnance department on the Committee. He thought that that omission was the more objectionable, as the public press had of late contained many attacks on that branch of the public service, and as these attacks were calculated to mislead the public. There was, in fact, a dead set made against the Ordnance department. He proposed that the name of the Clerk of the Ordnance (Colonel Anson) should be added to the Committee.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he merely proposed, with a few necessary exceptions, the reappointment of the Committee of last Session. He believed it was not advisable to overload the Committee with professional men, who would be better employed in giving their evidence as witnesses.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  hoped, that no deference to what happened to be the number selected last year would constrain the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer to exclude every Member connected with the Ordnance from the Committee. Many attacks had been made upon the Ordnance department since last year; and, besides, the proposed investigation involved science and details that could not be properly judged of by those who had no experience of them.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that if the Committee would proceed with its inquiry into the Army, he could ascertain whether it would be desirable to add to it some Gentleman connected with the Ordnance before the inquiry into that branch of the public service was commenced.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said: Sir, I certainly am relieved by the statement made by the Hon. Member (Mr. Stafford) who has just sat down, that it is not his intention to oppose the grant of 50,000 l. "That, in the opinion of this Committee, the application to Parliament for a grant of money for the relief of this distress, ought to have been accompanied with an estimate of the probable amount required for that purpose." 609 l. l. l. l. l. l 610 "That the continual application of sums of money raised by the general taxation of the Country to the relief of such distress, is vicious in principle, unjust in practice, and impolitic with respect to the suffering districts themselves, as tending to destroy all spirit of self-reliance." 611 612 613 l. l. l. 614 "In several unions the outdoor relief is far less in extent than it was at the corresponding period last year. For example, in the Kenturk union there were in the week ended 27th November, 1847, 18,460 persons relieved out of the work-house at a cost of 472 l. l. l. 661. l. 615 616 617 618
 MR. STAFFORD  said, however natural it might have been for the hon. Member (Mr. O. Gore) who had last addressed the
 599 l l. l. 600 l l. l l. 601 l. l. l. l. l. 602 l. 603 l. 604 l. 605 606 l. l. l. 607 l. l. l. 608 "That, in the opinion of this Committee, the application to Parliament for any sum of money for the relief of such distress, ought to have been accompanied with an estimate of the probable amount which will be required for this purpose; that the continual application of sums of money, raised by the general taxation of the Country, to the relief of such distress, is vicious in principle, unjust in practice, and impolitic with respect to the suffering districts themselves, as tending to destroy all spirit of self-reliance; that it is the duty of Her Majesty's Government to introduce, without delay, measures which may obviate the future necessity of applying to Parliament for the relief of local distress in Ireland."
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he would not vote for the grant on any conditions whatever. He had listened with the greatest attention to what had fallen from his hon. Friend the Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Stafford), and if he understood him right he meant to vote for the grant, with some conditions attached to it. Now this he (Colonel Sibthorp) would not do. He would yield to no man in the House, he might safely say, in humanity and consideration for his fellow-creatures; but he
 622
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that it would have been the more convenient course for the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hume) to have given notice of the question to be put. He was not prepared to say, that it was for the advantage of the public revenue or the advantage of the public service, that the whole amount of the gross revenue should be paid into the Exchequer.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Baronet might remember that in the statement which he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) made to the House last Wednesday, he said that in accordance with what he believed was the general understanding of the House, Her Majesty's Government were invested with the discretionary power of making small advances to Irish unions for the sole purpose of preserving the people from absolute starvation; and that in the exercise of such discretion, the Government had made grants amounting to about 3,000 l. l. 567
 MR. MUNTZ  said, notwithstanding the lateness of the hour, he could not allow the House to go to a vote without expressing his opinion upon the question before them. The other night he had voted against the Government, because he could not honestly or conscientiously support it, and on the present occasion he must do so again. He could not see how they could call upon the people of this country, taxed as they were, to contribute endless gratuities for the relief of Ireland; and they were particularly told that the application of that night would not be the last. The right hon. Member for Ripon (Sir J. Graham) had told them the other night that they could not allow the people to starve—that he would vote for the present grant, but that
 623 624 "Birmingham, February 5, 1849." Dear Sir—As the import duties on flint-glass will expire soon, the trade is, I fear, in danger of expiring also in this country, owing to those countries whoso manufactures are protected by an import duty being allowed, duty free, to send all their excess of production here, thus keeping up their prices at home, by not glutting their market: at the same time ruining ours. The manufacturers of this district are anxious to memorialise for a continuance of duty, being persuaded that they can prove that that alone will protect our trade, from the peculiar character of
 625 626 l. s. d.
 MR. GRATTAN  then rose to move the Amendment of which he had given notice:—
 "On Motion for Relief of Distress (Ireland), to insert after the word 'that' the words 'the Collectors of Excise in Ireland be henceforth directed, and do in future pay into the office of Vice-Treasurer in Dublin the amount of all Crown and quit-rents, and that the same be appropriated to the Relief of distressed Poor Law Unions in that Country.'" d. d. l. l. 592 l. l. l. Times Morning Post Morning Herald 593 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 594 l. l. l. l. "To John I owe some obligation, But John hath lately thought it fit To publish it to all the nation, So John and I are more than quit." l s. d. l. l. l. 595 l. l. 596 l. 597
 MR. H. GRATTAN : Her Majesty's name does not appear in this proposition.
 MR. LABOUCHERE , in answer to the question, was understood to say, that it was not in the contemplation of Government to bring in a Bill to abolish the Railway Board. Considerable reductions had been made in the railway department, but he did not think that the Railway Commission would be made a branch of the Board of Trade, and abolished as an independent board.
 Mr. LABOUCHERE  hoped that their discussions on the subject last Session
 565
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the Government had no present intention of proposing a measure to compel railways to carry passengers on Sundays. At the same time, he desired not to preclude himself
 564
 MR. HERRIES  inquired of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) what course he proposed taking with respect to the Committee on the Navigation Laws, which was among the orders for that evening, but which, from the business that should precede it, was not likely to be brought on that evening, and he was, therefore, desirous of knowing if the right hon. Gentleman would take it on another day, and if so, on what day? He should also wish to know whether the resolution which was to be proposed now was so nearly in accordance with the resolution proposed last Session, as that the understanding come to on that occasion should be now acted upon—viz., to allow the first reading of the Bill to take place, for the purpose of its circulation through the country, and then to let the discussion be afterwards had on the second reading, when they could enter upon the discussion with a general knowledge of the intentions of the Government on the question. It was important, then, for those who wished to take a part in the discussion, to know whether or not the present resolutions were the same, or nearly so, as those of last year.
 Mr. HERRIES  hoped that ample time would be allowed to intervene between the proposing of the resolution and the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. HUME  rose merely to state what course those who meant to object both to the Motion and the Amendment meant to take. He could not agree to the additions which were proposed by the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Stafford), because he thought them inconsistent in first agreeing to the grant, and then protesting against it. He disapproved of the grant; and he meant to divide first against the resolutions; and if they were rejected, then he would take the sense of the House against the grant.
 MR. HUME  wished to asked a question of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. It would be recollected, that last Session the House entered into a resolution that the gross revenue of the country should be paid into the Exchequer. He wished to know whether the gross revenue of the Customs and Excise, agreeably to the resolution, was to be paid into the Exchequer and brought to the public account or not?
 MR. HUME  said, that the Government were bound to come forward with some other measure to meet the distresses of Ireland, and to render the money given by this country really useful to her. As he did not think the grant good in principle, or likely to be of any service, he would take the sense of the House upon it.
 MR. LOCKE  rose, pursuant to notice, to ask the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade (Mr. Labouchere), whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce, during the present Session, any measure for securing to the public, on Sundays, the limited use of those railways which were open for passenger trafffic during the week?
 MR. BAINES  stated, that Mr. Drouet had certainly not been convicted of any offence whatever; but he had been put upon his trial upon two or three criminal charges, and that circumstance was sufficient to induce him (Mr. Baines) not to take any further steps as regarded that individual. When the cholera broke out in Mr. Drouet's establishment in the beginning of January last there were 1,372 children in the house, who had been sent there by thirteen different unions. As soon as the cholera made its appearance, the
 566
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, that it was not his intention to press the Amendment which stood in his name on the present occasion. He would not take upon himself the responsibility of opposing a vote which he believed to be absolutely necessary, and the object of which was to prevent the starvation of numbers of the Irish people. If any proposition to that effect was made, he hoped the Committee would not listen to it. But supposing that the Committee would agree to the vote, he would only attach one condition to it. It was now understood in Ireland that the poor had a right to relief in the extremity of destitution. And if the Committee came to a vote which should have the effect of doing away with that right, it would not only incur the heaviest of responsibilities, but would give a license to plunder to those in whose behalf that right had been proclaimed. The refusal of relief had gone to a lamentable extent. The vice-guardians of Ballina and Westport had declared that they refused relief in a great many cases in which, in their opinion, relief was necessary. That was incurring a dangerous responsibility on their part, but if they had not sufficient funds in hand he did not know what they could do. Now, if they under such circumstances refused this vote, or if they declared to those starving paupers who had been once admitted to relief as a right that they would have it no longer, they would render themselves liable to all the fatal consequences that might ensue. He would, therefore, on a future occasion, endeavour to persuade the House to agree to this condition—
 591
 MR. OSBORNE  asked the hon. Member for Lancaster (Mr. Greene), in the absence of the officials connected with the Woods and Forests, what progress had been made in the building of the New Houses of Parliament?
 MR. BREMRIDGE  asked the President of the Board of Trade, whether (after the notice of a Bill for consolidating the Boards of Excise and Taxes) it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to continue the present Railway Board as an independent Board, or whether Her Majesty)s Government contemplated, in the present Session of Parliament, bringing forward any measure to place the railway business of the country under the management of the Board of Trade?
 MR. O. GORE  said, he looked upon the speech which had just been made as conveying an accusation against every absentee. [Mr. GRATTAN: I made no accusation.] Although he resided in England, he was proud to acknowledge his connexion with Ireland, and to remember that he once had the honour of representing an Irish county; he also felt proud at the recollection that not much more than two years ago his tenantry in Ireland assembled and voted him one of the handsomest memorials of gratitude that had ever emanated from any similar body, for his kindness to them, and his attention to their wants. Under those circumstances he felt perfectly at case with regard to the arraignment of the hon. Member (Mr. Grattan). Agreeing in a great deal of what had fallen from him, he did not concur in all that he had said with regard to absentees. Although an absentee landlord might not spend so much money in the country as he would if he resided in it, still, if he per-formed his duty to his tenantry, and took care of the public institutions of the country, he could hardly be expected to do more. No man could reside in six or seven different places at once. His (Mr. O. Gore's) tenantry in Cornwall might much more justly accuse him of being an absentee landlord than his tenantry in Ireland; while even if he resided in Sligo, his tenantry in Westmeath might complain because he did not reside amongst them. It was impossible, he repeated, to reside everywhere. He entertained a sincere affection for Ireland, having spent
 598 l. "The rating for the support of the infirm is of little consequence, as it cannot exceed a shilling in the pound; but if some radical change—[he hogged pardon of the House for the use of the word 'radical']—if some radical change be not made for the support of able poverty, it will consume, in these free-trade times, the property of the country." l.
 SIR DEL EVANS  said, that he understood the orders were for a ship to touch once in three months, which he considered was not sufficient.
 SIR DE L. EVANS  said, that he understood there were six ships going from London and Liverpool with merchants and passengers to California, men of high respectability and of different professions. It was also probable that a still greater number of ships would go. It was understood, that they required some sort of protection, and he wished to know if a vessel of war would be stationed at St. Francisco?
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  inquired, pursuant to notice, of the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer, if any expenditure of public money in aid of the poor-law administration in Ireland, and if any, to what amount, and to what unions, had boon authorised under the minute of the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury, dated the 16th day of January, 1849.
 VISCOUNT DRUMLANRIG  inquired if Mr. Drouet, against whom a coroner's jury had returned a verdict of manslaughter, was still at the head of the pauper establishment at Tooting; also, what number of children were still there?
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, he felt hound, in conformity with the wishes of a large majority of his constituents, to oppose the Motion. Certain facts had been put forward, and circulated in a printed form, among the Members of the House, in support of this Bill; but they were, as he was prepared to show, not facts at all, but the reverse of facts. One of the assertions in this paper was, that none of the local boards were opposed to the Bill, except the Dublin corporation; but so far from that being the case, he held in his hand three petitions against the Bill. One of those was from the Wide-street Commissioners; another was from the Chamber of Commerce; and the other was from the Lord Mayor, Aldermen, and Burgesses of the city of Dublin. This Bill proposed to abolish four district boards, and to lodge their powers in a new board, to consist of the Lord Mayor, the High Sheriff, the chairman of the two boards of guardians for the city, the president of the Chamber of Commerce, the two representatives in Parliament of the city, and two commissioners to be named by the Lord Lieutenant. But he believed that not one of the gentlemen named would consent to serve, and that the Lord Lieutenant had not been consulted on the matter at all. The effect of the 60th clause would be to give Mr. Jackson, who was the author of this Bill, the costs, not only of the present Bill, but of three former similar Bills that had all been thrown out. The 33rd clause enacted that it should be lawful for the Treasury to advance a sum not exceeding 200,000 l 643
 MR. BROTHERTON  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it would be impossible for him to answer the question without having the Bill before him, as much necessarily depended upon the wording of the clause in question. He would look at it, however, and would be able to give an answer to-morrow.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, on consulting with his hon. Friends near him, he begged to ask leave to withdraw his Amendment, in order to move that the second reading be postponed until that day six months.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he should not persevere in the second reading of this Bill, unless under the full conviction that it was absolutely necessary for the city of Dublin. The object of the Bill was to get rid of the many conflicting interests now existing in Dublin, and place the various powers held by them under one board. The corporation of Dublin had already failed in their attempt to pass a similar Bill in their own favour; and he believed it would be admitted that all the respectable classes in the city were unanimous in their opposition to any attempt to confer new powers on the corporation. The hon. Gentleman appeared to have got hold of a wrong document, as the words were "but one of the local boards," instead of "not one of the local boards opposed the Bill."
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, his hon. Friend (Mr. Grogan) had not at all overstated the case when he said that the fiscal and other municipal regulations of Dublin required adjustment and improval. Several attempts had been made to introduce a better state of things; but, owing to the strong party animosities which prevailed
 644
 MR. HUME  said, that after the extraordinary admission of the right hon. Baronet (Sir W. Somerville), he thought the House had a right to call for an undertaking from the Government that a measure which they could force upon all parties should be introduced without delay to remedy those evils.
 The EARL of LINCOLN  expressed his great regret at the course which the right hon. Baronet (Sir W. Somerville) had thought it to be his duty to take on this question, more especially in the absence of any such pledge as that which the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) had called for. He (the Earl of Lincoln) had, since the period of his connexion with Ireland, taken a deep interest in the sanitary improvement of Dublin, as well as of the country generally, and from all the facts that had reached his knowledge, he doubted whether any large town in the empire was so much in want of a measure of this kind as Dublin. The right hon. Gentleman had alluded to the fact that on more than one occasion his predecessors in office, as well as himself, had endeavoured to bring those opposing parties to some understanding upon this subject; and the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had, he believed, more particularly exerted himself with that view, but without success. The
 645 646
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, there was a great deal in what the noble Earl had said. His only reason for suggesting the course he had done was, that the Lord Lieutenant had a few days ago received a deputation upon this subject, and he expressed to them the opinion that this Bill would impede rather than promote a satisfactory adjustment of the question. It was on that ground he had acted, and he would now suggest to the noble Earl and to the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Grogan), who had charge of the measure, whether it would not be possible to postpone this Bill till he could receive fresh instructions from Dublin. If there was another Bill before the House, it was certainly advisable that the Bills should be considered together.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, this suggestion placed them in an awkward predicament, because it had been brought under the notice of the House, that this Bill was an infringement of their Standing Orders.
 MR. W. PATTEN  suggested, that instead of postponing the Bill, the debate should be adjourned till that day fortnight.
 ALDERMAN O'BRIEN  said, that all the respectable citizens of Dublin were opposed to the Bill. No greater injury could be inflicted on that city than its passing,
 MR. REYNOLDS  was opposed to the adjournment of the debate. If they consented to postpone this measure, they entailed very heavy expenses on the opponents of the Bill. As to the hon. Members for Montrose (Mr. Hume) and Salford (Mr. Brotherton), although he entertained great respect for their opinions, he dissented from their opinions as applied to any of the institutions in Dublin, with which they were not connected or acquainted.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  appealed to
 647
 MR. VERNON SMITH  wished to ask a question of the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies. In the course of last Session he had stated, in reply to a question, that Sir Henry Pottinger had sent home a report, after he left the Cape of Good Hope, concerning the expenses of the Kaffir war, and the expenses of the colony. He then stated that the report had been referred to the Audit Office; and he (Mr. Vernon Smith) wished to know whether any report had been received from the Audit Office since the report of Sir Henry Pottinger?
 VISCOUNT MAHON  wished to ask a question of the right hon. Baronet the President of the Board of Control. There was a great anxiety at present pervading the public mind with regard to railways in India, especially after the explanations which he understood had taken place by the Indian Government. He wished to ask the right hon. Baronet what was the present state of that question, and what prospect there was of a portion, at least, of our Indian empire enjoying the advantage of railways?
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  said, he had intended to have seconded the Motion of his hon. Friend (Mr. Anstey), and he rejoiced that he had been anticipated in that intention by the hon. Baronet the Member for Waterford (Sir H. W. Barron). He begged to confirm all that had been said by his hon. Friends. In the parts with which he was connected, he could assure the House there were thousands of men in a state of destitution in consequence of the total absence of the means of obtaining subsistence for themselves and others. Had the Irish deep-sea fishery been attended to and encouraged, the Irish people would have been in comparative case, because the fishery would have given employment to the men on the coast. He believed, however, it would be better for his hon. Friend (Sir W. Barron) to allow the Committee to be named, and then the hon. Baronet might move an instruction to the Committee to include this branch of the question.
 MR. H. DRUMMOND  said, when he asked for leave to introduce a Bill for diminishing the labour and expense attendant upon the sale and transfer of real property, he thought he had stated sufficient to ensure the favourable reception of the measure by the House. There was no more reason why land should not be as perfectly free in the market as any other commodity. The hon. Gentleman, alluding to the then state of the House, observed that the subject did not seem to excite much interest, seeing that so great a proportion of the hon. Members had gone home to dinner. He might quote many authorities who had advocated this sentiment in times past; but it would be a work of supererogation. Were it not for the feudal tenures which were still preserved, the disposal of land would be quite unshackled. He would not now enter into the nature of these tenures, or show how all their general evil had been maintained, although the burdens upon owners of land had been long-since remitted; and as he did not intend to dilate upon these subjects, he felt himself in this difficulty, with respect to recommending his measure—that he did not know upon what grounds the opposition to it could go, and therefore he did not know what objection to answer. He could only reply at hazard to a few difficulties which he had heard started out of doors. First, he had been told that it was presumptuous in a person not called to the bar to introduce a Bill upon a subject of this kind. Now, being called to the bar, meant taking a certain number of dinners, and paying a certain amount of fees. And he had certainly not been able to discover any necessary connexion between these operations and the capability of drawing a Bill. The question was not one in which a lawyer need bestir himself. Sidney Smith said long ago that the Court of Chancery was like a boa constrictor, which swallowed the estate of an English gentleman whole, and digested it at its leisure. Then why should lawyers bestir themselves in law reform? They performed the office of masticators and digesters, and that was probably enough for them. No. This was a question in which the owners of land, and those who might become the owners of land, were the parties really interested. But then, it was said, that nobody but a lawyer could draw up a Bill. That remained to be proved.
 658 caput mortuum Rusticus expectat 659
 MR. P. WOOD  seconded the Motion.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he would offer no objection to the introduction of the Bill. The hon. Member (Mr. H. Drummond) had clearly informed the House of the object of the measure, and of the mode by which it was proposed to be carried into effect; but it was impossible to express any very decided opinion upon the subject until the Bill was printed and in the hands of the Members. Nobody could deny the desirability of the object the hon. Member sought to obtain; and he (the Solicitor General) thought that the hon. Member was in the right direction as to the mode of carrying that object into effect. He had no doubt that registration was the most efficacious mode of effecting it, and that no registration could be complete and effectual without a very perfect system of maps. But the subject was involved in very great difficulties—difficulties so great that he had paid great attention to see how they could be obviated; but there was no objection to allow the Motion to pass, and he would give the hon. Member every assistance in carrying his very laudable object into effect.
 MR. BROTHERTON  seconded the Motion.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he was glad the hon. Member (Sir J. Pakington) had introduced a measure having so desirable an object in view, and that when he saw a copy of the Bill, he would pay the utmost attention to its provisions.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that until he saw a copy of the Bill, he could not promise it his support; but that he was decidedly opposed to every species of bribery and corruption at elections. He believed that until the giving of wages and places to those who supported certain candidates was done away with, there could be no end to bribery and corruption; and that the greatest corruption was practised by those hon. Members on the other side of the House who would saddle it, if they could, upon their political opponents.
 MR. HENLEY  thanked the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lewis) for the lucid statement
 664 l l s 665
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  had gathered from the clear statement of the hon. Member (Mr. Lewis), that the principle of his measure was to be the consolidation of turnpike trusts, and the payment of their debts by means of a sinking fund. That entirely met his idea as to the manner in which the difficulties connected with the question of turnpike trusts might be removed. In 1843, when Sir James Graham was Secretary for the Home Department, a Bill was introduced relative to turnpike trusts, and was referred to a Committee, of which he (Sir J. Pakington) was chairman. That Committee concurred with him in strongly recommending the adoption of the principle now proposed by the hon. Under Secretary for the Home Department. The hon. Member for Oxford (Mr. Henley) had omitted to take into consideration that the tolls derived from the turnpike roads would go in aid of the sinking fund to pay off the debt; but, at the same time, it could not be denied that the adoption of the measure would impose a great charge on the county rates; and, on that account, it could not fail to be viewed with jealousy.
 MR. BROTHERTON  approved of the measure suggested, and, believing it would be productive of general benefit, expressed a hope that it might eventually be adopted.
 MR. SLANEY  observed, that no doubt there were considerable difficulties in the way of settling the present question; but he believed the clear statement which had been made that night, would be met with approbation throughout the country, and it showed, at least, that the greatest possible attention had been paid to the subject. Instead of the carrying out of the proposition being an expensive improvement, he was of opinion that it would eventually be found the most economical arrangement for the landed interest that had ever been made in this country. Every one knew how much good means of communication throughout a district enhanced the value of land. He concluded by expressing his hope that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lewis)
 666
 MR. SPOONER  thought there was a good deal of justice in what had fallen from his hon. Friend the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley). He did not think the tolls could come in aid of the sinking fund, as was contemplated, because they were at present inadequate to meet the charges on them; and, besides, he considered that it would not be fair to have well-managed trusts brought in to bear the burden of ill-managed ones. He was content, however, to give the measure every fair consideration. It was a matter of great importance also for them to consider, how they would bring upon the county rates the sum of 8,000,000 l
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  confessed he looked with some suspicion upon a proposition which would tend to put the roads of the country under a centralisation system instead of a local control—a system to which he was always opposed; and although he was not disposed to oppose the measure from what they had then heard of it, he would caution the hon. Member who introduced it against being too sanguine about its ultimate success.
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  said, one of the great difficulties with which they would have to contend, was the immense debt which now impended over the turnpike trusts. Those which were well managed, he agreed with the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Spooner), ought not to be saddled with the debts of others' mismanagement. There was another part of the subject upon which he felt some mistrust. For centuries there had been a certain mode adopted in this country for the management of highways with branches, which it might not be advisable to change. He thought the country roads at the present moment much better than they had been at former periods; and he would ask, why was it that these roads were now to be placed under this new management? He had a mistrust, he confessed, about leaving the highways in the hands of boards of guardians. He believed that they had enough to do at present, and more than they could do well, without imposing any such additional work as this upon them. He gave the hon. Member (Mr. Lewis) who brought forward the measure every credit for the best intentions, and he
 667
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he could not help remarking the strange coincidence of the same Government, which had only a few nights ago come down to the House with a Bill for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act in Ireland, now coming forward to propound a scale of political franchise for the same people lower than that enjoyed by the people of England. Let not the right hon. Baronet (Sir W. Somerville) flatter himself that because, with the thin attendance of Members now in the House, and the seeming acquiescence in his present Motion, that his (Mr. Stafford's) side of the House, in the least degree, pledged its assent to any one of the details of this Bill, or that it was in any way hindered from resorting to every legitimate means for opposing its final passing. With regard to the amount of the franchise, and with regard to the same qualification being adopted for both town and county districts, he (Mr. Stafford) would reserve to himself the most free and entire right of fully discussing and criticising each of these points. He also attached
 671
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  thought the remark of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Stafford) who had just spoken, as to the inopportuneness of the present measure, seeing it was only the other night they had been called upon to suspend the constitution in Ireland, was something very like mere child's play. For his part, he (Mr. Roche) did not think the measure was sufficiently extensive; instead of desiring to pare it down, he considered it did not go far enough. He had hoped, after the great examples given of late throughout Europe, of the extension of the rights of popular representation, that the Government of Great Britain and Ireland would not have lagged behind other nations, which formerly it was her glory and boast to excel, in the liberties and freedom enjoyed by her people—in the amount of concessions it would yield to the masses in this ago of advancement and popular enlightenment. With regard to the system of registration proposed, he hoped it would be at least the means of putting an end to the disgusting scenes that now occurred from time to time in the registration courts.
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  considered, in the present prostrate condition of Ireland, when they were called upon to make grants from the national treasury as subsidies to unions in Ireland overwhelmed with a rapidly increasing pauper population, that measures of a very different character from the present—which he could not but characterise as a party measure, intended by the Government as a bait to catch support from hon. Members in that House, and which could confer no conceivable practical good on the starving people or the desolate estates of Ireland—were imperiously called for, and demanded precedence from Her Majesty's Ministers. There were the medical charities of Ireland, affecting the interests of the poor, and also entailing heavy expense upon the most distressed districts; then there was a sanitary measure for the towns and cities of Ireland (the measure of last year having proved a complete failure); then there was the extension of railways in that country; next its fisheries, and a variety of other
 672
 MR. GROGAN  said, that, considering the state of Ireland, a much more useful and necessary Bill might have been introduced by the Government. For to bring forward a measure like the present, was to give the Irish people a stone when they asked for bread. If, however, such a measure were necessary as a popular boon, let them, in common justice and common fairness, see that the existing valuation adopted in the different unions which this Bill proposed to take as its basis, should first he made of equal force and equal stringency, and be first remodelled upon an impartial and uniform scale. This would be an absolutely indispensable preliminary to the present measure, for the poor-law rating was not made upon the same basis in any two out of the total number of unions in Ireland.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  thought no hon. Member need entertain any fear of an undue extension of votes in Ireland as likely to result from this Bill. The rapid breaking down of the small ratepayers, now unfortunately going on in that country, was quite enough to guard against any very largo accession to the lists of voters. Again, with respect to the towns, he was strongly of opinion that this franchise upon the eight pound rating, instead of increasing, would very much diminish the existing number of voters. It was the interest of the parties to keep the valuation down as much as possible; and certainly the advantage of the franchise would not prove a sufficient inducement to make them prefer rating, which they now strove by every possible shift to avoid. No one had more strongly censured the Government for not redeeming its past pledges to the Irish people; but he was glad to accept this measure as a step—though certainly a very small step—in the right direction. There was one excellent principle in this Bill—that was, it proposed to disconnect
 673
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Trelawny) who made this Motion, had shown in his speech that he brought it forward with the view of applying the revenues of these two duchies to the exigencies of the public service as part of the supplies. It was on this ground that he (Lord J. Russell) must oppose this Motion. This House, before which the whole question of the revenues of the Crown came, had declared that the Crown
 668
 MR. HAWES  said, that the report had been received; but he was not yet in a condition to state when it would be in the hands of the Members. It was a very complicated report, and a very laborious inquiry.
 MR. URQUHART  asked the noble Viscount the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, whether the documents connected with the recent transactions in Sicily, which have already been published in the newspapers, would be laid on the table of the House?
 MR. G. THOMPSON  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the President of the Board of Control when he would be prepared to present to the House the papers relating to the state of affairs in the Punjaub, and to the recent outbreak in that country?
 SIR H. W. BARRON  seconded the Motion, and suggested the propriety of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Anstey) adding to his Motion words which would include the deep-sea fisheries of Ireland. The deep-sea fisheries formed a question of the utmost importance, and it was one which Parliament had neglected to a most culpable extent. It presented an inexhaustible fund of wealth and employment, and yet it had been impossible to induce Parliament to look to it. The Scotch fishermen had been carefully instructed in the best methods of catching and curing fish, under the auspices of a board that was
 653 l vox et preterea nihil 654
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, that the Bill of last year had been rendered inoperative from the size of the districts into which the country was divided. They were so large as to render anything like co-operation impossible.
 MR. BRIGHT  wished to ask another question upon this subject. He wished to know whether the Indian Government had come to the determination not to make these railways itself, but to have them made by private companies?
 MR. TRELAWNY  said, in the present state of the House, he should not press his Motion to a division.
 MR. TRELAWNY  rose to move—
 "That it be an Instruction to the Committee to extend their inquiry to the Duchies of Cornwall and Lancaster." l l l
 SIR J. YOUNG  said, that he had no objection to the Motion, but he feared that the appointment of the Committee would only lead to the usual result—namely, that no legislative enactment could supply that defect in the Irish fisheries which could alone be adequately met by well-directed private enterprise. He believed that had capital and industry been applied by Irishmen to those fisheries in past times, they would be now in a most flourishing condition. He believed also that it had been already clearly proved that rights to several of the fisheries existed in Ireland to a much greater extent than many supposed, and that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Anstey) who made the present Motion would find himself mistaken if he fancied that by the appointment of this Committee he could set those rights aside. He was aware that the owners had, in several instances, surrendered rights which they had claimed for half a century, and accepted a compromise; but still costly litigation would be produced, if there was any general interference attempted with private rights, many of which were supported by legal opinions of the highest eminence.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  rose to move—
 "For a Select Committee to inquire into the present state of the Inland Fisheries and Navigation of Ireland, and the obstructions which hinder the enjoyment of the same, and the best means of removing such obstructions; and to report their opinion thereupon to the House." 649 quasi 650 651 l l l 652
 MR. M. GIBSON  said, he did not understand the hon. Mover (Mr. Trelawny) to propose that these lands should be sold and applied in aid of the public burdens; but merely to state that a great constitutional authority had advocated an inquiry into these revenues, which presented so
 669 "Every one of these principalities has the apparatus of a kingdom for the jurisdiction over a few private estates, and the formality and charge of the Exchequer of Great Britain for collecting the rents of a country squire."
 MR. W. FAGAN  supported the Motion. He said that instead of 15,000 l l 656 l s
 SIR J. HOBHOUSE  said, the Indian Government had come to no such determination. The real state of the case was this—at present they proposed that these undertakings should be carried on by private companies; but the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bright) might rest assured that the Indian Government had come to no determination, if the work should not be done by private companies, not to undertake it themselves.
 SIR J. HOBHOUSE  said, that, as at present advised, he had no papers to present connected with the war in the Punjaub.
 SIR J. HOBHOUSE  said, that negotiations were at present going on between certain railway companies and the Indian Government. Whilst those negotiations were going on, the noble Viscount would perceive that no good end would be answered by his explanation of the terms which the one party was prepared to propose, and the other to accept. But the moment he became acquainted with the result, if the noble Viscount would ask him the question again, he would have no hesitation in answering.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, it was not his intention to object to the appointment of the Committee asked for by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Anstey). But as to the suggestion of his hon. Friend behind him (Sir H. W. Barron), it referred to a totally and entirely different subject. Indeed he (Sir W. Somerville) did not see how anything in the Motion of the hon. Member for, Youghal (Mr. Anstey) could be made to apply to the subject of the deep-sea fisheries. The hon. Member for Youghal had correctly stated the present condition of the law. He believed the hon. Gentleman had directed his attention very carefully to the state of the law upon the subject in Ireland, and he had correctly stated both its condition and the objects which he (Sir W. Somerville) had in view in proposing the measure of last year. Several Acts of Parliament had been passed for the purpose of regulating the fisheries in Ireland. There were general complaints from all parts of the country as to the condition of those laws, and allegations that they were inoperative, because there was no police to carry them out. The Bill of last Session was therefore enacted, to give power to the parties interested to meet together and arrange methods by which they could be their own conservators, and to increase the anxiety of gentlemen whose properties lay up the rivers to protect
 655
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, there was an inconvenience to the public service in introducing into the papers of that House what had already appeared in the newspapers.
 MR. MOFFATT  said, the Bill of which he now rose to propose the second reading, was one of common sense and common honesty. It was one intended to apply to all Members of the House the same principles which were now applied to a certain class, and it proposed to withdraw' from all Members of this House the privilege of not being compelled to pay their debts, which other members of society had not. In introducing this Bill to the House, he had been especially careful to preserve the privileges of the House. He had framed it, as far as possible, on the model of the Act of 1812; and he therefore need nut say that it did not interfere with the inviolability of Members' persons from arrest. The principle which he did apply had been found
 674 675
 MR. BERNAL  said, that last Session he had felt it his duty to object to this Bill. He considered that the Bill was then so encumbered, so loaded, he might say, with provisions, which would be found to be totally unworkable in practice, that he then felt it his duty to oppose the measure. In this Bill the principle was to be evolved, and extracted from its details. He did not mean to oppose the second reading, but he warned the House, and he warned his right hon. Friend (Sir G. Grey), that the details here were all important. In particular there was one clause which provided that a seat must be left vacant for six months from the time when a creditor applies to the Court of Insolvency for a vesting order on the insolvent's property. How far that was right to the constituencies of the country, he would leave to this House to determine; but he warned this House to look at the Bill with great caution and jealousy. It was all very fine to say, let us be moral, let us be just, let us act right; but, on the other hand, let them beware that, under cover of this justice and morality, they did not commit great injustice both to Members and constituencies. He held it as an axiom that a man might be poor, and yet just; that he might be very opulent, and yet immoral.
 MR. GREENE  suggested whether it might not be desirable to refer the whole
 680
 MR. MOFFATT  objected to sending the Bill to a Committee upstairs; but he did not object to postpone it for a fortnight.
 MR. ALDERMAN THOMPSON  asked whether any intimation had been received from the American Government as to any convention with respect to the coasting trade?
 MR. BERNAL  having read the resolution,
 MR. H. DRUMMOND  said: As I have found there exists throughout the country great misapprehension as to the real nature of this measure, and as it is just possible that some hon. Members in the House may labour under the same misapprehension; I think it right to state that this question, divesting it of official jargon, in plain honest English is simply this—that it is the latest of a series of measures inculcated by the Manchester school, the end and object of which is to discharge all British labourers, and to employ for the future foreign labourers. Need I go through the details?—it is unnecessary. You have said, you will admit foreign timber instead of English timber—yon have said, you will admit foreign timber sawyers
 713
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, that when two sides of an assembly like that declared such very opposite opinions, and each with such decided confidence in their truth, it almost always happened that some principle had been overlooked, or at least not fairly explained and laid open in the arena of contest. He apprehended there was a misunderstanding on the opposite side of the House as to the principle which his side of the House maintained. In simple words, they maintained that protection, come from what side it would, always meant giving a shilling for sixpenny-worth in return. On that fact they were ready to stake any credit with the country which they possessed; and if they had any such credit (and they had some), it was entirely because the large proportion of the country had been thoroughly indoctrinated with that principle. They did not believe that to give a shilling to receive sixpence in return was, or could be, or ever was, or ever would be, either sound policy or sound commercial wisdom. When Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House spoke of the industry of the country, as demanding protection and encouragement—what they really meant was, to prop up one industry by taking away two or three others. A former eminent Member of that House once advised his son to take a wife, and the young man replied, "Willingly, Sir; whose wife shall I take?" In the same manner, when hon. Gentlemen opposite talked of protecting industry, he always asked them who was to suffer? The whole question resolved itself into this: some man's industry was to be put a stop to, in order to increase the produce of some other man's industry, with the  tertium quid s d 721 722 723
 MR. ALDERMAN THOMPSON  said, as it was generally understood that the resolutions would not be opposed, he should address very few observations to the Committee. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down (Mr. Ricardo), had asked what was required by those who were opposed to the measure. He (Mr. Alderman Thompson) could make a very short answer to the hon. Gentleman. They wanted a valuable consideration for those commercial advantages which were about to be surrendered—they wanted reciprocity. The hon. Gentleman had reminded him that on a former occasion he (Mr. Alderman Thompson) had made the admission that certain concessions ought to be made to the commercial interests on certain articles connected with the long voyage.
 727 728 "Some time since I paid a visit to the city of Glasgow, and my attention was directed to two vessels advertised as loading for Manilla. They lay contiguous to each other—one was a Spanish, the other was a British ship. The latter was, in every respect, the finer vessel, and, on inquiry, I found that the owners offered to take goods by her at from 15 s s s s ad valorem 729 730 s d s d s "If the information can be relied on, and I believe it to be correct, it fully explains the largo comparative difference in the cost of ships of the two countries, and will, I think, occasion insurmountable difficulty against British shipowners. In addition to the difference of labour I mentioned yesterday, I am informed moulds are sent into the country, and the timbers converted, and cut to their exact size in the woods where the timber grows. Much expense is thus saved in carriage, and best white oak is delivered in New York, converted to its exact size for use at 32 cents, or 1 s d s d s s d s d "I confidently assert that the mercantile ma-
 731 "I have always looked to the mercantile navy for the purpose of supplying our ships when short of hands. I have always found it succeed; the seamen bred in the merchant service are the best in the world, and the most trustworthy in all dangers and difficulties. I think we must look to it as our mainstay."
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  observed, that the hon. Member for Bridport (Mr. Mitchell) had stated that the trade with Cuba was now almost entirely in the hands of British shipowners; the inference intended to be drawn being, apparently, that British shipping could, without any protection, he able to compete with foreign. If this measure passed, the Americans would enter into the trade with Cuba in such a manner that this country would soon be deprived of it. Another fallacy of that hon. Member (Mr. Mitchell) was, that the consumer would derive great benefit from the repeal of the navigation laws. The consumer might be benefited by the reduction of freight in the case of heavy articles, as, for example, that of timber; but he appealed to the House, and to the hon. Gentleman himself, whether a reduction of freight in the case of sugar, to the extent of the sixteenth part of a penny per pound, would confer any benefit on the consumer. He would not then enter into the general question, reserving his remarks for a future occasion. He would only, then, declare his entire concurrence in the opinion of his right hon. Colleague (Mr. Herries), that the naval superiority of this
 740
 LORD J. RUSSELL : In answer to the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone), I will state the facts as they have occurred. The hon. Gentleman now at the head of the Poor Law Board (Mr. Baines) was offered by me, in the name of Her Majesty, the office which he now holds. He declined to take it. He said that he should be ready to take the office, but that he could not do so, if he were not to be at liberty to oppose the repeal of the navigation laws, his opinion being against that repeal, and he having already voted in conformity with that opinion. My answer to him was, that I considered his services of such importance that I should not in any way interfere with the free exercise of his opinion and his vote on the subject, understanding from him, as I did, that upon every other subject he agreed with the views that Her Majesty's Government entertained. I know not whether it is necessary, as the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) has spoken of the conduct of such a proceeding, that I should mention that, a good
 682
 MR. SPEAKER : Docs it relate to the navigation laws?
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Member could not move that as an amendment; but according to a new rule of the House, if the hon. Member had any clause to propose, it might be received.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  regretted that his right hon. Friend (Mr. Goulburn) had not given him notice of his intention to put the question. He
 742
 MR. BANKES : The hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) has put a question to the hon. Gentleman behind me (Mr. Drummond), and has asked him whether the low price of food, caused by one of the measures included in this series, has not proved of advantage to the labouring classes? But I will put a question to the hon. Gentleman, and I ask him of what avail is the low price of food to the labourer who has got no money to buy it? This is, in point of fact, the way to look at the question; and, I think, if the hon. Member had listened to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, who introduced this measure, he would have been struck with that portion of the speech in which he said that the labourers of America were honest and diligent, whilst the labourers of this country were of a very opposite description—that, in fact, they formed illegal combinations, and were the reverse of the diligent and praiseworthy labourers who were to be found in America; and that, in order to encourage them, he was about to place them in competition with fo-
 718 Cries of 719 720
 MR. ROBINSON  said, he should not have risen on the present occasion if the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) had thought it right to lay the resolutions upon the table, accompanied by a short statement of the facts and reasons which induced him to propose those resolutions. But he had gone into a lengthened statement in favour of the policy of the Government, and had referred to certain portions of the evidence given before the Committees of the two House of Parliament, to suit his own purpose, carefully and studiously overlooking all those other portions of the evidence, given by the same parties, which militated against his scheme. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Bridport (Mr. Mitchell) had risen to expose what he called the gross fallacies of his hon. Friend the Member for Westmoreland (Mr. Alderman Thompson). Now he (Mr. Robinson) would endeavour to show that the hon. Member for Bridport and other Members on that side of the House, had fallen into some fallacies. The hon. Member spoke of the question as if the consumer was the only party in this country whoso interest was to be consulted. Now, he would ask what proportion of Her Majesty's subjects were consumers who were not also producers; and of what use would it be to the consumer to get an article cheaper if he lost the power of production? That was the whole question, and he fully agreed in the short and pithy speech of the hon. Member for Surrey (Mr. Dummond), that all these free-trade questions which had been brought before the House in succession tended to the discouragement of labour and the depreciation of wages, and would ultimately pauperise the country. Another fallacy had been put forward by the hon. and gallant Member for Bradford (Colonel Thompson), who contended that the system of protection advocated on that
 734 l 735 s 736
 MR. GOULBURN  said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. At the close of the last Session, Parliament, in consequence of the distressed state of the West India islands, granted to them a loan, on certain conditions as to repayment. Among the islands entitled to the benefit of that loan, was, of course, Jamaica; and the right hon. Gentleman was no doubt aware that, owing to the distressed state of that island, and to the circumstance that it was already encumbered with debts, which there were no means of discharging, the colonists were unable to avail themselves of the benefits intended for them by Her Majesty's Government. The loan having been designed to improve the condition of the colony, by encouraging the immigration of labourers, he wished to ask whether, seeing that the colony had, for the reason which he had stated, declined to accept the loan, the Government proposed to accomplish the original object of the loan by any other mode?
 MR. GOULBURN  said, he did not intend to offer any opposition to the second reading of this Bill, but there were many points which required the serious consideration of the House. The hon. Member (Mr. Moffatt) who introduced the measure, had rather addressed himself to answering objections which had been urged against it, than to stating reasons in its favour; but as the Bill was altogether different from that of last Session, he (Mr. Goulburn) was of opinion that the hon. Gentleman should have stated some cogent reasons for its adoption by that House. The hon. Member's Bill was at variance with its provisions, for he said that he confined it
 677 678
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said: Mr. Bernal, the duty has again devolved upon me of calling the attention of the House to the laws which regulate the navigation of this country, and I rejoice that I am able to do so at such a period of the Session as will insure to the House a full opportunity of discussing this important question, and which, I trust, may lead to the solution of a problem, which, I am sure, cannot he longer left undecided without producing consequences most injurious to the commercial and colonial interests of this empire. We had long discussions upon this subject during the last Session of Parliament; and, although they did not lead to any practical conclusion, yet I trust the time devoted by the House to the question has not been altogether lost. I trust we shall be able to approach the discussion this Session, having already cleared away many preliminaries; and Parliament having then expressed an opinion upon points on which this measure mainly rests, we shall, I hope, be prepared, without any protracted preliminary discussions, to approach the question which it will be my duty to submit to the House to-day. I am glad that the country and the colonies have had time to consider this question, the magnitude of which I am not disposed to underrate to
 683 684 685 686 "My Lord—I have the honour to transmit, for your information, the copy of a letter addressed to Mr. Hindis, the Inspector General of this province, showing the results of the efforts made during the past season by a most respectable and enterprising mercantile house in this city to open a trade with the far west for the introduction, by the route of the St. Lawrence, of various articles which have hitherto been supplied exclusively through the Mississippi or the Erie Canal. Your Lordship will not fail to observe how formidable an obstacle the existing navigation laws oppose to the establishment of a trade which is calculated to prove so beneficial both to Canada and the mother country.—I have, &c., (signed) ELGIN and KINCARDINE." "We have now an order for 250 tons of Scotch pig iron for Chicago, and doubt not that large quantities will be required at the different American ports on the western lakes the coming season; but we find our hands completely tied, and our efforts paralysed, by the operation of these obnoxious navigation laws; but for them we should unquestionably be able to supply Upper Canada with all the products of the west Indies on cheaper terms than now that section of the province is supplied from New York; and we should be able to send our own products not only to our own but to foreign West India islands, where large quantities of staves, headings, hoops, &c., for the sugar and molasses trade, are annually sent by our neighbours; and we have latterly brought in from the State of Maine samples of what are called shooks—that is, such articles put up in compact and portable form—and solicited tenders from owners of sawmills and coopers to supply such here, and we find we can supply and ship all the articles required for that trade cheaper than the same articles can be shipped from Maine or Massachusetts to the West Indies. Last fall we sent orders to Cuba for three cargoes of sugar and molasses, provided prices came within our limit; such was the case; but no British vessel could be found to load for Montreal. Americans could be found in abundance ready to load on terms nearly as low as for New York; but then, thanks to our navigation laws, they could not come up our river with foreign produce. Well,
 687 688 689 690 691 "The amount of duty payable upon these articles is trifling, and does not form any material consideration; it is about 3 s d s d 692 "I do not, because I think the quantity of foreign timber used in shipbuilding bears but a very small proportion to the whole." 693 694 695 â fortiori 696
 MR. LABOUCHERE : I think I can answer the question of the hon. Member. In an interview which I had a short time ago with the American Minister, Mr. Bancroft, he spoke of his desire that such a convention should be signed. He said that he should be willing the next day to sign any convention which should include the coasting trade. I replied, that on a question of this kind, I did not think I ought to anticipate the decision of the House; that it was a question upon which Parliament should decide. But I have no doubt that Mr. Bancroft would be prepared to-morrow to give his assent to throwing open the coasting trade in the modified manner I have explained to the House. These, Sir, are the outlines of the scheme I have recommended
 697 698 699 "That it is expedient to remove the restrictions which prevent the free carriage of goods by sea, to and from the United Kingdom and the British Possessions abroad; and to amend the Laws regulating the Coasting Trade of the United Kingdom; subject, nevertheless, to such control, by Her Majesty in Council, as may be necessary, and also to amend the Laws for the Registration of Ships and Seamen."
 MR. LABOUCHERE  would not enter upon the general question, or remark upon the topics that had been touched upon by hon. Members, as it was now approaching the hour when, by the rules of the House, the adjournment must take place. He hoped, however, that the Committee would allow the resolution to pass, so that the Government should be allowed to bring in the Bill without delay. The Government had, during the recess, thought it right to make communications to some foreign Powers of the purport of the measure introduced last Session, and intended to be now proposed to Parliament, for the purpose of endeavouring to obtain from those Governments, in return, a general notion of the course they were disposed to take with regard to navigation. Those papers would be shortly laid on the table of the House, and be in the hands of Members before the second reading.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that, undoubtedly, under the plan which he proposed to introduce, an American vessel would be able to call at one port, take in a cargo, and then proceed to another port; but she would not be able to carry on a regular to-and-fro coasting trade. Resolved reported agreed to ordered
 MR. HERRIES  expressed a hope that the next stage would not he fixed until ample time had been given for examining the papers which had been referred to by the President of the Board of Trade.
 MR. HERRIES  said, the resolution, accompanied by the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, placed him under doubt as to the course he ought now to pursue. He had understood it was agreed upon last Session that the debate on this great national question should be allowed to be resumed this Session from the point at which it then left off. This being so, he had hoped that the principle of the measure would not have been reintroduced for discussion at this period of the proceedings. If the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) had thought proper simply to acquaint hon. Members on his (Mr. Herries) side of the House with the addition, by way of alteration, to his measure of last Session which he had now submitted to the House, he (Mr. Herries) should have confined his observations to the new part of the question, and should not have thought it necessary to address a word to the House on those great general propositions which this question involved. But as the right hon. Gentleman had entered into so long a statement, touching the main points of the question on which they were so materially divided, he could not suffer the right hon. Gentleman's observations to pass without some notice from his side of the House; although he had no objection to allow for the present the other parts of the resolution to pass without opposition. With these views, he could not presume to detain the House very long by the observations he should make on this occasion. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) had closed his speech with some general remarks and some general reflections, applicable to the principle of the proposed measure, which it was difficult to permit to pass unnoticed; but the notice of which must lead to much debate. But however much he was invited by that proceeding to enter into the whole field of controversy, he should not hesitate to say that, after giving the matter the most serious consideration, he had arrived at the conclusion that he should be taking the wiser course, and which was not only best suited to the convenience of
 700 701 702 703 704 s 705 706 "I recommend it to your serious reflection how far, and in what mode, it may be expedient to guard against embarrassment from these contingencies, by such encouragements to our own navigation as will render our commerce and agriculture less dependent on foreign bottoms, which may fail us in the very moment most interesting to both of these great objects. Our fisheries, and the transportation of our own produce, offer us abundant means for guarding ourselves against this evil." "If it is expedient for America to have vessels employed in commerce at all, it will be proper that she have enough to answer all the purposes intended; to form a school for seamen, to lay the foundation of a navy, and be able to support herself against the interference of foreigners. I do not think there is much weight in the observatiens that the duty we are about to lay on in favour of American vessels is a burden on the community, and particularly oppressive to some parts; but, if there were, it may be a burden of that kind which will ultimately save us from one that is greater." 707 "Your Committee is most anxious to submit to the House the claims of the coasting trade to immediate relief, not only on economical but on political grounds of the highest importance to the maritime interests of this country." "The great support of the naval power of the United Kingdom has been the facility of obtaining a supply of hardy seamen from the mercantile shipping, whenever required for the service of the Navy. Great Britain has had several brandies of commerce—the nursery of that hardy race which have so ably maintained the honour and power of the country on that clement where her force has been—and we trust is destined long to continue—paramount; but the earliest attention of Parliament is requisite to obviate the results that may take place, from the changes that are going on in the world by the introduction of steam; and, in our own country in particular, amongst the coasting shipping. Your Committee are the more anxious to direct the attention of Parliament to this important subject, because some other branches of our trade, which have hitherto supplied the hardiest of our sailors, have of late years considerably diminished, from various causes which it is unnecessary to detail. From our colonial trade in the East and West Indies we have
 708 * * * 709 710 "When he was speaking of America in a British House of Commons, it was not improper to say that in matters of navigation there existed toward us a spirit of rivalry—a spirit which he did not blame, but which should make him doubt the wisdom of encourasing the growth of the mercantile marine of America." 711 712 from the Ministerial side
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, an appeal having been made to Irish Members who formerly voted for free trade by the hon. Member for Dorsetshire (Mr. Bankes), he felt bound to say for himself, and he (Mr. J. O'Connell) believed there were some other Irish Members who concurred with him—that, so far was he from repenting of the vote which he had formerly given, he would most willingly follow the same course again. When the corn laws were first introduced in 1815, those who were prominent in the popular agitation in Ireland at that period saw the error of those laws quite as clearly as that House had done three years ago. A political leader told the people of that country that, although it was pretended that the protective system would be a benefit to Ireland, he did not believe it would prove so, observing that Ireland could not really be benefited at the expense of other portions of the empire; and he went into details in support of that view. He (Mr. J. O'Connell) was proud to think that Irish Members had assisted in securing the repeal of the corn laws; and though they had since been deserted by the English advocates of free trade, he trusted they would still vote for similar measures. The loss of life would have been infinitely greater in his own country if the navigation laws had not been suspended; and he believed that his countrymen would be benefited by that cheapening of the cost of food which must arise from the lowering of freights. On these grounds, and on the great principle that all monopoly was an evil, he should, as an Irish Member, record his vote for the removal of all commercial restrictions, and more particularly for the repeal of the navigation laws.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  proposed that the report should be considered that day six months.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  would then move as a clause that of which he had given notice as an instruction.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  hoped the Government would not attempt to proceed with the measure, as by so doing the House would lose one stage of its progress so far as discussion was concerned.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  would feel great pleasure in doing so. He observed that when a Bill of a much less stringent character was introduced in 1833 by Gentle-
 743
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  said, it had been generally understood at the commencement of the debate, that the resolutions of the right hon. Gentleman would not be opposed by hon. Gentlemen opposite—that the details of the measure were not to be discussed—and that the conversation would end by the passing of the resolutions, the discussion being reserved for the second reading of the Bill. Under these circumstances, he should certainly refrain from entering into any details; but he must say, after all he had heard from hon. Gentlemen opposite, he was puzzled to conceive the principle upon which they founded their opposition to the present measure. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stamford (Mr. Herries) had declared that if he could obtain reciprocal concessions from foreign countries, he should have no objection whatever to concession on our part. He (Mr. Herries) had declared that if the coasting trade of this country should be relaxed, he, at least, would not oppose it so long as it was relaxed by the United States. The hon. Member for Westmoreland (Mr. Alderman Thompson), when the subject was last under discussion, declared himself in favour of some relaxation of what is called the long voyage. The hon. Member for Sunderland said he was willing that the crews of British ships should be composed of sailors of all nations of the world. Now, with all these relaxations, what became of the fundamental principle of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Herries). If the fundamental principle meant anything at all, it surely meant this—that the trade of this country ought to be confined to British ships and British
 725 726
 MR. J. WILLIAMS  said, he would not trespass upon the time of the House more than a few moments. Although he could not agree with the hon. Member for Dorsetshire (Mr. Bankes) as to the causes of the present depression in trade, he concurred with him that, both in the metropolis and in the country generally, trade
 737
 MR. J. WILLIAMS  said, that the Members of the House were much indebted to the hon. Member for Dartmouth (Mr. Moffatt), and nothing would tend so much to elevate the character of the House as the passing of this Bill; and he hoped he
 679
 MR. HENLEY  was anxious that the second reading should be postponed, that more time might be given for consideration before the House assented to the principle on which the Bill proceeded. The only ground which had been laid before the House, or rather the main ground, was to assimilate the case of those who were called insolvent persons with traders; but the cases were not at all analogous. The bankrupt laws were passed for the protection of persons in trade, who, from unforeseen circumstances, became unable to pay their debts, and, upon surrendering their property, received a discharge in full from all their creditors for the future. That was not the case with an insolvent. A bankrupt received his certificate, and became a clear man to be elected to this House; his debts were for ever gone. Not so with the insolvent. A man, for whatever imprudence or whatever cause he might have become insolvent, could not get clear under the insolvent court. It was true that they could take his property as effectually as in the case of bankruptcy, but they could not give him a discharge; and therefore there was a great difference in the two cases—the trader being a bankrupt could be elected—the insolvent could not be elected unless he had paid all his debts in full. A Bill of this sort depended upon its details. It seemed to be the opinion of the House that the second reading ought not to be opposed, and therefore he should not take upon himself the responsibility of that course. This privilege was not a privilege of Members; it was a privilege of constituents. That ought never to be lost sight of; and if they were going to exclude a certain class of persons in whom the constituency chose to repose their confidence, the House might get into squabbles from parties being continually re-elected, which it was not convenient to bring themselves into.
 MR. HENLEY  wished to know whether or not he had rightly understood that part of the Government measure which had reference to the coasting trade. He had understood the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) to state in effect, that an American vessel might, under the provisions of that Bill, on her arrival at Southampton, discharge a part of her cargo in that port, take in fresh goods, and then proceed to London, or any other English port; and that a French steamer coming from Havre might call at Ramsgate and take in cargo and passengers, and then proceed to another English port. He wished to know whether that view was correct.
 MR. HUME  said, he had heard many statements made in that House which had surprised him; but what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down (Mr. Drummond) certainly surprised him very much. That hon. Gentleman had taken upon himself to say, that this was the last of a series of measures which had been inculcated by the Manchester school; and he had ventured to say, that all of those measures tended to injure the labourers of this country. But how did the hon. Gentleman reconcile these assertions with the general complaint of those who were of that opinion, who told them that the cost of food was reduced by this measure? What could be of more importance to the working classes than that food of all kinds should be cheap? [Mr. DRUMMOND: Wages.] Well, he would come to wages. Until a few days ago, wages had not been reduced that he had hoard of. ["Oh, oh!"] In the country districts of the south, he had heard that morning that there had been a reduction certainly; and that those who had been receiving 9 s s 714 715 716 717 Cheers
 MR. HUME  said, considerable anxiety existed with reference to the budget. He did not know whether the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer could then state at what period he would bring it forward; but he hoped he would soon be in a position to do so. Those who felt an interest in the financial state of the country wished to know, before any vote was taken, whether for the Army, the Navy, or any other great public establishment, what means were at the disposal of the Government? l
 MR. R. C. HILDYARD  said, he did not rise to refute the sordid reasoning founded upon the proposition that it was not prudent to pay a shilling for what could be purchased for a sixpence. Great as was the difference that existed between that and the other side of the House upon these subjects, he did not apprehend that, to the abstract proposition alluded to, any objection would be made, whatever might be said as to its application. He rose rather to correct a misrepresentation made by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), and thereby deprive him of an argument upon which he relied with confidence. His right hon. Friend the Member for Stamford (Mr. Herries) had read an extract from a letter of the vice-consul at Memel, stating that British capital was, in certain places, known to be largely embarked in foreign shipping. Upon this the hon. Member (Mr. Hume) had commented with great but premature and mistaken triumph, and had said, "See the consequence of these absurd navigation laws." But the extract read by his right hon. Friend did not state generally that British capital was invested abroad in foreign shipping. It stated that this was the case only in those countries in which reciprocity treaties existed—and in which, therefore, the navigation laws did not in reality operate. That is to say, the letter of the vice-consul at Memel showed that in those countries in which the navigation laws had been relaxed, the consequences which the supporters of those laws contended must result from their relaxation or repeal, had really resulted. Yet the hon. Member for Montrose, without exhibiting that lucidity for which his speeches were characterised, had managed to mistake this for an argument in favour of the repeal of those laws, although it was restricted to those countries in which the navigation laws had been relaxed. He would just remind the House of the evidence of Mr. Porter before the House of Lords, in confirmation of the inference he had deduced from the statement in question. The Committee of that House had drawn the attention of Mr. Porter to the fact that British shipping had declined rapidly in the Northern States of Europe, and asked an explanation of it. He replied, that "British shipping found more profitable occupation elewhere"—and that, in fact, was the whole question. British shipping could not compete with
 724
 MR. MITCHELL  said, that his hon. Friend the worthy Alderman had in the course of his speech endorsed one or two fallacies of so gross a nature that he felt called upon very shortly to notice them. In the first place, it had been intimated that the reduction in the freight of goods would not go into the pockets of the consumer. He believed that there would be a reduction of 25 per cent in the freights of goods coming from all quarters of the world, and this would be a large profit in itself, which would go to the consumers, and this in itself would insure a great addition to the quantity of goods imported. But there was a further advantage which did not appear to have struck hon. Gentlemen opposite, namely, that this reduction in the freight would increase the quantity of any article imported, and thus would act advantageously in an indirect way in the reduction of prices. Within the last three months it had come to his (Mr. Mitchell's) knowledge that a most extraordinary result had attended the increased importation of an article of general consumption. It appeared that the quantity of it imported reached one-thirtieth part beyond the amount that was anticipated, and the result of this had been to produce a glut, and to lead to the reduction of prices 20 per cent. He therefore contended that the reduction of freights would operate in the same way, and must be productive of great benefit to the consumers. The next argument of the worthy Alderman was the case which he quoted, of
 732 s d 733 s d s
 MR. GLADSTONE  said: I am sorry to interpose, for a few moments, between the House and the discussion which is coming on, and I do so only for the purpose of putting a question to the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) the President of the Board of Trade, or the noble Lord at the head of the Government, on a matter which I take to involve a principle of the highest public importance, or I should not trespass on the House. I will make no other statement than is necessary.
 MR. GLADSTONE : It does; and I will make no other statement than is absolutely necessary to make the question intelligible. It arises out of a speech reported in the  Morning Post 681 Morning Post "Then there was the subject of the navigation laws. It is perfectly well known that Ministers introduced a measure with respect to that Bill, against which I voted. I divided against Ministers in every stage of that Bill. I thought it my duty to do so, and although I differ from many of my constituents on this point—gentlemen of very great intelligence—who think that the navigation laws ought to be repealed, yet I must say I am not satisfied that they ought to be repealed. On the contrary, I am of opinion that the principle of the navigation laws ought not to be repealed. This being so, I voted accordingly, and opposed Ministers in every stage."
 MR. EWART  hoped that the hon. Member (Mr. Moffatt), who had introduced the Bill, would not consent to the proposal of the hon. Member for Lancaster (Mr. Greene), and refer it to a Committee upstairs. Investigation was much demanded by the public; be thought it a very reasonable proposition that the Bill should be postponed; but not that it should be referred to a Committee upstairs.
 SIR Gr. GREY  hoped that the House would agree to the second reading of this Bill. When a similar measure was introduced last Session, he felt it his duty to caution the House against the adoption of the Bill, because, while he concurred generally with the principle, the provisions by which it was to be carried out were so objectionable, that the House ought not to sanction the measure. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Moffatt), however, had since reconsidered the matter, and a number of objections which attached to the measure last Session had been removed in the present; and though there might be some amend-
 676
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the amendments would be introduced before the discussion on the Bill.
 SIR G. GREY  said, he proposed that the Bill should pass through that stage, and that the third reading should be the first order of the day for Friday, in order to allow ample time for debate.
 SIR G. GREY  observed, that if the hon. Member spoke till six o'clock, the order would of course stand over till next day. He (Mr. J. O'Connell) might certainly occupy the time of the House if he thought proper; but the Government would not receive any convenience from the courtesy of the hon. and learned Member.
 SIR J. TYRELL  was not surprised at the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade endeavouring to prevent the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down (Mr. Williams) from addressing the House. He was glad the hon. Gentleman opposite had spoken, because whenever any one on his side spoke of the depreciation of trade, there was some one of the Manchester school ready to rise from his wool or cotton sack, with the view of casting ridicule on all such statements. He wished, on the present occasion to address a few remarks in answer to the hon. and gallant Member for Bradford (Colonel Thompson). He had understood the hon. and gallant Member to say, that if any one pointed out to him a trade that was protected, he could to that extent show him that it was a trade which robbed some other person. That was the doctrine of the school to
 738 d s d s d 739
 MR. W. MILES  hoped that the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey) would introduce the amendments some time before the Bill came into discussion. He could not conceive that it was the intention of Government to pass a Bill of this kind as it stood at present.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, that seeing that the First Commissioner of the Woods and Forests had no longer a seat in that House, he wished to know from the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government, to whom questions connected with the administration of the Woods and Forests were to be addressed in that House?
 SIR G. GREAY : The report of the Commissioners of the Channel Islands was referred by me to the Governor, with instructions that it should be laid before the States, in order that the co-operation of the States of those islands might be obtained. I am now in communication with the Governor, and I hope it may lead to a satisfactory result.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  observed, that no reply had been given to the question of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), as to whether the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would lay on the table a statement of how far the recommendation of the Committee on the naval estimates had been carried into effect. He thought some statement as to this point ought to be prefixed to the estimates.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  observed, that last year the financial statement had been made before the supplies were voted.
 MR. MAGGREGOR  here rose and addressed the Speaker, evidently under the impression that Sir John Walsh had concluded his speech, but seeing that the hon. Baronet remained standing, resumed his seat.
 MR. RICE  said, that the hon. Member who had just sat down (Mr. Disraeli) had called the attention of the House to the views of the question which he had laid before it; but he (Mr. Rice) hoped they would not confine themselves to that view of the subject. He wished to call things by their right names. He thought that there was a strong feeling in this country against those votes for Irish distress. But if there were one thing more than another connected with them to which he should object, it was their calling them loans and not grants, when there was no possible chance of their ever being repaid. But as to the light in which the question should be viewed, he preferred taking the view of the hon. Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Horsman)
 834
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY  begged to remind his noble Friend (Lord D. Stuart) that the Pope had sent remittances to Ireland during its distress; and with respect to sending money to him under present circumstances, it was not an unusual practice in the Catholic Church. It might also be remembered that this country had subscribed money for the benefit of Poland.
 MR. PIGOTT  felt bound, in justice to his constituents and the taxpayers of England, who were themselves suffering great distress, to support the Amendment.
 MR. BOUVERIE  reminded the House of an instance, in a former Session, when the House had been counted out during the time of private business.
 MR. SCOTT  referred to a recent statement in the papers to the effect that emigration was, to a great extent, taking place in Dorsetshire under the encouragement of the Emigration Commissioners, who, it was alleged, had sent down an agent who had given free passages already to upwards of a thousand persons; and he (Mr. Scott) begged to ask the Under Secretary for the Colonies (Mr. Hawes) whether this were true: if so, whether Government would extend similar encouragement to emigration from other counties, where there was an equal anxiety to secure such aid; and, if not, whether the Government did not consider that this would unduly stimulate emigration from a particular district? The hon. Member added, that he understood, so numerous were the applications for aid, that an emigration ship could easily be freighted with emigrants every two days.
 LORD C. HAMILTON  said, that the Irish Poor Law system had been attacked by several hon. Members during the debate. His reason for not answering those attacks was, that he considered the entire question of the poor-law utterly irrelevant to the subject under discussion. He was one of the very few Irish Gentlemen who was prepared to defend that law, and when the proper time came he would be prepared to do so; but at present it was quite irrelevant, and he therefore should not reply to the attacks that had been made upon it. But upon some of the observations of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli), he could not help making some remarks. That hon. Gentleman could not touch upon any subject without embellishing it. His powers of eloquence and his transcendent ability prevented him from touching any subject without, at the same time, adorning it. But he had said, in commenting upon the observations of the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Russell), that when a man's house was on fire he sent for the parish engine. He (Lord C. Hamilton) could not but admire the coolness of the hon. Member, in thinking of nothing but the parish engine—in sitting down coolly and sending for it. Such perfect coolness and self-possession forcibly reminded him of the Roman senators, who, when the forum was broken into by the Gauls, sat quite unmoved. Such self-possession might have been the habit of ancient Rome. But he should acknowledge that, speaking practically, when a house was on fire in the modern city of London, they usually sent in haste for the fire-escape, which was a sort of machine that you went down head foremost in from the fourth story. He looked upon the vote of 50,000 l
 LORD D. STUART  said, that he had an Amendment to propose of which he had given notice, but he could hardly expect that he would be allowed to proceed with it at that late hour of the night, it being-then half-past twelve. ["Go on, go on!"] He did not think that he could consistently proceed with his Amendment at that time, though he was prepared to go on if it was the pleasure of the House.
 LORD D. STUART  seconded the Motion.
 LORD D. STUART  said, that the House having decided by so large a majority that the debate should be continued, he bowed to that decision, and would proceed with the Motion of which he had given notice. Although he felt it impossible for him to refuse voting for the grant, seeing that the question was neither more nor less than one of life or death with regard to many of their fellow-subjects in Ireland, he confessed it was with pain he made up his mind to do so. But extraordinary occasions required exceptional treatment. Assuming, therefore, that the grant was necessary, the question arose from what source ought it to come? He had voted that it should come from imperial sources in the first instance. That was the course that humanity dictated, but he considered that there was a mode of reconciling humanity with justice—a course by which the money of the people of this country might be returned to them. The mode proposed by the hon. Member for Stroud seemed to him to be illusory. His own he considered to be quite practicable. It would be in vain to look to the unfortunate unions for the money advanced. But that was not the case with Ireland at large. The rate for the
 842 s d l "But that the 50,000 l 843
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the proposition which the noble Lord (Lord D. Stuart) was about to bring forward was, that the money to be advanced to the unions of Ireland should be repaid by all but those who received it. He did not think that this was a question with which the noble Lord would detain the House at any length, and he believed that the House would be enabled to bear the fatigue of hearing him, oven if an adjournment should be found necessary afterwards.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the hon. and learned Member for Oxford (Mr. W. P. Wood), in objecting to this grant, had placed his vote very much on the ground of the report of Captain Hamilton, inspector at Ballina. The hon. Member who had just spoken (Mr. Hume) likewise objected to it, because he thought employment ought to be given, and refusing this vote would tend to increase employment. Now, he would toll the House what Captain Hamilton said. He stated, in the first place, that the landlords were generally unable to give employment; and in another part, he
 839 "The striking of another rate will have the effect of extinguishing the little hope still to be found in the union; the few landlords who are giving employment will come to a stand-still; a rate can only be collected by tedious legal proceedings, and by the time it will become available, the poor will have ceased to exist."
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that he could not concur in the Amendment of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Stafford), for that was tantamount to a vote of censure on the Government; whereas he (Lord J. Russell) had pursued precisely the same course that had been taken by former Ministers under similar circumstances. With respect to the observations of the hon. Member for Stroud (Mr. Scrope), he must say, that the present grant ought to be made unconditionally as a gift, and not as a loan. The hon. Member for Dorsetshire (Mr. Bankes) was incorrect in his assertion that Captain Hamilton's letter was in the hands of the Government in December last. Its date was the 22nd of January, and the letter of the Poor Law Commissioners was dated the 2nd of February. He agreed so far with the noble Lord the Member for Marylebone (Lord D. Stuart) that the present grant ought not to be charged upon Ireland as a debt to be provided for by a special rate; but he certainly did think that it might become a question for the future consideration of Parliament whether any further grant ought not to be charged on some fund in Ireland, out of which it might be repaid.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that last year the income tax was to expire on the 5th of April. It was therefore necessary, anterior to that period, to bring before the House the intentions of the Government as to the renewal of that tax. The usual course, however, had been, when the financial year concluded, for the Chancellor of the Exchequer to state to the House what sums he expected to raise in ways and moans to meet those which bad been voted in supply. To that course they still proposed to adhere, as it seemed to him to be a reasonable and proper course. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose had argued that they had got into debt last year in consequence of voting money before the budget; but the hon. Gentleman
 771
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, if his noble Friend (Viscount Duncan) gave notice of his questions to the Secretary to the Treasury, arrangements would be made by which they would be answered.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that no paper had been yet laid on the table of the House with regard to the former occurrence, but that as soon as the operations now carrying on in the Punjaub should be brought to a termination, the necessary documents should be laid upon the table.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he did not think that the postponement from Friday to Monday was a matter of any very great importance.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, with regard to Members of Government, when they attended at four o'clock to make a House, they very naturally went back to their offices again to finish the business which they were obliged to leave in order to come down at that time.
 MAJOR BLACKALL , as the person most interested, his Motion having been the one alluded to as so important to the Irish Members, begged to set himself right. He did not himself complain of the exercise of the privilege by which the House had been counted out, for he admitted that, after the long debate that had taken place on Irish affairs on the preceding day, he could not blame hon. Gentlemen in being unwilling to have it repeated. But he understood it had been alleged that he had yielded to certain influences, and had resolved, in consequence, not to press the question. That he begged leave to deny. He thought the subject a most important one, and it was his auxious desire to have brought it on.
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  seconded the Motion. He thought that a great mistake
 776
 MR. DISRAELI  observed, that some time time ago the House had been informed by a Ministerial statement, that it was necessary that there should be a great increase of taxation, but that the estimates had been drawn up with every attention to economy. The House had, however, refused to support the Ministry on that occasion; and it had since turned out, by their own confession, by the confession of the hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Admiralty (Mr. Ward), in a document lately published, that affairs were managed in his department so that there was not an audit even of the wages account that no stock was taken, and that no account was kept of expended stores. Under such circumstances it was easy to make a reduction in the expenditure. In such a state of matters, therefore, he thought the suggestion of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) was worthy of consideration; and, moreover, that the time had come, when considerations of what had formerly been the custom ought not to influence the House so much as they had once done.
 MR. DISRAELI : I cannot regret. Sir, that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer has recalled the attention of the House to the question immediately before it. The proposition of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Stroud (Mr. Scrope) is, that if this advance be made, it should be made with security from Ireland, and not in the shape of a grant. I am opposed to the advance, whether as a grant or a loan; and, therefore, I shall vote against the Amendment of the hon. Member for Stroud. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, while he has complained of the question discussed the other night as to the necessity for this grant being again opened for discussion, has himself so fully entered into the expediency of the grant upon this occasion, that I am sure he will pardon me if I do not pass his observations altogether unnoticed. In questions of this kind the House should always make the distinction that inevitably occurs to one. There is a sentimental view of the question, and there is also a political one. If I make an appeal to any Member of this House, or to any man in this country, and tell him, if he does not consent to some general act and course of conduct, he must be responsible for the lives of thousands of his fellow-countrymen and subjects, there can be no doubt what would be the declaration that he would instantly make. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Cocker-mouth (Mr. Horsman), who has addressed
 827 828 829 830 l l 831 832 833 l
 MR. HAWES  replied, that the opinions had been obtained solely by and at the expense of the Hudson's Bay Company. The Government had, therefore, no power to obtain or present them to the House.
 MR. HAWES  said, the latest despatch from Earl Grey to Viscount Torrington, in the papers that had been laid before the House, bore date, if he recollected rightly, on the 24th October. The latest despatches to which answers had been received were on the table. One of them was a general despatch from Earl Grey containing his entire approval of the measures
 759
 MR. HAWES  intimated that he was not perfectly acquainted with the facts, but that he would make inquiry, and begged that the question might be repeated on some future day.
 MR. HAWES : I stated that there is a despatch generally approving of the measures which Viscount Torrington adopted for the suppression of the insurrection, which includes both the trials by court-martial and the trials before the Supreme Court; but there is no special despatch approving of the executions which followed.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the hon. Baronet (Sir J. Walsh) having asked him a question with regard to the usages of the House, he could only state that whenever (whether during the hours devoted to private or public business) an hon. Member took notice that there were not forty Members present, it was the duty of the Speaker to count the House forthwith and ascertain the fact. The hon. Member, in the course he had taken on the preceding day, had not been guilty of any irregularity, although it certainly was an unusual proceeding.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. and gallant Member (Col. Sibthorp) would have the opportunity of voting against the grant after the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Stroud should be disposed of.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, there was a saying that "old birds were not to be caught by chaff'." If he understood his hon. Friend the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) rightly, he meant to vote against the Amendment of the hon. Member for Stroud (Mr. Scrope), and that, therefore, he would vote with the Government. On no occasion could be (Colonel Sibthorp) do so—on no occasion could be go with them. He could not go with the Government—he could not vote with the hon. Member for Stroud; therefore, he should not vote at all against the main question. He was in this difficulty, that he did not wish to be caught in a trap, in voting with the Government, with whom, as he said before, he would not go on any point.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  begged to recall the attention of
 822 l 823
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in continuation, said, the explanation of the hon. Gentleman did not in any way diminish the force of his argument. Did the hon. Gentleman believe it possible to raise, by a rate in aid throughout the whole of Ireland, a sufficient sum of money in time to relieve the destitute population of the western unions by means of emigration? Did he believe that, from any source whatever, except by means of such a proposal as that which Her Majesty's Government had made, it
 824 825 826
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  would be sorry to misrepresent the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Osborne), but he took down his words, and the hon. Gentleman said, "That the grants had been of no earthly use to the people, and that he would prefer that their protracted misery should be put an end to, and that they should be at once swept away, rather than be dependent upon Parliamentary grants."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that the usual course was not to lay the budget before the House before the estimates were voted. The usual course was to vote the estimates, and then to make the financial statement.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  observed, that he had not answered this question because he had not heard it. In reply, he had only to say, that his hon. Friend (Mr. Ward), in moving the estimates in question, would state fully, distinctly, and in detail, the points with respect to which the recommendations of the Committee had been carried out. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) thought that this would be a more convenient way of conveying information to the House upon the subject, than by printing and prefixing any dry statement to the estimates.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that such a course would be very inconvenient. The Government would state what they were prepared to do when the discussion took place.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, as we understood, that the hon. Member ought to be the last person to ask such a question, being himself fully acquainted with the subject; and seeing that he (Mr. Hume) must know that a comparison was always given between the estimates of the present and the past year.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it would be time enough to state what he was prepared to do upon that subject when the second reading of the Bill came on.
 MR. ROCHE  was glad to see somebody come forward at last to volunteer a defence of this measure, for although the hon. Members for England and Scotland generally seemed disposed to support it by their votes, still almost everybody but the Irish Members appeared inclined to fight shy, so far as proving the necessity of so unconstitutional a measure, in the present admittedly tranquil state of Ireland, was concerned. He (Mr. Roche) was not now going to repeat what he had already offered in opposition to this Bill. But the men now imprisoned under this Act in Dublin, although the Executive had refused to bring them to trial, were treated as felons, and in a much worse manner than was endured by the individuals whom the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hume) was so anxious to serve. Could anything show more forcibly than this fact the horrible injustice of such a measure as this for Ireland? He was glad to see the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hume) take the Government to task for the manner in which it had treated the
 783
 MR. ROCHE  said, he was anxious to express his opinion, but he could not forgot that in the meantime the people of Ireland were starving.
 MR. CAYLEY  wished to ask a question of the Home Secretary (Sir G. Grey), and as the question was connected with a calamity by which a fearful loss of life was sustained, he trusted the House would permit him to enter into a short explanation of the question he had to ask. The calamity to which he referred was the late explosion in the Barley main colliery pit, near Barnsley, which was attended with the loss of 75 lives; and unfortunately this was not a singular instance of such a terrible misfortune, for these explosions were constantly occurring, and all from one cause—the want of sufficient ventilation. On the lives sacrificed at Barley main an inquest bad just concluded its sitting. Many witnesses, both practical and scientific, had been examined. The coroner bad delivered a charge of great intelligence, and evidently dictated by strong feelings of humanity, and an earnest desire to prevent a repetition of such disasters. The jury seemed to have boon composed of enlightened persons; to their verdict they added an opinion of the cause, and a recommendation. All the parties, witnesses, coroner and jury, agreed that these explosions were attributable to one cause and one
 763
 MR. HORSMAN  declared his intention of voting with Her Majesty's Ministers, and against the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Stroud (Mr. Scrope); but he gave that vote most reluctantly, and under the pressure of a necessity which he felt he could not resist, however much he disapproved of the principal part of their policy. The Amendment of the hon. Member for Stroud added a condition to the grant; but he could not lend himself to the delusion that any system of grants to Ireland could be otherwise than mischievous. He therefore could not vote for the Amendment. He felt tolerably certain that many Gentlemen who voted in the majority the other night must have laboured under great difficulty and embarrassment, since they must have been conscious that they were about to take a course very different from
 811 812 813 814 815
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  said, he quite agreed with the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department that the clause proposed by the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. J. O'Connell) was, in substance, the same as that submitted on two former occasions; but as he had always opposed every infraction of Irish liberty, it was his intention, on the third reading, to give this Bill the most strenuous opposition, It was not his intention to offer any further opposition to the measure in its present stage; but as the noble Lord at the head of the Government seemed to anticipate a very rapid run for the Bill through its several stages, he (Mr. F. O Connor) called upon the Irish Members to oppose it manfully on the third reading. He would say that, during the period he represented an Irish constituency in that House—from 1832 to 1835—there was not a greater set of slaves in the House than the Irish Members were. He hoped, now, that the Irish Members would not sit there and allow such an attempt on Irish liberty as the present to pass, and that those who had the honour of seats in the House for English constituencies would offer every obstruction in their power to the Bill. He recollected the time when, if the Tories
 778 amicus curiœ
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  wished to ask a single question. Was it the fact that one of the State prisoners, Mr. Meany, who wrote in December what was published in the  Freeman's Journal Cries of 780
 COLONEL DUNNE  strongly deprecated such remarks as fell from the hon. Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Horsman), that he would give this grant as he would alms to a beggar in the street. He contended that it was a case of absolute necessity to provide for the support of many districts in Ireland, such as those to which the Chancellor of the Exchequer referred in his speech. The people must die if you did not; there was no alternative. There were unions in which a rate of 6 s d s d 838
 MR. BANKES  expressed his intention of opposing the vote, which he should not have done had the Government accepted the Amendment proposed, binding the House down that this should be the last one. He was surprised at the accusation of the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. J. O'Connell)—an accusation of "murder" against the party with whom he (Mr. Bankes) acted; and he was hardly less surprised at the expressions which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He (Mr. Bankes) would not vote for the Amendment, for the reasons stated by the hon. Member for Dover (Mr. Rice), namely, that it was a mere pretence to speak of this advance as a "loan." That money would never he repaid. He could not join with the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the consolation which that right hon. Gentleman said he felt with respect to our treatment of Ireland. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to say, "Whatever may become of the people of Ireland—if they die even—we shall have the consolation of having done our duty." He (Mr. Bankes) denied that the Government had done its duty to Ireland. Why was it that Parliament had not been called together earlier if such an emergency existed? The Government had received official information of the distress that prevailed in Ireland as early as in the month of October last, and repeatedly since that time; and Captain Hamilton's communication, to which the noble Lord at the head of the Government had alluded, was received in December, and brought intelligence of the people being in a state of starvation. Why, then, was Parliament not called together until the 1st of February? The opening paragraph in the Speech from the Throne
 844
 MR. BANKES  wished to put a question to the noble Viscount the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs as to our relations with the Court of Spain. As long as the late Ambassador, Sir Henry Bulwer, remained unaccredited to any other Court, it was obviously a matter of personal delicacy towards him not to put any question on the subject; but now that it was stated that Sir Henry Bulwer was accredited as Ambassador to another Court, he begged to ask the noble Viscount whether the matters in difference between this Court and the Court of Spain were adjusted, or were in the course of adjustment? The noble Viscount would recollect that at the close of the last Session a subject of this country had been expelled from the dominion of Spain under circumstances which were thought deserving of inquiry. We had never heard the result of that inquiry, nor had the injury to which he was supposed to be exposed in any degree been vindicated. It was desirable that Members should know how far the subjects of this realm could with safety continue in that country; and he begged to ask the noble Viscount whether the differences between this Court and the Court of Spain were in a fair train of adjustment?
 MR. MOORE  could not avoid commenting upon the expression of the hon. Member for Middlesex, that it would be better for those poor starving creatures to be allowed to die, than to have life kept in them by this grant. [Mr. OSBORNE: I said than to hare life kept in them for only a fortnight.] Very well, only for a fortnight. This might be the hon. Gentleman's opinion after he had dined; but if the hon. Gentleman was placed in the same position as those unfortunate persons, he (Mr. Moore) knew nothing which could induce him to suppose that his views on that subject would not he very considerably modified. The hon. Gentleman had said that it was better for a man to die of starvation than be supported from day to day by the charity of others; but let it be remembered that in the union workhouses in England thousands of persons were supported in the same way. The question at issue was whether those persons should be permitted to die of famine—whether it would be creditable for Parliament, as the representative of a great civilised country, to allow thousands of fellow-subjects to Buffer the horrors of starvation? The hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) had adopted another view of the case, and had made it a party question. It was not a consideration with him whether 100,000 Irishmen should die or live, but whether the Government was in any way implicated in their deaths. But surely the hon. Gentleman did not wish the House to suppose that any protestation on the part of the Government would have induced him to vote money which was not required by the exigency of the case? If the money were really demanded by the exigency of the State, was the hon. Gentleman prepared not to grant it, merely because in his opinion the general policy pursued by the Government was not correct? He (Mr. Moore) was prepared to vote for the grant, and he regretted that the hon. Member (Mr. Disraeli) who had spoken so lately appeared more desirous to strike a blow at the Government, than to yield to the necessities of the case.
 MR. G. THOMPSON  inquired whether there were no papers to be laid before the House relative to the deaths of Messrs. Agnew and Anderson at Moultan, in the month of April, 1848; and relative to the war which has been carrying on in the Punjaub from that time to the present?
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that he had the permission of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Home Department (Sir G. Grey) to put a question to him on a matter of great consequence. A Committee was appointed many years ago to inquire into
 767
 MR. BAILLIE  said, he did not think the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hawes) appeared to understand the question which he had put. He had asked whether any approval had been sent out by Earl Grey, in answer to that despatch of Viscount Torrington in which the fact was announced that certain executions had taken place under martial law? The hon. Gentleman had merely alluded to a despatch of Earl Grey, which bore date before the receipt of that despatch.
 MR. BAILLIE  said, that on referring to the papers connected with Ceylon, that had been laid on the table of the House, he found that a despatch had been received at the Colonial Office on the 31st October, 1848, communicating the important fact that certain executions under martial law had taken place in the island; and he also found that these papers contained no despatch from Earl Grey to Viscount Torrington of a later date than the 24th of October, 1848, or one week previous to the receipt of the former despatch. The question which he wished to ask was, whether any despatch, of a later date than the 24th of October, had been sent out from the Colonial Office to Viscount Torrington, either approving or disapproving of these executions under martial law; and if so, whether there was any objection to lay them on the table before the Motion which was fixed for Tuesday next should come on.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  would reserve any observations which he had to make on the main question till the second reading of the Bill. With respect to the proposition of a grant in aid, all he could say was, that its effect on the part of Ireland with which he was connected, would be to drive all the landed proprietors out of the country, and reduce nine-tenths of Ireland to the same state in which the twenty-one unions were at the present moment.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  then moved the adjournment of the debate.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  said, as many hon. Members were desirous of expressing their opinions, he thought it would be better to adjourn the debate.
 MR. GRATTAN  said, he should record his protest against the Bill on its third reading, but that at present he would not occupy the attention of the House with any remarks upon the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Limerick (Mr. J. O'Connell). He wished, however, to state, that he had received information respecting some individuals who were now confined in
 777
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that he had intended to have proposed that the second reading of the Bill should be fixed for that day fortnight, as he conceived that there would be abundant time in the interim for the country to consider a measure that did not materially differ from the Bill of last year; but as he understood from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stamford (Mr. Herries) that it would be inconvenient for him to attend that day, he begged to move that the second reading of the Bill be fixed for Monday, the 5th of March.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that with regard to the papers referred to, it was the intention of his noble Friend (Viscount Palmerston) to lay them on the table of the House almost immediately.
 MR. HERRIES  said, that the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had told them the other night, that it was intended to lay certain papers on the table connected with this subject; and if such were the case, as he hoped it was, the postponement suggested was surely not too much to ask for. He hoped, therefore, that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) would not be induced by any pressure from behind to alter his resolution.
 MR. HERRIES  said, that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) was quite distinct in the reply he had already given. It was not on account of the papers that the question was postponed, but in order that the opponents of the measure might have time to consider the Bill founded upon resolutions that had been permitted to be passed without discussion or delay.
 MR. MACGREGOR  said, that he should follow the excellent advice and useful example given on a former occasion by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon (Sir J. Graham), and be extremely brief in the observations which he had to address to the House. He felt great difficulty in coming to a decision favourable to this vote, when he took into consideration the fact that Ireland had neither a property nor a window tax, nor many of those assessed taxes and excise duties, which were paid in this country. He also recollected the large sums of money which this country had from time to time generously voted for the relief of the sister country. But, what was of more weight still with him, the consideration of the immense expenditure which the people of England and Scotland had to meet on account of the Irish destitution, particularly the city which he had the honour to represent, where the poor-rates were quadrupled by reason of the enormous influx of the Irish poor into it. With all these considerations crowding upon his mind, he confessed he found great difficulty in deciding to vote for this small grant of 50,000 l
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  referred to the remarks of the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. Anstey), and said he had never before heard the power vested in the Lord Lieutenant, of arresting any man at his own free will and pleasure, designated by any other name than pure despotism.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  proposed the introduction of the following clause:—
 "And whereas doubts have arisen whether the powers of the Act of last Session, 11 and 12 Vic. c. 35, which are continued by this Act, may not be improperly applied to the restriction of the right of the subject to petition Parliament and to address the Queen in a legal and constitutional manner, and to convoke, hold, attend at, and take part in meetings for the purposes of preparing and adopting peacefully and legally such Petitions and Addresses: And whereas such restriction is and would be contrary to the spirit and purposes of the aforesaid Act, and of this present Act continuing the same, as well as to the Constitution of these Realms; Be it therefore declared and enacted, That nothing contained in this Act, or in the beforementioned Act of 11 and 12 Vic, the powers of which are continued in this Act, does, ought to, or shall he construed or taken to warrant the application of the said powers, or any of them, to the cases of parties convoking, assembling, holding, attending at, and taking part in such legal, peaceful, and constitutional meetings, for the aforesaid legal and constitutional objects and purposes." 772 "Our ancestors never consented to the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act but in cases of extreme danger; the proposal, therefore, of such a measure now is the more alarming on account of the precedent it will establish. It is now for the first time laid down that under any circumstances of alarm the rights of Englishmen are to be dispensed
 773 Dublin Evening Post 774 775 Economist
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  had never heard so much said upon a question bearing so little upon the real question. If they did not do something to assist the people, the leaving them to starve would be little short of murder.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  rose to ask the Secretary for Ireland, whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to act on the recommendation of the Select Committee appointed last Session—
 "To consider and report upon the state and operation of the laws respecting Ministers' Money in Ireland, and to report whether any and what amendments in those laws would be expedient,
 756
 MR. REYNOLDS  would not trespass long upon their attention at so late an hour. He could not but feel great indignation at the undeserved insults that had been heaped upon his fellow-countrymen that night. He would pass over the frigid political economy of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume)—it was so frozen and icy that it required the burning heat of a West Indian climate to thaw it. Irishmen must, forsooth, learn self-reliance; but the hon. Gentleman had told the West Indian planters that he would not mind adding millions to the already overwhelming amount of the national debt, out of pure compassion to them. The hon. Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Horsman) had characterised his (Mr. Reynolds) countrymen as a set of beggars. Now, this reminded him of the story, where a traveller, having been robbed on his journey, was reduced to beggary, and was then called a pauper by the man who robbed him. This was just Ireland's case; and who had acted the part of the robber towards her, he (Mr. Reynolds) would leave hon. Gentlemen to determine for themselves. The speech of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) had been very entertaining. He (Mr. Reynolds) believed he only spoke the universal sentiment of the House when he said that the hon. Gentleman's speeches were all very entertaining. He (Mr. Reynolds) confessed he often put himself to considerable inconvenience to be present to listen to his eloquent display. He heard him just as he would go to hear some famous actor. He (Mr. Disraeli) had charged the Government that night with sins both of omission and commission. He had charged them with not having brought forward some comprehensive measures for the relief of the Irish people; but although he (Mr. Reynolds) had followed the hon. Gentleman with great anxiety, he had certainly not heard him propound any measures of his own for that purpose. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) was a striking embodiment of the truth that it required a very small degree of talent to find fault with a plan, but that a very considerable portion was necessary to produce a better; for, with all his eloquence and ability, he had not made a single suggestion of what he would have done for Ireland. Perhaps, indeed, he was like one of those quack doctors who intended to take out a patent for some universal specific of his own invention; but would not for a time divulge the secret, lest a
 846 l
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that having on a former occasion expressed his belief that the Earl of Clarendon had acted temperately and mercifully in the administration of this Act, which was undoubtedly the fact, he wished now to recall the attention of the House to the statement just made by the hon. Member for Meath (Mr. Grattan), with regard to the hardships said to have been inflicted on certain State prisoners in the gaol of Kilmainham. He desired to know whether severity had been practised towards them; and, if so, under whose authority and by whose directions? It was said that they were confined in cells for sixteen hours out of the twenty-four—that they were refused all access to newspapers—and that their friends were refused permission to visit them except under an order from the Under Secretary. Now, it occurred to him (Mr. Reynolds) that there were evils enough in the Suspension Act without adding unncessarily to its severity; and that, holding in view the safe custody of these prisoners, they ought not to be treated with any unnecessary severity, the more particularly as they had now been incarcerated upwards of eight months, and that, although anxious to be brought to trial, they had been refused that indulgence. He felt it his duty to make these remarks, in order to ascertain if the severity were really practised. He knew that the custody of the prisoners in Kilmainham was not alone entrusted to the sheriff of Dublin, but that a board of superintendence was in existence, who made the orders; and he wanted to know on
 779
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  asked the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) when the papers promised by the noble Lord, which were alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Herries) would be laid upon the table of the House; as they would be enabled to judge, by a perusal of them, whether the postponement of the question was made for the purpose of giving time for their presentation and examination, or merely to suit the convenience of an individual?
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  complained that no sufficient reason had been assigned for such a long postponement of the Bill.
 MR. WAWN  wished to know whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer was prepared to state what concessions he was disposed to make to the shipping interests of
 761
 MR. HUME  hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would answer the question put by his hon. Friend (Mr. Wawn). It would be well that the country should know, for instance, whether the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was prepared to take off the duty on timber, so as to put the British shipbuilder on the same footing as the foreigner.
 MR. HUME  wished to know, whether there was any objection to lay on the table the instructions of Earl Grey, in which he approved of the withdrawal of the taxes which had been the cause of the rebellion. The newspapers of the day contained an account of his entire approval of what had occurred; so it was to be hoped that the House would be put in possession of the despatch containing such approval.
 MR. HUME  wished to know whether a copy of the case submitted to Her Majesty's Attorney General and Solicitor General, and the opinions thereon, respecting the capability of the Hudson's Bay Company to hold land as a grant from the Crown on the North West Coast of America, referred to in the letters of Mr. Hawes and Sir H. Felly, printed in the Parliamentary papers presented to the House last August, respecting Vancouver's Island, would be laid upon the table?
 MR. HUME  repeated the question which he had before put, whether Government would lay on the table, at an early period before the discussion of these estimates came on, the difference between these estimates and those of last year, so that the House might see how far the reductions which had been made were in conformity
 762
 MR. HUME  rose to notice the subject, and to submit to the House whether they could not apply a remedy. He was very unwilling to alter the Orders of the House, or to propose any thing that should not be perfectly safe. He thought that if the House were of opinion with him, that on
 766
 MR. HUME  observed, that there should be some plan furnished, in order to enable hon. Gentlemen to see what it was that was intended to be done. Without some such plan it was impossible for any one going to the House, as he had done yesterday, to understand what was being done. There were doors shut up here, and walls freshly broken for windows and doors there, and he, therefore, suggested that some information should be given of the real state of the House.
 MR. HUME  inquired, who bore the expense of the building up and knocking down which he had mentioned; or was there any estimate of the expense?
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to make an appeal to Her Majesty's Ministers respecting certain prisoners in this country, who were now confined and treated as criminals of the worst description, who were denied pen, ink, and paper, and who were dressed in a manner very unusual in England in the case of political offenders. He had laid before the Government a petition on the subject, and he hoped the case would be considered, and that while public justice was administered, great seventy would not be used.
 MR. HUME  should repeat the question he had already put to Her Majesty's Government, to which he should say that the answer he had received was neither courteous nor explanatory. They were about to be called upon to vote away 14,000,000 l l 769
 MR. HUME  said, from the papers delivered to hon. Members that day, that up to 31st March, 1848, about 7,670,000 l l l
 MR. HUME  said, that that was what he called a system of expending money first, and voting the provision for it afterwards. He gave notice that he would oppose it when the votes were asked for.
 MR. HUME  said, that he was not one of those who would allow a single shilling for the Army, the Navy, or the Ordnance, until the House and the country should be satisfied that there were sufficient moans for the support of these branches of the public service. He would not agree either to violate public faith, or throw away public money; and if even the country Gentlemen intended to pay the slightest attention to
 770
 MR. HUME  said, what he wanted to know was this—what is the want of Ireland? The want of Ireland is employment. But would this grant give employment? Clearly not. The hon. and gallant Member for Portarlington (Col. Dunne) said the question was one of life and death. Now, admitting that to be the case, what would be the result of the present grant? Why, that it would afford relief for a fortnight. At the end of that time what was to be done to stimulate the industry of Ireland? He believed the present vote would add to the evil, and increase the dependence of the people on grants of money. No man who wished well to Ireland would support this grant.
 MR. NAPIER  said, there never was a time at which it was more incumbent on those intrusted with the interests of Ireland
 804 805 806 l 807 "If ever a solemn pledge had been given by the Government during the passing of this poor-law, this was one—namely, that by every means in our power we will encourage the employment of the labouring poor of Ireland." 808 809 "He hoped the unhappy phantom of equal taxation with England had vanished. He could only say that Ireland paid as many taxes as those who were the best judges of her power thought she could bear," 810 "An opinion prevailed that whenever money was lent to Ireland it was never expected to be repaid—that, instead of its being a loan, it was, in point of fact, a gift. Such an opinion (the noble Marquess observed) was fallacious, because, if reference was made to the public works accounts, it would be found that two-thirds of the Exchequer-bills which were issued to assist the public works department, were in course of repayment; and if the remaining third was unpaid, it was because the works were suspended." "Erit igitur humanilatis vestræ, magnum civium numerum calamitate prohibere; sapientiæ videre multorum civium calamitatem a republica sejunctam esse non posse."
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, he hoped the House would not make light of his Amendment, and say that, because of the apparent insignificance of the amount of 50,000 l l s d s d d 786 787 ab extra s s s 788 l l l l 789 l 790 791 Cries of l 792 l
 MR. P. SCROPE , seeing the temper of the House, would not trouble it to divide upon his Amentment.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, that, in the course of his excellent speech, the hon. and learned Member for Dublin (Mr. Napier) had forgotten to say which way he intended to vote, and, with that exception, it was a speech seldom equalled by any Member proceeding from the University of Dublin. He (Mr. Osborne) said that, because its tone was so essentially catholic and good, that, if he had any hope for Ireland, it would be derived from the fact of such a speech having been delivered by a Member for the University of Dublin. If, however, he might draw an inference, he should say that the hon. and learned Member intended to vote against the grant, because he had maintained that all previous grants to Ireland had been attended with unmitigated evil. The hon. Member had truly
 818 l l l 819 l l 820 
 
 Rated value. Population. 
 Kilrush £59,228 82,353 
 Ballina 95,770 120,787 
 Castlebar 50,982 61,063 
 Westport 38,876 77,952 
 Swineford 45,966 73,529 "He did not expect it would relieve the miseries of Ireland, but was afraid it would rather fix them; his hope was then in a grand and comprehensive scheme of home colonisation upon the waste lands." 821 l l l l l
 MR. B. OSBORNE , in explanation, said the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had taken advantage of a misapprehension, on his part, of what he (Mr. Obsorne) had said. He had not said, or intended to say, that he wished the people of these distressed unions to die; but that he thought it would be much better they should die to-day, than be reprieved till Saturday fortnight, which was the utmost time that the proposed grant would last.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  wished to put a question to the hon. Member for Lancaster (Mr. Greene). Hon. Members had recently received a circular from the Commissioners of the New Houses of Parliament, calling upon them to point out any arrangements which might appear to them to be desirable with respect to the arrangements in the new House of Commons. He (Mr. B. Osborne) wished to inquire, first, whether those arrangements would be allowed to interfere with Mr. Barry's original plan; and if so, who was to be responsible for the expense: secondly, whether the dispute between Dr. Reid and Mr. Barry, which had now lasted four years, had been finally adjusted by the Commissioners: and, thirdly, whether the Commissioners had drawn out any report which would inform the House what the ultimate expense of the Houses would be, and what would be the probable time of their completion?
 MR. ANSTEY  had never admitted that this Bill empowered the Lord Lieutenant to arrest any man at his own free will and pleasure. He had asserted quite the contrary.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  was glad that the hon. Member for Montrose had had an opportunity of addressing the House on the present question, and that his sympathies were so exclusively confined to traitors on this side of the water. None of his (Mr. Hume's) sympathy, or that of his friends, was bestowed upon Irish prisoners, nor did they seem to have any respect for the rights of the Irish people, so far at least as from their conduct upon this measure they might judge. Whether the Irish Members of that House would lend themselves any longer to swell the ranks of the Manchester school, when they saw with what indifference that party treated the liberties of the Irish people, was a question which he (Mr. Anstey) would leave for their own good sense to determine. He (Mr. Anstey) had already stated his objections to this Bill, none of which had been removed, and he regarded them as insuperable. However, he would not further discuss that measure, but merely content himself with voting against it upon every fitting occasion. He trusted, however, that the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. J. O'Connell) would not divide the House upon his Amendment, because as the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey) had stated, the hon. Gentleman himself first, and next the House, had already decided against that Amendment. In the long speech with which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. J. O'Connell) had favoured the House, no new argument had been adduced to authorise the House to entertain his proposition. He (Mr. Anstey) thought the Bill bad enough in itself, without its being necessary for the hon. Gentleman to exaggerate its defects or to misstate its mischievous tendencies. He had misstated the object of the Bill, and the mischief that would result from it. It did not propose to make the Lord Lieutenant a despot, by giving to his letters or proclamations the force of law. He (Mr. Anstey) could not listen to such a misrepresentation as this without rising to contradict it, because, if it went forth to the world unnoticed, and gained credence among the people, it might lead to mischievous results. The true and only effect of the Bill would be, that persons apprehended on suspicion of high treason would not be bailable without the order of the Lord Lieutenant in Council, and might be removed from gaol to gaol during their imprisonment. The measure was, therefore, a bad one; but it was scarcely open to any one of the objections urged by the hon. Gentleman that night. His speech
 782
 MR. T. GREENE  said, the circular to which the hon. Member (Mr. B. Osborne) alluded, had been sent round to all the Members of the House of Commons, and arose from the circumstance of the Commissioners wishing to have the views of hon. Gentlemen as to the formation of any arrangements in the interior of the new House which might add to the general convenience of all. They were not matters which could interfere with the plans of the architect, or create any great expense; but every hon. Member must be aware that there were various local arrangements, which might be made in the interior of the building, which would add greatly to the convenience of hon. Gentlemen, and to the facility of the despatch of business; and the Commissioners have been desirous of ascertaining the views of hon. Members on those matters in order to their satisfactory
 757
 MR. T. GREENE  was not quite aware what the hon. Member (Mr. Hume) referred to. There were certain alterations rendered necessary last year, to afford accommodation to the different officers of the Houses; and for that purpose an estimate of the additional expense had been prepared, which had been submitted to the Commissioners of the Treasury for their sanction.
 MR. T. GREENE  said, the plans were all in Mr. Barry's office, who would afford every facility to hon. Members to obtain any information they might require.
 MR. EWART  observed, that a Commission had been appointed to inquire into the state of the criminal law in the Channel Islands: he wished to know whether the recommendations, or any part of the recommendations, of that Commission were about to be adopted?
 MR. EWART  wished to put a question, of which he had given notice, to the noble Viscount the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, which concerned the commerce of this country, and related to the differences which unhappily existed on the River Plate. He had to ask whether there was any propect of the adjustment of the differences existing between the republics on the River Plate, and whether there would be any objection to lay before the House any correspondence upon the subject?
 MR. MONSELL  felt hound to express his acknowledgments at the tone of the speech of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hors-man), and also his gratification at the attention which Her Majesty's Government had paid to the state of Ireland. With respect to the Amendment of the hon. Member for Stroud (Mr. Scrope), he thought that it might be disposed of as a mere question of words; for if it were carried, the hon. Member could not expect, from the destitution
 816 817
 MR. MONSELL  explained that he had referred to the resources of the whole of Ireland, and that he did not object to a rate in aid for the purpose of assisting emigration.
 MR. W. P. WOOD  could not avoid making some brief remarks upon the subject, after having heard the observations made by the hon. Member for Cocker-mouth (Mr. Horaman), and the hon. Gentleman who had spoken last (Mr. Moore). The vote which he (Mr. Wood) had felt it his painful duty to give the other night upon this question had
 836 l 837
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the only question before the House was, whether the clause proposed by the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. J. O'Connell) should be added to the Bill. He would, therefore, confine himself to the question immediately before the House, and not go through the different arguments which the hon. Member had used. The clause now proposed was identical in substance with the instruction moved by the hon. Gentleman on going into Committee on the Bill, which instruction was withdrawn after a very full discussion; and it was also identical in substance with a clause which the hon. Gentleman had proposed in Committee, and which the House had refused to receive. As the reasons against the instruction and the clause were then stated very fully, and the reasons which induced Her Majesty's Government and a largo majority of the House to reject the one and the other were also fully stated before, he (Sir G. Grey) would be occupying the attention of the House to no purpose if he were to re-state the arguments. He would only remind hon. Members that this was the identical clause which on two occasions had been before them already, and which the House had refused to entertain; and he certainly had not heard any arguments that night to induce them to alter their decision.
 SIR G. GREY  said, he thought the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hume) was aware that it must be to the Judge who tried, and not to the Government, that the prisoners must make their application. The Act of Parliament provided that, in cases of misdemeanour, parties might apply to the Judge before whom they were tried, to be placed on the footing of first-class misdemeanants. Applications had been made to the Judges. In some cases, the Judges gave directions for the prisoners' removal to the first class of misdemeanants; in others they had not thought themselves justified in entertaining the applications. Those persons were now suffering the punishment which the law had awarded to them, and any appeal must be made to the Judges, and not to the Government.
 SIR G. GREY  said, if he had known that it was the intention of the hon. Member (Mr. Reynolds) to put any question with reference to the treatment of the prisoners in Kilmainham gaol, he would have brought his memorandum with him, as he would then have been enabled to answer the question more in detail; but he might state that the Lord Lieutenant had not shrunk from whatever responsibility might attach to him with reference to the circumstance in question, because his Excellency had approved of the steps taken with regard to the small number of prisoners alluded to. Those prisoners had been placed on the debtors' side of the prison, and they had availed themselves of the facilities there afforded to communicate with the public papers, and to write articles in fact which were inhibited. They refused, when requested, to desist from that practice, and in consequence they were removed from that part of the prison to another part.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that he had not before heard the hon. Member for Nottingham's account of the affair, and that he did not believe it to be a correct version. This he had heard—that being in one part of the prison, where they would be entitled to certain indulgences, they, in the opinion of the authorities of the prison (and the Lord Lieutenant approved of the manner in which the authorities had acted), abused the indulgences granted them. The authorities told them that their removal would be rendered necessary unless they discontinued their practices. They refused to discontinue them, and said that force must be used to effect their removal to the other side of the prison. Force was accordingly brought in. The police were introduced; but when they saw the force, which they themselves had called for, they yielded to the order of the authorities, and no force was used. The course adopted by the authorities seemed to be indispensably necessary.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that immediately upon the occurrence of the accident, he had received a communication from the clerk to the magistrates of the district, suggesting that it might be desirable that some gentlemen should be sent down, on the part of the Government, to watch the proceedings. He (Sir G. Grey) wrote to the coroner, and sent down two gentlemen, Mr. Warrington Smith and Mr. Tremenheere, to examine the mine, and to give their evidence to the jury. The coroner had since transmitted to him (Sir G. Grey) a local newspaper, containing the evidence of those two gentlemen, the summing up of the coroner, and the verdict of the jury. The verdict, he should observe, was one of "accidental death," with a recommendation to the proprietor of the mine that a better mode of ventilation should be adopted, and that a scientific and practical person should be appointed to occasionally inspect the collieries of the district. The
 764
 SIR G. GREY  said, that a Bill had been brought in founded on the report of the Copyhold Commissioners, who recommended a provision for compulsory enfranchisement. The Bill underwent considerable discussion and consideration in the House of Lords, the result of which was, that very great difficulty appeared to exist in carrying into effect the provisions of the Bill. He had since very fully considered the subject, and had thought he was not justified in proposing, during the present Session, a Bill for the compulsory enfranchisement of copyholds, but thought it desirable that a Bill should be introduced for giving increased facilities for their enfranchisement.
 MR. WARD  might add, that all the recommendations of the Committee as to the form of the estimates had been attended to.
 SIR J. WALSH  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down (Mr. Scrope) was gifted with an intellect totally impervious to the lessons of experience. For many years the hon. Member had been the untiring and not unsuccessful advocate of an Irish poor-law, and the result of that measure had been, that in two years one-fourth of the country was beggared, with a fair prospect that before two more years should have elapsed, the rest of it would be in the same pauperised condition. But the hon. Gentleman, with that obstinacy of delusion which characterised
 793 794 Propriété c'est le vol "That the peculiar circumstances of Ireland, consequent upon four successive years of distress, require the immediate adoption of such measures as may assist and encourage the individual exertion of the owners and occupiers of Irish property, and promote industry, by giving remunerative employment; and that all grants or loans of money to particular districts should be applied, as far as possible, to such purposes as many conduce to the eventual improvement of those districts, and enable them to support themselves from their ordinary resources." 795 l
 SIR J. WALSH  said, he would not long detain the hon. Member for Glasgow (Mr. Macgregor); but he was anxious, before he concluded, in an humble, though sincere manner, to suggest to the Government some other remedies, which he apprehended would be of a more beneficial nature than the proposal before them. For his own part, he preferred to see some scheme proposed by the Government which would be attended with lasting benefit, than those mere make-shift propositions. He trusted the House would excuse him for trespassing upon their time whilst he mentioned some of the conclusions practical experience had enabled him to arrive at; and he would premise the remarks he had to make by saying that the question of emigration had not, in his opinion, ever been fairly entertained by the House of Commons. Out of doors the opinion was fast gaining ground that emigration was, if not the sole, at least a most important remedy for the present calamitous condition of Ireland. That subject had never been introduced, except incidentally, and yet would it not strike the most superficial observer that 50,000 l 796 pro tanto 797 s d 798 l l l l l l 799 800
 SIR J. WALSH  was anxious to avail himself of this opportunity of addressing a question to those hon. Members of the House who were more familiar with the form of business than he could pretend to be—he meant in reference to the course
 765
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  replied, that the subject was receiving the greatest consideration; but he could not promise that all the recommendations of the Committee would be carried into effect.
 VISCOUNT DRUMLANRIG  said, that he had attended all the debates which had taken place on this proposed grant, although he had not yet voted upon the question; and he could truly say that it was not without mature consideration of this most
 801 l 802 l 803
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that he by no means despaired of the settlement of the differences between those two republics, and it might be satisfactory to the House and to his hon. Friend (Mr. Ewart) to know that trade was going on with perfect security. As to laying papers on the table of the House, he thought it
 768
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The difficulty has not yet been adjusted. As to any correspondence that may be going on at present, it would not he politic now to inform the hon. Member.
 MR. GREENE  wished to correct an error into which he had fallen, in reply to the question of the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. Osborne), respecting the New Houses of Parliament. He (Mr. Greene) had stated, that some additional expenses had been incurred at the instance of the Woods and Forests; and that he had seen
 875
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, that as the noble Lord the Member for Aylesbury (Lord Nugent) had given notice of his intention to move an Amendment after the third reading, he (Mr. O'Connell) would not trouble the House with two debates in one night on this Bill, but would be content with one debate upon the Amendment of the noble Lord.
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  said, he was not prepared to allow this Bill to proceed to a third reading without giving the Motion every opposition in his power. If hon. Members acknowledged the principle of the Bill, they would not be in a position to support the Amendment. Among other hon. Members, he found that the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) gave as a reason for supporting this Bill, that the Government would eventually be compelled to introduce some remedial measures for Ireland; and, according to his characteristic consistency, the hon. Gentleman declared his belief that that Government, who had made so many fair promises, and had broken them, would now perform them. Those who supported the present supporters of this measure affected to condemn the practice of yielding to a pressure from without. But who, he would ask, had so practically displayed that feeling as the men who were now in power? Experience had shown that whenever remedial measures for Ireland were suggested, there was always some difficulty to contend with in that House; but when coercive measures were proposed, there then appeared a general concurrence in any attempt to circumscribe the liberties of the people of Ireland. Thus when there was a debate coming on upon the Southampton Small
 876 and Loud cries of 877 878 A laugh 879 Cries of Essay on the English Constitution 880
 SIR G. GREY  said, that perhaps he owed some apology to the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, for having reminded him some twenty minutes ago that he had then spoken an hour. The hon. and learned Gentleman appeared displeased at having been informed that he was an hour on his legs; but he had spoken now for nearly an hour and a half, and he had occupied twenty-five minutes after saying he was only going to occupy six minutes. Now, on referring to the list of the minority on the 6th of February, the name of the hon. Gentleman would be found voting on the Motion for limiting the discussion to one hour. [Mr. F. O'CONNOR: But you voted against it, and I was anxious to take your example.] If anything could convince him (Sir G. Grey) of the necessity of limiting the addresses in that House, it would be the speech they had just heard; because if all the extraneous matter it contained had been expunged, it would have been a more effective and a
 881
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  said, that as an Irish Member he must decline to enter into any understanding with the Government
 882 883 884 885 l l l 886
 MR. J. H. HAMILTON  wished to make some explanations relative to the statement which had been made as to the treatment of Mr. Meaney, one of the State prisoners in Kilmainham gaol. Meaney had been placed at first upon the debtors' side of the prison; but owing to breaches of prison discipline—the publication of do-coments from Mr. Meaney in the newspapers—the high sheriff, backed by the board of superintendence, remonstrated with him. Meaney set those authorities at defiance, and he was accordingly removed to that part of the prison allotted to felons, and where originally he ought to have been placed, and where, if he had been confined in the first instance, no such breach of prison discipline would have occurred. As Meany refused to pass from one part of the prison to the other voluntarily, the police were called in, and he was removed with great difficulty. It had been alleged that this prisoner was immured in dark, damp, unwholesome cells, and that he was refused all intercourse with his friends. As to the latter part of the charge, they must all know that it was necessary to keep up the rules of discipline, and in conformity with this rule nobody was admitted to see Maaney, except with an order; but as to the former part, that the prisoner was confined in dark, damp, unwholesome cells, he could himself give it a flat denial. The
 887
 MR. HUME  said, that a large portion of the speeches of the hon. Members for Cork and Nottingham had been directed to him, as if either he was the oppressor, or had the power of remedying the evils of which they complained, and as if he had directed, or had the power of directing, the policy of the British Government towards Ireland. It was quite true, that for him to advocate the suspension of the Habeas Corpus was an extraordinary thing. He appealed to his past Parliamentary conduct, extending, as it did, over a quarter of a century; he appealed to those who then sat with him on the Opposition, and some of whom were now on the Treasury benches, whether any man had been more anxious, or had proved himself more sincere in his desire to redress the social and political grievances of Ireland? More than five-and-twenty years ago he submitted to the House a proposition for bestowing civil rights upon Irishmen, of all classes and creeds, equal to those of England and Scotland. He would quote an extract from a speech of his own (as reported in  Hansard l 888 l l 889
 MR. NAPIER  had not intended to take any part in this debate, because upon the immediate question before the House—the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act—he did not think any doubt could exist as to the propriety of continuing the measure in the present condition of Ireland. Only last week seventeen clubs had met in secret conclave in Dublin. This was sufficient reason why they should entrust to the Lord Lieutenant these powers, which he was equally satisfied would not be abused. Therefore, he (Mr. Napier) would have been quite content to give his vote without offering any observations, because he never wished to obtrude himself upon the House except when a sense of duty compelled him to do so. But, after the challenge made that night with regard to the Irish Established Church by the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Roche), he felt called upon, as one of the representatives of that church, to rise and meet that challenge with as ranch boldness and firmness as it had been given. He never wished to be ostentatious of his religion, but he trusted he should never be the man to be ashamed of it. He was ready to meet the challenge against that church upon every ground—upon the ground of its antiquity, the truth of its doctrine, as being conformable with Scripture—the correctness of its discipline—the unbroken succession of its spiritual leaders from the earlier ages down to the present times—all its long catalogue of bishops, many eminent for their piety and their learning, could trace their descent from the days of St. Patrick. Let hon. Gentlemen of the opposite persuasion remember the solemn oath by which they
 890 891
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  would ask the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, what the incendiary fires and disturbances now going on in the north of Ireland, meant? If these acts of devastation and lawlessness could not be called sedition, they could not, at all events, be considered to be very striking evidences of the love of peace and order which the hon. and learned Gentleman had so triumphantly arrogated to himself, as being characteristics exclusively confined to the Protestant districts of Ireland. The freedom from sedition that marked these districts, was owing to the fact that justice was done to the tenant-farmers of Ulster, who had secured to them the profits of their own industry—they had it guaranteed to them that what they had sown they would be allowed to reap. This was in consequence of their enjoying tenant-right in that province. And therefore there was not that which alone had caused the agrarian outrages in the south—the plunder of the peasant by the landlord, and the carrying away by the landlord, or the landlord's agent, of the whole of the produce of the land. He (Mr. J. O'Connell) had been abused during the course of the debates on this question for making very discourteous speeches; but he thought that other hon. Gentlemen who had spoken, particularly on that night, were equally open to the same reproach. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier) had given them a speech on the Irish Church, the question under discussion being the suspension of the Habeas Corpus. He (Mr. J. O'Connell) would not then go into an argument with respect to the merits of the two Churches; but certainly he was a little surprised at some of the claims advanced by the hon. and learned Gentleman with regard to the antiquity of the Protestant Church, and its connexion with St. Patrick. It reminded him of an anecdote he had heard respecting an old lady, the daughter of an officer in the Irish Brigade, who resided at Boulogne. Having been asked if she were aware that St. Patrick was a native of Boulogne, she said she was not, but would not be surprised if such were the fact; because, said she, "the Irish Brigade were quartered here a long time." He (Mr. J. O'Connell) was of opinion,
 892 893 l 894 l l
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  said, he had abstained from expressing any opinion on the various Motions which had been made during the discussion of the Bill then before them, feeling convinced that no Amendment could render useful a measure affecting so violently the liberties of the people. He retained unchanged the opinion which he entertained on the second reading, namely, that no case had been
 895 896
 LORD NUGENT  said, he had, up to this stage of the Bill, abstained from offering any opposition to it, even by a silent vote. With more reluctance than he had ever before felt in any vote he had ever given or abstained from giving in that House, he had done so, feeling he should not be justified in refusing his assent to what Ministers, on their own responsibility, urged as a measure of absolute State necessity—a remedy, tolerable only under the most urgent State necessity, and for the shortest time during which that necessity should be pressing and manifest. But he had done so, with a predetermination to resist to the utmost so frightful a proposal as that of giving to any Government a renewed lease of arbitrary power for such a term as six months in any part of the British empire; above all, during a Session of Parliament, competent as Parliament is at any moment to renew or continue powers on fresh or continued proof of necessity. He would call the attention of the House to this, as a question of principle, whether at such a time of the Session, specially, it be fit to put aside a statute affecting the very foundations of civil liberty—to part with it, out of our own hands for such a period as six months? He would appeal to those who think a case might arise, under which it might be right even to renew such a measure, even beyond this Session—whether there be common prudence in providing that it shall come before a thinned and
 898 899 900 901 902
 COLONEL THOMPSON  rose to second the Amendment; and in doing so he begged to observe, that those who supported the Government in the preceding stages of the Bill were placed in such a position, that they had no alternative but to vote for the whole measure, or else lie under the suspicion of being disposed to bind the hands of the Government at a moment of great danger and uncertainty. With rebellion in Ireland, they could not adopt any course the tendency of which would be to weaken the hands of the Executive authority; they therefore took the course of not restraining the Ministers of the Crown with regard to those powers which were necessary for carrying on efficiently the government of Ireland. But in so voting with the responsible advisers of the Queen, he (Colonel Thompson) and those who thought with him wished to demonstrate that they were anxious not to permit the Executive to enjoy any power one jot beyond that which the exigency of the case rendered absolutely necessary. He)Colonel Thompson) conceived the powers to be necessary; and he consented the more readily to grant them, inasmuch as he had confidence in those to whom such powers were to be intrusted. The case would be different if authority so extensive were to be intrusted to men like Jeffries or Claverhouse; but in the manner in which similar powers had already been exercised, he perceived a strong pledge that they would in future be moderately used. Still, he saw no reason why there should not be a limitation to three months, at the end of which period the Government might ask for a renewal of the authority with which this measure invested them, provided they could then
 903
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the noble Lord who had moved the reduction of the period for the continuance of this measure from six to three months, had said that he supported the Bill upon every one of its previous stages, because he felt convinced of its necessity, and that he, equally with the Government, desired the repose of Ireland. But the noble Lord had said that the objects for which this Bill was to be passed, might all be obtained within the short period of three months. For that opinion he had given no reasons; and if the arguments of the noble Lord had any force, they would go much beyond the conclusions which he founded upon them, and would make it necessary for the House to consider month by month or week by week whether the time had not arrived for dispensing with this measure. The noble Lord had said, that in his opinion this measure was necessary; but he would not give his consent to the continuance of this Bill for six months. It had on the other hand been made a matter of complaint, that the Government had not proposed twelve months as the duration of the measure instead of six? Upon former occasions, when the Habeas Corpus Act had been suspended, it had been for a period of twelve months; but in 1822, about the same time of year as the present proposition was made, in the beginning of February, and early in the Session of Parliament, the Habeas Corpus Act was suspended for six months, as it was considered advisable that the House should again have an opportunity of considering whether it would be necessary to continue it for a longer time. The Government had followed in the present instance the precedent for the shorter term, and had proposed six instead of twelve months, as the duration of the Bill. He thought hon. Members having repeatedly, in the divisions which
 904
 MR. REYNOLDS  gave the noble Lord the Member for Aylesbury credit for his kindly feelings towards the people of Ireland in reducing the period of the Bill to three months; but the House having affirmed the principle, and the noble Lord having voted with the majority in favour of its continuance for six months, he (Mr. Reynolds) could not understand exactly the meaning of the noble Lord in now moving that it should only exist for three months. If hon. Members would adopt his advice, he would say do not vote in favour of this Amendment. He knew that an argument might probably be founded upon it, that whereas it was quite wrong to suspend the constitution for six months, but that it would be perfectly right to suspend it for three months. He advised the noble Lord to withdraw his Motion, and let the Government go the whole animal.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, that he had promised the noble Lord to vote for his Amendment; but after the declaration he had heard, that by voting for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act in Ireland for three months, he should be supporting the principle of the Bill, he begged to decline giving any vote at all on the question.
 MR. H. DRUMMOND  said, that the noble Lord had grounded his introduction of the measure upon the desire to do natural justice to the Jew; but the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford had gone further, and it seemed that in his view, as well as in his own (Mr. Drummond's), they were required to do natural justice to the Jew by returning to natural religion. There appeared to him to be considerable discrepancy between the speech of the noble Lord, and the conclusion to which he had come; and that gave him some doubts as to the course which ought to be followed upon that occasion. He believed, with hon. Gentlemen opposite, that there was much in the oaths taken by Members that would be better left out; but, as it appeared to him, the present question was nothing more than the old Jew Bill again. Whatever might be the overture, the prelude by which the piece was introduced was just a simple  rechauffée
 MR. BERNAL  in the chair; Motion made and Question proposed—
 "That it is expedient to alter the oaths required to be taken by the subjects of Her Majesty not professing the Roman Catholic religion as qualifications for sitting and voting in Parliament, and to make provision in respect of the said oaths for the relief of Her Majesty's subjects professing the Jewish religion."
 MR. LAW  said, he retained the opinions he had formerly expressed on this subject, which, so far from being changed, had gained greater strength by the interval since it was last discussed. Although this measure made a pretence of treating on oaths in general, it was obviously neither more nor less than the old question. The noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had just stated that the exclusion of Jews from Parliament was a hateful and odious policy; but what a discovery was that for the noble Lord to make for the first time in the year 1848, when his Colleague was Baron Rothschild! The noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had said, that the admission of Jews would complete the edifice of civil and religious liberty; but the very oath by which he proposed to accomplish this wonderful temple of freedom was itself a sentence of exclusion against others of Her Majesty's unchristian subjects, who unfortunately did not happen to have secured the suffrages of the citizens of London. He rose more particularly on the present occasion, because he felt bound to enter his protest against this measure at every stage; and he would take another opportunity in the course of the discussion of expressing his opinion upon it. But as the circumstances under which the measure was brought forward were most important, he would ask the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) who had only just told them the nature of the measure, not to urge the House to resolve itself itself into a Committee to take the measure into consideration within half an hour of its being introduced into the House. He thought it was due to the minority that the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) should give them an opportunity of having one night to consider whether they would make such an alteration in the oaths as would lead to the admission of Jews into that House. He asked the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) for that indulgence, though he must frankly tell him that he could not give him any assistance in carrying this measure, neither would be give to it any vexatious opposition; but he would give it every opposition in his power that was not vexatious. He asked the noble Lord to give them one night to consider this resolution, which he believed was not yet six hours old—which the noble Lord had not himself determined on when he rose from his bed that morning. It appeared that the speech of the noble Lord
 920 ad captandum
 MR. SCOTT  rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies the questions of which he had given notice relative to emigration to the Australian colonies.
 873 l l
 MR. SCOTT : But there has been preference. One-fourth of the assisted passengers are now waiting. I wish to know whether these two counties are to have the 50,000 l l l
 LORD J. RUSSELL  rose and said: Mr. Speaker, I have risen to bring under the consideration of this House the important subject of the oaths which are required to to be taken by Members of this branch of the Legislature. In the course of the last Session I had the honour of proposing, and the good fortune of carrying, a Bill for the purpose of relieving Her Majesty's Jewish subjects from the disabilities under which they now labour. That Bill was rejected and thrown out by the House of Lords; and it is now my intention to bring the subject more completely under the notice of the House, and to review the oaths that are now administered at the table and necessary to be taken. And if I should be so fortunate as to obtain the consent of the House to go into Committee on the subject, I trust I shall be permitted to bring in, as I did before, the Bill which I have to propose, and to lay the whole scheme before hon. Members. I should state, in the first place, that I do not propose to interfere with, or alter, the present form of the oath administered to Roman Catholics. The form of that oath, after having operated to the exclusion of the Roman Cataolics for 150 years, was deliberately settled in the year 1829—now twenty years ago. The Roman Catholics have since that period sat in this and the other House of Parliament after taking
 907 "I, A B, do sincerely promise and swear that I will be faithful and hear true allegiance to Her Majesty Queen Victoria." "With respect to the oath of allegiance that is to be taken by the Duke of Norfolk as Earl Marshal, I, as a lawyer, say that oath contains all
 908 "I, A. B., do swear that I do from my heart abhor, detest, and abjure, as impious and heretical, that damnable doctrine and position, that Princes excommunicated or deprived by the Pope, or any authority of the sec of Rome, may be deposed or murthered by their subjects, or any other whatsoever." "And I do declare that no foreign prince, person, prelate, state, or potentate hath, or ought to hare, any jurisdiction, power, superiority, preeminence or authority, ecclesiastical or spiritual, within this realm." —"no foreign prince, person, prelate, state, or potentate hath, or ought to have, any jurisdiction, power, superiority, pre-eminence, or authority, ecclesiastical or spiritual, within this realm"— 909 "I, A. B., swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to Her Majesty Queen Victoria, and that I will maintain the succession of the Crown, as established by an Act intituled 'An Act for the further limitation of the Crown, and better securing the rights and liberties of the, subjects:' and that I do not believe that the Pope of Rome, or any other foreign prince, prelate, person, state, or potentate hath, or ought to have, any temporal or civil jurisdiction, authority, or power within this realm; and that I will defend, to the utmost of my power, the settlement of property within this realm, as established by the laws; and I do make this recognition, declaration, and promise heartily, willingly, and truly, upon the true faith of a Christian. So help me God." 910 "And I do solemnly and sincerely declare, that I do believe, in my conscience, that not any of the descendants of the person who pretended to be Prince of Wales during the life of the late King James the Second, and, since his decease, pretended to be, and took upon himself the style and title of King of England, by the name of James the Third, or of Scotland, by the name of James the Eighth, or the style and title of King of Great Britain, hath any right or title whatsoever to the Crown of this realm, or any other the dominions thereunto belonging; and I do renounce, refuse, and abjure any allegiance or obedience to any of them. And I do swear, that I will bear faith and true allegiance to Her Majesty Queen Victoria, and her will defend to the utmost of my power against all traitorous conspiracies and attempts whatsoever which shall be made against her person, crown, or dignity. And I will do my utmost endeavour to disclose and make known to Her Majesty, and her successors, all treasons and traitorous conspiracies which I shall know to be against her person, crown, or dignity. And I do faithfully promise, to the utmost of my power, to support, maintain, and defend the succession of the Crown against the descendants of the said James, and against all other persons whatsoever; which succession, by an Act, intituled 'An Act for the further limitation of the Crown, and bettor securing the rights and liberties of the subject,' is and stands limited to the Princess Sophia, Electress and Duchess Dowager of Hanover, and the heirs of her body, being Protestants. And all these things I do plainly and sincerely acknowledge and swear, according to these express words by me spoken, and according to the plain common sense and understanding of the same words, without any equivocation, mental evasion, or secret reservation whatsoever." 911 "And I do make this recognition, acknowledgement, abjuration, renunciation, and promise, heartily, willingly, and truly, upon the true faith of a Christian. So help me God." 912 913 "I, A. B., swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to Her Majesty Queen Victoria, and that I will maintain the succession of the Crown as established by an Act intituled An Act for the further Limitation of the Crown, and better securing the rights and liberties of the subjects;' and that I do not believe that the Pope of Home, or any other foreign prince, prelate, person, State, or potentate, hath+, or ought to have, any temporal or civil jurisdiction, authority, or power within this realm; and that I will defend, to the utmost of my power, the settlement of property within this realm as established by the laws; and I do make this recognition, declaration, and promise, heartily, willingly, and truly, upon the true faith of a Christian. So help me God." 914 915
 LORD J. RUSSELL  had no wish to proceed further that night if the hon. Gentleman objected.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The Resolution which I shall propose on going into Committee is—
 "That it is expedient to alter the oaths re-
 930
 LORD J. RUSSELL : If I should adopt the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole), I should not have an opportunity-of laying the proposed oath before the House. In a Committee  pro formâ pro formâ
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I had hoped that, as the House after repeated discussion, agreed last year to that which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole) states to be the only point upon which a difference could arise this year—namely, the removal of the Jewish disabilities—I should have been allowed to introduce the Bill, and that the discussion would have been reserved for some future stage of the Bill. All I can do at present is, to propose that the House should go into Committee. If the House is pleased to go into Committee, I should then propose this resolution, and put it into the hands of the Chairman. H' the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole) or any other Member of this House might think it necessary to raise a discussion upon that resolution, and to make that the question upon which they are disposed to resist the proposition that I shall make, I should then certainly not propose to go further into that discussion on the present occasion. Sir, the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole) has, however, not confined himself to the simple question of whether or not the
 933 934
 MR. COCKBURN  considered that this Bill was a measure calculated to have a prejudicial effect both upon the Parliamentary and the municipal franchises. It proposed that all tenements under 10 l
 MR. HAWES  would make inquiry if there was any correspondence. He wished, however, to assure the hon. Member that no favour had been shown to any particular parties.
 MR. HAWES  replied, that with regard to the first question, it was not the intention of the Colonial Office to give to any person whomsoever any preference. The same boons would be given to all. But very recently two ships were taken up for
 874 l
 MR. WILLCOX  seconded the Amendment, concurring in all the objections stated by his hon. Colleague (Mr. Cockburn). The Bill had one object in view, whilst there was a different one in the background. It was a wolf in sheep's clothing.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  intimated that he would withdraw his Motion for adjournment.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  (who was called upon by Mr. Bankes and several hon. Gentlemen near him not to press the question of adjournment) asked the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) to read the amended oath, as he intended to propose it, and the resolution as it stood.
 MR. NEWDEGATE , having felt no doubt as to the nature of the oath taken by him at the table, and not having felt any of that embarrassment which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford seemed to think might have confused the understanding of sonic Protestant Members of the House while taking that oath, but having taken it willingly, wittingly, und with a full intention of abiding by it, entertained the greatest objection to the proposal of the noble Lord. What were the characteristics of that proposition? The noble Lord had clubbed together every objection entertained by every small section against this oath, and had framed his proposed oath in such a manner as to gain a transitory applause from these objectors. The noble Lord proposed to alter the oath by remov-
 928 929
 MR. BANKES  said, he understood the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had no wish to proceed further to-night. A division was not expected, and had come upon them with surprise. He hoped, therefore, the noble Lord would consent to the Chairman reporting progress.
 MR. BANKES  could assure the House and the hon. Member who had just sat down, that he would not take part in the miserable bickerings to which he had alluded. He (Mr. Bankes) had expected that the right hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone) would have risen and given the House his opinion on this measure. He had the more expected it, because his colleague, the hon. Baronet (Sir R. H. Inglis), who was generally to be found in his place on all occasions when
 922 923 "I do hereby disclaim, disavow, and solemnly abjure any intention to subvert the present Church Establishment, as settled by law within this realm; and I do solemnly swear that I will never exercise any privilege, to which I am or may become entitled, to disturb or weaken the Protestant religion or Protestant Government." 924
 MR. MUNTZ  said, there was no clause in the Bill to enable the landlord to compound for the rate. The principle was a most dangerous one, especially on the score of the length to which it was carried. It would create a most extensive disfranchisement, and therefore he should oppose it.
 MR. COMPTON  said, he know several individuals possessed of twelve, others eight, six, or four of these houses, which at present were all exempted from rates. These facts showed that there ought to be some alteration in this part of the law. The hon. and learned Member for Southampton said that this Bill would prove a great hardship to the poor. He thought it would be the very opposite; as it would, by bringing in this new class of ratepayers, relieve those who were only a little way above them in the social scale, and who now felt the pressure of the poor-rates very severely.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, he was not in the least degree insensible to the importance of the question which the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had brought under the consideration of the House. The alteration of those statutes by which they had been accustomed hitherto to secure the due execution of their duty by those who were placed in a legislative capacity, could never be other than a matter of serious consideration. With regard to the oath of abjuration, it was certainly open to consideration, and it was not his intention to resist the noble Lord's going into Committee for the purpose of presenting to the House the measure by which he actually proposed to alter or abrogate it; but in giving his consent to this first stage of the measure, he must enter his protest against being supposed to adopt the principles upon which the noble Lord recommended it. He did not intend to discuss the oath of supremacy at that moment; but he presumed that when that oath was under consideration in 1829, good reasons were urged why it should be retained in its then form; and though he did not mean to say that the decision then come to precluded the House from altering it now, yet he must declare that the principle on which the noble Lord proposed to alter it was not one which he was prepared to sanction. The noble Lord said, that if any man had a doubt as to the meaning of that oath, that doubt on the part of an individual would be sufficient to induce him to give it up. He (Mr. Goulburn) could not think that doubts of that limited description could be any justification for the alteration of that oath. The more important part of the noble Lord's speech was that which related to the effect that the proposed alteration would have upon the admission of Jews to Parliament. He wished the noble Lord distinctly to understand that, though not now disposed to oppose the introduction of the measure, he had hi no degree departed from
 916 917
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  did not, of course, intend to vote against the measure of the
 921
 MR. PLUMPTRE  was inclined to think that those hon. Members who thought last year that the Bill introduced by the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) for the admission of Jews ought not to be passed, would also now be of opinion that the noble Lord should not proceed with this measure. He was prepared, in this first stage of the Bill, to offer every opposition to the noble Lord, and even to divide the House on this first question, if it were the pleasure of any hon. Members to go into the lobby with him. He would not conceal from himself this truth that there would have been no movement whatever in the matter had not the noble Lord been defeated in another place last year in the Bill which he intro-
 918 919
 MR. HENLEY  agreed that if all parties in the town were willing to come to an arrangement of this sort, there was no reason why they should not be accommodated; but where there was a difference of opinion in a town, he could not but regard this as one of a series of steps by which the Legislature sought to deprive the poor man of the humane provision, that, as a poor man, he should be exempt from the payment of poor-rates. The law of England at present was, that the rate was collected from the occupier: there must be a beneficial occupancy. This was an attempt to shift it on the property. How it might work as to the franchise he knew not.
 871
 MR. HUME  said, that there was no doubt the poor-rates fell very heavily on small proprietors. Parliament ought to hold out, by every means in its power, inducements to those poorer classes to pay the rates, in order that they might enjoy the franchise. The area of representation ought to be increased, not diminished. On that ground he submitted that this mode of legislating to serve the purposes of any particular party was bad. They ought not to take away from the poor man any inducement to pay his rate.
 MR. P. SCROPE  suggested the sus-
 870
 MR. GODSON  said, the argument of the hon. Member for Stroud was equally good in 1831; but the Government brought in no general measure on the subject. The principle worked well in Kidderminster; and he could assure the hon. Member for Montrose that it extended, rather than abridged, the franchise. The Kidderminster Bill reserved the rights of the occupant in that respect, at the same time compelling the landlord to pay the rates. In that borough 1,370 l
 MR. SPOONER  denied that this would be the effect of the Bill; and he alleged that he had seen the working of a similar measure in Birmingham for more than twenty years, and it had worked very well; the result had been greatly to relieve the poor, and at the same time largely to increase the amount actually received from the rates. At present, parties realised large rentals from numbers of small houses in respect of which no rates were paid; but, in effect, the rent was proportionably increased.
 MR. WALPOLE  suggested to the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) the propriety of asking the House merely to go into Committee  pro formâ
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the House had now before it, according to the statement of the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), two distinct propositions—one, that a formal alteration should be made in the oath; the other, that a substantial alteration should be made in the oath, which alteration involved a fundamental principle. Now, he (Mr. Walpole), for one, felt that if the vote they were going to give was to be considered an admission of that principle, they ought not to be called upon to make such admission; and although he came down with the intention of acquiescing in any general proposition for the purpose of considering the nature of the oaths taken by Members, he felt, after the discussion which had taken place, not only the greatest unwillingness, but, he might almost say, the moral impossibility of consenting to such a course. The House would observe that the noble Lord pro-posed the alteration in the oath upon three grounds—that some parts are superfluous, that some parts are unnecessary, and that other parts are unduly restrictive. Now, he (Mr. Walpole) quite concurred with the
 931 932 and a laugh
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, after the pointed allusion of my hon. Friend the Member for Dorsetshire (Mr. Bankes), I shall not shrink from stating my opinion upon this subject; and as far as regards the main purpose of the noble Lord, I feel bound to say, with my hon. and learned Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge, that my opinions, like his, have undergone no change, unless it is
 925 926 927
 MR. MACKINNON  said, he was very sorry to see his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Southampton oppose this measure: the rates in Southampton were
 869
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the subject was not within his province. It more properly belonged to the Lord Steward of the Household; but in consequence of a communication which that noble Lord had done him the honour to make to him on this subject, a measure would be introduced, which he hoped would be effectual to remedy the evils complained of.
 MR. RICARDO  trusted that he might be permitted to make a few observations on what had gone before, although it was no part of his intention to attempt to take upon himself any reply to the heavy charges which had been brought against the Government. But he must express his surprise that with so great an accusation, the
 966 967 l "Gentlemen, the Committee have completed their labours. A petition will be read to the meeting; a demand for compensation is part of the petition. I am prepared to say that the case is not overstated, and the claim of the West Indies to a compensation of 103,000,000 l 968 969 "whereby they may be rendered more capable of meeting the difficulties of the transition from a system of protection to that competition in the British market with the produce of foreign States, to which Parliament has determined that they should be exposed in accordance with the general commercial policy which it has deliberately adopted."
 The EARL of LINCOLN  had no intention of trespassing upon the indulgence of the House at that late hour of the night; but inasmuch as he understood they were
 1038
 MR. RICARDO , believing the proposal made by the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Baillie) would meet the case, would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. RICARDO  thought that really, after all, there was no very great difference between the Gentlemen at both sides of the House. [ Laughter
 MR. SCOTT  said, that the question before the House resolved itself into part of the general question, whether the colonies were well or ill governed. There were two classes of colonies, namely, the Crown and the representative colonies. The present Government had not thought fit to extend to the Crown colonies those institutions which the Members of it individually professed to admire and approve of: the Crown colonies were governed despotically by means of a governor sent out from Downing-street, instead of having a representative system conferred upon them. This was the cause of the discontent that had been exhibited in Ceylon and Guiana. The mode of sending out despatches for the colonies was very correctly described by the late lamented Mr. Charles Buller, who said, in a work published by him on the subject, that they were written not by the Secretary of State, but by some apocryphal character, who might be termed Mr. Mother Country. So the despatches sent out to Ceylon, though signed, could not be written by Earl Grey, but by this Mr. Mother Country, for the contents of those despatches were contradictory to each other. In some of them Earl Grey expresses a desire to see a system of reform and of retrenchment instituted; and he urges Lord Torrington to reduce the expenses of his government, as one of the causes of the rebellion in Ceylon was the excessive amount of taxes imposed for the purpose of meeting the expenditure. On the other hand, the Colonial Office maintains in the colony a most
 1011 l l l "Hence the expediency of adopting the very opposite policy to that which would be proper in Europe, by endeavouring, in the imposition of taxes, to make them press, so for as prudence will admit, rather upon those who are content with a mere subsistence, than upon the possessors of property, and the purchasers of luxuries." "It appears to me to be a mistake to regard the imposition of direct taxation to a moderate amount, upon a population, under such circumstances, as really injurious to them. I am persuaded that it may, on the contrary, be conducive to their true welfare." 1012 "If it be admitted, as I think it must, that the real welfare of mankind consists not alone in the enjoying an abundance of the necessaries of life, but in their being also placed in a situation favourable to their moral improvement, and to their advance in civilisation, it follows that in such countries as I have adverted to, it may be for the true interest of the working classes that the contributions demanded from them towards the wants of the State should somewhat increase the amount of exertion required for procuring subsistence." "That the constitution of the councils of this island does not lead your petitioners to hope for any amelioration through their means; the unpaid, unofficial, members, who are the nominees
 1013
 LORD J. RUSSELL  thought that the
 1039
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Although, after the able speech of my hon. Friend the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, I do not feel that the conduct of Earl Grey requires any further defence, yet, in agreeing to the appointment of the Committee, I think it necessary not to pass wholly without notice, both some of the observations which the hon. Gentleman who brought forward the Motion (Mr. Baillie) has made, and some remarks which have been made by others with regard to the affairs of Ceylon. With regard to the hon. Gentleman who brought forward the Motion, and who did it with such a
 1019 1020 1021 1022 "I fully and most cordially concur "with you in expressing my high appreciation of the able and well-arranged plans of the Government in Colombo, of the prompt and efficient distribution of its military resources in such a manner that, with the exception of those districts where the insurgents, appearing unexpectedly, and in great force, were enabled to overrun the country, and spreading havoc and destruction in their path—before the military could reach them—has pro-served the lives and properties of the European settlers, and all other loyal and peaceful subjects in all other parts of the province; and I unhesitatingly state my belief that you are directly indebted to the able person at the head of the Government for the security and comparative tranquillity which now everywhere prevail." 1023 1024 1025 1026 1027
 MR. DISRAELI : I wish to trouble the House for a few moments before the division takes place—if one is to be called upon the Motion of my hon. Friend (Mr. Baillie), that they may clearly understand the position in which my hon. Friend the Member for Inverness-shire is placed by the observations just made by the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), and by the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, who preceded him. The Motion before the House is for a Select Committee. I beg the attention of the House to it, because the language of the Motion seems to have led to singular misconceptions. It was—
 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the grievances complained of in the
 1028 "Whereby they may be rendered more capable of meeting the difficulties of the transition from a system of protection to that competition in the British market with the products of foreign States to which Parliament has determined that they should be exposed, in accordance with the general commercial policy which it has deliberately adopted." 1029 locus standi 1030 1031 1032 "Paradoxical as it may appear, I am constrained to say, that I anticipate greater difficulties from contracting and reducing expenditure, than from providing subjects for the account of revenue.
 1033 1034
 MR. HAWES  said, had it not boon for the notice which his hon. Friend the Member for Stoke-upon-Trent (Mr. Ricardo) had given, he should have felt it his duty, as it would have been his inclination, immediately to have replied to the speech of the hon. Member for Inverness-shire (Mr. Baillie), who had first addressed the House. The hon. Gentleman who commenced this debate had made grave and heavy charges against the noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Department (Earl Grey); against the Colonial Department in times gone by; and, he might almost say, against Parliament and the country itself. He had endeavoured to support those charges by statements which he (Mr. Hawes) must characterise as singularly disingenuous and unfair. But why had the hon. Gentleman struck out the Mauritius from his Motion? He (Mr. Hawes) asked him to retain the Mauritius as part of his case. He feared no inquiry—he courted inquiry, and was willing to insert the Mauritius, and any other number of colonies the government of which the hon. Gentleman might choose to call in question. Let it not be understood for a moment that either his noble Friend at the head of the Colonial Office (Earl Grey) or himself feared in the slightest degree any inquiry that might be instituted. He (Mr. Hawes) feared it as little as the right hon. Gentleman had reason to fear it who conducted the colonial affairs under the last Administration. He was ready to meet
 970 Cheers and laughter 971 l l 972 l l l l l 973 s 974 "I therefore conclude that the rebellion was hatched by the headmen or priests, or by both the headmen and priests. The priests had a cause, and a growing cause, for discontent. I am aware—it is known in the country generally, and needs no further allusion here—that they kept a keen eye upon the decline of their religion, and it was, perhaps, but natural that that should be a cause of discontent to their minds. But I am aware, at the same time—and I speak now from my own observation—that the headmen were always discontented, as far as their conduct came under my observation. The remembrance of the power and
 975 bonâ fide 976 977 "Martial law was also almost immediately proclaimed, for the rebels assembled in such numbers in different places, and seemed so determined to murder all the white people and destroy their properties, that no time was to be lost, and prompt and vigorous measures were absolutely necessary." "To the very energetic and vigorous measures adopted by his Excellency the Governor must be attributed our present success in at least checking the rebellion. He feels confident it is quite put down. I own I am not so sanguine, for though the rebels have suffered severely, they still keep to their strongholds in the jungles, and in very large numbers. All people are now beginning to be convinced that this rebellion is deeply rooted and widely spread, and has been in agitation ever since the withdrawal of the different detachments that were stationed in small posts throughout the interior provinces in the years 1837 and 1838. In 1844 a disposition to rebellion showed itself, but it was fortunately discovered and suppressed before any serious outbreak took place, the ringleaders being all known and taken. I hope now we shall not require further reinforcements from Madras; and if we have really succeeded in putting down this rebellion, it has been owing to acting with promptness and decision at first; and I have only to hope that what has been done may be approved by her Majesty's Government at home." 978 "I fully and most cordially concur with you in expressing my high appreciation of the able and well-arranged plans of the Government in Colombo, of the prompt and efficient distribution of its military resources in such a manner that, with the exception of those districts where the insurgents, appearing unexpectedly and in great force, were enabled to overrun the country, and spread havoc and destruction in their path, before the military could reach them, has preserved the lives and properties of the European
 979 980 l l l l l l l l l l l l l 981 "I approve of your determination not to proceed further with the estimates after this vote had been come to, since it is obvious that the object of the Amendment was rather to assert the principle of the control of the Combined Court over the expenditure included in the civil list, than to effect a reduction of expenditure which could be of any serious importance. To that principle, for the reasons I have already fully stated, I think it my duty to oppose a firm resistance; I cannot, therefore, authorise your accepting a vote of the estimates in which provision is not made for the whole amount of the civil list, though I still entertain the readiness I have already expressed to consider any proposal for the reduction of the emoluments of the offices included in the civil list on vacancies occurring; nor would it he difficult for the Combined Court to bring any such proposed reduction under the consideration of Her Majesty's Government." 982 983 984 985 l 986 987
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he could not but lament that so great and so national a question as this should have been so miserably met, first, by a tricky Amendment, and then by the hon. Under Secretary of the Colonies entering upon a simple, personal defence. First, as to the Amendment, it had manifestly been proposed under a misconception of the Motion against which it had been made; and then, when the Motion proposed was found to be different from that which it was supposed it would be, yet the Amendment was not withdrawn; and it was not withdrawn, because it was desired to give a temporary triumph to the Government on what was a collateral debate. That which should have boon attended to was avoided, and that which they did not care to inquire about was pressed forward as the most fitting subject for consideration; and yet doing this, and pursuing this course, was an admission on the part of the Government of the faults with which it was charged. With regard to the defence made by the Under Secretary of State of the noble Lord (Earl Grey), he must say that he did not look upon this Motion as an attack upon the Government, or an individual. For himself, he said, that so far from being inclined to pass a vote of censure upon the noble Lord (Earl Grey), he was far more disposed to propose to him a vote of thanks; for if ever there was a man raised up by Providence to damn the system he supported, that noble Lord was the very man. He looked up with gratitude to Earl Grey, who, by the peculiarity of his character and his temper, brought to a crisis the difficulties and dangers with which they had been so long struggling. He did not look upon this as a vote of censure, or as an attack upon any person or party—he did not seek for an inquiry in order that it might implicate one Government more than another; but what he wanted to ascertain was, how they were to get out of the difficulties of the colonial system. They merely wanted information as to those circumstances which rendered their colonial administration one scene of disorder; they wanted to ascertain why and how it was that a system was persevered in which was destructive to their colonies, and a disgrace to the mother country. The hon. Member for Stoke-upon-Trent who had moved the Amendment, declared
 1008 1009 1010
 MR. HORSMAN  wished, although the Government consented to the inquiry, to make one or two observations. He thought that, in referring to the executions, which all must lament, justice ought to be done to Sir Archibald Oliphant, the Chief Justice of Ceylon. To him a debt of gratitude was owing, for having interposed to save a further effusion of blood, which might have been lamentably and disgracefully shed. The few lines in which he stated that the executions which had already taken place were sufficiently extensive, and that others ought to be avoided, were so creditable to his character, that they deserved to be acknowledged; and, indeed, whenever such instances of conduct on the part of public servants abroad came under the notice of the Government at home, or of Parliament, no opportunity ought to be lost of recognising them in the most prompt, just, and generous manner. He thought it only right to make this expression of his feeling towards the conduct of a gentleman of whom he knew nothing, except from the despatches before the House. Had the inquiry been resisted, he should have voted for it; but as the Government, in granting it, had taken a line that was creditable to them, he had nothing more to say, except to congratulate the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Baillie) upon the manner in which he had introduced the Motion.
 MR. BANKES  asked if it was not intended that the great tower in the new
 938
 MR. BAILLIE  said, he did not think it was necessary to offer any apology for bringing forward the present Motion, for he believed that a general feeling had long prevailed in the public mind of this country, that the Colonial Office was incapable to discharge with advantage the great and important duties which were entrusted to it. The public would not fail to perceive that for a series of years there had been a succession of Colonial Ministers appointed in this country—men of the greatest talent and ability—no one of whom had succeeded in gaining the confidence of the inhabitants of the colonies, in giving satisfaction to this country, or in gaining credit for himself or for the Government with which he was connected. And assuredly after the painful exposures which took place last Session of Parliament, it would not be contended that the present Secretary of State for the Colonies had been more fortunate than his predecessors, notwithstanding the high expectations which were formed in the breasts of our colonial fellow-subjects, in consequence of his previous declarations with respect to our colonial
 939 History of the British Colonies 940 "It is impossible to say to what extent the expenditure may not he reduced, if you are determined to cut your coat according to your cloth. There is hardly a limit; I do not know that the colony would be worse administered at half the cost: but the fault of all our colonies, as far as we know, is, that every colony is a miniature of the Imperial Government—we must have a treasury, and we must have an audit office, and all these are highly paid; indeed it is a mere caricature, it is very much so; but the Colonial Office might change its system entirely." "Our own times are probably the first in which the governing body, in large States, has sought to acquire strength by multiplying dependants on the public purse; a matter of state-craft now well understood in some great European kingdoms. Under our old colonial system, no temptation whatever was held out to self-interest, assuming the mask of patriotism—the commonest form of hypocrisy in these days. The expense of the civil establishment in Massachusetts' Bay, before the commencement of the American war, was estimated by Adam Smith at about 18,000 l l l 941 l l l l "an ever memorable example at how small an expense 3,000,000 of people may not only he governed, but well governed." "If this enormous difference were compensated by superior government, I, for one, should be little disposed to cavil at the amount of the sums which the people of the colonies are called on to advance for the purchase of so inestimable a blessing. But I might safely ask those who entertain the highest notions of government and its duties, whether any of its functions, moral or material, are better fulfilled in our colonies of the present day than they were in the ancient American provinces?" l l l s 942 "That your petitioners are deeply interested in the welfare of this island, in which their property is invested, their means of living procured, and now address your honourable House under a sense of suffering no ordinary hardship and injustice. Your petitioners are labouring under a burden of excessive taxation disproportionate to their means of payment, and consider that the revenues of the island are diverted to many objects with which they should not properly be burdened. That the administration of the law is tortuous and uncertain; the delays unavoidable in civil suits amount in many cases to a denial of justice, and the appointment of judges at the principal towns who have never studied or practised the law, from other branches of the public service, to seats in our first courts of civil jurisdiction.
 943 s s s d 944 945 "Under the extreme and painful depression of the colony in every branch of trade and enterprise, as well as a decreasing revenue, your memorialists have felt that it was not an increase of taxation that was called for, so much as a diminution in the heavy expenditure which pervades every department of the colonial government. Were opportunity afforded, your memoralists could point out many instances where wholesome reform and legitimate retrenchments might be made without in the least affecting the efficiency of the Executive, But in the midst of the increasing difficulties of the colony, the colonial government have not only in one session, and together, imposed four taxes of a novel character, but levied them in so objectionable and vexatious a manner as to irritate the people, and urge them to seek redress by personal appeals to his Excellency the Governor, and by petitions to Her Majesty, while, un-happily, too many have made them but a cloak for their own seditious and disloyal purposes. Your memorialists are far from imputing any blame to the local government for originating the taxes in question; but they most respectfully submit, that the fault lay in the provisions of the ordinances which legalised them, and subsequently vexatious manner in which they have been brought into operation. The four new taxes referred to are—1st, the gun-tax; 2nd, the shop or boutique-tax; 3rd, the dog-tax; and, 4th, the labour or poll-tax. The first of these (the gun-tax) compels the owner to pay 2 s d ad valorem s s s d d d s d s 946 "This ordinance has since been brought into operation, and I am bound to confess that difficulties have been experienced in carrying out its details, which can be thoroughly appreciated only by those resident on the spot, and which have arisen in a great degree out of native habits and customs, and from that mistrust of each other, combined with ignorance and timidity, which it is almost impossible to eradicate from the minds and feelings of the people. By way of illustration of this remark, I would mention the fact, that instead of one man bringing a number of guns to be registered for himself and his neighbours, every man from a whole district would come out the same day and hour, to the number of several hundred persons, making it utterly impossible for the agent to register their guns on that or the next day, by which arrangement numbers of people would be kept waiting at a considerable expense to themselves and loss of time; and no exertions or representations of the officers of Government could succeed in remedying or preventing this inconvenience. The tax was equal to 20 or 25 per cent upon the value of a great majority of the guns possessed by the natives, of which, indeed, many were utterly useless and valueless, except as curiosities, which had been kept as heir-looms in their families. Again, it has been ascertained that the people in many instances preferred destroying their guns, that others had concealed them, and that it was in fact very difficult in a wild country to compel the people to come in to register fire-arms. It was found, also, that dishonest pedlars had in many instances circulated delusive reports amongst the natives, by which means they had persuaded them to sell their guns absolutely for a mere trifle. Although I have little doubt that the tax could be collected next year with less difficulty, I am nevertheless sensible that some discontent and annoyance might arise from the attempt to enforce it, and I am bound to admit that the revenue hitherto derived from it has not been so large as I anticipated, although I have reason to believe that the actual number of guns was not over-estimated in my previous calculations. That a registration is necessary is beyond a doubt; and I have, with the unanimous concurrence of my Executive Council, recommended that the Bill of last Session should be amended by striking out the word annual; thus leaving it compulsory on all parties possessing fire-arms to register them, but only requiring one registration and one payment. By this alteration I have every reason to believe that the registration
 947 "The rebellion had been very much exaggerated. In point of fact, the troops had been called out for show more than for real use." Economist "The most conspicuous act of violence committed by the Austrian Government is the execution of Blum at Vienna. We are not disposed to think much of the sanctity with which the gentlemen at Frankfort have endeavoured to hedge round their persons, by declaring them inviolate. Every Member of the English Parliament may be prosecuted and punished for crimes, as witness Mr. Smith O'Brien; and why not, therefore, Robert Blum and the Frankfort deputies? We do not find fault with his execution because he was a
 948 "Kaddapolla Unnanse, first, for directly or indirectly holding correspondence with rebels, and not giving all the information in his power which might lead to the apprehension of a proclaimed rebel" [that was for not choosing to betray his friend], "he professing to know his place of concealment on or about the 17th of August, 1848; secondly, for administering or conniving at the administration of a treasonable oath to one Kirri
 949 Colombo Observer Colombo Observer "The courts-martial, for which there is no redress, form the saddest part of the dark and bloody tragedy. Three or four European officers, utterly ignorant of the mode of conducting such inquiries, participating in the surrounding excitement, and utterly ignorant of native character, in a country where the highest judicial authority has declared perjury to be the rule, correct evidence the exception—under such circumstances, we say, it was not likely that truth would be patiently searched out, and innocence protected. We have heard a gentleman who was engaged on some investigation, declare that he was most painfully situated. He had heard of the character of the people, and that, notwithstanding all the acumen of judges and lawyers, the civil courts frequently came to erroneous conclusions; and yet hero it was necessary to decide off-hand on the guilt or innocence of a fellow-creature, and life or death in a few hours was in the balance. Witnesses came up and swore point blank, but whether to believe them or disbelieve them he did not know, there being about as much reason for the one conclusion as the other. The court-martial upon the priest, who was shot in his robes at Kandy, may, we suppose, be taken as a fair specimen of these tribunals. He was accused of administering an oath of secrecy regarding the pretender's place of concealment. There were only two witnesses against him, a father and son, who, as the bystanders knew (though the members of the court-martial were ignorant of the fact), appeared under
 950 "Under different circumstances I should have
 951 "Queen's House, Colombo, Sep. 25,1846." Sir—I have the honour to acknowledge your letter of the 23rd inst., transmitting the notes of evidence and sentences of death passed on the prisoners convicted of high treason at the late session of the Supreme Court held at Kandy, for the special purpose of trying persons implicated in the late rebellion. I have given to this communication not only the respectful attention becoming your high authority, but that painful and anxious consideration inseparable from the solemn question of life and death suggested by your general recommendation of all the prisoners for a commutation of their punishments. But, after soliciting the advice and opinions of the Executive Council, it is with great reluctance that I find myself unable to concur with you in the propriety of that course towards some of those men convicted in due course of law, and whose guilt has been so clearly established, that the strict line of your duty, uninfluenced by other considerations, would have led you, as you state, to recommend to me to inflict upon them the last penalty of the law, in vindication of justice, order, and good government. These considerations, I must observe, are unconnected with the judicial question on which it was properly within your province to assist me with your advice; but, irrespective of this, I am compelled to say that neither they nor the reasoning founded on them, which has induced you to adopt a different line, in recommending these parties to mercy, has produced the same result in my mind; whilst, at the same time, such publicity has unfortunately been given to your opinions on this subject as would involve the Government in embarrassment, were I to set aside your recommendation to mercy, and leave these individuals for execution. On the other hand, I foresee much practical inconvenience likely to result from this summary review of all the proceedings of the highest civil tribunal in the island, followed by a sweeping modification of its judgment upon men convicted of the gravest offences known to our laws. Upon a deliberate calculation, however, of the comparative evils of either course, and feeling strongly the disadvantage at which I am placed in acting on my own judgment, I have deemed it best to lean to the side of mercy, and to adopt so much of your recommendation as regards the
 952 (Signed).—"TORRINGTON." "That the lands and property of all persons who shall, after this 18th day of August, 1848, be found to have been absent from their ordinary places of residence during the last twenty days, without giving a satisfactory account of themselves, will be declared forfeited and confiscated to the Crown." 953 l 954 955 l l "I believe at this moment, if any person could influence a change in the present stand against the civil list and supplies, it would be myself. Thus are opinions changed. But despair breaks all forms, and unless I am able, by the next mail, to communicate some other concessions to the planters, your Lordship will have to settle their financial difficulties as circumstances demand. The labourers have the money that has been expended on them since emancipation. Whatever be their rise in society hereafter, they are totally unfit now to carry on the cultivation of estates without some responsible head, though they probably will be purchasers of many of the estates as they fall to the law. Civilisation will not benefit by this change of bands, as has been proved on several estates purchased by the negroes on the east coast of Demerara, particularly where the original purchasers have created such disorders by sub-selling and sub-letting, that no combined system of industry—the only possible mode of keeping up a sugar estate—has been
 956 metairie l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 957 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l "If the measure—the withholding the supplies—be designed to enforce compliance with a demand for the reduction of the salaries granted to public servants by the civil list ordinance, it is equally unreasonable. I conceive the faith of the Crown and of the colony to be pledged to the public servants for the maintenance of the salaries granted by that ordinance for the period for which it is in force; nor would anything short of an absolute inability to redeem the pledge justify their reduction. But no such necessity exists. Governor Light has shown that the expenditure thus sanctioned (39,000 l l 958 "I'll have my bond—I will not hear thee speak: I'll have my bond, and, therefore, speak no more. I'll not be made a soft and dull-eyed fool, To shake the head, relent, and sigh, and yield To Christian intercessors. I'll have no speaking—I will have my bond." "I find Mr. H. M'Leod, who was sent down to
 959 forma pauperis l l sine die 960 l "Both the hon. Gentleman and the noble Lord have expressed opinions in favour of our demands, but their opinions are at variance with their recorded votes. We have no faith in the promises of the one; we have no hope in the management of the other." 961
 MR. BAILLIE , certainly, never supposed that any Gentleman who understood the English language could put any other construction upon his resolution, than that which had been put upon it by his hon. Friend the Member for Buckinghamshire. If the hon. Member for Stoke-upon-Trent withdrew his Amendment, he (Mr. Baillie) would endeavour to alter his resolution to meet the views of hon. Members, taking care, however, that the alterations did not alter its sense.
 MR. BAILLIE  asked if he was to understand that the Amendment was withdrawn? If the Amendment were withdrawn, he would himself propose to make some alterations which might meet the views of the hon. Gentlemen opposite.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he would not trespass long upon the attention of the House. He confessed he exceedingly regretted that the House, which was in general agreed as to the propriety of appointing a Committee to consider what improvements could be effected in the administration or government of these two important colonies—Ceylon and Guiana—should dispute as to the terms on which that Motion was to be framed. He agreed with the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tam-worth, and with his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell), that exceptions might be taken to the terms both of the Motion of the hon. Member for Inverness-shire, and of the Amendment of the hon. Member for Stoke-upon-Trent; and he thought it would not be difficult for the House to find words, which would answer the purpose the House had in view—on the one hand, not to send out an impression to these colonies that they were intending in this Committee again to discuss the questions of free trade or protection; or on the other hand, to deprive the colonies of the benefit of this inquiry. He had been looking to the words of the original Motion, and if the hon. Gentleman would accede to one slight alteration, he thought it would remove the difficulty. He proposed, after the words, "to inquire," to omit these words, "into the grievances complained of in the Crown Colonies of Ceylon and British Guiana," and then the Motion would run thus:—
 "Select Committee to inquire and report to the House whether any measures can be adopted
 1035 bonâ fide 1036 l l
 MR. WAWN  said that the proposer of the Amendment was the mouthpiece of the Government upon that occasion. He should give the Amendment his most decided opposition.
 MR. HUME  said, he should object to that. He wanted, not only an inquiry with the view of redressing grievances, but that a better system of administration might be adopted in future. The hon. Member concluded by moving the following Amendment:—
 "To add the words 'and also, whether any measures can be adopted for the better Administration and Government of those Dependencies.'"
 MR. HUME  said, whether it were an inquiry by one party or another, they should endeavour to ascertain whether or not there might be a better administration of affairs in the colonies.
 MR. HUME  said, that after the able and, as he hoped, convincing speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down, little remained for him to say in seconding the Motion, to induce the House to accede to the demand. In September last, a few days before the House adjourned, he (Mr. Hume) presented a petition from Ceylon
 962 l l 963 964 l l l 965
 MR. HUME , seeing the Attorney General in his place, wished to know whether Government were taking any steps to reform the nuisance existing in the Palace Court, respecting which some anxiety existed?
 Mr. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he did not mean to delay the House at that late hour (then past twelve o'clock); but as a Member on that side of the House, and acting with was called the free-trade party, he should protest against the attempt then made to introduce the subject of free trade, for the purpose of hoodwinking the House upon that occasion. He did trust that
 1037
 MR. M. MILNES  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department—first, whether Her Majesty's Government had taken any means to rescue the national records of this country from the disgraceful and dangerous state in which they now were, by the erection of a public Record Office, and for which the land was appropriated and the plans of the building laid out?
 MR. W. P. WOOD  said, it would be wrong to divide the House without there being any difference of opinion. He would suggest that the Motion might be framed so as to meet the views of all parties. The question should be framed to the effect that a Select Committee should be appointed to inquire into the grievances complained of in the administration of the Crown colonies of Ceylon, the Mauritius, and British Guiana, and report to the House whether any amendments might be made in such administration.
 SIR G. GREY  replied, that as to the Record Office, steps were taken last year to procure a site, but he could not speak positively that the building had been decided upon.
 SIR G. GREY  believed that such an intention had been entertained, but it was now abandoned.
 SIR R. PEEL : As the House has agreed on the main point—namely, an inquiry into the administration of the Government in two or three of our colonies, and as the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies (Mr. Hawes) has challenged and invited inquiry into the specific facts contained in the statement of the hon. Member for Inverness-shire (Mr. Baillie), there is no necessity to occupy much of the time of the House. I wish it was possible—as there is a common consent on both sides of the House to an inquiry—so to modify the terms of the reference to the Committee, that there should be no necessity for a division on this Motion. I agree with those hon. Gentlemen who have adverted to the great ability displayed by the hon. Member for Inverness-shire (Mr. Baillie); but I think that it would be a great advantage to the colonies if this inquiry were conducted loss
 1014 1015 "I repudiate all supposed connexion between the taxation and the rebellion." "The chief's and priests, always treacherous to the Government, and hostile to British rule, above all, indignant at the course pursued towards them respecting their religion, have been looking eagerly forward for some pretence to fly to arms, and a plot of longer preparation, and of deeper or more determined character, has seldom, if ever, burst forth. I repudiate all supposed connexion between the taxation and the rebellion, in which opinion the observations of the Colonial Secretary, Sir J. E. Tennent, while travelling through the country, further confirm me." 1016 "I cannot forget the observation made to me by one of the chiefs at a solemn conference, held at kandy last year, who said, 'If you Britons give nothing towards the support of our religion, and if you have no regard to our national customs, what benefit is the British Government to us?'" 1017 "After carefully weighing the recommendation of the judge for mercy, I have arrived at the conclusion that, under the circumstances stated, it would be expedient not to carry the sentence of death into execution. The dread of transportation among the natives is almost greater than that of death." "It is my intention that the sentence shall be commuted to transportation for life; and, by way of making a more lasting impression upon the minds of the Kandians, I propose that their pretended king shall receive a severe public flogging at Kandy preparatory to his transportation." 1018
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  deprecated the personal attacks which had been made during the present discussion, since they led to the impression that the grievances of the colonies could be remedied by removing this or that Governor, or this or that Colonial Secretary. The case of Ceylon was very simple. Excessive expenditure produced financial embarrassment; financial embarrassment led to the imposition of injudicious taxes; and injudicious taxes were part, at least, of the cause of the disturbances which took place last year in Ceylon. In 1843 the expenditure of Ceylon was about 326,000 l l l l l l l l l l 988 l l l l l l l l l l l l 989 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 990 l l l l l l l l l l l 991 l l l l l l l l l l l l 992 "So generally are strict law and practice at variance in this colony, and so open is its past legislation to attack, that I would undertake myself, in a month, to plunge it into utter anarchy." l l l l l l l 993 l l l l l l l 994 l s d l l l l l l 995 l l l l l l 996 997 s d s d 998 s s nolo episcopari 999 1000 Colombo Observer "If I repeal them, it will only be because such a feeling has been produced amongst the merchants and the European residents in this colony in favour of repealing them, that I should be sorry to disappoint their hopes." 1001 1002 1003 "I learn that some twenty persons have been already shot for their share in this rebellion by the courts-martial; I, therefore, think, when it is considered that no one European has been put to death—that one soldier only has been wounded by the rebels—that no persons have appeared in warlike array against the troops since the outbreaks at Matelle and Kurnegalle—that the blood which has been already spilt is sufficient for all purposes, whether for vindication of the law or for example." 1004 1005 1006 1007 l l
 SIR J. C. HOBHOUSE , under the circumstances mentioned by his hon. Friend, had no intention to object to the second reading of the Bill. He understood from his hon. Friend that what he intended was just this—that if the Bill should proceed at all, he would strike out all those parts that ought to be arranged by charter, and
 1041
 SIR J. HANMER  said, it was perfectly true that former attempts had been made, without avail, as had been stated by the hon. Member who had just resumed his seat, to suppress the corrupt practices which had been so long carried on at elections. He hoped, however, that the present attempt of the hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich (Sir J. Pakington), though he (Sir J. Hanmer) was not able to give his support to all its provisions, would have a different result; and he was relieved from the difficulty under which the objections he entertained to the Bill as it then stood, placed him by the proposal of the hon. Gentleman to refer it to a Select Committee upstairs; and he trusted, through the searching investigation and practical suggestions of that body, that the House would be enabled to pass a measure to put an end to those evils which threatened, unless at once checked or restrained, to sap the foundations of Parliament itself. It was true that, heretofore, the attempts of official and of unofficial Members to stop the evil had proved abortive; but unless a remedy was devised without delay the day of vengeance was at hand. After all the evidence before Committees—all the knowledge that must be possessed personally by the whole House—Why was it that the question should be so unwillingly entertained, as if Gentlemen could doubt that they had a great evil, urgently pressing on their consideration? He could find, as he
 1054 1055
 VISCOUNT MAHON  said, he felt sure that there must be a general feeling in the House that the hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich deserved its thanks for the very judicious and very temperate manner in which he had stated his opinions on this subject to the House. He (Viscount Mahon) thought the course proposed, of referring this Bill to a Select Committee, to be in every respect a proper one. But various doubts and difficulties occurred to him with respect to this Bill, which he was anxious to state to the House, not in any hostile spirit to the measure, but in order that they might receive a candid consideration from the House and the Committee. By the 2nd Clause of the Bill it was proposed that any Member "who shall, by the report of any Committee of the House of Commons, be declared to have been guilty of bribery, shall be for ever thereafter incapable to be elected a Member of Parliament." Now,
 1056 1057
 MR. HEADLAM  regretted that he could not give his support to this Bill. It was impossible not to see that the evils which it sought to suppress, were now considerably less than they were formerly; and he believed that this beneficial change was mainly to be ascribed to the force of that public opinion which had been raised against it, and which could only effectually put an end to the practice. He felt satisfied that this measure would prove utterly inefficient for the purpose for which it would be enacted, and that it would be the means, if passed, of introducing evils almost as serious in their nature as those which it sought to redress, involving, as it would, a distinct violation of the established regulation of criminal justice. Bribery was an offence at common law, and was subject to severe statutory punishment. In addition to that, it was now proposed to punish the party by a perpetual disqualification from sitting in that House, and compelling him also to criminate himself by the proposed declaration. However desirable it might be to suppress the crime of bribery, he did not think it could be done by compelling the party guilty of the act to criminate himself. If they wished to punish the offender, they must have recourse to the ordinary tribunals of the country. He believed that if a measure were passed affixing a moderate punishment to the offence, to be dealt with by the ordinary tribunals, and a public officer were appointed to conduct the prosecutions, as in the case of the Customs or Stamp Office, they would succeed in putting an end to the disgraceful practice.
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  said, the lighthouses nearer home were equally deserving the attention of the Government. During the last winter, many shipwrecks had taken place on the south-western coast of Ireland, principally in consequence of the positions in which the lighthouses were placed. The Ballast Board of Dublin, under whose jurisdiction the lighthouses were placed, possessed largo funds; and he trusted the Government would adopt some means by which those funds might be usefully applied, instead of remaining at the bank. Many vessels might have been saved if proper beacons had been placed on some of the most dangerous rocks.
 MR. DUNCAN  implored the Government to pay attention to the subject of lighthouses, particularly as they were going to make an alteration in the navigation laws.
 MR. ANSTEY  could confirm the statement of the noble Viscount the Member for Bandon with respect to the working of the present system in Ireland. Some years ago, the Admiralty reported in favour of the erection of a lighthouse on Cable Island, as most convenient for the guidance of vessels entering the port of Youghal and the Cove of Cork. Another site was, however, afterwards chosen, which, although equally useful for Cork, was not convenient for Youghal. Application was made to the Government on the subject, and they showed every inclination to meet the wishes of the inhabitants of Youghal; but the Ballast Board in Dublin was absolute, and the Government had no power to interfere. The consequence was, that a valuable undertaking, which had been commenced by some of the merchants of Youghal, for the establishment of steam communication with Liverpool, was abandoned, it being considered unsafe for those steamers to attempt to enter the port at certain times without the existence of a light on Cable Island.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  bore testimony
 1077
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the subject had very much attracted the attention of his noble Friend lately at the head of the Admiralty (the Earl of Auckland), and was now under the consideration of the Board of Trade. He thought it desirable that the noble Viscount the Member for, and other hon. Members who possessed practical information on the subject, should state their views, preparatory to legislating on it.
 MR. COCKBURN  said, it seemed to him that the Bill contained so many desirable provisions, that it ought to be read a second time and sent to a Select Committee upstairs. He would not state broadly that all its enactments were deserving of the immediate adoption of the House; but he certainly thought that the declaration proposed to be taken by Members immediately after being elected, was calculated to have a most beneficial effect. He assumed for the purposes of the present argument, that bribery existed to a great extent; and as this, at all events, was the general feeling of the country, he hoped the House would not suffer itself to be led away by any doubt of the fact which hon. Members might have thrown out in the course of the discussion. They all recollected the reports of the various Election Committees last Session. They knew that Members
 1066 l 1067 1068 1069
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  stated that he did not intend to press the Amendment of which he had given notice, as the hon. Baronet who had just sat down had announced
 1051 ipse dixit 1052 1053
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  said, the discussion showed that the measure of the hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich would, in the long run, be a sort of conscience refining Bill. He agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Southampton, in thinking that all questions having reference to the criminality of a Member of the House, ought to be decided by a court of law. The hon. Member for Montrose seemed to think that the electioneering agent or attorney ought to be severely punished; but he appeared to forget the just and truthful legal maxim.  Qui facit per alium facit per se l 1073
 MR. G. J. TURNER  entirely differed with the hon. Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Aglionby), who had recommended that the ancient freemen of our present constituencies should be totally disfranchised. Such an unjust proceeding would have the effect of taking away from an important class of their poor fellow-countrymen all that encouragement to honest industry which afforded the best guarantee
 1064 1065
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he should support this Bill, as its object was to suppress bribery at elections. Ever since he had sat in that House he had supported measures having the same object; but he felt bound to admit that those measures had not been attended with much success. He should give the present Bill a most careful consideration; but he must express his fears that it would prove, like those which had preceded it, inefficacious for the suppression of the evils complained of. But the Bill might be so far amended in Committee, that though it would not be useful now, it might be made useful then. He would not now go into its details, because the proper time for discussing them would be when the Bill was before the Committee; but there were one or two points, bearing upon the principle of the measure, that he could not now altogether omit noticing. With regard to the declaration to be made by every Member before taking his seat, as proposed in the first clause, he must say, it seemed to him very like a net or a trap, to catch the more scrupulous and tenderly conscientious Members of that House, but which would offer no barrier to hon. Members who were less delicate and more lax in their feelings as to matters of conscience. He was afraid
 1058 s 1059
 COLONEL RAWDON  said, that with respect to the observations which had fallen
 1074
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down commenced his observations by assuming, for the purposes of argument, that there was a great and increasing degree of corruption in the constituencies of this country, and singularly enough he concluded by making the assertion that he did not know whether that impression were right or wrong. The hon. and learned Gentleman advocated the propriety of the declaration required to be taken by Members before they took their seats, that they had not been guilty of those acts of bribery. The hon. and learned Gentleman said this would give an opportunity to honest men to separate from dishonest men. The hon. and learned Gentleman had not followed the Bill, but had given his own definition of bribery. Now, the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Aglionby), could not agree
 1070
 MR. HUME  said, he had often complained that the House would never probe the source of the evil of bribery and corruption. He wished to see two plain and simple provisions adopted. Let a clause be passed that any electioneering agent or other person guilty of a dishonourable act, such as contravening the laws, should be punished, and that if he were an attorney he should be struck off the rolls. Then, let every man convicted of receiving a bribe he disfranchised; and if these two clauses were passed, he firmly believed that an end would be effectually put to bribery. He would not trust to any declaration, because he had known instances in which such a form had been subscribed without the party paying much attention to its contents; and he was of opinion that, until his suggestions were adopted, all other efforts to check the evil would be useless.
 MR. W. N. HODGSON  said, that when the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Cockermouth was a candidate for Carlisle, some years ago, he certainly must have entertained a very different opinion of the constituency from what he did at present. They were then the most liberal and independent of men, and no men had made greater sacrifices for freedom than they had done. But now the hon. and learned Gentleman thought they ought to be disfranchised. Now he would inform the hon. and learned Gentleman, that that constituency contained men as able to judge of political events as any constituency in the country; and against the disfranchisement of such constituencies he should enter his most solemn protest. He would rather forego a seat in that House than be unable to make the declaration contained in the Bill, to which he trusted the House would give a second reading.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  expressed his cordial assent to the principle of the Bill. He could see no principle on which Members should be exempted from a declaration to which the poor electors were subjected. He did not mean to say that the provisions of the Bill were altogether the best that could be framed; but, approving of its principle, he trusted the hon. Baronet would succeed in carrying it into effect.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that nobody could be more ready than himself to give full credit to the hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington), for the attention he had bestowed
 1060 1061 1062 1063
 SIR J. PAKINGTON , in rising to move the Second Reading of this Bill, said, as he had been permitted to bring it in without giving any explanation, he thought it was due to the House, and to the measure itself, that he should make some statement upon the present occasion. He was aware of the difficulty of dealing with the question of bribery at elections; but, after the notorious corruption which had taken place at the general elections of 1841 and 1847, the subject assumed a new degree of most pressing importance. He introduced this measure with great deference to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, whose attention had been specially devoted to the subject, and who had given it the most praiseworthy attention. Few men understood it so well as the noble Lord; and it was with no intention of depreciating or lowering the value of his exertions in the cause, that he (Sir J. Pakington) proposed his present measure. Neither did he mean to undervalue the two Acts upon the subject of which the noble Lord was the author in the years 1841 and 1842. But he should express his decided opinion that the existing laws were altogether insufficient for the prevention of bribery at elections. He did not mean to say that the present laws against bribery were not sufficiently severe; they were stringent enough in their provisions; but what he was about to prove was, that the existing law was, to a great degree, inoperative, for the reason that under it all chance of detection and of punishment of bribery at elections was dependent entirely upon the presentation
 1042 l 1043 l 1044 l l l l 1045 l l l l l l 1046 1047 1048 1049 1050
 SIR J. PAKINGTON , in reply to the arguments that had been adduced in the course of the debate, said, that the principal observation he had to make upon the debate was, that it appeared to him that, excepting those objections which had been made to the principle of Members being called on to make a declaration on this subject, the other objections partook of the nature of verbal criticism rather than serious objection to the Bill. The hon. Baronet then briefly reviewed the objections to his Bill, and concluded by stating that the main principle of the Bill was the security which such a declaration could give against bribery at elections, and called on the House to sanction the second reading of this Bill, reminding them that the eyes of the country were looking to them with some anxiety for a measure which would put an end to the corrupt practices at elections.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, he must confess his entire ignorance of the whole matter till his attention was called to it by the hon. Member. He knew nothing of the particulars which the hon. Gentleman had detailed to the House; but, as far as he could follow the extracts which were read, whatever might be thought of the wisdom of forming such an association, it seemed to be formed for quite innocent objects, and not requiring to come in any way under the observation of the Home Office.
 MR. BROWN  rose and said: As I am one of the Members—[ Loud cries of
 MR. BROWN  seconded the Motion,
 MR. A. J. B. HOPE  said, that if he did not divide the House upon leave to bring in the Bill, at which stage a similar Bill was rejected in 1842, it was not because he was less strongly opposed to the measure than he was then, but simply out of deference to the Royal Commission. Still he must make a few observations on the speech of his right hon. Friend (Mr. S. Wortley). The right hon. Gentleman had argued that the early Church did not absolutely prohibit such marriages, from the apostolical canons only declaring that those who contracted them should not be competent to take holy orders; but at the same time those canons were made, the church was but a body of dissenters from the religion of the State, and could not, therefore, inflict temporal punishment for what was not against the laws of the State. A person wishing to make such a marriage, might do so by leaving the Christian community. By a similar argument it might be asserted, that because St. Paul said a bishop should not be a drunkard or an extortioner, therefore there was no harm in a layman being such. Mr. Binney, indeed, in the evidence in this question, had applied this to the case of a bishop being ordered to be the husband of one wife, as proof of polygamy not being forbidden to the earliest converts. St. Basil, in his letter to Diodorus, speaks of such a marriage as a thing unheard of. It was quite clear that the practice of the Church of England, both before and after the time of James I., was against such, though between that time and the passing of Lord Lyndhurst's
 1117 v. ex confessio
 Mr. HUME  seconded the Motion.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that when, on a former day, he had addressed to the House those considerations upon which he was of opinion that the Motion of the hon. Member (Mr. Trelawny) was one that ought not to be complied with, he had not stated with sufficient clearness, he feared, the principal reasons which had impressed him with that conviction. He meant to have then stated that, on the last settlement of the civil list, it was competent to the Crown to have surrendered, upon any arrangement that might have been deemed satisfactory, the revenues of one of these duchies. But Parliament, at that time, did not think fit to adopt such a proposition; and he had no doubt that this might have been so with regard to the duchy of Lancaster; but the duchy of Cornwall was not an analogous case, for the lands of that duchy became the private property of the Prince of Wales at the moment of his birth. It was clear, therefore, that the Crown could not make any arrangement with respect to those revenues which would be prejudicial to the rights and interests of the Prince of Wales in his character of Duke of Cornwall. Now, in point of fact, he was prepared to say, that whatever im-
 1151 1152 l 1153
 MR. POLE CAREW  was in favour of the appointment of the Committee, because he was desirous of supporting the Crown, and that it should not be placed in the painful position it now was, with regard to the inhabitants of the duchy of Cornwall, in the collection of the revenue, almost literally in pence and halfpence. That was a position in which the Crown ought not to be placed. The noble Lord at the head of the Government said these duchies were private property. Let the Crown give up its privileges connected with them. The Crown ought not to claim royal privileges when it proceeded against an individual, and then, when Parliament asked for a control over the estates, turn round and say it was private property. There was no person connected with Cornwall who was not aware of the injurious operation which the present system of managing these duchies exercised on the rights of tenants and landlords. He had been much astonished to hear the allusion made by the noble Lord to his noble relative. The two cases were not at all analogous. The Duke of Bedford was not likely to come before that House and beg it to make good the deficiencies of his own income; and, if he were to do so, the House would tell him to economise his means, by reducing such allowances as 1,000 l l l
 MR. HUME  thought the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had not taken a very fair view of the case in comparing the charge of management of the Duke of Bedford's property with that of the Crown. The property in these duchies was not of a private nature, but it was public property, held in trust, and in the proper administration of which the House was deeply inte-
 1154 l l l l l l l l 1155 l l. l l l l l l
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  observed, that an inquiry was now being carried on into a matter germane to the present subject. He alluded to the Committee appointed to inquire into the management of the Crown lands, and it was desirable that that Com-
 1156
 MR. RICARDO  thought that it would be most advantageous that some inquiry should take place as to the pecuniary matters involved in the subject, although he confessed he was not well acquainted with this part of the question. He saw, however, the absolute necessity of inquiry since the hon. Member for East Cornwall stated that he was prepared to prove cases of gross oppression and injustice against the persons entrusted with the management of the affairs of one of these duchies. He (Mr. Ricardo) knew, with regard to his own constituents, of a case of tyranny which no private individual would have dared to have perpetrated. The case was this: Some of the mines belonging to the duchy of Lancaster were under the town of Stoke-upon-Trent; and, in consequence of the mode of working them, many of the houses were Undermined and fell down. He believed that between thirty and forty houses had fallen down in that town and its vicinity, and the parties who owned or occupied them could obtain no redress from the authorities of the duchy of Lancaster, and they were refused any compensation for the losses they had sustained. This,
 1157
 SIR G. GREY  wished to say a few words with respect to the particular case just alluded to by his hon. Friend. Application had been made to him (Sir G. Grey), from the constituents of his hon. Friend, and he bad received a deputation from them, when, in reply to their representations, he stated that the question in dispute did not depend upon the property belonging to the Crown. The question was as to whether the person possessing the ownership of the surface of the land, had the right to prevent the owners of mines mining for ore which was under the surface. The parties who built on this land knew—or at least ought to have known—that mines would be worked under the surface of the land on which they had built. This question had been determined in a court of justice. The case might be a hard one, and the law of the land might require alteration; but this had nothing to do with the question before the House. The point referred to by his hon. Friend did not involve any peculiar right of the Crown, for the same right belonged to private individuals the owners of mines.
 The EARL of LINCOLN  said, having been alluded to more than once in the course of the debate, and having been for the last eight years connected with the duchy of Cornwall, and for the last two years with the duchy of Lancaster, perhaps the House would allow him to say a few words on this question. The right hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Milner Gibson) appeared to think that he had established a ground for inquiry because another inquiry, germane, in his opinion, to this one, was going on in another Committee upstairs with regard to the management of the Crown property by
 1158 1159 locus standi
 MR. CAREW : If the noble Lord will allow me, I will tell him what I did say. I said there was a difference between the management of the estates of the Duke of Bedford and the Prince of Wales, as in the latter the nation might be called upon to make good any deficiency.
 The EARL of LINCOLN  continued: He was much obliged to the hon. Member for repeating his observation. He would not forget that argument presently, but he would forgive him for saying that he took down his words, and he understood the hon. Gentleman to state distinctly, as one ground for interference, that the duchy of Cornwall possessed royal privileges. Now, there were estates without end which were in possession of royal privileges; and would they say that the establishment of these royal privileges, such as the navigation of a river or the right of fishing, would give a right of interference as to the management of these estates by a Committee of this House? He was really afraid to enter into the question at too great length; but as this was the second time even during the present short Session of Parliament that the question had been brought before them, perhaps the House would forgive him for considering the question with some little care. In considering the question, he thought it was better that the two duchies should be taken separately, as they stood upon a totally different footing. The hon. Gentleman who made the Mo-
 1160 1161 1162 1163 l l. l 1164 l l l. l. ex officio 1165 1166 l. 1167 1168
 MR. HEYWORTH  bore testimony to the improvement that had taken place in the management of the duchy of Lancaster, although at the same time he thought full room existed for further advancement in the same direction. Some years ago a late Chancellor appointed a gentleman as clerk of the peace for that duchy, who received 1,600 l
 MR. TRELAWNY  replied. He thought that no grounds whatever had been made out for refusing this inquiry. If he possessed or was ever likely to possess the beautiful place alluded to by the noble Earl, his interest would be directly opposed to the object of his Motion: his object was not to seize upon the property, but to give the Duke of Cornwall 50,000 l
 MR. HAWES  assured his hon. Friend that it was not in the power of the Colonial Office—and he doubted whether it was in the power of Parliament—to obtain the return he required. The opinion alluded to in the correspondence now before Parliament was obtained by the Hudson's Bay Company on a case submitted by them to the Attorney and Solicitor Generals, in consequence of the Colonial Office having required from them an assurance, fortified by legal opinion, that they could receive the grant if made. They obtained that opinion, and on the authority of the Attorney and Solicitor Generals as therein laid down, the Colonial Office were satisfied, and conveyed the island to the Company, who were now in possession of it. But if it were not so—if the opinion were in the hands of the Colonial Office, it would, according to all precedent, be refused. It was not usual to lay before the House the opinions obtained from the law officers of the Crown confidentially for the guidance of the Government, nor did he think it advisable that such a practice should be established. He hoped, therefore, his hon. Friend would not press his Motion. Beyond the legal opinion alluded to, Government had no correspondence on the subject except that which was either already on the table, or included in the order which had been made at the instance of another hon. Friend, and which would be produced previous to the discussion. If the power of the Crown to make the grant was disputed, it was open to the parties disputing to obtain other legal authority on the subject.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that as regarded the power of Parliament to order papers, that was a matter of some importance, and he believed there were precedents of the opinions of the law officers of the Crown being called for and given. If he was not mistaken, on a very recent occasion the opinion of the Attorney General on the working of the Factory Act had been presented to Parliament. That, however, was not the present question; for here the
 1171
 MR. WYLD  thought that in a case like the present, where a part of the British dominions had been ceded to a private Company, in respect to whom it was doubted whether they could legally accept the territory on such a tenure, that the legal opinions on which the Government had acted should be given.
 Mr. BOUVERIE  rose to move—
 "That this House will immediately resolve itself into a Committee, to consider of granting Relief to Persons in Holy Orders of the United Church of England and Ireland declaring their dissent therefrom." 1129 adscriptus ecclesiœ; 1130 1131 1132
 MR. BOUVERIE : Yes; I shall propose it. The hon. Gentleman concluded by moving the resolutions stated above.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he had not drawn a parallel between John Wesley and Mr. Shore; he had only said that a bishop might have proceeded against John Wesley for preaching without a license, and he might have been thrown into prison.
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  then rose to ask leave to bring in a Bill to amend and alter the Act of 5th and 6th William IV., c. 54, so far as relates to marriage within certain degrees of affinity. He was sensible not only of the extreme difficulty, but of the extreme delicacy of the subject, and if he consulted only his own feelings he should have abstained altogether from bringing it forward. But he had from time to time been made aware of the extremity and extent of the grievances arising under the present state of the law, and of the extent to which it affected the morals of the people, and he did not feel himself fully at liberty, in consequence, to decline the task imposed upon him. For there was a claim upon him more than upon other Members of the House, in consequence of those complaints having been sanctioned by one whose memory he most deeply revered. In 1841 the subject had been introduced into the House of Lords by a revered relative of his; and he (Mr. S. Wortley) had himself investigated the matter closely and carefully, in order to see whether he could come to the same resolution, having at first, he was willing to confess, an impression which he admitted might be called a prejudice against the
 1102 1103 1104 1105 1106 1107 Reformatio Leges 1108 1109 1110 "Towards the close of the year 1846 a limited inquiry was instituted, at the instigation and expense of some private individuals interested in this question, for the purpose of ascertaining to what extent the Act of 1835 had been infringed, and whether any hardships were inflicted by the operation of that Act, to such an extent as would warrant an application to Parliament for an alteration in the law. In stating the result of this inquiry, as it has been proved before us, we feel bound to observe, that, although made at the instance of interested parties, it appears to have been conducted by gentlemen of intelligence, station, and character, and with discretion, as well as with perfect integrity and good faith. The inquiry was limited to a period less than three months, and to a comparatively small portion of England alone; but five districts were selected with impartiality and discrimination, as likely to afford a test of the probable operation of the law throughout the kingdom. The districts consisted, 1st, of some of the manufacturing portions of Lancashire and Yorkshire; 2nd, Norfolk and Suffolk, and parts of Lincolnshire and Essex; 3rd, parts of Warwickshire and Staffordshire, including Birmingham and the Potteries; 4th, parts of Hampshire, Dorsetshire, and Devonshire, including Portsmouth, Southampton, Winchester, Dorchester, Plymouth, and Exeter; and, 5th, the towns of Bristol, Bath, and Cheltenham, and their immediate vicinities. Besides these districts, an inquiry was also commenced within the limits of the metropolis, but was not prosecuted to any extent, in consequence of the difficulty of obtaining information in so mixed and numerous a population, without any legal authority to require it. The summary of information thus obtained may be stated as follows, namely—Of marriages ascertained to have taken place in the districts alluded to, between parties within the prohibited degrees, 1,364 have been contracted since Lord Lyndhurst's Act; and of these, upwards of nine-tenths have been contracted with a deceased wife's sister. There were discovered, in the course of this inquiry, 88 cases only in which the Act had prevented an intended marriage; and of these 88 cases, 32 are stated to have resulted in open cohabitation, without the sanction of any form or ceremony. Of the marriages thus ascertained to have been contracted, very few were between persons in the poorer classes. For though we have reason to conclude that such marriages are at least as frequent in those classes as in any other, and perhaps even much more so, the condition and circumstances of the parties render their affinity loss observed, and consequently difficult to be traced without more elaborate investigation. On the other hand, among the parties contracting
 1111 1112 "We cannot avoid the conclusion that the Statute 5&6 William IV., c. 54, has failed to attain the object sought to be effected by its prospective enactments. It has not prevented marriage with the sister or niece of a deceased wife from taking place in numerous instances; whether more or less numerous than before the passing of the statute, we have not, as was before observed, sufficient data to enable us to form an opinion. But, without reference to any comparison of this description, the number of those marriages is so great as to justify us in saying that the provisions of that statute, rendering them null and void, have not generally deterred parties from forming such connexions. No doubt this is a great and continually increasing evil. On a low computation, such marriages must amount to thousands; but from the nature of the connexion, and the secrecy which often attaches to it, their number cannot be accurately ascertained. The evil is great; for, as beyond all reasonable doubt, such marriages, when celebrated in England or Ireland, are void, the consequences are disastrous to the parties and their issue, at once affecting all the relations of mutual duty and obligation, as well as the rights dependent upon  status 1113 "Among the poorer classes of society, we believe that, in a great majority of cases where the sister of the deceased wife becomes an inmate of tile house, and the parties are not advanced in age, the end of such a state of things is marriage or concubinage." "On a review of the subject, in all these its different bearings and effects, we are constrained not only to express our belief that the Statute 5 & 6 William IV. has failed to attain its object, but also to express our doubt, whether any measure of a prohibitory character would be effectual. These marriages will take place when a concurrence of circumstances give rise to mutual attachment: they are not dependent on legislation. We are not inclined to think, that such attachments and marriages would be extensively increased in number were the law to permit them; because, as we have said, it is not the state of the law, prohibitory or permissive, which has governed, or, as we think, ever will effectually govern them." 1114 1115 1116
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  replied, that he had endeavoured to introduce this subject in as calm and dispassionate a manner as he was capable of, to the notice of the House, and regretted exceedingly that more than one hon. Gentleman had departed from that calm and dispassionate tone and manner. Anything more unwarrantable than the attacks of the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth, and the hon. Member for Oxfordshire, he had never heard. He owned he was not prepared to hear language or rather lucubrations of so strong a nature. It was alleged that the Commission had heard the evidence only upon one side, and that six clergymen had been examined who were known to entertain views favourable to the measure. Now, what was the fact? Why, that six clergymen had been examined upon one side, and six upon the other. It would seem, from the representations of hon.
 1126 "We have been particularly desirous to ascertain the opinion of the clergy of the Established Church in England, on the two questions, whether the marriage with the sister of a deceased wife is prohibited by the law of God; or, if not, whether it ought to be interdicted upon any other ground, The number of clergy in England is so great, that we have found it impracticable to collect the opinions of the individuals composing that body. We have, however, to the utmost of our power, caused it to be made known that we were ready to receive information from every quarter, and more especially from the clergy; and we have taken the evidence of those who were known, by their published opinions or otherwise, to have carefully considered the subject—and on both sides of the question. We are satisfied that a great diversity of opinion prevails among the clergy of the Established Church in England upon both questions. We think that very many of them do not consider such marriages to be prohibited by the law of God, but that the majority object to them either upon this, or upon other grounds. In Ireland, the great majority of the clergy of the Established Church are represented as disapproving of these connexions, which are rare also
 1127 "In the Greek Church these marriages are considered incestuous and unlawful, and are not allowed, cither by dispensation or otherwise. But in the case of a marriage solemnised in Russia, between persons not in communion with the Eastern Church, it seems, that such a marriage, if permitted by the law or discipline of the community to which these persons belong, would not be invalidated by the law of the State." "We have directed our inquiries to the Laws of other countries with respect to marriages within the prohibited degrees of affinity, and more especially to a marriage with the sister of a deceased wife. From the evidence which we have taken, there can be no doubt that this last class of marriages is, of all those within the prohibited degrees, by far the most frequent; so much so, that it necessarily forms the most important consideration in the whole subject. When, therefore, for the future, we speak, in this report, of marriages within the prohibited degrees, we intend, when it is not otherwise declared, to confine our observations to marriages with the sister of a deceased wife." 1128
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  then said, he would put the question to the only Member of the Government present, the hon. Under Secretary for the Home Department; but, previously to so doing, he (Mr. Cochrane) would premise that a prospectus had been issued, headed "Intellectual Treat;"—"England's Return Visit to the National Guards of France;"—"Registered according to Act of Parliament;"—and having attached to it the names of the five hon. Members he had mentioned, namely, Messrs. J. Wyld, H. Brown, G. Thompson, J. Williams, and B. Willcox, from which he would read a few extracts, to show its extraordinary and peculiar character:—
 "There was something delicate and gentlemanly, there was something congenial and manly, in the idea which suggested a military visit of citizenship to the English nation. To come, some fifteen hundred of armed soldiers, into the English metropolis, was to convey this double inference—first, that the spirit of honour was paramount in France, and the spirit of security paramount in England. We may be said to have gracefully received a visit which was gracefully paid, and in unlocking the vast stores of our country to the gaze, and it may be to the admiration of another land, we were exhibiting the sinews of war and the prosperity of peace, and devoutly cherishing the hope, that we might never strain the first, but ever preserve the latter, in all our relations with the country whose honoured deputies were then nestled in the bosom of England, and whom, we solemnly trust, found no want of warmth or geniality in their nest. The social spirit which takes must give! We dine together—we, France and England—in a family
 1099 carpe diem 1100
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  rose to put a question to the hon. Member for Tewkesbury, the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets, the hon. Member for Bodmin, the hon. Member for Macclesfield, and the hon. Member for Southampton, respecting the International English and French Association, whose proceedings involve the dignity and character of the House of Commons.
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  agreed with the right hon. Baronet that it was not wise to create hopes which might not be realised, yet he thought much credit was due to his hon. Friend who proposed this Motion, for his perseverance in pressing his views on the Government, many of which, if carried out, would be very useful. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Louth cheered the right hon. Baronet when he said that the question of the reclamation of the waste lands had lost ground in Ireland. It might be well for the hon. Member for Louth, which was all reclaimed, to entertain such an opinion; but if the hon. Gentleman went further to the west, he would see that waste lands might be cultivated with great advantage. He had done so himself in the west of Ireland with success. He hoped the right hon. Baronet would not fail in bringing forward the measures he indicated at an early day. There was now an opportunity of doing much good for Ireland; but he thought that every proposition for the improvement of the country would best emanate from the Government. If the Committee upstairs were allowed to perform their duty fairly to the country, it would show what the evils of Ireland were, and would suggest the proper remedies for their removal. He hoped they would be allowed the opportunity of doing so.
 MR. SPEAKER  intimated that the hon. Member could not be permitted to put such a question to any hon. Member.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member must remark that I would not allow the hon. Member for Bridport to put his question to individual Members. I could not prevent him putting his question to a Minister; but it is against the rules of Parliament to put questions to individual Members not connected with the business of this House.
 MR. SPEAKER : If the hon. Member move the adjournment of the House, he must show good cause why the House should adjourn. He must not speak upon other questions while moving the adjournment of the House.
 MR. WYLD  trusted that under the circumstances the House would excuse him for a moment.
 MR. WYLD  said, in order to have an opportunity of explaining the matter, he would move the adjournment of the House.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, it was a comfort to know that it was the intention of Government to bring forward some of the measures referred to by his hon. Friend. When the right hon. Baronet said that tenant-right prevailed in Donegal to a great extent, and yet that it was in a lamentable condition, while the county of Down was comparatively prosperous, he ought to have told the House that the tenant-right which existed in Donegal was a mere mockery, whereas the tenant-right of Down was real and well defined.
 1141
 MR. PLUMPTRE  had formerly entertained some doubts upon this subject, and having been led into a serious inquiry, the result of that inquiry induced him to offer to the measure proposed his decided opposition, being under the impression that the proposed alteration would involve greater evils than those which at present existed. And upon reflection, he thought it was a very serious question that the very parties themselves, whom it was proposed to benefit, might not suffer materially by this change. Was it not likely, if the proposed marriage of the husband with the sister of his deceased wife were rendered legal, that during the life-time of the wife it would lead to jealousies, suspicions, and discontent?—jealousies and suspicions which did not now exist. Although such marriages might not be supposed to be in direct contradiction to the word of God, still they were contrary to the spirit and tenor of the Scriptures. Now, this being the case, there could be no doubt that the measure would lead to estrangement, and prevent that social intercourse which at present existed. He bogged to direct the especial attention of the House to the opinions of the clergy of the united dioceses of Down and Connor. The petition of those clergymen embraced the most important points connected with the subject, and was, in every respect, deserving of the consideration of the Legislature. He would certainly oppose the Bill.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, it had been the habit of English Members of Parliament, and of English newspapers, to charge Irish Members with never submitting comprehensive measures to the House: after the serious and comprehensive speech of the noble Lord (Viscount Bernard) that charge could not be made at least against him.
 1144 1145 l l l. A laugh
 MR. HENLEY  wished to guard himself against being supposed to give any sanction to the present measure in not opposing it at the present stage of its proceeding; and, deferring to those whose wisdom and knowledge of the subject were superior to his, he would yield to their intention of not dividing the House on the present occasion. He should observe, however, that in the remarks made about the former Commission, and the manner in which it had been conducted, he perfectly concurred. He never had heard of a Commission to the report of which less authority might be attached in that House. What amount of credit could be attached to that report if they took from it the interested witnesses examined? Actually, almost nothing. He believed no Commission had ever produced a report on evidence so unsatisfactory. He had read that evidence with the greatest possible care and attention; and it appeared to him that it was hardly possible for any person to peruse it attentively without coming to the conclusion that the witnesses on one side had been subject to a very different kind of cross-examination from that of the witnesses on the other side. That might have been accidental. He knew nothing of the opinion of the Commissioners themselves; but he certainly
 1120 1121 1122
 MR. HUME  said, in New South Wales the abuses of the court had risen to such a height that the Supreme Council had passed an ordinance to check them. What he wished to know was, whether the Government intended to give their sanction to that ordinance; but as no Member of the Government was present who could answer the question, he would on some future occasion again put the question.
 MR. NAPIER  said, that the feeling of his constituents on that subject was so strong, and he so completely concurred in that feeling, that he was anxious to take that opportunity of briefly stating the grounds on which he should give his most determined opposition to the Bill in all its stages. The question was one of the highest importance with reference to the social system prevailing in this country. Marriage rested on two grounds. It had a religious basis, and it had a civil sanction. With respect to the religious view of the question, he could only say, that no evidence which Commissioners might produce could shake a conviction to which he had come on Divine authority. He did not form his conclusion on the subject from private interpretation only. He had the mind of the Church of England, of the Church of Ireland, and of the Church of Scotland, and a concurrent Christian testimony of centuries, that those marriages were forbidden by the law of God to guide him in the matter; and the contents of that book could not remove the decision to which he had come under such guidance. Others differed, and had a right to differ, from him upon the subject; but it would be his duty
 1124 1125
 MR. R. M. FOX  thought that the cultivation of waste lands in Ireland, although some years ago it would have been a very feasible project, was now wholly impracticable. The free-trade policy which had been recently adopted by that House, had put it altogether out of the question that
 1147
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, that he could not allow the Bill to be introduced without stating distinctly that he would, on all fitting opportunities, offer to it his most strenuous opposition. He did think this the most desirable opportunity to commence that opposition, because the very gravity of the subject rendered it necessary that the House should not come to the discussion with imperfect information,
 1118 exparte 1119
 MR. W. E. GLADSTONE  said, he regretted that the hon. Member for Kilmarnock had thought it necessary to pass a censure on the proceedings in the ecclesiastical courts. He doubted whether this was at all warranted. The hon. Gentleman was certainly not correct in drawing a parallel between the proceedings of Mr. Shore and those of John Wesley. At the time John Wesley commenced his missionary operations, he was as much attached to the Articles of the Church of England as any bishop on the bench; and he would sooner have burnt off his right hand than have subscribed the declaration which it was proposed that Dissenting clergymen should be permitted to subscribe. What he (Mr. Gladstone) had understood of the case recently before the ecclesiastical courts was, that the Bishop of Exeter was perfectly willing to concur with Mr. Shore in expediting a process in the ecclesiastical courts, for the purpose of liberating the latter from his responsibilities, and at the same time depriving him of his character of clergyman; and that in point of fact this was prevented, either by the defect of the law, or the disinclination of Mr. Shore to take the declaration required, but that it was not the disposition of the Bishop of Exeter to insist on fastening on Mr. Shore the obligations of a clergyman, after he had become convinced in his own conscience that he ought not to continue such. However that might be, he heartily concurred with his hon. Friend in the object he had in view; and, provided there were no difficulty as to the details, he should be much surprised and much grieved if it did not give general satisfaction. No doubt it was an important change in the law, to enable a person entirely to free himself from the obligations which accompanied so solemn and important a step as the taking of holy orders. Some might doubt as to the propriety of the provision for enabling a clergyman to resume his eligibility for a seat in that House, on declaring himself a Dissenter. That, however, was a political question, on which no religious difference could take place. As to the principle of obligation to the Church, he heartily concurred with his hon. Friend in thinking that when
 1133
 MR. MONSELL  said, that his hon.
 1146
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  said, if the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland recollected the number of Bills introduced upon the subject of landlord and tenant in Ireland, and the little success he (Mr. Crawford) had met with, he would not be surprised at the anxiety he felt upon the subject. It was not in the power of any individual Member to complete the necessary machinery for carrying a measure of that sort; and it was, therefore, of great importance that it should be undertaken by the Government. It was hoped they would also see the necessity of furthering the measure. As to the Motion before the House, it might entirely depend upon the promise of the right hon. Gentleman as to the time he would undertake, on behalf of the Government, to bring forward the three measures of which notice had been given. If the right hon. Gentleman promised to bring them forward within a reasonable time, he (Mr. Crawford) would not trouble the House by a division; but, if not, he would wish to take the opinion of the House upon the question under consideration.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD , under those circumstances, would not trouble the House, and withdrew his Motion.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  rose to move—
 "That the laws relating to landed property in Ireland, as affecting the rights and powers both of landlords and tenants, require the immediate consideration of this House, with a view to such alteration of these laws as will remove the obstacles at present existing to the improvement of the soil, and the employment of the people." 1134 1135 1136
 SIR G. GREY  said, that as he understood there was to be no opposition to the Motion for leave to bring in the Bill, he would not address the House at any length on that occasion. If there had been any opposition to the Motion, he should have been prepared to state in his individual capacity the grounds on which he was prepared to give his assent to the Motion for leave to lay on the table a Bill to alter the laws relating to the marriage of persons connected by affinity in the manner which it was clear the Commissioners were disposed to recommend. He agreed with his hon. and learned Friend, that to the evidence collected by the Commissioners, as well as to their report, it was the duty of Gentlemen to give their careful attention; and unless further consideration should have the effect of changing the opinion which he then entertained, he would state on the second reading of the Bill the grounds on which he should give it his support. He should, however, limit his approval of the measure to its main provision—namely, that for altering the laws which regulated the marriages of persons connected by that degree of affinity to which the report and evidence chiefly referred; and he did not wish to be understood as agreeing in all the details which had been stated. He did not concur in the reproaches which had been cast on the Commissioners for the manner in which they had conducted their inquiries. The hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) had said that they should reject the evidence because it had been given by interested parties. But the hon. Gentleman should have remembered that interested parties were alone capable of stating to the Commissioners the results of the present law, and detailing those facts which should influence the decision of the House. It appeared to him that the Commissioners would not have properly discharged their duty if they had omitted to examine not only those who approved of the existing law, but those also who were able to show that that law had failed of accomplishing its object. It had been said that the marriages in question had been prohibited by the ancient Church. But many of the prohibitions of the ancient Church were so unnatural and absurd, that it would be impossible to attempt to enforce them, unless a dispensing power was
 1123
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  rose to ask the Secretary for the Admiralty what steps had been taken to reform the proceedings in the several Vice-Admiralty Courts, and to remedy the complaints made last Session of the gross abuses that had taken place at St. Helena, Sierra Leone, Cape of Good Hope, and Sydney, New South Wales?
 MR. WARD  said, that the subject was one of considerable difficulty, the facts being anything but clear. There were two subjects of complaint: the one was the high scale of fees charged in the courts, and the other was the practice of making extraordinary charges. It was found that
 1101
 SIR J. GRAHAM : Would you make him eligible to a seat in this House?
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, it was impossible to deny that the subject which had been brought before the House by the hon. Gentleman, was one of very great importance; and it was equally impossible not to
 1137 1138 l 1139 1140
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that two of the Bills were in a forward state, and would be shortly introduced in the other House. He had still his objections to call the other Bill a tenant-right Bill; but the
 1148
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  agreed so far with the hon. Member for Limerick as to recommend the hon. Member for Rochdale to withdraw his Motion. He did so, however, on different grounds from that hon. Member, for he believed, if it were adopted by the House, hopes would be raised in Ireland which could never be realised. If at any time there was a Bill brought in which went to infringe the rights of property, under pretence of establishing a tenant-right in Ireland, he (Viscount Bernard) should feel it his duty to oppose it. As a resident Irish landlord he had no hesitation in saying that the question of tenant-right was used as a purely political engine in Ireland. The wisest course for Parliament to pursue, in his opinion, would be to let the matter alone. To legislate in such a spirit for that portion of the Irish tenantry holding small patches of land not sufficient to Support their families, would be but to perpetuate the misery of Ireland. On this question he thought the Government ought to take the responsibility of originating measures, and not leave them to individual efforts. At present Parliament had been sitting three or four weeks, and though there was the greatest anxiety in Ireland to know what was to be done
 1142 l 1143
 MR. VERNON SMITH  rose to move the Amendment of which he had given notice. He would not, in so doing, detain the House longer than merely whilst he stated his general opinion that there ought to be no difference made between Gentlemen who came to the table to be sworn, on account of difference of religious persuasion. He had no scruple whatsoever in voting for the admission of Jews to Parliament. Whether the question was one which attracted public attention or not, did not signify in the least degree. But he thought that when they were not confining themselves merely to the admission of Jews to Parliament, but were taking the opportunity of that question to alter and amend the oaths to be taken by Members generally, they should endeavour to make the improvement as complete as possible. He asked the House, therefore, whether it would not he better that they should set aside altogether oaths that were unnecessary? He had a strong objection to the multiplication of oaths; and he thought that by simplifying those taken by Members of Parliament, they would be doing good service to the public at large. He did not wish to cast any slur upon that House; but he should say when hon. Gentlemen talked about the solemnity of the act of hon. Members coming to take the oaths at that table amidst the buzz and conversation of the House, that he did not think any observer could consider it either a solemn or a decorous proceeding. The proposal of his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) certainly simplified the oaths to a certain extent, but it still left what he considered a most unnecessary portion, and made a most unnecessary distinction; for it still provided different oaths for persons of different religious persuasions coming into that House. His noble Friend retained the Roman Catholic oath, because he said it had been established in 1829, and had remained unchanged for twenty years. That, he (Mr. Vernon Smith) thought, was no reason why it should be
 1189 1190
 The CHAIRMAN  then put the question upon the original resolution.
 MR. H. DRUMMOND  said, it was certainly somewhat new to those who had some small smattering of historical knowledge, to be told that it was a prevailing doctrine in the Catholic Church that all alliance with money and wealth was detrimental to the cause of true religion. He reminded the hon. Gentleman and the House, that if it were true that Roman Catholics had no right to vote upon subjects connected with the Protestant Church, that Protestants claimed no right to vote on matters connected with the Catholic Church. Why did not hon. Gentlemen remember and act up to the old adage, that "what was sauce for the goose was sauce for the gander?" He considered the present Motion to be an attempt to pass an  ex post facto
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY  wished to state the reason why he felt that he could not vote either for the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Northampton, or for that which the hon. Member for Dorsetshire was to bring forward. But, first, he would reply to the hon. Member for Surrey, that the difference between Protestants voting on the Catholic church, and Catholics voting on the Protestant Church, was founded simply upon the oath which Roman Catholic Members took. As to that oath, its terms were such that many Roman Catholic gentlemen of equal honour and equal scrupulosity took different views of the obligation which it imposed. There was no compulsion on a Catholic to enter the House; but when he did so, there was a compulsion on him to take a certain oath, as a condition of his admission. Now, doubtless, the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman near him would go to relieve Roman Catholics from the oath which they took, and the inconveniences which it entailed. But then he held that if Roman catholics negotiated and agreed to enter
 1196
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY : The speech of the right hon. Member only proves what I have said as to the different interpretations put by men of the highest honour upon the oath.
 The EARL of LINCOLN  expressed a hope that the period of paying the vice-guardians would be postponed to the 26th of March, 1850, as the winter six months were the most important season for the vice-guardians to discharge their duties efficiently, and their payment might not be provided for beyond September if the Bill stood as at present, and Parliament was prorogued at the usual time.
 MR. LAW  said, that in suffering the resolution to pass without requiring the House to divide upon it, he wished to state, that he reserved to himself the full power of pressing the subject to a division on a future occasion.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  replied, that there had been a sum voted by Parliament for the erection and maintenance of these colleges, and that the buildings were now nearly completed. They would be ready in the month of October, and a great many professors had already been appointed. So far from the colleges being useless, a great many persons of the highest respectability in the Roman Catholic Church were their warm supporters.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that it was not his intention to give any notice of Motion respecting the Irish Church.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the Government were not prepared to state, in answer to a question given without notice, what were the whole of the measures which the Government intended to propose during
 1203
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  conceived that there was a very wide distinction between the test which might be fairly applied to persons admitted by the laws of the State to certain offices, and the test which was to be exacted before a person could enter into Parliament for the purposes of legislating. The two questions were totally distinct.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  was glad the hon. Gentleman proposed to defer putting his Amendment until the Committee on the Bill. The hon. Gentleman supposed that inasmuch as the words he proposed were included in the Roman Catholic oath, they might properly be admitted into the oath which was about to be framed. Now with respect to the Roman Catholic oath, the words were introduced at the period of the settlement of the question of Catholic emancipation, and formed a part of the terms on which Roman Catholics were thenceforth to be admitted to sit in Parliament, the object being to protect the Established Church. But they could not suppose there was any danger of the Jews subverting or overturning the Church Establishment, whatever apprehensions might have been entertained with regard to the Roman Catholics. As he understood the hon. Gentleman, he wished to introduce the words into the oath taken by all Members: that was a different question, such an Amendment being a relaxation in favour of one class of persons, enabling them to sit in the House, would be at the same time a restriction upon Protestant Dissenters. The opinion he (Lord J. Russell) entertained before the Roman Catholic oath was proposed he entertained still, and what was now proposed would in fact operate not as terms of admission but of prescription. On these considerations, and not being of opinion that the words themselves were very fit to be introduced as a qualification for Members to sit in Parliament, and having only agreed to them in the case of the Roman Catholic oath as part of the settlement then effected, he should, when the Amendment was moved, object to their introduction as affecting the Jews or any other class except the Roman Catholics.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he had only to repeat the explanation which he had given upon a previous occasion, namely, that he did not think it expedient to alter the Roman Catholic oath, which was settled in 1829, when the great question of Roman Catholic disabilities was disposed of. Many hon. Gentlemen thought that that oath did give security to the Protestant Church, and he therefore did not think there was sufficient cause to induce him to propose an alteration, of it. He did not see the expediency of raising a great question when there was no necessity for doing so.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, in the absence
 1187 l l l l d d
 MR. STAFFORD  should have no difficulty in proving his assertion. And he trusted that he should find no difficulty in convincing the Chancellor of the Exchequer that sixpence and nothing do not make fourpence.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  could not feel otherwise than highly gratified at the speech of the noble Earl who had just sat down. Would that all Roman Catholics were like him! Firm in upholding the interests of his Church—ready to promote its advancement even when it might be felt to be an invasion of the Established Church; yet he had shown that he was not disposed to avail himself of that doctrine which some Catholics believed, in that they were free from the obligations of the oath. [ Cries of
 MR. SPEAKER : According to the rules of the House, every hon. Member is privileged to attend in a Committee, unless the Committee is secret. The usual practice has been that, during the deliberations of the Committee, other hon. Members have left the room. There have been instances where hon. Members would not leave the room, and where, on the application of the Committee, the House granted a power to exclude hon. Members.
 MR. SPEAKER : The Committee have no power to exclude the hon. Member, unless they have a definite power from the House.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Member was quite correct in his statement of the practice; but if hon. Members persisted in attending a Committee, there was no power to exclude them, unless by application to the House.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  asked for the papers, which Mr. Stafford handed to him. The right hon. Gentleman said, that in the book there were certain letters and statements; some were signed by the vice-guardians of the union, and some by the poor-law inspectors. But there was no document in it to which the name of the person who made it was not appended. So that if there were any errors they were not made by any officer of the Government, but by the persons who had made the communications to the officers of the Government. The hon. Gentleman said the papers furnished by the Government were inaccurate and false, and upon that assumption he wanted to know if the Government would present amended copies. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was not prepared to admit such an assumption. He was not prepared to admit that the papers were either inaccurate or false; but if there were any errors in them, which were not errors of the printer, they were mistakes of the persons furnishing the returns, and not mistakes of the Government. But it would be for the hon. Gentleman to prove first his assertion there were inaccuracies in the papers, and he should give notice of his intention to do so.
 MR. BANKES  said, he had given notice of an Amendment, but he believed it would be more properly brought forward in Committee on the Bill. He should have been disposed at the present moment to move the omission of the words "and to make provision in respect of the said oaths for the relief of Her Majesty's subjects professing the Jewish religion;" but he understood from the Chairman that after the division which had just taken place, he was precluded from so doing, the Committee having decided that these words should stand part of the question, and consequently he could only take a division on the whole of the resolution. Now, he did not object to the whole of the resolution, because he did not object to an alteration in the words of the oath, provided the alteration was for the better; but he entirely dissented from any arrangement for the admission of the Jewish subjects of the realm into Parliament. The right hon. Gentleman who had just divided the Committee had answered his own proposition, because if he felt there was any use in the oath, binding the conscience and honour of persons to the Sovereign, he (Mr. Bankes) had an equal right, on the part of the Established Church, to require a similar security. The words which he wished to introduce into the oath now under consideration were contained in the Roman Catholic oath, and he did not see why they should not be introduced for the purpose of binding the honour and conscience of those persons who were not adherents of the Established Church. These words were introduced to bind the honour and conscience of Roman Catholics, and he intended to propose that they should also be binding upon those persons of the Jewish persuasion who might obtain seats in Parliament; and he could not understand why an obligation should
 1193
 MR. BANKES  said, he had been given to understand that the colleges established by the Government in Ireland were now supposed to be useless. He wished to know if they were in operation, or if any salaries were being paid to the professors and masters?
 MR. G. THOMPSON  begged to ask the President of the Board of Control—" Whether, as Her Majesty's Ministers have deemed it their duty to lay before the House a blue book of 378 pages, relating to a rebellion in the island of Ceylon in July last, they do not consider it equally their duty to lay before the House the papers relating to the war in the Punjaub, described by Her Majesty in Her gracious Speech from the Throne as 'a rebellion,' which war has been going on since April, 1848, and has necessitated the calling of an army into the field of not less than 120,000 men, including camp followers, and involving an extraordinary expenditure of not less than five millions sterling a year."
 MR. G. THOMPSON  gave notice, that he should on Monday next move, in reference to that part of the Queen's Speech informing Parliament that a war had broken out in the Punjaub, that an Address he presented to Her Majesty, praying Her Majesty to direct the Papers to be laid before the House without further delay, and then justify the statement he had made.
 MR. GOULBURN  only rose to express a hope, that acquiescence in the present
 1194
 MR. BRIGHT  said, as no other Member of the Committee rose to explain the matter, perhaps he might say a few words. The hon. Member (Mr. B. Osborne) had not stated the facts quite accurately. So far, no evidence had been taken by the Committee. When the evidence came to be taken, it was agreed that any hon. Member might be present; but during the discussion of certain resolutions, and dividing upon them, it was considered that hon. Members had no right to be in the room. For himself, he could have wished that the rule had not been drawn so tightly, but he thought it right to state these facts, as the hon. Member had not stated them with perfect accuracy.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, it now appeared, from the course the discussion had taken, that this question must now be settled  animo recipientis
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  thought the House ought to consider whether the present uncertainty respecting the oath taken by Roman Catholic Members should any longer exist. He was willing to see such a declaratory Act as that referred to by the right hon. the Master of the Mint introduced, in order that the terms of the oath might be explained, because at present he was placed in a somewhat painful position. He had a notice of Motion for Monday, by which a new modification of the revenue's of the Church of England was proposed; but of course he would not submit it if he found that, in interfering in Church matters, he was acting contrary to the oath he had taken. The question, however, resolved itself into this—were the Catholics emancipated or were they not? Irish Catholics had won emancipation for themselves and the English Catholics; and, although two of the latter had spoken their views that evening, yet they must recollect that whatever understanding other, had come into Parliament upon, the Irish Catholics had not entered the House with their hands tied. The case alluded to by the noble Earl (the Earl of Arundel and Surrey), was inapplicable, because the Irish Catholics would have rejected emancipation
 1199
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  thought it should be decided in what position a Roman Catholic stood in that House. Were they in the same free position as Protestant Members or not? It appeared to be the opinion of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bankes) that the restrictions in the Catholic oath, implying that they were not in a position to deal with the revenues of the Protestant Church, should be imposed on Protestant Dissenters. He did not think the conduct of the Government quite clear in this matter. Why did they not show the same regard for Catholics as others? There were Catholics here and elsewhere, men of conscience and honour, who felt that they came into Parliament with one hand tied up; others, on the contrary, did not believe that the words involved any restriction upon Members of Parliament to deal with the money of the people. He thought the time had come when the question should be decided one way or the other. No one would bow more readily than be, should a majority, or even a large minority, of that House decide that Catholics had no right to deal in any way with the revenues of the Protestant Church. The noble Lord said he would not impose a restriction
 1195
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, it was the invariable practice of hon. Gentlemen who were not Members of a Committee to absent themselves from the Committee-room while a deliberation or a division was taking place.
 MR. HUME  asked whether any arrangements had been made for the family of the Rajah of Sattara? Sixteen months had now passed, and he was informed that not 1 s
 MR. HUME  agreed with his right hon. Friend (Mr. Vernon Smith) in the necessity that existed for reducing as much as possible unnecessary oaths. The Duke of Richmond, it was calculated, by the measure he introduced respecting oaths taken at the Customs and other places, had abolished by his Bill twenty millions of oaths. That is, that number of unnecessary oaths had been avoided. Since then, he believed they had abolished as many more, and he was not aware that the slightest dishonesty had ever occurred in consequence. He should vote for his right hon. Friend's Amendment.
 MR. HUME  asked the noble Lord what other measures for Ireland he intended to bring forward in the present Session? Did he intend to stand by the Irish Church as it now exists, or did he not? That was the question.
 MR. HUME  protested against the measure, upon the ground that it would cause an extravagant expenditure of the public money, and intimated that, although he should decline dividing on the present stage of the measure, the House would certainly be divided upon it at a future one.
 MR. NAPIER  observed, that the object for which the Emancipation Act was passed, as explained by the right hon. Baronet on introducing it, was to extend to the Catholics civil and religious privileges, and at the same time to secure the rights of the Established Church; and he was glad to find that the interpretation put on that Act by Dr. Doyle, and other high Roman Catholic authorities, was that it was a compact entered into by the Legislature on the one hand, and the Catholics on the other, one condition of which was that the influence thus acquired by that body should not be used to the prejudice of the Protestant Church, and that nothing could exonerate the Catholics from the conditions thus imposed. He was glad to find that the interpretation which was put upon the compact by Protestants was shared in not only by those authorities, but by the noble Earl and other Catholic Members of Parliament, and that it was in no way opposed to the tenets of the Catholic faith.
 MR. BAINES , in reply to the question which had been put to him, said that the facts which bore upon the question now before the House were these. Very soon after the passing of the Poor Removal Act, the 9th and 10th Victoria, c. 66, the Poor Law Commissioners received applications from the guardians of a great many unions for advice as to the construction of one particular provision of that Act. At that time no judicial decision had been pronounced on the subject. The Poor Law Commissioners did their best to furnish the most trustworthy advice to the guardians who so applied. They laid a case before gentlemen of the highest eminence—law officers of the Crown—and took their opinion on the subject. Having obtained that opinion, they forwarded it to the different hoards of guardians. Very recently, indeed, the Court of Queen's Bench had decided that the true construction of the provision of the Act was different from that which was put on it by the law officers of the Crown. What had been done to make the decision of the Queen's Bench known was this: the decision having been pronounced must he taken to constitute the law of the land, and the Poor Law Board had lost no time in making the parishes and unions acquainted with the fact. The attention of all had been called to the subject in the annual report of the Poor Law Commissioners, and there was on the point of being issued the official circular, which was addressed to all boards of guardians throughout the country, stating the decision of the Queen's Bench, and calling attention to the fact. They had also directed that they should be furnished with an abstract of the decision which the Queen's Bench had pronounced
 1185
 MR. BAINES : Since the hon. Member had furnished notice of his Motion, the attention of the Poor Law Board had been directed to the subject, and they had come to the conclusion that they had no power in point of law to make any provision for repayment.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I give the hon. Gentleman notice that to-morrow I shall attend the discussions of the Committee.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Am I to understand that they cannot turn me out of the room?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  reiterated the question of the hon. Member for Montrose, with respect to the Irish measures of the Government.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  wished to put a question as to the privileges of the House. He did not know what the custom might be as to Committees of the House; but he had always understood that these Committees were open to the attendance of Members of Parliament except during the time of division. There was a Committee (the Irish Poor Law Committee) in which many Members took a strong interest; and he understood that that Committee had come to a resolution to prevent the attendance of all Members of Parliament. This not being a Secret Committee, he asked whether such a course of proceeding was in conformity with the rules of Parliament?
 MR. SHEIL  thought it incumbent on him, as a Catholic Member, to state that his view of the obligation imposed by the Roman Catholic oath did not coincide with the interpretation put upon it by the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. J. O'Connell), nor with that of his noble Friend (the Earl of Arundel and Surrey) behind him. If the interpretation of his noble Friend—which had obtained for him the panegyric of the hon. and learned Member opposite (Mr. Napier)—if that were correct, no Roman Catholic could have voted for the Church Temporalities Bill. No Roman Catholic could have voted for the diminution of the number of bishops in Ireland, nor for the abolition of church cess, the effect of which had been to diminish the revenues of the Established Church indirectly to the extent of 60,000 l 1198 secundum sensum impositum
 MR. G. ANSTEY  concurred with the noble Earl the Member for Arundel in his view of the Roman Catholic oath, and the duty of Roman Catholic Members as to any proposition to alter that oath. It would be the more fair and honest course in the hon. Member for Dorsetshire to propose the introduction of words into the oath absolutely and in terms prohibiting all those who did not belong to the Church of Eng-land from in any way interfering with the temporalities of the Church of England. That was, no doubt, the real intention, as regarded Roman Catholics, of the original framers of the oath. He felt it to be his duty to give effect to that intention; his only regret being that it was conveyed in such an ambiguous manner as to leave Roman Catholic Members in doubt as to which way they ought to take it.
 SIR G. GREY  said, in reply, that the Government had the subject mentioned by the noble Earl under their consideration.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  begged to ask the Commissioner of Poor Laws—" Whether
 1184 l
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  asked, whether it was intended to take into consideration the repayment of those expenses which had become serious in many cases?
 SIR J. C. HOBHOUSE  said, the reason why money had not been given to them was, that the widow of the Rajah refused to receive it until his adopted son should be recognised as his heir. It was offered by the Governor General, and it was refused on that ground.
 SIR J. C. HOBHOUSE  said, that the question which the hon. Gentleman had put to him, and which he intended to put to his noble Friend the First Lord of the Treasury, was one of those questions, he submitted to the House, which were couched in terms that entitled them to be called argumentative questions. He assumed certain things which were not the fact, and he grounded the questions upon them. If he had put the question in the common form, when would the papers be produced?—he (Sir J. C. Hobhouse) would not have had the least objection to give an answer. The hon. Gentleman asked why it was, when the Queen's Government presented a folio of 378 pages relating to a rebellion in the island of Ceylon, they did not present one equally large as to the affairs of the Punjaub. The answer was very simple. The affairs of Ceylon were over, and Government had thought it their duty to present those papers, that Parliament might
 1186
 SIR J. PAKINGTON : The course taken this morning on the Irish Poor Law Committee is the only course which I have seen taken in every Select Committee of which I have been a Member.
 SIR R. PEEL : Even if the hon. Gentleman's impression were correct, that the oath to which he refers was first introduced on my recommendation, it appears to me that I should be acting improperly if I were to declare what in my opinion is the proper construction to be put upon that oath. The adoption of that oath by whomsoever proposed was the act of the House of Commons and of the Legislature. Since the period of its imposition, many votes have been given by Roman Catholic Members in this House. I am sure that hon. Gentlemen will do me the justice to admit that, since the year 1829, I have never insinuated against any Roman Catholic Member of Parliament that he has given a vote on any particular subject from other than conscientious motives. If the Legislature be dissatisfied with the course which hon. Gentlemen may have taken in this House, it is the duty of the Legislature to establish some new rule for the guidance of those Members, and to declare by a new enactment what is its intention with respect to Roman Catholic Members of this House. But it is not the duty of any Member to declare his own individual opinion on the proper construction of an oath, in order that that opinion may be a rule for the guidance of others in the discharge of their public duty. The hon. Gentleman is, however, in error in supposing that this oath was introduced by me. Before I notice the oath, I will briefly advert to a proposal made, I believe, by my right hon. and lamented Friend, Sir R. Wilmot Horton, expressly providing that Roman Catholic Members should not be permitted to vote on questions affecting the interests, spiritual or temporal, of the Established Church. I stated my objections to the introduction of any such proposal, and said—
 "My right hon. Friend has proposed, with a view to calm the suspicions and fear" of those who
 1200 "I do solemnly swear that I will defend, to the utmost of my power, the settlement and arrangement of property in this country as established by the laws. I do hereby disclaim, disavow, and solemnly abjure any intention to subvert the present Church Establishment, or substitute
 1201
 Mr. HERBERT, Mr. O'FLAHERTY , and Major BLACKALL, opposed their continuance for so long a period, when the Committee that was now sitting might make great alterations in the poor-law system.
 MR. H. DRUMMOND  remarked, that he could not recommend the farmers to be influenced by any expressions of good will towards them by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bright), for they should remember the old saying, "We ought not to trust our enemies, even when they bring gifts." A question of this nature was to be considered not merely with reference to the situation of our own country, but to the strength and situation of other countries. The advocates, however, of diminished expenditure had entirely omitted that consideration. They had argued this question as one of finance, which was totally another subject. He found that people did in public matters what was done in private matters. When they lived in a tranquil and peaceable village, as he had some times in Cornwall and Wales, they could leave their doors open; but he was afraid that in the quiet and peaceable town of Manchester they would find it advantageous to use locks and bars. He believed that it was the character and situation of one's neighbours that induced the introduction of the precautionary measures of locks and bars. This proposition was a delusion to the farmers, if it was brought forward as a means of relieving them from their burdens. He prayed the House to bear this in mind—they had, in round numbers, thirty millions of people, that was to say, five millions of families, one million of whom consumed five times as much as all the others, another million of families consumed four times as much as the others, another million three times as much as the others, another million consumed twice as much as the others, whilst as to the last million, one half were in misery and indigence and the other half in absolute starvation. Their taxation then ought to press upwards, as their assessed taxes did. They ought to make the pressure increase as it went upwards, as far as the highest person in the country. Their old plan of sumptuary laws was not bad in principle, although it was found to be im-
 1300 l l
 MR. GRENVILLE BERKELEY  wished to correct one statement which had been made by the right hon. Member for Manchester. Sir T. Hardy was not a Member of the Government in 1835.
 MR. ELLIOT  said, that his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Control was not able to attend at that hour in his place, but he would be there in the course of the evening. With regard to the statement made by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets, he could only say that when the hon. Gentleman had said on Fri-
 1209 l
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, his noble Friend the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs had been in correspondence with the French Government on the subject, and he found that the French Government were ready to pay the sums so soon as the parties claiming them could be identified.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  wished to make an explanation as to one point in the former answer he had given to the hon. Gentleman on this subject. The hon. Gentleman bad touched upon the four points to which that answer referred; in the first, as to the income received by the late Dr. Wellesley, which he (Lord J. Russell) stated, on the information of the Bishop of Durham, at 3,800 l l l l "After the 13th of May the funds arising from wayleaves and coals will be paid to trustees (the bishop and rector). They will pay to each chapelry at least the amount they at present receive, so long as the wayleaves remain. Any surplus will be put into the funds to accumulate for the spiritual benefit of the parish and its chapelries; but not to add one farthing to the income of the incumbent. Among other objects, greatly desired, is the building of a church at Hendon, in the parish of Bishopwearmouth, some two or three miles from the mother church, with, I am told, 6,000 inhabitants. I have little doubt but we shall improve the present payments to the chapels, in proportion to the population; but, so long as the question of the wayleaves remains unsettled, we do not think it prudent to hold out expectations which it may not be in our power to gratify." 1216
 LORD J. RUSSELL  did not consider that the Bishop would have any authority to divert the revenues settled by law as the income of the living, whether arising from rents or other sources; and if that had been done in any case, he imagined there would be some legal remedy.
 MR. B. COCHRANE  wished to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government the question of which he had given him notice, with respect to the intention of the French Government to make compensation to those English workmen who had deposited part of their earnings in the savings banks of France, but who were obliged to leave that country at the Revolution, without obtaining the return of their little all.
 MR. STAFFORD  wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he had taken any steps to correct the mistakes in the returns lately presented from the poor-law officers in Ireland, which had rendered these returns of no value whatever? or, if he had not, he begged to call the right hon. Gentleman's attention to the fourth page in these returns, where he would find a mistake amounting to 8,500 l
 MR. HAWES  would state exactly the numbers that had been sent out during the years 1847 and 1848. From England there had been 15,676 emigrants sent out; from Scotland, 2,863; and from Ireland, 3,534; making a total of 22,074. According to the proportion of population, the numbers of Irish, according to this return, fell short by about 4,000; but, when it was considered that under the head of English emigrants going from England, a large number of Irish emigrants, superior emigrants, were included, he doubted if the disproportion would be found to be so great. He had no desire to alter the statements with respect to the proportion of emigrants, and he thought he had shown to the House that the disproportion which had taken place would not be very large, if the number of Irishmen who had gone out among the English emigrants could be ascertained.
 MR. HAWES  begged the House to bear in mind that the Emigration Commissioners were entrusted entirely with colonial funds for colonial purposes. They were not British or imperial funds, and, therefore, the colonists had a distinct right to decide upon the character and quality of the emigration; and he believed they had given an opinion that they did prefer English to Irish emigrants.
 MR. HAWES  said it was true that a great number of Irish orphans had been sent out, and, in reference to the South Australian colony in particular, he could state that a Committee composed of Roman Catholics had been formed to superintend their settlement in the colony, and he took it for granted that their religious education would not be overlooked.
 MR. HAWES  could certainly not quite concur in that statement.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  had no reliance on the assertions or the conduct of either the hon. Member for the West Riding, who brought forward the Motion, or of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who opposed it. He should feel it his duty to oppose the Motion of the hon. Member (Mr. Cobden), but vote with Her Majesty's Government he could not. He looked upon the Motion as a snake in the grass, but he was determined it should not bite him. Having no confidence cither in the Motion or the opposition to it, he should abstain altogether from voting, and leave the House.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , although differing from his hon. Friend who had brought forward this resolution, must express his satisfaction at the fair and temperate manner in which he had introduced the subject. On former occasions the hon. Gentleman had stated, that he intended to make no charge against either the present or any past Government; and certainly his speech that night was in perfect consistency with that spirit and temper. In answering the hon. Gentleman, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) did not, therefore, feel that he was called upon to defend himself or any Member of the Government from imputation or attack. The hon. Gentleman had truly stated, that several increases in the estimates had been made; with the general concurrence of this and preceding Parliaments; and he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would only so far draw an argument from this circumstance as to infer that measures in which so many large majorities of that House had concurred, could hardly be so very far wrong as the hon. Gentleman seemed to suppose. He could assure him that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was not disposed to take any exception to any of the minor points to which he had referred. He differed with him, not in the matter of a few hundreds or thousands, but upon millions, and he therefore wished to meet his arguments in general terms and in the fairest spirit. The hon. Gentleman had made allusion to the local taxation of the country; but he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) must confess that he did not see the connexion that subject had with the conclusions to which the hon. Gentleman had come. He thought the hon. Gentleman would find that the general increase in the county rates, and other local taxation of that description, had arisen from the improvements introduced in recent years in the prison discipline of the country, the adoption of better means for carrying out secondary punishments, and the provision of comfortable asylums for destitute and miserable lunatics throughout the country. In fact, the general increase of local taxation was owing to the general improvement of the local administration of the country. He would now, after this passing remark, address himself to an-
 1236 l l l l 1237 l l l l l l 1238 1239 1240 1241 "The vote for stores differs essentially from the other votes, inasmuch as it is not an estimate to provide for the consumption of the ensuing year, but has reference to a more distant period of time. The effects of an undue reduction in this vote are not, therefore, perceptible until some years after the time when the insufficient estimate may have been proposed. In such a case it is obvious that the apparent economy in this vote is only a postponement of purchases necessary for the maintenance of the Navy, and, in fact, relieves the estimates of one year by easting the burden on the votes of a future Session." l l 1242 1243 1244 1245 l l 1246 l 1247
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : There were well authenticated accounts received that a much larger number of persons were assembled together; and his (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) impression was, that nothing but the presence of an imposing military force had prevented the outbreak of an insurrection which the parties were ready and wicked enough to promote. It was no fault of those parties that that insurrection did not, he would not say succeed, but that that insurrection did not come to a much
 1248 l l l l l l 1249 l l l l l 1250 1251 l s s s s d d s d d 1252 
 
 £. 
 Ordinary and miscellaneous receipts 51,550,000 
 Old stores, &c 500,000 
 China money 80,000 
 Total estimated income £52,130,000 
 
 Ordinary receipts £52,422,338 
 Miscellaneous 118,656 
 £52,540,994 
 Old stores (three quarters of a year) 308,415 
 China money 84,284 
 Total actual income £52,933,693 1253 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1254 
 
 Corn … £780,000 
 Credits in aid … 500,000 
 China money … 80,000 
 Total loss of income … £1,360,000; l s
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had compared the printed papers with the originals sent from Ireland, and he found that the printed papers
 1211
 MR. URQUHART  did not wish it to go forth that those who should vote for this resolution were the only friends to retrenchment. He himself was a longer advocate for retrenchment than the hon. Mover, and went further. He went further than any man in that House, and yet he could not vote for the resolution. The Manchester school founded its economy on general theories of an Utopian nature: he founded his on the knowledge that the so-called defences of England were her only danger. That school was economical to save money: he wished to be economical not only to save money, but to pay off debt. The right hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) had assured the House that he did support the Member for the West Riding. The declaration was needed. He recollected having seen on the occasion of the propounding of the present budget at Manchester, the right hon. Gentleman following it up by a resolution which was the most contradictory that any man could have devised, namely, "that no permanent reduction was practicable until there was a change in the constituency of the House of Commons," The one hon. Member proclaimed a budget—the other moved a resolution to contradict it. When he saw two such propositions jostling in the same door, and issuing from the same factory, it became him, if he had never considered the matter before, to look to the character and the motives of the projectors, and, giving them credit for sense, if not for wisdom, he did come to the conclusion that this movement was not sincere. The right hon. Gentleman below him (Mr.
 1289 1290
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he believed since the noble Lord at the head of the Government answered a question put by him (Mr. Horsman) some days ago, he had received a communication from the Bishop of Durham, requesting him to correct some inaccuracies into which, in that answer, the noble Lord fell. As the matter related to a subject in respect to which he had given notice of a Motion, he should not refer to it on this occasion; but he considered it not only just to give the noble Lord the opportunity of correcting the inaccuracies to which he alluded, but that his attention should be directed, before the discussion on the Motion came on, to certain other particulars in which the answer which had been given, was, as he had since been informed, neither satisfactory nor correct. The subject to which he referred was the rearrangement in the distribution of the revenues of the rectory of Bishop Wear-mouth; and the facts of the case were these. During the last autumn this rich rectory became vacant by the demise of Dr. Wellesley, the late incumbent, and that event becoming known, it was supposed that such a redistribution of the temporal revenues of the living would be made as should seem adequate provision for the spiritual wants of the district. He had, therefore, inquired of the noble Lord
 1212 l l l 1213 l l l 1214
 MR. HORSMAN  inquired whether, in the noble Lord's opinion, the Bishop had any authority to divert any portion of the temporalities provided by law for the incumbent to any other purpose?
 COLONEL DUNNE  wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland, for how long a period he was going to propose the continuance of the vice-guardians?
 Mr. G. THOMPSON  said, he rose to solicit the indulgence of the House, to whose impartiality and courtesy he appealed, while for a few moments he spoke in explanation of a matter personal to himself, touching the correctness of a statement he had made in his place in Parliament a few evenings since upon an important subject, and the answer given to that statement by a Minister of the Crown. It would be in the recollection of the House that on Friday last he put a question to the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. C. Hob-house), the President of the Board of Control, relative to the papers connected with the war in the Punjaub. The question was asked in the precise words of which notice had been given the day before, and was founded upon two facts referred to in the terms of the question—namely, that the war in the Punjaub had been going on since April, 1848, and that it had occasioned the calling into the field of 120,000 men, including camp followers. The right hon. Baronet, in replying to the question—and upon the style and manner of that reply he (Mr. Thompson) would make no comment—thought it his duty to give a flat contradiction to both the facts
 1206 1207 1208 "The usual calculation is, that for every fighting man in the high-caste Bengal army, there are five servants, or 'camp followers'—non-combatants. In the Bombay army, where the caste is generally lower, there are about three camp followers for every fighting man. That an army in march, consisting of 10,000 fighting men, amounts in the mass from 40,000 to 65,000 men; that the general must feed this crowd of non-combatants, and their animals." Delhi Gazette "The number of men to be assembled at Ferozepore amounts, more or less, to 20,000 men. Their camp followers will exceed 100,000; but we will take them at that figure." Delhi Gazette
 MR. BRIGHT  rose: He said, I should be sorry to detain the House longer on this occasion, were it not that I feel that no fitting reply has yet been given to some of the observations which have fallen from the other side of the House, and that I consider the subject is of that importance that we may well be excused for spending one night upon it. The right hon. Member for Stamford (Mr. Herries) has read us a lecture. It is quite evident that out of
 1294 1295 The Western World s s 1296 1297 l 1298 1299
 MR. HERRIES  said, that the real question before the House was this—whether, before they went into Committee upon the Estimates presented to that House by the Ministers of the Crown, they should adopt a resolution to the effect that it was expedient to reduce the expenditure of the country by ten millions. That was, practically, the question before them; and he said this, because it was really an essential point that the House should clearly understand what was the vote they were called upon to give. He must say he had been surprised at the little interest which appeared to have been taken in the Motion of the hon. Member (Mr. Cobden) by Gentlemen on that side of the House from which it proceeded. The hon. Member for Montrose had certainly risen at last, as if in despair; and even he had not added any material weight of argument, nor any energetic assistance to the Motion of the hon. Member for the West Riding. The real question, as he (Mr. Herries) had said, Was whether the House would now, at once, vote that a reduction could and should be made in the national expenditure to the extent of ten millions; for he considered the words "with all practicable speed," as being a mere qualification as to time alone, and not affecting the extent or character of the pledge to be given. If the proposition had been, that they should use all possible diligence in endeavouring to diminish the expenditure of the country, the Motion indeed would have presented itself under a very different aspect; but the present Motion was a demand upon the House to make a rash and impracticable engagement, and to accuse itself of a
 1266 1267 1268 
 
 1820 was £35,000,000 
 1821 do. 35,280,000 
 1822 do. 38,000,000 l l l 1269 
 
 In 1831 £60,000,000 In 1839 £44,000,000 
 1832 44,000,000 1840 46,800,000 
 1833 44,800,000 1841 54,000,000 
 1834 40,000,000 1842 52,000,000 
 1835 41,800,000 1843 55,700,000 
 1836 40,600,000 1847 60,000,000 
 1837 41,560,000 1848 72,000,000 
 1838 42,500,000 1270 
 
 Income. Expenditure. 
 From 1820 to 1825 … £56,472,000 … £56,150,000 
 1825 to 1830 … 54,612,000 … 55,636,000 
 1830 to 1835 … 47,233,000 … 47,543,000 
 1835 to 1840 … 47,262,000 … 47,924,000 
 1840 to 1845 … 49,840,000 … 50,733,000 
 1845 to 1848 … 54,127,000 … 55,596,000 l l l l l l l 1271 1272 l l l l 1273
 MR. MACGREGOR  would at all times give a practical vote on an economical question, and if he could vote with the hon. Member for the West Riding on the principle of economical reform with reference to taxation, he should do it. But he
 1291 l l 1292
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  had waited some minutes after the right hon. Gentleman had sat down, in order that those hon. Members who took a more immediate interest in the question might have an opportunity of addressing the House, and of adding anything they could to the very able, lucid, and convincing statement of the right hon. Baronet. He confessed his surprise that no direct reference had been made to the state of Ireland. He did not know whether it was that they were afraid of the subject, but he was satisfied that in consequence of the manner in which that country had been treated, there was an undefined—not such perhaps as could be
 1255 1256 l l l l l l l l l l l l
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  asked whether, as a large proportion of the Irish emigrants consisted of young persons, any provision was made for their being educated, in the colony, in the religion of their parents?
 MR. HUME  said, that he had given notice of his intention to move, on the Motion that Mr. Speaker leave the chair, to go into Committee of Supply, that, in the present state of the finances of the country, Her Majesty's Ministers, before calling on this House to vote the Estimates for the public service, should submit a general financial statement of the whole or expected revenues, and the total intended expenditure for the ensuing financial year. He had come down perfectly prepared to carry out the resolution; but he was sorry to find from the Speaker, that, by the resolution passed a few nights ago, they were shut out from moving more than one amendment upon the question of going into Committee of
 1210
 MR. HUME  seconded the Motion.
 MR. HUME  expressed his deep regret that the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster should thus seek to infuse
 1259 l 1260 vice versâ l l l l l l l l l l l l 1261 l l l l 1262 "That an humble Address be presented to His Majesty, to assure His Majesty that we have regarded with satisfaction the measures which have been taken by His Majesty's commands for a general revision of the department of the Customs in Great Britain; and to entreat His Majesty to give directions that a similar investigation may be extended to all the other branches of the revenue, in order to render its collection more economical, and its management more efficient; that for the purpose of affording a further relief to the country, His Majesty will be pleased to order a minute inquiry into the several departments of the Civil Government, as well with a view of reducing the number of persons employed in those departments, which from the great increase of business were augmented during the late war, as with reference to the increased salaries granted to individuals since the year 1797." l l "Either in consideration of the additional labour thrown upon them during that period, or of the diminished value of money. And further, that His Majesty will be graciously pleased to direct that every possible saving which can be made, without detriment to the public interest, shall be effected in those more extended establishments which the country is obliged to maintain for the safety and defence of the United Kingdom and its dependencies, and more especially in the military expenditure, by a reduction in the numbers of the Army, and by a constant and vigilant superintendence over that and all the other departments connected with the application of the ample supplies granted by the House." 1263 l l l l l "Towards the conclusion of the late war, circumstances obliged this country to have a largo army in the field, and to maintain establishments much beyond what can, on any reasonable calculation-, be requisite on a future occasion. The Committee, therefore, are of opinion that the establishments of the country should be regulated, hot with reference to the policy of depending mainly on our Navy for protection against foreign invasion, and for the means of attacking our enemies. As the examination into the members of the Ordnance military corps presents to the Committee the first opportunity of making any remarks on the strength of our military establishments during peace, they feel it their duty to urge upon the House the expediency of bestowing a deliberate consideration upon the preceding observations, as very materially affecting the practicability of making a great reduction in the present scale of public expenditure. The Committee are of opinion that the pressure on our finances justifies them in making this appeal to the House. And if, upon acquiring a more complete knowledge of the state of the revenue and expenditure, they shall find either that a considerable reduction in the expenditure must be effected, or that new taxes must be imposed, in order to make the revenue bear such a proportion to the expenditure as is requisite to give stability to our finances, and to sustain public credit, they will have to consider the expediency of recommending in a future re-
 1264 l l l l l l l s s s d 1265
 MR. COBDEN : I did refer to it, and said there were only about 100 persons in arms.
 MR. COBDEN  rose and said: I have ventured, Sir, to introduce the Amendment which has been placed in your hands, because I thought it would be advantageous to the House and to the country that before we went into Committee of Supply, or into the details of the Estimates, we should have the opportunity of discussing the question of the financial condition and prospects of the country, and the cause which has given rise to the great increase in the public expenditure which has been going on during the last thirteen years; and I have considered that by doing so we shall afford the Government the opportunity of ascertaining the sense of the House, and I hope also the sense of the country, on this subject. In giving notice of this Motion as an Amendment to the Motion for going into Committee of Supply, I by no means wish hon. Gentlemen to infer that the plan I propose here, or have propounded elsewhere, is one that I expect the Government will bring forward in their estimates to-night or on Friday next. I have no such expectation, and should be sorry to take the division in such a shape as to leave any hon. Gentleman to infer, still less to argue, that what I propose to do can be done instanter. All I wish is that the House should have the opportunity of expressing its opinion as to the desirableness and the necessity of the great reduction in the expenditure which I advocate. Now, Sir, there is just one other point to which I will refer for a moment. I have stated in the beginning of my resolution that our net expenditure for the year 1835 amounted to 44,422,000 l l 1219 ateliers nationaux ateliers nationaux l l l l l l l l l l 1220 l l l l l l 1221 "With this view it would be necessary for him to compare the present with former estimates; and, indeed, this was the only practicable way in which they could be considered, drawing in aid of that consideration the experience and wisdom of former times. That this had been the practice upon former occasions was proved by the conduct of a right hon. Gentleman, whose authority the noble Lords opposite could scarcely dispute, he
 1222 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1223 l 1224 Caroline 1225 l l l l 1226 1227 ad nauseam "Of the 112 battalions of infantry in the British service, there now 23 in India, 50 are serving in the colonies, and 4 are on their passage, malting in all 77 battalions actually employed in the defence of our colonial empire. We have 35 battalions at home—not, as it is supposed, for the purpose of restraining the population, but for the purpose, and we effect it incompletely, of maintaining the system of reliefs for our regiments serving abroad." 1228 1229 "Plenty of money, plenty of victuals. The only thing that grieves us now is to think of your starving in England, and we in a land of such great plenty. I wish you would all make up your minds and come. I am sure you would never repent coming hero; for there is plenty of work, and plenty of money, and plenty of victuals. We never eat less than a quarter of mutton a week for us three, and beautiful meat it is here." 1230 1231 1232 1233 l l l 1234 "To leave out from the word 'That' to the end of the Question, in order to add the words, the not expenditure of the Government for the year 1835 (Parliamentary Paper, No. 260, 1847), amounted to 44,422,000 l l "That no foreign danger, nor necessary cost of the Civil Government, nor indispensable disbursements for the services in our dependencies abroad, warrant the continuance of this increase of expenditure; "That the Taxes required to meet the present expenditure, impede the operations of agriculture and manufactures, and diminish the funds for the employment of labour in all branches of productive industry, thereby increasing pauperism and crime, and adding grievously to the local and general burthens of the people: "That, to diminish these evils, it is expedient that this House take steps to reduce the annual expenditure, with all practicable speed, to an amount not exceeding the sum which, within the
 1235
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  asked if it was not true that in the Australian colonies these unfortunate questions of Catholic and Protestant were rarely, if ever, heard of?
 MR. ANSTEY  contended that the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman the Member for the West Riding meant this, that before the House went into a Committee of Supply, it would pledge itself to a present reduction of 10,000,000 l 1293
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  had said, that before Sir J. Graham left the Admiralty in 1834, Sir T. Hardy was a party to all his reductions. That was to say, to all the arrangements for 1835, which that night they had heard, left the Navy in a state of absolute destitution.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  thought it was not very consolatory to the landed interest to find a financial leader of the agricultural party holding out such slender hopes of any material reduction in the expenditure of the country, and even attempting to discourage those who had plans to offer; carrying the principle of discouragement so far as even to throw some censure on the Government for the efforts they were making to reduce the expenditure. Let him remind the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Herries) and his hon. friends, that whatever they proposed in the nature of relief to the landed interest must have its foundation upon a reduction of the expenditure. He (Mr. Gibson) had been invited by his
 1274 1275 1276 primâ facie onus probandi l l l l l l 1277 l l 1278 l l l 1279 "I would recommend to have an alphabetical list of stores, examined by a Committee, and made out in form as upon the enclosed half-sheet of paper, by ascertaining what there was in 1804, and what there is in store now, of each article, and the difference between the two accounts. I have taken the year 1804 as the standard, as that was the year in which the invasion was threatened. It was previous to the employment of the armies in the Peninsula and North America, in short, as nearly as possible similar to the political circumstances in which we stand at this present moment, except that we are now at peace with France, we were then at war." 1280 1281 l 1282 1283 1284 1285 1286 l 1287 1288
 MR. MONSELL  proposed, that the period should be the 29th of September, 1849.
 MR. MONSELL  begged attention to this fact, that 16,000 emigrants had gone out from England, and only 4,000 from Ireland; and he begged to ask, further, whether, among the papers sent to the different emigration agents, instructions had not been sent from the Colonial Office that they should not send Irishmen?
 Mr. MONSELL  rose to put a question
 1217
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, that the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer had, in his opinion, pointed out most clearly the discrepancy which existed
 1257 l l 1258
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  replied, that he proposed their continuance up to the 25th of March, 1850.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  would venture to point out to the House the objections attaching to this measure, and also the course which he thought the House ought to pursue. It was true, as the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) stated, that under the Bill the parties concerned would be bound to pay only 1,000 l
 MR. REYNOLDS , before the adjourned debate on this Bill was resumed, begged to state, that he had received petitions from the Lord Mayor, aldermen, and burgesses of the city of Dublin; from the Grand Canal Company, under their seal; from burgesses and ratepayers of the city, 4,000 in number; from the High Sheriff of the city, and from the president and vice-president and members of the Chamber of Commerce, against it. He believed he could not take any part in the debate, as it had been adjourned upon his own Motion, that the Bill should be read a second time that day six months. He however, should, on the part of his constituency, protest against the second reading.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the hon. Gentleman undoubtedly could not take part again in the debate upon the question then before the House. But a clause had been referred to him for consideration. He had examined it, and he thought it was one which should be struck out by the Committee.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  supported the Amendment, and begged the House to give due weight to what he believed to be the almost unanimous opinion of the citizens of Dublin.
 The EARL of LINCOLN  said, that he understood the chief reason for the adjournment of the debate upon the Bill was in order that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland (Sir W. Somerville) might have time to communicate with the Lord Lieutenant, and ascertain his opinion upon the measure. He thought that the rules of the House ought to be relaxed, and the right hon. Gentleman be allowed to state the result of the communication.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that that could be best done by the withdrawal of the Motion, and the substitution of another.
 MR. REYNOLDS  declined to withdraw his Motion.
 The EARL of LINCOLN  pressed the Secretary for Ireland to state his reasons for allowing a private Bill such as the present one to be thrown out upon the second reading.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, he had been precluded by the rules of the House from stating his reasons. The division had come upon him by surprise. He was quite ready to state his reasons, but was not permitted. He would now say, that the Government was prepared to propose certain measures connected with the objects of the Bill before the House. One was with reference to a concentrated board for purposes of general taxation for the city of Dublin, and to vest in the corporation of the city the powers at present vested in several Government offices. The Lord Lieutenant was in favour of such a course; but there did not appear to be—at least at present—any chance of the several parties concerned agreeing to a general plan. There were two other Bills, the Dublin Corporation Waterworks Bill, and the Dublin improvement Bill, fixed for Friday next, when some of the questions in debate would come before the House; but he had made up his mind to oppose the present Bill, because he found it was objected to by all parties.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, it was a mistake to suppose the Bill was opposed by all parties. He proposed that the second reading should be adjourned for a fortnight. The other Bills could be postponed to the same day, and all could then be considered together.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, the question was at an end. His Amendment had been carried.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  begged the hon. Member's pardon. They had only decided on striking out the word "now;" the future day on which the Bill was to be read a second time had not yet been decided. He moved as an Amendment that the Bill be read a second time that day fortnight.
 MR. REYNOLDS  appealed to the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair. He had always been under the impression that a Motion such as had just been carried, postponed the reading of a Bill for six months.
 MR. SPEAKER  explained that the
 1316
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  recommended Mr. Reynolds to agree to the postponement for a fortnight. He had himself voted against the Bill, knowing nothing about it, but merely giving, as it were, a vote of confidence to his hon. Friend the Member for Dublin.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, the more he considered the matter, the more he was determined to persevere in his opposition to the Bill. It was a Bill concocted by a speculating attorney for the mere purpose of making up a bill of costs against his (Mr. Reynolds') constituents. And this attorney was helped by a London Parliamentary agent. Would the House, he asked, endure such a thing? Would it tolerate such a measure being thrust upon London, Liverpool, Manchester, or Birmingham? No, they would not; and yet, because the measure referred to a place at the other side of the Channel, they were asked to enable a speculating attorney to bring in a Bill which would saddle the citizens with costs to the amount of at least 10,000 l l l 1317
 MR. GROGAN  pressed for the adjournment of the second reading for a fortnight.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  also recommended the adjournment for a fortnight. At the same time he begged to assure the hon. Member for the city of Dublin (Mr. Reynolds) that it was not his wish that the Bill should be sent to a Committee upstairs.
 MR. J. PARKER  objected to the Motion, on the ground of the great trouble and difficulty of classification in the returns, as well as upon the score of expense. These inconveniences had already been greatly experienced in making out two recent lists of all salaries of 800 l l
 MR. HUME  said, that in moving for those returns he had no desire to create any unnecessary trouble or expense, without leading to any good results; but the hon. Member for Finsbury had some years ago moved for similar returns, only the lowest salary he included was 100 l
 LORD J. RUSSELL  saw no objection to the production of these returns; the only question was, whether any public advantage that would arise from them would equal either the trouble or expense of preparing them. If the hon. Gentleman would put
 1333
 MR. HUME  acceded, and accordingly postponed his Motion.
 MR. G. C. DUPRE , in rising to move the second reading of this Bill, said, the object of the measure was merely to place the county of Buckingham upon the same footing as every other county in England and Wales, with regard to the provision of a convenient place for holding the county assizes. The town of Buckingham, where the summer assizes for the county of Buckingham were held at present, was
 1335
 The MARQUESS of CHANDOS  said, in reference to what had been said by his hon. Friend, he begged to say that he stood there on no hereditary right, and would not oppose a Bill of this kind on any such ground as that suggested. He would not oppose the Bill if he were convinced by the argument of his hon. Friend that the proposed change would be for the convenience of the county generally; but he was not quite convinced, from what had been stated by his hon. Friend, that such would be the result. On a former occasion there had been a meeting of magistrates, at which a proposal for a measure similar to this had been defeated by a majority of three to one; and he should also remark, that he thought he had the pleasure of numbering
 1336
 The MARQUESS of CHANDOS , after the explanations that had been given, would not press his Amendment.
 MR. HAWES  said, that the facts of the case were these: The Bill referred to by the hon. Gentleman was the Export Duties Bill; and in the course of its engrossment the word "December," 1849, was inserted instead of "February," 1849. The error was discovered and pointed out to the Governor. The Bill containing a clause enabling the error to be corrected, the Governor said he had no objection to the alteration being made. The Governor certainly had no intention to avail himself of this clerical inaccuracy; and he (Mr. Hawes) thought that he would be the last man to do so. The despatch to which the hon. Member alluded was included in a return moved for by the hon. Member for Montrose, which he hoped before long to lay upon the table of the House. With respect to the blue book on the affairs of Jamaica, he might state that a despatch had been sent out to the Governor re-minding; him of the omission.
 MR. HAWES : What is your question?
 MR. HAWES : I think the question put by the hon. Member is a most unusual one to ask. It is calculated to excite a prejudice, which I am happy to have this opportunity of entirely repudiating. I have seen it stated more than once, by parties whom the hon. Member may know, that there have been instances in which despatches were mutilated by my noble Friend the Secretary for the Colonies (Earl Grey), for some purposes of concealment. Sir, it is utterly unfounded—altogether unfounded—that that has ever been done. It will be in the recollection of the House that certain despatches were moved for by the late Lord George Bentinck, and that an explanation was given by me at the time. The despatches in question related to some apprehended disturbances in the island of Jamaica, in consequence of the monopolists there having been disappointed at the passing of the Sugar Bill in England. The language used was, that several of the plantation proprietors were going to transfer their allegiance to the United States, and it excited considerable alarm among the negro population. The despatches contained a statement relative to the threatened disturbances; they referred to particular individuals by name; they embodied depositions which had not been taken before the magistrates, and also some improved charges; and those parts which
 1327
 MR. HAWES : Certainly not. I will lay them before the Committee, but not before the House and the public.
 MR. HAWES : I will not consent to lay them before the House and the public.
 MR. HAWES : Certainly not, so far as I know.
 MR. HINDLEY  asked the right hon. the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government, as stated in some of the public journals, to bring in a Bill to authorise the working women and young persons in factories by relays, and if so, when it was probable the Bill would be introduced?
 MR. BANKES  wished to put a question to the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, of some importance. Rumours were prevalent that some of the arms used by the Sicilian insurgents had been supplied from Her Majesty's stores
 1325
 MR. G. THOMPSON  must oppose the Bill, in compliance with the wishes of a large number of his constituents, who, however, were influenced by no personal hostility to the truly exemplary and excellent incumbent. The parishioners, who were now pursuing an inquiry into the claim of that rev. gentleman, wished the Bill to be postponed until that inquiry should have terminated, when, should the result be to establish the claim, none would be more willing than they to recognise it. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) said the Bill was brought forward with a view to prevent litigation, and save the money both of the parishioners and the incumbent; but the parishioners were not afraid of litigation. There had been litigation before in this parish, and it had always resulted in cutting down the claims of the rector, and freeing large numbers of the inhabitants from the charges sought to be made upon them. The right hon. Gentleman, when he talked of the possibility of the rector maintaining a claim of six or seven times the amount now proposed, should remember that the late rector (Dr. Matthias) never put his claim at more than 1,100 l l
 MR. G. THOMPSON  seconded the Motion.
 MR. G. THOMPSON  said, the papers relating to the military operations in Scinde had been laid before the House while the army was still in Motion.
 MR. G. THOMPSON  said, he had no desire to press his Motion, but a great want of information existed in the country, and in this House even, with regard to the causes of the war going on in the Punjaub. He had no desire to make out a case against the Government of India in the absence of the official papers; but as the events connected with the war had been reported in the ordinary vehicles, the information now before the world showed no sufficient cause for the operations now going on in that country. He, however, had no desire to press his Motion for these papers against the wish of the right hon. President of the Board of Control and that of the Government; but he trusted the right hon. Baronet would see the desirability of giving an assurance to the public that, as soon as the convenience of the public service would allow, the whole of these official papers would be laid upon the table. Therefore, he would propose his Motion as a matter of form.
 MR. G. THOMPSON  seconded the Motion.
 MR. G. THOMPSON  inquired whether, in the event of a manifestation of willingness on the part of the family of Purtaub Shean to receive the money, there would be any indisposition on the part of the Government to pay the arrears? The family was involved in great embarrassment, with a large number of retainers. They had not received the money simply because they thought it would compromise their rights. He had given a contrary opinion, and thought that, without any compromise, they could fairly accept what had been kindly and generously offered.
 MR. BAILLIE : They are limited to those of Ceylon.
 MR. BAILLIE : You must recollect that the Committee does not sit on the affairs of Jamaica, but on those of Ceylon.
 MR. BAILLIE : Will you lay the despatches before the House?
 MR. BAILLIE : Whether they will be presented to the Committee without mutilation?
 MR. BAILLIE  said, as the hon. Gentleman was about to present some despatches to the House, he trusted they would not be mutilated in the way in which the despatches with respect to Jamaica were. ["Order, order!"] [Mr. HUME: Put it as a question.] Well, then, he would ask whether they were likely to be mutilated in the way the other despatches had been? He held some of those despatches in his hand, and could not help observing that every particle of information contained in them had been withheld. The hon. Member here read a portion of one of the despatches to which he had referred, commencing, "I have the honour to lay before your Lordships," &c.; and, after a long blank, concluding thus—"Under all the circumstances of the case," &c. He wished to know whether the despatches would be presented entire, or whether they would be mutilated like the despatches which he hold in his hand?
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, seemed hardly aware that this case was not unprecedented, or one which that House had been called upon to affirm. In the case of the Bethnal Green rectory, no longer than two years since, this principle had been affirmed. If, as suggested by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Sir W. Clay), this case were to be settled by arbitration, where could it be so well decided as before a Committee of that House? He supported the principle of this Bill, in order to enable the House to decide what ought to be the amount of
 1322
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  asked whether Her Majesty's Government contemplated the adoption of any immediate measures for the removal of convicts from the gaols in Ireland? He had received a statement from his own county (Kerry), from which it appeared that there were at present three times the number of prisoners in the gaols that there was accommodation for, and that a daily increase was being made.
 MR. WYLD  wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, whether the Government of this country had appointed a British Consul at San Francisco, or in any other part of California?
 MR. HUME : I thought they were to sit on the affairs of the Colonies generally.
 MR. HUME  rose to move—
 "For a Return of the amount of money paid for the maintenance of the family of the late
 1330
 MR. HUME  observed, that the order of the Court of Directors was dated in June, 1846, and up to January nothing had been done. The family, therefore, remained in a state of starvation. Good intentions might exist, but intentions would not feed the hungry.
 MR. P. MILES  wished to ask a question of the Under Secretary of the Colonies (Mr. Hawes), From information he had received, he understood that the House of Assembly in Jamaica had voted certain supplies, but that, in consequence of a clerical error as to the date of the Bill granting them, the Governor in Council refused to allow the mistake to be rectified. He (Mr. Miles) wished to know whether the Government had received any despatch on the subject; and if so, whether they would have any objection to lay it before the House? He also inquired why no blue book for 1847 had been presented to Parliament with respect to this and other; colonial possessions, and should like to be informed when they would be produced?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Is the Committee to be a secret one?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  opposed the second reading of this Bill. It was promoted by the remarkably suitably named corporation "Brazenose College, Oxford," for the purpose of enabling the rector of St. Mary's to receive 1,000 l 1319 l l
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he could easily conceive that there would be some inconvenience in producing the papers at present, as hostilities had not yet been terminated. But he hoped there would be no objection to the production of the despatch of Sir Joseph Thackwell to Lord Gough, which, as he understood, was in the hands of the Government, and which the friends of Sir Joseph Thackwell were anxious should be made public.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  inquired whether it was true, as stated in the Austrian official journals, that the Envoy of Austria at the Congress at Brussels had laid it down in the basis of negotiations, that the  status quo
 MR. W. E. GLADSTONE  thought that a more temperate mode of discussion, one dealing less in strong language, a more fair and candid consideration of the subject, would have tended more to the coming to a fair decision upon it, than the very animated language—to use no more expressive terra—indulged in by the hon. Member for Middlesex. That hon. Gentleman said that the principle of the Bill was to give to the rector of St. Mary's, Whitechapel, 1,000 l s d s d l l l 1320 l l s d l l l
 MR. EWART  wished to ask a question of the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, with respect to the affairs of the River Plate, to which, on a former occasion, the noble Viscount had not given as unambiguous a reply as could have been desired by the parties interested. He wished, first, to ask him whether the Government entertained a hope of effecting a settlement of these affairs; secondly, whether the reception of our new envoy in Buenos Ayres had been such as to justify the hope of a favourable settlement; and, thirdly, what was the present state of the negotiations with respect to these affairs?
 SIR D. L. EVANS  said, the opponents of the Bill did not object to an amicable settlement, or to a settlement which should be satisfactory to the incumbent; but it should be remembered that they were now legislating for a parish, the majority of whose inhabitants were Jews or Dissenters. He suggested that the Bill should be postponed, in order to give time for an amicable
 1323
 SIR E. N. BUXTON  hoped the House would allow the Bill to go to Committee. He was connected with the district by business, and he considered that the claim of the rector should be commuted for a fixed sum, which could be easily settled in Committee. It was a great hardship that the rights of the rector should be allowed to lapse, because there was a difficulty in enforcing them. He was especially anxious that the present Bill should pass, because he had reason to believe that, were it to be thrown out, the present excellent rector would be obliged to resign his charge, and that another would be appointed who might be less scrupulous in asserting his rights. On that account he bogged the House would allow the Bill to go before a Committee.
 SIR G. GREY  believed the prisons were very much crowded. There were two classes of prisoners, the greater portion of whom were only waiting for trial. The Government had no power of placing these prisoners in any other gaol. The Prison Act imposed on grand juries the obligation to make sufficient provision for the accommodation of ordinary prisoners. The Lord Lieutenant had directed communications to be sent to grand juries on the subject. With respect to prisoners under sentence of transportation, it was quite true that they had been detained in gaol longer than usual; but that arose from the enormous increase which had take place in the number sentenced to transportation. Formerly the number did not exceed 500 annually, but last year it amounted to 2,500. At the last quarter-sessions he understood the number sentenced to transportation amounted to 559, being an excess of the annual number in former years. The Government had made every effort to provide increased accommodation. A considerable number had been removed, and ships were now receiving some for Australia. A depôt had been established at Spike Island, which depôt was now in the course of being enlarged.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that conflicting decisions had been given as to the construction
 1329
 SIR G. GREY  hoped, that the noble Marquess would not press his opposition to this Bill. It was not a measure that would necessarily cause a change in holding the assizes; the single object of the Bill was to place the county of Buckingham in the same position as every other county in England; that is to say, that the Queen should have the power of changing the place for holding the assizes, by an Order in Council, pursuant to the provisions 3 and 4 William IV. A communication had taken place with the Attorney General on this matter, as it was thought that the general Act would include Buckingham, notwithstanding the specific Act of Parliament, the repeal of which was now sought; but on looking into the subject, it was considered that as the specific Act was not referred to in that general Act, it therefore was not included in it. After this explanation, he trusted the noble Marquess would not press his opposition, more especially as the grounds on which the specific Act was passed no longer existed.
 SIR J. W. HOGG  protested against accusations, which involved the local Government being brought on the authority of letters taken out of the pocket of an hon. Member, in the absence of official information.
 SIR J. W. HOGG  must be permitted to observe that the disposition to provide for the family of the deceased Rajah of Sattara was just as strong on the part of the local Government as it was on the part of his right hon. Friend (Sir J. C. Hobhouse) and of the Court of Directors. But what he would ask, was the use of discussing the question which had now been raised, when they had no despatches as to what had been done in the matter? He repeated, that there was every disposition on the part of the local Government to give a fair, liberal, and immediate consideration to the claims of the family.
 SIR J. C. HOBHOUSE  observed, that his hon. Friend on more than one occasion had stated that a stipulated sum was agreed to be paid on account of the Rajah of Sattara. On the death of Purtaub Shean it was resolved that a certain portion of that sum should be given to his family; and, to show his hon. Friend that what he stated last year was founded entirely on fact, he begged to read an extract of a letter from the Governor General on the subject. The Earl of Dalhousie said—
 "I fully concur with you in your opinion, that the family should be treated with ample liberality. We have done so by the Ex-Rajah and his people. 50,000 rupees were given for his funeral expenses, 2,500 rupees for the monthly support of his family and supporters, till a final settlement was made. The Ranee refused to receive the 50,000 rupees unless we received a receipt signed by the boy, as representing the ex-Rajah; and she would not receive any money unless the whole allowed to the ex-Rajah was continued to the boy. Of course we refused to pay the 50,000 rupees, and she would not have the other. Ultimately the daughter has been allowed 1,756 rupees a month from the date of the ex-Rajah's death to the 1st of July, paying all the retainers; on the 1st of July this allowance to cease, the retainers to look out for themselves, as it appeared that only a few of them came from Sattara with the ex-Rajah. The daughter will have her own allowance of 500 rupees a month, and her travelling expenses to Sattara when she goes. The old Ranee has her 800 rupees, which she would not receive. This is the course that has been pursued with the ex-Rajah's family." 1331
 SIR J. C. HOBHOUSE  said, he was exceedingly glad that the hon. Member had taken the very discreet course of not pressing this Motion. Had it been pressed he should have felt it impossible, in the situation he held, to consent to the production of all the papers. The hon. Gentleman himself admitted that there were some, the production of which might be prejudicial to the public interest; and he could assure the hon. Gentleman and the House, that there would be no delay in printing any that were necessary for the public in-formation. If the subject of the proceedings in the Punjaub were brought under discussion at the proper time, after the papers were given, he doubted not that the hon. Gentleman and the House would absolve the Indian Government altogether from any improper conduct in this matter. He could not quite agree with the hon. Member as
 1334
 SIR J. C. HOBHOUSE  said, he believed that despatch was a letter written by Sir Joseph Thackwell to the Governor General. He knew there was such a document, but he thought it had not yet been forwarded to the Home authorities. He knew it had been alluded to, but he would not say for certain that it had come over. However, he would make inquiry, and let the hon. Gentleman know the result; and afterwards, if it were shown that there were special circumstances making the production of that paper desirable, and if he found that there was no objection to giving it, he would do so.
 SIR W. CLAY  confessed that it was with pain and reluctance that he opposed this Bill; but he was under the necessity of stating to the House that the real case was this—it was the substitution of endowment, by the will of that House, for certain legal rights. If he were asked whether he would consent to the substitution for legal claims of an arbitrary determination to take a certain sum, he was compelled to say
 1321
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  replied, that the Austrian Government held that they were entitled to maintain that the territorial distribution settled by the Treaty of Vienna should still remain in force. There was no guarantee given by that treaty, although certain rights were established by it. As to Poland and Cracow, those who knew what had passed with reference to these States during the last two years, could answer the question of the hon. Gentleman as well as he (Viscount Palmerston) could.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that no stores had been supplied at the expense of Her Majesty's Government. The fact was, that in September the contractor who was in the habit of supplying guns to the Ordnance, applied for leave to take back some of the guns he had supplied, to enable him to complete an order from the Sicilian Government. On the matter being referred to him, he (Viscount Palmerston) thought that there could be no objection to allowing the party to take back some of the arms, on the understanding that he was to furnish others in their place.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that it would occupy some time to detail with exactness the present state of these negotiations. Briefly, however, he might state that a proposition had been made by the English and French Governments, which had not been accepted, and that it remained for the French Government to determine whether they would make any fresh proposals. Mr. Southern had not yet been received officially; but he had been privately received with all possible cordiality, and he might say with distinction. Mr. Southern had been received by General Rosas, and there was reason to believe that in a short time he would be permitted to present his credentials. Negotiations were pending, and he saw no reason why a satisfactory arrangement should not shortly be come to.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : This is a question which is not now put to me for the first time. I have had it put to me privately by a number of persons, some of whom were no doubt interested in their own prosperity. There is no intention, however, on the part of Her Majesty's Government to appoint a Consul to California; and I think that the hon. Gentleman and the House will see that such an appointment would be impossible at the
 1328
 MR. T. GREENE  begged to suggest to the hon. Member for Dartmouth the propriety of referring the Bill to a Select Committee. He was quite convinced that unless referred to a Select Committee in the first instance, it never could be made a working measure. He appealed to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, to say whether the course he recommended was not that best calculated to carry the Bill into a law. In making these observations he did not wish it to be supposed that he had any desire or intention of shelving the question. He was as strongly impressed as any man with the expediency of excluding insolvents from seats in that House.
 SIR G. GREY  entirely agreed with the
 1338
 MR. MOFFATT  said, that conceiving also the investigation of a Committee would be likely to render the law more permanent and sound, he should have no objections to such a course.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, it was proper that this Bill should be referred to a Select Committee, as one of the objects would be to reconcile the rights of the creditor with the duties of that individual who had been returned to that House as one of the representatives.
 MR. BERNAL  said, the point in question was most important, and had never been sufficiently considered by hon. Members in all its bearings. It was, therefore, most expedient that it should be referred to a Select Committee to be inquired into.
 MR. MACKINNON  considered that the hon. Gentleman deserved great credit for bringing forward the Bill, and now consenting to refer it to a Select Committee. He (Mr. Mackinnon) hoped the Committee would be limited to certain objects, for if they were required to enter into the present question he was satisfied they would go on till the end of the Session, and nothing would be done. If they were confined to the more important points, the Committee would be able to come to a conclusion at an early period.
 MR. HENLEY  did not see how one side of the case only could be referred to a Select Committee. If the Bill was to be referred to a Select Committee, the whole subject ought to be considered by that Committee.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, it was impossible to consider the privileges of Members without also considering the rights of creditors. These subjects were completely connected; the Bill ought, therefore, to be referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS , in moving the second reading of this Bill, observed, that since he had last the honour of addressing the House on this subject, he had received various communications respecting it from different parts of the country, which all tended to show how various were the interests involved, and how very difficult it would be to introduce a measure which would give universal satisfaction. That the difficulties were numerous and serious was a fact which did not admit of dispute; but he was not without hope that by careful deliberation they might be all satisfactorily adjusted. The Bill which he had now the honour to submit to the House, was a purely economical measure of internal improvement, and in no respect a political measure. He believed that the criticisms that had been passed upon it were  bonâ fide 1340 l l l l 1341 in toto. l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1342 l s d. l s l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1343 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1344 1345 pro formâ
 MR. RICE  reminded the hon. Gentleman opposite, who wished to postpone the second reading in order to afford time for further consideration, that no postponement could take place until they had gone into Committee  pro formâ.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  observed, in reply to the hon. Gentleman, that the clause provided that the chairman and vice-chairman of the boards of waywardens were not necessarily to fill the corresponding offices in the local road boards, though they were not to be prevented from doing so, if chosen.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had introduced the Bill had proposed to take the course which was usually taken on such occasions—namely, to go into Committee  pro formâ pro formâ
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, if the objection offered to the second reading of the Bill was simply that which had been made by the hon. Member for Warwickshire, and extended to the whole principle of the Bill, he should feel it his duty to press the House to come to a division at once upon the Bill, for no advantage could be gained, under such circumstances, in postponing the second reading. But after the remarks which he had heard from the hon. Member for Exeter (Sir J. Duckworth), as well as from other hon. Gentlemen who had spoken in the course of this debate, it appeared to him (Mr. Lewis) that he might probably place the decision of this question upon an unfavourable ground if he asked some hon. Gentlemen who were favourable upon the whole to the principle of the Bill, but who did not quite understand the nature of the arrangement which was proposed with respect to the extinction of the debt, to proceed at once to vote on the question. He was, therefore, prepared to adopt the suggestion which had been made by
 1363
 MR. HENLEY  took that opportunity of asking the hon. Gentleman when he intended to lay on the table of the House a copy of all returns in his possession relating to this subject, and particularly of such as he had alluded to in the course of that day's debate. It was desirable that copies thereof should be printed and laid on the table as early as possible.
 MR. G. C. LEWIS : I believe that all the numerical statements which I have made to-day are extracted from the printed returns which are now upon the table of the House, with the single exception of one statement with regard to the payment of highway officers, and litigation in respect of highways; but I moved yesterday for a return of those expenses, &c. They are now in course of preparation, and will be presented, I hope, in a few days.
 MR. H. DRUMMOND  was not aware of the character of the Dublin Police Act, but if it resembled this Bill, and it were before the House, he should treat it as he would this, and use his utmost exertions to get it rejected. He was sure there was nothing so funny in all the statutes that had ever passed, from the earliest period to the present time—although many of them contained very ridiculous things—as there was in the Bill before the House. It appeared by the preamble that the object of the Bill was, in the first place, to ensure the punishment of offences; and, secondly, to ensure the more speedy trial of offenders; and the means
 1367 s s s 1368 l l 1369
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  would admit that there were more to be relieved in March than in September; but still all the preparations for providing relief would be made in the preceding months of September, October, and November; so that it would be, in his opinion, much safer that the boards of guardians should be elected, and that country gentlemen should come to the working of the poor-law at a time when these preparations had been made, than that they should be called upon to make them themselves. He, therefore, hoped
 1374
 MR. MONSELL  suggested, as there was a difference of opinion upon the subject, that the 1st November should be substituted, as it would probably meet the views of all parties.
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  urged the House to pause before sanctioning a change which would necessarily have the effect of dissolving all boards of vice-guardians, and causing the re-election of the ordinary guardians, at a period when the difficulties of many unions would be probably much greater than they were at present. The elected guardians would have to learn the task which they had neglected to perform last year; and the lamentable circumstances of last autumn might occur over and over again, until matters arrived at such a pitch of aggravation, that the Poor Law Commissioners would be compelled to interfere. The question was one of time, and not of principle; and if the 27th September was inserted, the Commissioners would have no power to inter-fore until mismanagement had arrived at a crisis that would compel them to supersede the selected boards. The subject should be left to the discretion of the Commissioners; but he certainly believed that if Parliament said the vice-guardians should abdicate their functions, they would be opening the door to a renewal of the frightful scenes of last autumn.
 MR. STAFFORD  had always considered; that one of the greatest constitutional questions strongly maintained in that House, and most, professionally, by hon. Gentlemen opposite, was the connexion between representation and taxation. The question involved in this Bill was not one of time, but one of principle. Further time was asked to continue in the disposal of funds those who had no connexion whatever with the people from whom those funds were derived, and he was willing to concede it; but he contended that its duration should be as short as possible. Would the hon. Gentleman the Member for Stroud (Mr. Scrope) say at what point the question of time ended, and that of principle commenced? He (Mr. Stafford) would call the attention of the House to the moderation exhibited by all the Irish Members, which had led them to refrain from discussing the conduct of the vice-guardians. He had reason to know that there were cases in which their conduct might be very pro-
 1375
 SIR G. GREY  said, it would be unfortunate if there was any general discussion upon the conduct of the vice-guardians at the present moment. On a future occasion he should have no objection to enter upon it fully, and he should then be prepared to defend the conduct of the Poor Law Commissioners with regard to the dissolution of boards of guardians. Their dissolution, he believed, might be defended without imputing the slightest fault to those boards; for there were some cases where they themselves wished to be relieved, and in which they were displaced upon their own suggestion and application. With regard to the question of time to be introduced into this Bill, he was sorry to find the general opinion of the Irish Members opposed to the proposition made by the Government. The Government was only anxious on this head to ascertain the most convenient time from those Gentlemen who had local experience. The hon. Member
 1376
 COLONEL DUNNE  expressed his readiness to withdraw his Amendment, and consent to the substitution of the 1st of November.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  confirmed the statement of his hon. Friend (Mr. Stafford) as to the conduct of the paid guardians in many instances. In one union, he had heard that the accounts had not been audited for many months, and were in inextricable confusion. It should be borne in mind, that the landlords of Ireland were often placed in a position most difficult and embarassing in the administration of the poor-law.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, the removal of the boards of guardians was not to be attributed to their neglect or cruelty. He thought, however, a wise discretion had been exorcised in not discussing the conduct of the vice-guardians at present; and he must express his acknowledgments to hon. Gentlemen from Ireland for their forbearance on this occasion.
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  denied that he had cast an imputation of cruelty on the Irish landlords as a body. What he had said amounted to this, that the majority of the boards dismissed had been guilty of very great mismanagement, and that by their neglect of duty the poor had suffered most cruelly and grievously.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that as hon. Members on the other side had disclaimed all participation in the Bill, he thought it necessary also to say, that Gentlemen on that (the Opposition) side of the House had nothing at all to do with it. He thought it perhaps might have been a part of the grand comprehensive scheme of the Government, but it now appeared to be the work of an individual Member.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  observed, that the right hon. Baronet who had just spoken had asked the House not only to agree to the commitment of the Bill  pro formâ
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  congratulated the hon. Baronet (Sir H. W. Barron) on having produced something worse than even the Habeas Corpus Suspension Act. He agreed with the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, that from beginning to end, this Bill exceeded all the ridiculous Bills that had ever preceded it. The hon. Baronet should have declared in the preamble that it was a Bill to empower anybody in Ireland to take up anybody, for doing anything or for doing nothing—for, practically, that was the principle of the Bill. He should be glad to know what despotic Act in Ireland might not be justified under the provisions of this Bill? It proposed to make constables and magistrates irresponsible for any act of which they might be guilty in the execution of their offices, however arbitrary or unjust. A great deal had been said about "domestic legislation," but this was "domestic legislation" with a vengeance. He had not risen so much to argue against the Bill, however, for it was only requisite to read it to reject it; but he rose to protest against being considered to be in any way connected with it; conceiving that nothing could be imagined more calculated to render Irish Members ridiculous.
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  said, such things were not surprising at all in Ireland.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he was anxious to offer an explanation, for his name was on the back of the Bill. He had felt that some such measure was requisite; but he had not been aware of the exact nature of the Bill, of which he had not read a word. He was convinced that legislation was necessary with regard to parties accused of petty offences lying in prison for so long a time; but he could not support this measure. Now that his hon. Friend had called the attention of the Government to the subject, he would probably not think it expedient to persevere with the Bill.
 MR. BANKES  agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that they were not called on to read the Bill a second time  pro formâ 1359
 SIR H. W. BARRON , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, He would confine himself to a very few observations as to its objects, which were three, namely, first, to prevent the confinement of persons accused of petty offences in Ireland in the county gaols of that country for a considerable time, as was the case under the present system. Parties accused of offences of a very trifling description were: at present sent off to the county gaols, which in some cases were thirty or forty I miles distant, at a great expense to the county, to await their trial. Witnesses were obliged to go to the county assizes to prosecute those petty offences; counsel were employed, and considerable expenses otherwise incurred in the prosecution. Some of the parties so accused had to wait seven, eight, nine, ten, or perhaps thirteen weeks, until the commencement of their trials; and if convicted, the Judge could not inflict a heavier punishment than fifteen or twenty-one days. The present system, therefore, was monstrously unjust to the prisoners, as well as to the county. In addition to these injustices, there was another evil. The prisoners so confined previous to their trials, suffered grievously from the overcrowded state of the gaols; disease was engendered, and the greatest possible inconvenience incurred. He himself knew two gaols which were built to accommodate, the one 150, and the other 200 prisoners; the former, at the present moment, was obliged to contain 530 prisoners, and the latter 643. The consequence was, that no classification of the prisoners could take place; the morals and health of the prisoners were injured; and the county was put to an enormous expense for their maintenance. Every one of the parties indicted for petty offences, on the average, costs the country 15 l. s. d s l. l 1366
 SIR H. W. BARRON  begged leave to pledge his reputation that the Bill was actually drawn up by Mr. Berwick; and he
 1373
 SIR H. W. BARRON  said, he would pledge his reputation that he had not drawn the Bill. He had not drawn, neither had he suggested, a single line of it. The Bill was presented to him as the suggestion of three assistant barristers in Ireland, and a chairman of quarter-sessions. Mr. Berwick was the person who corrected and drew up the details of the Bill, and he was one of the most eminent men in his profession. For his own part, he could have no personal interest in the matter, but had merely brought in the Bill at the request of the gentlemen who had placed it in his hands. He believed that there was not a single punishment inflicted by the Bill which might not be by law inflicted in England, and in the city of Dublin also, under its Police Bill, by a more circuitous route. The hon. Baronet then entered into a general defence of the provisions of the Bill, the effect of which, he said, had been distorted by mutilated quotations and half references, and concluded by expressing regret that the hon. Member for Kerry (Mr. H. Herbert) should have thought proper to make an attack, which he did not mean to retort, on him personally with reference to a measure in which he could have no personal interest. The hon. Member had referred to him as the champion of the moral force repealers, though he must have known there was no man more bitterly abused by that party than himself. Far from having any identity of sentiment with him, they had given him several contested elections, and there was no man either in that House or out of it whom they more thoroughly detested.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  begged to retract any expression which could be construed into a personal imputation on the hon. Baronet.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, the House had probably received amusement enough from the Bill. But he hoped instruction also might be acquired from it—for the people of Ireland had hitherto been in the habit of hearing the repeal or liberal party in Ireland represented as the peculiar protectors and champions of popular liberty. He hoped these professions, in future, would be contrasted with the Draconic code of the leader of the "moral force" repealers of Waterford.
 MR. BRIGHT  had intended to suggest the postponement of the second reading, to give a little more time to the country for considering it; but he understood now that it was not proposed to go into Committee at an early period, probably not earlier than three weeks or a month hence. [Mr. G. C. LEWIS: Hear, hear!] If so, he thought it might be desirable to pass the second reading, and have the Bill reprinted with the amendments, and circulated through the country, in order that it might be known exactly what was proposed. He would also suggest to Members, that when measures of this nature were brought forward—measures of extraordinary magnitude, and involving a variety of interests—they should come to their consideration with a disposition not to find fault unnecessarily—or to insist upon the admission of every alteration which each individual might wish to see made—but rather with a desire to make such fair concessions and compromises without which no Government could hope successfully to carry such measures through. His experience as a road trustee—which was not large, as he had never been a member but of one trust—led
 1348
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, that party had no claim on the hon. Baronet (Sir H. AV. Barron); they repudiated him as a moral force repealer. He might more properly be styled a constabulary force repealer. The measure was objectionable on many grounds; amongst others, it went to revive the disgusting punishment of whipping. He could not think that these extraordinary provisions had emanated from
 1371
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that considering the legal lore which the hon. Baronet alleged had been expended upon this Bill, he had been exceedingly ill-treated in regard to it. As to its provisions, all he (Mr. Reynolds) could say was, that if it were passed in its present shape, the House might safely repeal all the Coercion Acts on the Statute-book. As the Dublin Police Bill had been alluded to, he would say, in respect to that measure, that it was 80 severe that it had in fact become a dead letter. The hon. Baronet the Member for
 1372
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, the Bill when originally introduced had created great alarm, and it had been the intention of several hon. Members to oppose it; but after the attention which the hon. Under Secretary had paid to the various suggestions
 1347 pro formâ l l pro formâ.
 MR. HENLEY  wished to call attention to the fact, that the Government was now about to introduce a practice which the resolutions of the Committee last year
 1350 pro formâ 1351
 MR. HENLEY  believed, that the hon. Gentleman's statement would give great satisfaction, not only to the House, but to the country. He thought the Government had taken the only course that was open to them; and that till pauper children were provided for in public establishments, these institutions ought to be made as far as possible public establishments by extending to them the laws which applied to such establishments. Some of the provisions of the Bill might appear rather stringent, but it must be remembered that no man came under their operation except by his own free will.
 MR. HUME  very much regretted that the hon. Gentleman had consented to withdraw the Bill—because it would go forth to the public that the Government had renounced or given up their Bill. If, as the hon. Gentleman asserted, the Bill required alteration in only four or five of its clauses, surely that alteration could take place in Committee. If, however, the hon. Gentleman should give way to the opponents of the Bill so far as to consent to its withdrawal for the present, he hoped that he would fix the day on which he proposed to reintroduce it. He trusted that the interim would be short.
 MR. HUME  believed that a Bill for consolidating the county trusts would be one of the most important which could be adopted by the House. He was of opinion, that if hon. Members who objected to this Bill would take the trouble to ascertain the expense which the public roads entailed upon counties, they would withdraw their opposition to the measure. Twelve years had now elapsed since he introduced a Bill to consolidate county trusts, to place their financial affairs under the control of a distinct department, and also to consolidate the surveys of roads. That Bill was read a first time; but the country Gentlemen did not choose to accept the reform which he proposed, and the measure was rejected. It was hardly necessary to say, that he approved of the consolidation clauses of the present Bill; but he thought that the parties who were to exercise power under
 1360
 MR. NAPIER  said, that so completely "comprehensive" a measure had certainly never been proposed for Ireland since the legislative Union. Why, one clause referred to "persons, horses, donkeys, or any other animals." So that that "other animal" might be a two-legged or a four-legged donkey. The most "comprehensive" clause, however, was the 30th, which rendered punishable any person who should offend against "this or any other Act of Parliament, who might be arrested by any other person with or without warrant."
 MR. NAPIER , as the only Member of the Irish bar present, felt bound to say, that a more respectable or more accomplished gentleman than Mr. Berwick was not to be found in Ireland; and he had certainly heard with astonishment that this Bill had been prepared by him.
 MR. BAINES  observed, that the poor-law inspectors, as he had before stated, were already armed with full authority to visit such establishments, and it was now proposed to give the power of visitation to the magistrates, who might exercise it when they chose. He thought it certainly ought not to be assumed that the magistrates would not do their duty.
 MR. BAINES  said, he was very grateful to the hon. Baronet who had just addressed the House for giving him an opportunity of making a short statement regarding the measure then before them. The recent event to which the hon. Baronet had referred, was one which naturally excited a great degree of interest; but it was a mistake to suppose, as some persons had done, that the system of contracts for the maintenance of the poor originated since the passing of the Poor Law Amendment Act. Nearly 130 years ago it was authorised by the 9th of George I., in the year 1722. By that statute the overseers of the poor were authorised to obtain contracts for the accommodation and maintenance of the poor outside of the workhouse. Ever since then provision for I the poor had been contracted for in the manner recognised by statute. Checks and precautions were of course attended to; but there could be no doubt as to the legality of the practice—none whatever. Gilbert's Act provided for sending out all children to parties who might contract for their provision and maintenance; a practice that was deemed advisable with regard to all the Gilbert unions. In the metropolitan districts it was not only permitted by statute, but enjoined; for Han-way's Act, in 1767, made it imperative on the overseers of the metropolitan parishes to send out the children of the poor to be maintained by contract in the country. That enactment remained in force till 1844, when, being repealed, the practice, though still permitted and authorised, was no longer enjoined. He should endeavour to give an historical account of the state of pauperism generally in those houses which did not properly come under the denomination of workhouses, for he thought that the House would be anxious to receive information on the subject, and he therefore had taken some pains to make himself acquainted with it. He was, then, enabled to state that houses of that description scarcely existed anywhere except in the metropolis. They had been legal ever since the time of George I., either as substitutes or auxiliaries; but still he found scarcely any trace of them in the provincial districts. As to the districts in the neighbourhood of the metropolis, he found that in London, Middlesex, Kent, and Sur-
 1379 1380 1381 1382
 MR. BAINES  said, that under this seventh clause, the justices of the peace would have precisely the same power of visitation, with regard to these establishments, as they at present had with respect
 1386
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  had been very glad to hear the lucid and able statement of the hon. Gentleman, and he had no doubt it would be satisfactory to the public, among whom considerable anxiety existed on this subject. There was, however, one point which had not been touched upon by the hon. Gentleman. He (Mr. Baines) had referred to the recent occurrences at Tooting, and had said he thought it unadvisable, as the case was about to come before a court of justice, to enter into the question of the responsibility of the master of that establishment. He
 1383 1384
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, that the hon. Baronet the Member for Waterford had distinctly stated that three assistant barristers in Ireland, of great experience, had drawn up this Bill, or consented to its details. If that were so, he submitted to the Government that the names of those barristers should be known, and that a close watch should be kept upon their proceedings; for the provisions of the Bill clearly showed the animus by which they were actuated. He had never before heard powers so despotic and arbitrary proposed to be granted by a Bill. The object seemed to be, to make the magistrates omnipotent. If this Bill had really been prepared by those gentlemen, he thought the views entertained by them of the criminal law were hardly such as to entitle them to the respect and confidence of the Executive Government.
 MR. SPOONER  said, his hon. Friend who had just resumed his seat, had expressed his surprise that country Gentlemen should oppose the present Bill; but the hon. Baronet ought to be aware that the agricultural interest was now severely taxed, and that the pressure and unfair principle of taxation to which it was subjected would both he increased if this Bill passed. It had been said in the course of that debate, that the objection to the principle of the Bill had been totally removed by the speech of the hon. Proposer. But it was very little removed; for what was the plan proposed by the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of State? It was this—to take the tolls now answerable for the repairs of roads, and to apply them in making up deficient tolls, and then to come upon the county for the repairs of roads. He believed that a great number of turnpike trusts were not only solvent, but that they had a surplus; and if that surplus were properly managed, there would be very few roads which would come upon the highway rates. At present, this surplus was sufficient to keep a largo proportion of the roads in repair; but by the Bill now proposed, it would be taken and applied to the insolvent roads, and then by a sort of roundabout way, the repairs of the solvent roads would be charged upon the county. It was without exception the grossest deception that had ever been attempted upon the House, to say that the alteration now intended to be made would lessen the county rates. His opinion was,
 1356 l l l l 1357
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  would not oppose the second reading of the Bill; but he had some doubts with respect to the proposed alteration of the security afforded for these turnpike trust debts. He understood the hon. Under Secretary to say, that he considered the tolls sufficient to supply that security, and that he proposed to establish an uniform county rate. Now, upon a great many parishes in England, where the roads were kept in good repair, and where the poor-rate and the highway rate were not jumbled together, the highway rate fell very lightly; but upon other parishes the rate fell heavily. The Bill proposed a uniform rate on the county; but this course would inflict great injustice upon those parishes where the highway rates were now exceedingly low. There was an immense difference between the amount of the highway rates in different parishes of the same county; and the highway rates in some parishes were actually higher than the assessment for poor-rates in other parishes. When the poor-law enactment came into operation, he understood the practice to have been this—that the rate was levied in proportion to what the amount of rate for the poor in the district had been for a certain number of
 1349
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  said, that he
 1353 1354
 MR. MANGLES  called the attention of the hon. Gentleman who moved the second reading to the absence of any provision in the Bill giving compensation to parties who were clerks of the present trusts. It was a principle that nothing should be taken away from any man in which he had a vested interest, or anything like a vested interest, without giving him compensation; and therefore he thought that that observation did not deserve the censure which hon. Gentlemen had been pleased to pass upon it. The office was looked upon in the country as one tenable during good behaviour.
 MR. DEEDES  thought that, from what had been said that afternoon by hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the House, it must be concluded that the House was anxious to legislate on this most important question, but at the same time he thought that the House had manifested as great an anxiety to understand thoroughly the measure propounded by the Government. He was most favourable to an alteration of the present system. He had practically seen the bad effects of that system, and he was anxious to see it effectually abolished; but he was not prepared to legislate in the dark. At present he would not enter into the details of this Bill. It had been observed by the hon. Member for Lymington (Mr. Mackinnon) that no objection had been made to the principle of the Bill by any hon. Gentleman who had addressed the House; but he (Mr. Deedes) held a very different opinion. He thought that a great many objections—whether sound or not he was not then prepared to say—had been made to the Bill. If the hon. Gentleman himself did not object to the Bill, the only reason that he (Mr. Deedes) could assume for his doing so was that the Bill was in
 1362
 MR. MACKINNON , as Chairman of the Committee which sat twelve years ago upon this subject, to which he paid considerable attention, begged to tender his thanks to the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of State for having introduced this measure. He believed that one-half of the hon. Gentlemen who had spoken that afternoon had entirely mistaken the object of the Bill; for they had asserted that its object was to establish a system of centralisation for the management of the highways of this country, whereas it was only intended to consolidate the turnpike and highway trusts in each county. Unless some such measure as the present were immediately passed, the results would be most injurious to the country at large. He believed that the hon. Gentleman had proceeded in this matter with the greatest care. He bad propounded just such a plan as he (Mr. Mackinnon) himself would have presented to the House. Hon. Gentlemen on the Opposition side of the House had said that this Bill would commit a great injustice, inasmuch as it proposed to pay the debts of insolvent trusts out of the funds of those that were solvent. He contended that it would commit no injustice whatever, and that it was in fact a direct boon to the insolvent on the one hand, whilst, on the other, it did not injure the property of those interested in the solvent trusts, as it would only be the superabundance of the tolls collected that would be diverted from the wealthy trust. If some measure of this character were not speedily adopted, it was clear that the widows and orphans to whom hon. Gentlemen on the Opposition benches had alluded, would soon lose every shilling of the money standing in their names in the trusts to be affected by this Bill. As to the objection about this being a measure for centralisation of the trusts, he contended that it was no such thing: it did not propose to erect a central board in London; it merely proposed to congregate the trusts in each county, which would have the effect of materially diminishing the expenditure and jobbery in the separate management of each, which was
 1361
 SIR G. GREY  thought that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lewis) had sufficiently guarded himself against the inference attempted to be drawn by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume). He had distinctly stated that with regard to the objections of the hon. Member for Warwickshire, which went to the whole principle of the Bill, and also with respect to that of the hon. Member for Dorsetshire, which went to the county rating, he should not consent to any postponement of the Bill, because, if he did, it would be manifest that the Government had yielded to those objections. But when several hon. Gentlemen stated that they were unwilling to proceed to a vote on the principle of the Bill till they had seen and had had an opportunity of considering the proposed al-
 1364
 SIR G. GREY  wished to correct an erroneous impression entertained by the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken as to the course which the Government proposed to adopt with regard to the second reading of this Bill. His hon. Friend (Mr. C. Lewis), in moving the second reading, had no intention to shut out discussion upon the principle of the Bill. He only asked the House to consent to the second reading, after discussing the principle, and said that, having made some alterations with reference to the mode of extinguishing the trust debt, in consequence of suggestions he had received from various quarters, if the House agreed to the principle of the Bill by allowing it to pass a second reading, they might go into Committee only  pro formâ pro formâ pro formâ "Whereas it is expedient that the laws relating to turnpike roads, and to highways, and public bridges in England, and certain parts of Wales, should be altered and amended, and that turn-
 1352 pro formâ
 SIR G. GREY  said, it would be extremely unfair to those three gentlemen to condemn them as having drawn up the whole of this Bill, and thereby to cast upon them any obloquy that might arise therefrom, without any evidence whatever of the fact. Gentlemen without professional education, when in conversation with lawyers, might throw out suggestions, which not being perfectly understood, might be assented to; but he could not believe that any gentleman of talent or experience, still less a gentleman accustomed to the administration of the criminal law, could have approved of the Bill before the House in its present form, or have sanctioned its being passed into a law.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that repudiation seemed to be the order of the day, for he
 1370 s
 SIR G. GREY  replied, most certainly not. He had not the least intention of imputing to the hon. Baronet any wilful misrepresentation. What he meant to say was, that mistakes often occurred in conversation upon legal points, when their meaning was not thoroughly understood. As the hon. Baronet expressly stated that the Bill had been drawn up and placed in his hands by an assistant barrister, he had nothing more to say. He had thought there must have been some misapprehension upon that fact; but as the hon. Baronet asserted it, he was far from disputing it.
 SIR G. GREY  observed, that if, in compliance with the hon Baronet's suggestion, additional visitors were appointed, they would necessarily be connected in some degree with the poor-law establishment, and would be open to the charge he had
 1385
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  said, that the main feature and principle of the Bill, in his opinion, was to take the management of the roads out of the local management, and make it county management. He must say he objected to that principle. He thought it was a departure from the old English custom of allowing local boards to manage their own affairs. He quite agreed with the hon. Gentleman the Member for Lincolnshire (Mr. Christopher), that there was a very great variety in the management of the roads in different parts of the country. In some districts the management was good, and the roads were kept in excellent repair; but in other districts the management was bad, and the rates were consequently high. This, he considered, was an argument for improving the management as it existed at present in small localities, but not of transforming the management to a general principle, which, in his opinion, would utterly fail. He did not think the magistrates' board or the board of guardians would work well. Some hon. Gentlemen had said, that the boards of guardians conducted their affairs with great intelligence, and he admitted that, as far as the poor-rate was concerned, no bodies could be more efficient; but, of all persons in the country, the little farmers were the people most jealous of expenditure on account of roads, and least anxious to amend them. They had a decided hostility to be under the surveillance of distant authorities, and their local feelings were so strong that he was sure the boards of guardians would not work well with the magistrates. If, however, it was determined to take the roads out of the present management, it would, he thought, be more desirable to let the magistrates have the appointment of the surveyors, who should be responsible for the due and efficient performance of the work.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, he was still of opinion that a more efficient inspection might be adopted. Suppose the justices did not attend to the duty, what was to be the result? He would wish to see provision made for a periodical inspection, say once a month.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  considered that an inspection was requisite, which might be in some degree independent of the Poor Law Board. A poor-law inspector visiting these establishments would be influenced by the feeling of the Board for the time being, whatever it might be; and he thought it would be well to appoint other persons, retired medical men or others, to visit these institutions from time to time. Without some such arrangement he thought they had no security that the inspection would be conducted by men who were not afraid to speak out their minds. They had had proof, in his opinion, that the system of inspection under the Poor Law Commissioners had been most inefficient.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, that the Bill which they were then about to consider in Committee had only been delivered on the 27th of February, and read a second time at half-past twelve o'clock in the morning. It would of course be in the recollection of the House that very recently the lives of nearly 200 children had been lost in an asylum kept by a person of the name of Drouet; everything relating to this subject had, therefore, become a matter of the highest importance;
 1377 1378
 SIR J. DUCKWORTH  said, that the Bill involved not merely one but several principles; and he would ask under what circumstances hon. Gentlemen were placed who were called upon to decide in favour of or against a Bill, in one of whose principles they agreed, whilst they were totally opposed to the rest? He believed that if the area of management were extended, much of the present maladministration of highways would be remedied. As to the principle of paying off the debts of the trusts, he felt great difficulty in coming to a decision. He objected entirely to the payment of those debts by a county rate. He joined in the request that the hon. Under Secretary of State would for the present withdraw this Bill.
 SIR J. TYRELL  thought the hon. Gentleman must have forgotten that the Speaker was in the chair, when he made a suggestion which ought to have been reserved until the House was in Committee on the Bill. In the present instance they were very much out of place. He had not the advantage of hearing the hon. Under Secretary of State propose his alterations; but as he believed they were numerous, it would not be in their power to consult their constituents with regard to them before the second reading, if the hon. Gentleman should persist in his intention. He thought the hon. Gentleman would act wisely if he conceded to the general feeling of the
 1358
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  concurred in many of the observations of the last speaker, but not in the opinion which he expressed when he said the second reading should be postponed on account of the great changes that had been made in the principle of the Bill since it was laid on the table. He admitted the alteration with respect to the turnpikes was a very extensive one; and he (Sir W. Jolliffe) did not quite understand whether the county or the local boards were to have anything more to do with turnpike trusts. So far as he understood, the whole of the turnpike trusts were to be formed into unions of counties, and to be managed exclusively by a board of commissioners in London. At the same time he should say, that the evils of the present law were so great, both as regarded turnpikes and highways, that he was surprised to find so many country gentlemen not entertaining a wish that some large measure should be at once introduced to remedy existing grievances. They could not stand in a worse position than that in which they were at present. There were collected on the turnpike trusts 1,267,000 l l l 1355 l
 MR. W. MILES  had come down to offer the Bill his most decided opposition; but after the speech just delivered by the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of State for the Home Department, he found that the measure had undergone so complete a change that many of its most obnoxious provisions had been totally removed. [ Cries of l l 1346 l l l l l l l
 MR. W. MILES  thought that the Government had exercised a most wise discretion in consenting to withdraw this Bill. It must be apparent, from what had already been said, that the principal ground on which the Bill was objected to was the mode in which it was proposed to deal with the existing debts of the turnpike trusts. If the Government consented to withdraw this Bill, he should not offer any obstruction to the first reading of the new Bill. A pause of ten days, or at least a week, should be allowed in the discussion of this question, so that the country might fairly understand on what principle this Bill proceeded.
 MR. PAGE WOOD  seconded the Motion; and after a pause, during which no hon. Member seemed disposed to address the House,
 MR. PAGE WOOD  should endeavour, as far as possible, to apply himself to the question before the House, without being seduced into a discussion on the subject of church rates, or the other matters that had been introduced. He considered that some of the observations which had been made by the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House were most pertinent, and tended to support the views which were put forward by the noble Lord who opened the debate. He (Mr. Bright) said he thought it was a grievance that an incumbent should, from the circumstances in which he was placed, be in the position of "a little bishop;" and the same opinion was expressed by the noble Lord in opening the discussion. It was a grievance to have a large body of people in a populous town under the control of one clergyman, thus pacing that clergyman somewhat in the position of a bishop, without, however, having episcopal authority. It was a very natural consequence to arise, that one clergyman being placed at the head of a large town containing 70,000 or 80,000 inhabitants, if he were an honest and zealous man, he would endeavour to diffuse the peculiar views he might happen to entertain on any point of church doctrine. But he did not think it was advisable that those particular views of any individual should spread throughout one town. He thought it was a great deal better that there should be an opportunity for the development of those various opinions, which would exist so long as men were men, on subjects on which they had one common interest. It was better, therefore, to have several parishes in which those persons might locate themselves who preferred the ministration of one clergyman in comparison with another, rather than have one clergyman endeavouring to force upon a whole population doctrines in which they could not be expected to be unanimous—driving them, in a spirit of
 36 37 l 38 l 39 l l l 40 l l l 41 l l
 MR. HUMB  said, that there appeared to exist a great misunderstanding with respect to the course which he had taken. He did not object to the present inquiry; on the contrary, he wished it to be carried further; he would not be supposed to limit it to the proposed inquiry, lest it might be supposed that he thought further inquiry unnecessary. With respect to what he had said on the subject of destitution, he certainly understood the noble Lord to refer, in addition to the spiritual destitution of the people, to their physical destitution, and to state that the suffering and starvation of the people would be put a stop to by the adoption of his suggestions. [Lord ASHLEY: No, no!] The first Amendment which he should propose would be to the effect that the inquiry should not extend to the whole population, but to the population only which attended the Church.
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  wished to state the grounds on which he felt it his duty to give his vote against the Amendment. He should feel obliged to vote against the Amendment, because he thought that it was most objectionable to propose an abstract principle of this kind
 53
 MR. PRYSE PRYSE  rose to complain that although England, Ireland, and Scotland were represented in the proposed Committee, Wales was excluded.
 MR. CLEMENTS  would have thought, though of course his experience was of no long date, that they had a right to expect a statement from the noble Lord before going into Committee, in accordance with former precedents. He might instance the case of the navigation lows, when the right hon. President of the Board of Trade made his statement before they went into Committee.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that the speech which he had just heard of the hon. Member for the city of Oxford, had entirely relieved him from the necessity of replying to the hon. Members for Montrose and Manchester. There were some slight errors in the calculation of the hon. Member for Manchester; he did not know that they were very material; he had stated, for instance, that there were several clergymen holding two livings, and he had strangely enough omitted those persons on that account from his calculation of the average, and that might perhaps account for the discrepancy between his numbers and those of the hon. Member for Oxford. The hon. Member for Manchester had also spoken in terms of disparagement of chapters and cathedrals; and the hon. Member for Montrose had proposed to add to the Motion a suggestion to the Commissioners to inquire into the evils and abuses which existed in the Church, such as plurality and non-residence. By law those things were already dealt with; but he did not deny that it would be expedient to carry out the restrictions with respect to plurality and non-residence still further. In voting against the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montrose, he hoped that he should not be understood in any way as ranging himself with those who defended plurality; and he hoped to see the time when those things would be unknown entirely in the country, and the establishments again made applicable to the uses for which they were intended, strengthening the parochial system of the country. He knew that many gentlemen connected with chapters were desirous that the law should be altered and their fetters struck off, so as to enable them to perform the duties for which the chapters were originally formed. He hoped, before the end of the Session, to be able to submit to the House some observations upon the subject of those establishments. He thought that the thanks of every churchman and every man of every religious denomination in this country was due to the noble Lord for his efforts to combat the irreligion and infidelity of the country. It was to be hoped that the Commissioners, in endeavouring to obtain statistical accounts of the various districts, would take advantage of the information to be obtained from the archdeacons and other officers connected with these establishments. They would then be enabled to collect a valuable
 44
 LORD ASHLEY  said, he concurred in the object of the hon. Member for Montrose, because he believed it might be desirable in some instances, particularly in London, to unite parishes. But as he believed it would have the effect of impeding the inquiry of the Commissioners, he hoped he would not press his Amendment, although any proposition of that sort, if made independently, he would support.
 LORD ASHLEY , in reply, said, he had been grievously misunderstood in his former statement. He had been charged with not making mention of the efforts of the Dissenters. In bringing forward a question of this kind, which was purely one relating to the Church and its free action, he did not think it necessary specifically to refer to what had been done by the Dissenters. Had he been asking for a grant of public money, or making a general statement respecting the spiritual destitution of the country at large, it would be his duty to set before the House all that had been done, and all that was doing, by the great body of Nonconformists. The hon. Member for Montrose had been unjust to him in saying that he coupled ragged schools with the Church exclusively. He did no such thing; and it would be most unjust if he were not to say, on behalf of those who were interested in ragged schools, that they were deeply indebted to the Dissenting body, with many of whom he acted on terms of the most perfect accordance. He must also allude to what fell from the hon. Member for Stockport (Mr. Heald), because he should be sorry that any impression should exist on his mind, that he (Lord Ashley) did not estimate to the full the great efforts of the body to which the hon. Member belonged. There was no one connected with the manufacturing districts, and particularly with the West Riding of Yorkshire, who must not see that as patriots and as Christians, they were most deeply and inexpressibly indebted to the pious efforts of the Wesleyan body, were it not for whose exertions he felt bound to say whole districts would be worse than if in a state of heathenism. He hoped he had now done justice to the efforts of the Dissenters. He did not say, as was attributed to him by the hon. Member for
 47
 LORD ASHLEY  rose to bring forward his Motion on this subject. As he understood that no opposition would be offered to his proposition by Government; and as the general wish of the House had lately been so strongly expressed in favour of conciseness, he would be as brief as possible in the remarks with which he would preface his proposal. And, first, he wished to state, without reserve, that the proposition which he had to make would neither directly nor indirectly involve any outlay of the public money. He was fully pre-
 12 13 14 15 16 l 17 18 19 20 21 l l 22 l l 23
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he would object to the proposition of his noble Friend, if he was willing to add the words proposed. He thought it better not to add those words, which would give rise to difficulties connected with questions of property. The object might be desirable in itself, but it
 46
 LORD J. RUSSELL  rose and said; Sir, I waited a few moments before addressing the House, thinking that some hon. Gentleman might have objected to the Motion of the noble Lord. For my own part, I can only say that I have listened with the deepest interest to the speech which he has just delivered. No one, I think, can deny that the object he has in view is one of the greatest importance, or that the subdivision of parishes, and the placing of numbers of persons under a sufficient number of clergymen, leads to the most beneficial results, as affecting the religious, moral, and civil interests of the community. With respect to the mode by which this object is to be effected, the noble Lord said at the commencement of his speech that it is not his intention to ask for the application of any public funds for this purpose. My own opinion is, that it would not be advisable to ask for such an application of the public funds. But I believe, with the noble Lord, that there will be
 24 l 25
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that as the Motion which he had to make related to the report of the Committee appointed by that House to consider the subject of Irish poor-laws, and as that Motion had been carried by a large majority, he need then only ask the House to go into Committee, and when the House was in Committee he would state what he had to propose. 49
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I own, Sir, I regret that the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down should think a case of this kind, affecting the existence of a great portion of the people, is a matter of party warfare. The hon. Gentleman must know full well that when a general rate is to be proposed, the manner and time of proposing it is in the Committee of the whole House: that the forms and regulations of this House do not allow any proposition to be proposed in the House; that if I now were to propose the resolution which I have put on the notice paper, I should be immediately stopped by Mr. Speaker, and told that it was incompetent for me to propose it; and then he (Mr. Disraeli) must know, as I could not propose it in the House, it was but natural that I should wish to accompany the proposition with the reasons which I thought necessary. Had I been unable to do so, it was competent for the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin, or any other hon. Gentleman, to have shown that the principle was vicious, or that the measure would produce such mischief that the House ought not to adopt it. That would have been a fair course to take with respect to the proposition; but the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire interposes in this stage to say that he will not go into Committee, and he does it on the ground
 72 73 "While it is desirable to diminish the area of taxation, yet, if every property were made a separate area, you would see evictions greatly increased, and that no distress which has yet been witnessed in Ireland would be equal to the misery that must ensue if that plan of area were adopted." 74 "Showeth—That after several years' experience of the working of The Act for the Relief of the Destitute Poor in Ireland,' and recently that of 'The Relief Extension Act,' this board feel that they are now in a position to form a sound judgment of the working of both laws. That we are fully impressed with the paramount importance and necessity for co-operation of all classes, from the highest to the lowest, to avert the imminent danger which we consider pending over all, which, if not averted or mitigated speedily, we consider the ruin of property, and, as consequent, all dependent thereon for support, inevitable. That we consider employment on an extended scale the one sure, only, and effectual source of relief under the existing state of things in this union, to effect which we consider it alike the duty of all classes to seek to accomplish by every means within their reach, and that it becomes a matter of the first importance to consider how so desirable an object is most likely to be effected. That we consider the first step necessary to be taken, without which all attempts to amend the existing state of things must prove a failure, is the reduction of the pre-
 75 l l l ad misericordiam 76
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, there seems to be some misconception on the part of the right hon. Baronet, as to the manner in which the business of the House should be conducted on this occasion. Certainly there was a resolution on the Paper, moved by the hon. Member for Rochdale, against which I and many other Gentlemen on this side of the House thought it our duty to vote. I will recall it to the recollection of the House. It
 68 69 70 l 71
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he had already placed the Resolution he intended to move in the hands of the clerk at the table, and he apprehended it would be printed with the votes in the usual way.
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  begged to ask a question of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, upon a subject which he had brought under his notice upon a previous occasion. It related to six gentlemen who were in confinement in Ireland under the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act. He had received a letter from one of those gentlemen, stating that four out of the number had had no hand in communicating with the newspapers; and had never in any way infringed upon the prison regulations, although they were now suffering for the faults of those who had pursued another line of conduct. He wish to hear from the Government whether they had been made aware that such was the state of the case?
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  rose to say that he did not understand the object of the Motion of his hon. Friend. Every one admitted that something must be done for the relief of the distress of the people in 20 unions. His hon. Friend, as he under-stood him, proposed, in fact, an income tax, as he had supported on former occasions an income tax for Ireland. Now he (Mr. Roche) wanted to know what the Government had to propose. If the proposition of the Government was better than an income tax, he would support it; if worse, then he would vote against it. He wanted to have this subject discussed, where it best could be discussed, in Committee. He did not wish to clog himself with an
 52
 MR. HORSMAN  tendered his best thanks to his noble Friend (Lord Ashley) for the service he had rendered on this as well as on other occasions to the Church; and he thought his noble Friend had reason to be grateful at the result of the debate. The hon. Member for Montrose himself sympathised with the object of his noble Friend, and merely sought to amend his Motion. The hon. Member for Manchester also concluded by suggesting, as an improvement, that small parishes should be united as well as large ones divided; but neither the one nor the other directly opposed the proposition of his noble Friend. The ancient parochial constitution of the kingdom was, that any parish should be of such dimensions that it could be adminis-
 42 43
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he should at present feel satisfied with protesting against the measure in the terms of the resolution of the hon. Member for Rochdale. He thought that it was only fair that the whole empire should be taxed to meet an emergency like the present. If any great misfortune or calamity should unfortunately occur in Lancashire or any other spot, he thought that any charge which might be necessary to meet it, should be borne by the whole empire.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he did not see the use of any statement from the noble Lord, as they had the proposition already before them, and knew what it was. He thought it must be evident that the Committee had been coerced into the proposition which they had submitted to the House, and he thought they could discuss it just as well as if the noble Lord had made a speech of an hour. [ Cries of
 SIR H. W. BARRON  entirely agreed with the sentiments of the hon. Member who had just sat down. They were in a similar situation in his neighbourhood, and had complained time after time relative to the areas of taxation. If the House imposed additional taxation upon the poor in his locality, who were already borne down by taxation, by low prices, the failure of crops, and the want of trade, they would only be adding to the deep distress which already existed. If they attempted to remedy the distress of Ireland by the imposition of additional taxation upon her people, so far from attempting to employ his poorer neighbours as he had hitherto done at a great expense, he would discharge every man at present in his employment; and he knew several gentlemen who would follow his example. He knew gentlemen who had already given notice to the Board of Works, from which they had been about to borrow money to improve their estates, that, in consequence of this additional taxation, they would not spend a shilling for that purpose; and he believed, before ten days elapsed, the House would hear of many such cases. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had stated that if they narrowed the areas of taxation, they would give rise to an extensive eviction of the people. Now, the remedy for that was tangible and practicable, as be had proposed in the Poor Law Bill of 1847, namely, to make such persons who came on the poor-rates within three years from their evictions, chargeable on the property from which they were evicted. He objected to this rate, not because, as had been said, it made Ulster chargeable for Connaught, but because it made Munster chargeable for Connaught—because it made Leinster chargeable for Connaught
 77 d d l l l l l l l l 78
 MR. GOULBURN  hoped the House would be cautious before it admitted the
 45
 MR. HEALD  said, that, although he was not a member of the Church of England, he wished to offer his entire concurrence in the objects of the Motion of the noble Lord the Member for Bath. He believed that not only the members of the Church of England, but also the great body of Nonconformists, were under great obligations to the noble Lord for having brought forward that Motion. He entertained a deep conviction that of all the measures called for by the circumstances of the time, and the state of the nation, measures for rendering more efficient the Established Church, and multiplying the religious agencies of the country, were those which, by the blessing of God, were most likely to place our institutions on a permanent basis. And when he remembered how the Church of England was constituted, and in what peculiar relations she stood to the interests of religion in this land, he thought it was the duty of the Legislature to place her in a position which would enable her to apply her resources to the utmost possible extent towards carrying out the great objects for which she had been called into existence. What did the noble Lord ask them to do by his Motion? As he (Mr. Heald) understood that Motion, its object was neither more nor less than to enable the Church of England to remove those restraints which fettered her action, and prevented her from doing that which Nonconformists were at liberty to do. The object of it was, to enable her to extend her agency, and to add to the means of religious instruction. He held that the Church of England had a right to enjoy that advantage; and he, as a Nonconformist, was as ready to concede it to her as he claimed it for himself. It appeared to him that that Motion suggested a more fitting means of meeting the exi-
 28 29
 MR. BRIGHT  would forgive the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Heald) what he stated in the beginning of his speech, on account of the facts he brought forward at the end it. The noble Lord the Member for Bath protested it was not his intention to ask for a vote of money; but they had had protestations of the same kind before, which ended differently. If the noble Lord's Commission were appointed, they would probably make out a most grievous statement of spiritual destitution in several parts of the country, leaving out all consideration of the Dissenters, as Commissions of this kind were wont to do; and then might not the noble Lord come to that House and ask for a vote of money to carry out his plan? Now, he
 30 31 
 
 ENGLAND AND WALES. 
 Total benefices 10,533 
 Curates 5,230 
 15,763 
 Add dignitaries, heads of colleges, &c. 1,047 
 16,810 
 Benefices and curates 15,763 
 Deduct having no duties, or pluralists 3,087 
 Total working clergy 12,676 
 Benefices and curates 15,763 
 Population 18,000,000 
 Or 1 clergyman to every 1,142 of population. 
 Total population of England and Wales 18,000,000 
 Deduct 3,000,000 who attend free or dissenting churches, and who represent 4,500,000 population 4,500,000 
 13,500,000 32 
 
 Population. Ministers. 
 Huntingdon 53,192 97 or 1 in 548 
 Suffolk 296,317 501 or 1 in 591 
 Lincoln 317,000 607 or 1 in 522 
 Norfolk 390,000 699 or or 1 in 558 
 Total 1,056,509 1,904 or 1 in 554 
 Lancaster 1,336,854 292 or 1 in 4,578 
 York 1,371,359 760 or 1 in 1,804 
 London & Middlesex 1,358,300 246 or 1 in 5,521 
 Dioceses. Population. Benefices. M. Pop. 
 6,148,662 2,644 1 to 6,718 
 19 dioceses 5,753,559 6,718 1 to 2,644 
 
 Population. Ministers. 
 London & Middlesex, Lancaster and York 4,066,513 1,298 
 Huntingdon, Norfolk, and Suffolk 739,563 1,297 
 
 Churches. Sittings. 
 Churches, before 1800 83 93,918 
 Parliamentary grants, since 1800 25 34,985 
 Voluntary contribution, do 92 92,345 
 200 221,248 33 
 
 Churches. Sittings. 
 Chapels, before 1800 96 59,445 
 Chapels, since 1800 472 243,339 
 568 302,784 
 Of chapels—Majority by voluntary contributions 368 81,536 
 
 Ch. Sittings. Sunday Schools. Teachers. Scholars. 
 Establishment 367 357,984 379 12,968 116,429 
 Dissenters 661 359,313 707 31,737 158,601 
 Excess of Dissenters 294 1,329 328 18,769 42,172 
 
 Population of do 1801. 1841. Increase. Per Ct. 
 Lancashire 493,834 1,224,708 730,874 148 
 Yorkshire 414,000 844,563 430,563 104 34 l 35
 MR. BRIGHT  wished to know whether the noble Lord would have any objection to the Amendment, if those portions of it were struck out which did not refer to the union of small parishes?
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  complained that the present debate could have no practical result, and human life might be wasting
 80
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, he would not unnecessarily waste the time of the House, as his hon. Colleague had already spoken; but as he had paid the Committee of which he (Mr. Reynolds) had the honour to be a Member, a compliment, he trusted he should not be censured if he stood up to make him some return. With regard to the observations of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin University, it appeared that he represented the province of Ulster, if not in a Parliamentary sense, at least sympathetically. It would appear from him that if a sixpenny rate was imposed, it would shake the loyalty of these parties to the foundation. The noble Lord (Viscount Castlereagh) echoed that sentiment; and the hon. Member for Downpatrick (Mr. Ker) had threatened them with a wholesale resignation of the commission of the peace, and if that were so, it might be said that their loyalty was only sixpenny loyalty. From his earliest boyhood he had been told that the province of Ulster was an extremely religious province; and they had heard the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin this night say, that the prosperity of that province was the result of their superior religious education. He (Mr. Reynolds) had also been taught to believe that Ulster was still more remarkable for its loyalty. The Minister of the Crown now, in order to save 1,500,000 of the starving poor of Ireland, having proposed that a sixpenny rate in aid should be levied, the representatives of this very religious and loyal portion of the country threaten the Government with all kinds of misfortunes, if they persevere in their proposition. It appeared, then, that the loyalty of the people of Ulster was, after all, conditional loyalty. It was £ s d l l s 82 d d d d l 83 l l l
 MR. REYNOLDS  implored the hon. Member not to divide on that occasion. He thought it was only fair that Mr. Speaker should be allowed to leave the chair, so that they might all know what were the intentions of the Government.
 MR. BROTHERTON  hoped his hon. Friend would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. HUME  would now propose to insert the words "and of uniting parishes where practicable and advantageous."
 MR. HUME  said, the hon. Members opposite were running away with the idea that he was hostile to the Motion; he merely wished to extend its sphere of usefulness.
 MR. HUME  said, that if this Motion had not taken him by surprise, he should have been prepared to show, by facts, that many of the noble Lord the Member for Bath (Lord Ashley's) statements were incorrect. The subject was one of vast importance, he admitted; but he thought that if the country was in the destitute condition described by the noble Lord opposite, and admitted by the First Minister of the Crown, it should have been the duty of Her Majesty's Government themselves to have taken up the subject. But he altogether denied the premises of the noble Lord (Lord Ashley). He denied that churches and churchmen would remove the difficulties with which we were surrounded. It was not additional churches, but improved morality in the Church, that was required. Temporal, not spiritual, destitution it was which was felt. Church extension had not improved the condition of Bethnal-green. The noble Lord, he thought, had begun in error. He understood him to suggest a distribution of the church rates of a parish, in such a way that each clergyman of a district chapel should have a proportion of the income of the parish. The noble Lord did not call this asking for public money! What were church rates but public money? He (Mr. Hume) objected to the principle of this application. Not a word had escaped the lips of the noble Lord to let the House suppose that there was a Dissenter in the country. One would almost think that the noble Lord was speaking in the days of the Nonconformity Act. Was the noble Lord ignorant of the fact that the greater portion of the population of the populous parishes he had described were Dissenters? If he was, Gentlemen sitting near him (Mr. Hume) could impart to him the information. Why should they not purge the Church of its corruptions, instead of seeking to build more churches, and pay more clergymen? The noble Lord and his supporters, no doubt, considered
 26 27
 MR. HUME  said, he would press the Motion for a division.
 MR. HUME  thought it important that the public should know what the exact terms of the Motion were, and, if there was no objection, he would propose that the clerk be directed to read the Resolution which the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire had placed in his hands. "That the whole of the Local Taxation of the Country for national purposes falls mainly, if not exclusively, on real property, and bears with undue severity on the occupiers of land, in a manner injurious to the Agricultural Interests of the Country, and otherwise highly impolitic and unjust. "That the hardship of this apportionment is greatly aggravated by the fact, that more than one-third of the whole Revenue derived from the Excise, is levied upon agricultural produce, ex-posed, by the recent changes in the Law, to direct competition with the untaxed produce of Foreign Countries; the home producer being thus subjected to a burthen of taxation which, by greatly enhancing the price, limits the demand for British produce; and to restrictions, which injuriously interfere with the conduct of his trade and industry. "That this House will resolve itself into a Committee to take into its serious consideration such measures as may remove the grievances of which the owners and occupiers of real property thus justly complain, and which may establish a more equitable apportionment of the public burthens."
 MR. NAPIER  rose and said, he did expect, upon this important occasion—when a question so vital to the interests of Ireland was discussed—a question so vital to the interests of the empire at large—that some Member of Her Majesty's Government would have stood forward and stated to the House the grounds upon which they asked them to go into Committee to impose a rate in aid upon Ireland; a proceeding which would tend, in a great degree, to alienate the affections of the people of Ireland. Her Majesty's Government had considered the state of Ireland for years, and they had repeatedly given the country to understand that a large and comprehensive policy was in course of preparation. Was this the comprehensive policy—were these the statesmanlike measures they were led to hope for? And had it now come to pass, at this stage of the proceedings, that they called upon the House to confirm the
 62 Cries of 63 64 65 d "The present is a great emergency, and it is necessary to have some assistance to keep the people of Ireland from starving; but, considering the condition of England, the pressure on the agricultural districts, and our own financial embarrassments, we are not in a position to ask England to bear the burden." 66
 MR. KER  could assure the noble Lord at the head of the Ministry that in the part of Ireland with which he was connected, so strong was the feeling against the present proposition, that several gentlemen in the commission of the peace were determined to give up their commissions if it were carried.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  suggested that it would be very desirable that the House should be put in possession of the terms of the Resolution of which the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire had given notice on this subject.
 MR. W. BROWN  said, that as the feeling of the House was evidently against the Amendment, he hoped his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume) would not press it; although, as it was he who suggested the words, he should vote for it if his hon. Friend insisted on a division.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  was very anxious to oblige his noble Friend; but upon this occasion he could not consistently do so.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  said, that to the Motion before the House, he (Mr. S. Crawford) had to move the Amendment which had just been read from the chair. He objected to any separate system of national taxation for Ireland under the present constitution of the empire. The Act of Union was framed on the principle of combined responsibility. The Union itself was forced on Ireland; but England, having taken Irish poverty into partnership, could not now repudiate the results of that connexion. He would not then enter into the question whether the repeal of the Union would be advantageous to Ireland or not; but if the Union was to be maintained, the principle of united responsibility must be its basis. When a smaller country was united to a larger one, whose inhabitants were the most numerous and influential of the two, there was no security for its interests but that of united responsibility. On this ground, he maintained that it was unconstitutional to create a separate system of national taxation for Ireland. It was unjust, also, to the industrious portions of the Irish community that they should be taxed in order to protect the landed proprietors of the west of Ireland against the results of their own misconduct. The rate in aid was proposed chiefly for the purpose of protecting the estates of those proprietors by fixing a maximum rate, and levying the difference on the industrial means of the people of Ulster and Leinster. The land ought to be brought to market and made responsible to the fullest extent, before any other means were taken to compel the industrious part of the community to pay for the misconduct of other portions. From the time of the Union the finances of Ireland had been in the hands of England, and her extravagant management had raised the debt of Ireland from 28,000,000 l l 50 51
 SIR W. VERNER  said, that after the remark made by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, as to the loyalty of Ulster being conditional, he felt that as one who had been perfectly acquainted with that province for the last fifty years, he would not be fulfilling his duty if he allowed such an observation to pass unnoticed. Hon. Gentlemen might not he aware that the loyalists of Ulster had on two occasions received the thanks of that House, and on one occasion the thanks of the other House of Parliament, for their exertions in suppressing the rebellion which raged from one end to the other of the remaining provinces. He would also remind the House, that last year, when the presence of 40,000 troops was necessary to maintain the peace of Ireland, the few troops in Ulster had been withdrawn and sent to other parts of the country.
 SIR E. BUXTON  considered that such an inquiry as the hon. Member for Montrose suggested, would be highly desirable at a proper time, and it did appear hard to refuse those powers which might be necessary for rendering the Church more useful than it was at present; but he yet felt unwilling to assent to anything that would seem to interfere with the Motion of the noble Lord. Each proposition might be good in itself, but one of them should not be allowed to interfere with the other.
 MR. GROGAN  quite approved of the Motion of the hon. Baronet (Sir J. Walsh). He did not think that the people of Ireland could place any confidence in any resolution that the Government would come to with regard to the poor-laws. The hon. Gentleman referred to the proceedings that had taken place in the Committees and complained that they had been under the control of the Government. Suppose the sixpenny rate in aid were levied and spent; what did the Government mean to do in the event of more being required? He
 81
 SIR G. GREY : Sir, the two hon. Gentlemen who have opposed the Motion that you, Sir, should now leave the chair, appear to me to have adopted a most extraordinary course. About two hours ago, when the hon. Gentleman the Member for Rochdale (Mr. Sharman Crawford) moved a resolution as an Amendment to the Motion of my noble Friend the noble Lord opposite (Viscount Castlereagh) and other Irish Members appeared to be sensible of its inconvenience, and upon rational grounds they deprecated any consumption of the time of the House in discussing an abstract proposition; they even grudged the time that would be occupied in dividing the House, because they were anxious that my noble Friend should avail himself of the only opportunity which the forms of the House allowed to him, to move the resolutions of which he had given notice—which resolutions, be it observed, cannot be moved until Mr. Speaker has left the chair—and of stating the motives and the grounds upon which they are framed. No sooner, however, was my noble Friend prepared to state those motives and grounds, than up gets the hon. Baronet the Member for Radnorshire, and for the first ten minutes of his speech he dilated upon the contrast between the despatch of business in the present Session, and the despatch of business in the last Session—showing, I
 67
 SIR G. GREY  replied, that since a similar question had been put to him on a previous evening he had made inquiries, and ascertained the facts of the case. It appeared that those six prisoners had been originally confined on the felons' side of the gaol, but subsequently, as an indulgence, and without any order from the Lord Lieutenant—which, however, was not necessary—they were removed to the debtors' side; and the sheriff stated that, although no distinct pledge was given, a pledge was implied that they should not avail themselves of the facilities which prisoners in that part of the prison had to forward communications for publication to the newspapers. Communications from them, nevertheless, appeared in certain journals; and the matter having been brought to the notice of the superintendent of the gaol, an inquiry was instituted, the result of which was an order to the governor to send them back to the felons' side. Of the six prisoners, two, it was stated, refused absolutely to refrain from availing themselves of any facilities that offered to communicate with newspapers; but the order having been made for the removal of the whole, they were all accordingly removed. It was necessary to add, that the cells allotted to them were the best on that side of the prison, and in a part where the rules were not so strict as in some others; in proof of which, he might observe that he had received communications from two of the prisoners, in which they stated that they had read the discussions upon the subject of their imprisonment
 11
 SIR JOHN WALSH  then proceeded, pursuant to notice, to move a negative on the question that Mr. Speaker do leave
 55 56 d d l d l d l l l 57 l d l l l 58 59 60 61 and cries of
 SIR J. B. WALSH  believed, that a general understanding prevailed between many hon. Gentlemen, that before Mr. Speaker left the chair there should be a discussion on the general principle of the measure of the noble Lord. Many hon. Members who could not assent to the proposition of the hon. Member for Rochdale were anxious to record their opinions on this subject. For his own part, he did not wish to speak on the question which the hon. Member had submitted to the House; but before Mr. Speaker left the chair, he should enter upon the consideration of the contemplated plan.
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  begged to explain that he could not vote for going into Committee in the absence of any explanation as to the
 84
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  appealed to the hon. Member for Rochdale to withdraw his Amendment, and permit the House to go into Committee. Agreeing, as he did, very much with his hon. Friend, yet he thought that they ought to have an opportunity of hearing what the Government had to say in favour of this most extraordinary measure.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH , being connected with the north of Ireland, which was most materially affected by the proposed law, wished to express his opinion upon it before a decision was come to. He regretted the tone the debate had taken—because by some arrangement or misarrangement of which he was not cognisant, the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had been prevented making his statement, which caused great embarrassment to Members who, like himself, wished to oppose the Bill. In the first place, he altogether objected to the formation of the Committee, which consisted of nine English Members, five from Leinster, five from Munster, five from Connaught, and one—but how he got there it was hard to say—from Scotland. Only two Members from Ulster were nominated. The Committee was arranged so as to give a majority to the views of the Government; and he did not think the noble Lord would gain much by a borrowed light from such a Committee. The decision of that Committee would never give the noble Lord a  locus standi "I would desire very much to have a conversation with your Lordship upon the means of strengthening by legislative union the connexion between the two countries; a union which would pledge the whole force of the empire to the security of every part, and which would make that support which we now receive as an act of favour an act of justice as well as duty on the part of Government." 79 "Let it not be supposed that the great body of the gentry of this country are desirous to absolve themselves of the sacred claims of providing for the maintenance of the poor. Those poor and mean calumnies, that we wish to starve the people, should only be treated with contempt. We value too highly the character of Britons to forget the duties which are imposed upon us."
 MR. GOULBUEN  remarked, that it was impossible to tell what alterations the Committee might make in the Bill, and yet the hon. Member pledged himself—whatever its provisions might then be—to move its rejection.
 MR. REYNOLDS  stated, that the object of the Bill was to enable the corporation of Dublin to supply the citizens with pure water. They asked for no new assessment, intending to construct the necessary works out of the profits. He believed that his hon. Colleague's opposition was wholly political, and had no reference to the intrinsic merits of the measure.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  was aware of the existence of two political parties in Dublin, who violently opposed each other on this and other municipal questions; but their struggles were a matter of perfect indifference to him. His only reason for interfering in this matter was, that he owned some property in Dublin, and that his tenants had a strong feeling against the hon. Member for Dublin's Bill. They complained of being exposed to the expense of an annual struggle, and were anxious that the matter might be finally settled by Parliament, one way or the other. He thought that the best thing to be done would be to send all the contending parties before a Committee, and therefore he should support the Motion for postponement.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, it was most desirable to put an end to those annual applications to Parliament from the corporation and citizens of Dublin with respect to the Bills before the House, which
 90
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, the postponement would be attended with considerable expense, and, therefore, he could not support the application for delay.
 MR. GROGAN  asked, if his hon. Colleague would consent to postpone his Bill, with the view of referring both Bills to the same Committee?
 MR. REYNOLDS  could not accede to the proposition.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that considering as he did that the majority was in this instance wrong, and the minority right, he should persist in moving the second reading. The object of the Bill was to vest in the corporation of Dublin the powers enjoyed at present by the Paving Board, as well as other irresponsible bodies. Now he should beg to inform the House of some of the doings of the Paving Board. It was a body appointed by the Lord Lieutenant. It was presided over by three commissioners, at salaries of 500 l l l 91 l l l l
 SIR J. Y. BULLER  was surprised at the expression of the hon. Member for Dublin, when he said, that he should feel grievously disappointed if the House agreed to the Motion for postponement, and if both bills were referred to the same Committee. From what he (Sir J. Y. Buller) had seen in former Committees of the difficulty, indeed the utter impossibility, of inducing the adverse parties connected with Dublin to come to any mutual understanding, he thought it would be advisable for the Irish Government to take all those private Bills into their own hands. In the present case he hoped the hon. Gentleman would agree to the postponement.
 MR. REYNOLDS , at the recommendation of the hon. Baronet, for whose opinion he entertained the utmost deference, agreed to the postponement.
 COLONEL KNOX  opposed the Motion for the second reading of this Bill. The object of the scheme was said to be to provide a supply of pure water; but how that was to be effected by bringing the water from the upper part of the Thames, through the Paddington and Grand Junction canals—proverbially the dirtiest in the country—to a reservoir near the metropolis, he could not understand. There were in existence several water companies who had been at the expense of nearly five millions in laying down pipes to the extent of two or three thousand miles; and it would be monstrous to allow their property to be prejudiced unless the promoters of this Bill could show that they could cheapen and secure a more abundant supply. Now, complaints were frequently made that the houses of the poor were not supplied; but the cause of this was, that the landlords would not lay the water on. Again, the property of the millowners on the banks and in the vicinity of the river were utterly disregarded and lost sight of. Then the House were bound to consider the question of compensation to those whose rights were affected by this Bill. The compensation to millowners only would amount to no less than 700,000 l l
 The EARL of LINCOLN  said, that inasmuch as the hon. and gallant Officer, in advocating the cause of this company, had treated the matter very unfairly, it was right that he (the Earl of Lincoln), as one of the Commissioners of Sanitary Reform, to whom the gallant Officer had referred, should say a few words. The hon. and gallant Officer had quoted from a report, and it was right he (the Earl of Lincoln) should state to the House how the matter stood, more especially as this was not the first time that companies had quoted from public documents in a very unfair way. Now, the statement which he held in his hand, contained in the second report of the Board of Health of large towns and populous places, of which the Duke of Buccleuch was chairman, was to the effect stated by the hon. and gallant Officer, that on the part of the public it might fairly be required that the system of the supply of water should be greatly improved by a more ready and liberal supply to the poorer classes. If these words were taken by themselves, it would appear that the feeling of the Board was, that opposition should be encouraged as against existing companies. But the gallant Officer had omitted the sentence—
 "But in order to improve the system of a better supply, the Legislature should enable the waterworks
 95
 LORD J. RUSSELL  rose, and said: I now rise. Sir, for the purpose of explaining to the Committee the course which Her Majesty's Government wish to pursue with regard to this most difficult question of the poor-laws in Ireland. Earlier in the present Session I proposed
 100 101 s s s. s s s 102 103 104 105 106 "Of the entire number of unions, 131, there are perhaps twenty which require to be considered separately from the remainder, as presenting peculiar difficulties. There is a second class, consisting of ten or eleven unions, in which the present amount of outdoor relief is considerable, but in which, by dint of exertion, serious financial embarrassments may be avoided, and the destitution at the same time be effectually relieved, without external aid." "Of the remaining unions, say 100, there are thirty-seven in which no relief is at present given out of the workhouse; in the other sixty-three the extent of outdoor relief is for the most part inconsiderable, the aggregate total cost little exceeding 1,800 l 107 108 "The advances on the land, under the Land Labour Act, were nearly 500,000 l l l l l l l l l l l l 109 s d. s d. s d s d. s d. s d s d. s d. s d s d s d s d. s d. s d. s d. s. d. s d s d s d. s d. 110 l. l l l l l l l l. l d. s. s d d d d l 111 d d d. d. s 112 113
 MR. A. STAFFORD  said, that he laboured under great difficulties in addressing the House upon the present occasion; but he had laboured under greater difficulty two years ago, when he had announced what would be the result of the present
 114 l 115
 SIR G. GREY : The hon. Member put a question to me on one particular point, and on that I answered him plainly and distinctly; but I did not go into the general question.
 MR. STAFFORD : Yes, the right hon. Gentleman stated that, as regarded the principle of outdoor relief. Ministers were not prepared to abandon it. Then came the appointment of the Committee, before which the noble Lord at the head of the Government was to submit certain leading proposals, and put them in the form of resolutions, to be submitted to a Committee. The order of reference, under which the Committee on the Irish Poor Law was appointed, was without precedent in the annals of that House, so that it had at least the merit of perfect novelty. When that Committee met, the noble Lord at the head of the Government stated it to be his intention to resist the taking of evidence, if not with regard to the third and fourth resolutions, at all events with regard to the first. Some hon. Members ventured to propose that evidence should be taken, and thought themselves justified in resisting the proposition of the Prime Minister, by citing an authority still higher than that of the noble Lord, namely, that of Her Majesty's Speech from the Throne, in which they were told, "that the operation of the laws for the relief of the poor in Ireland, would probably be the subject of their inquiry." And yet what was the course pursued by the noble Lord? He commenced proceedings by resisting all inquiry, by calling upon them, inasmuch as it was an Irish Committee, to pronounce before inquiring. Some, however, who had become habituated to English usages, ventured to suggest that it would be more respectful to Her
 116 d 117 d l l. l 118 119 ad misericordiam 120 l l 121 d d 122 123 s s d d s. d corpus vile 124 125 126 d 127
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  hoped the House would not suppose that the hon. Gentleman who had last addressed them had spoken for the whole of Ireland. In respect to the size of the electoral divisions, he thought that the hon. Member for Northamptonshire had altogether failed to meet the argument of the noble Lord so forcibly put against the project of reducing the area of taxation, which would be a premium to extermination. He was, however, sorry to see no appearance yet of Government taking a comprehensive view of the state of Ireland. The noble Lord had given them a melancholy prospect of the condition of that country—he said, that he saw but two alternatives before them; first, some process, the nature of which was not explained, by which the potato was to be restored, and the peasant would be enabled to consume better food; the other, that the people of Ireland were to be swept away by a wholesale system of emigration. He must say, that there was nothing statesmanlike in this view of the case. The system of planting Ireland anew had been tried three or four times already, and yet they were as far from a state of prosperity as ever. It appeared, however, that they were to add another dark item to the catalogue of miseries Ireland had suffered from this country. They were to have another extermination of the natives, in order to make room for the stranger. He did not wish to commit himself to a decided
 128 d l 129 l l 130 l l l l l l. 131 "Cottages levelled under the pretended sanction of law, and their inmates driven, in defiance of the Divine law, to perish in the ditches, as they are daily seen to do, numbers of them flocking to the poorhouses, in the hope of promised relief, and again repulsed under the plea of inadequate accommodation to receive, or moans to support, them; the poorhouses themselves, in several instances, converted, through the bigotry of perverse officials, into occasions of sin, by the snares that are laid for the inmates, to inveigle their faith or corrupt their virtue; thousands resigned to die in silence and in patience, rather than encounter temptations so terrible. Such are the scenes that now present themselves throughout our province—such are the fruits of the inhumanity by which the poor have boon so long treated, abandoned to the exclusive use of a precarious and tailing esculent, and obliged to export, to the amount of some millions of pounds annually, the more substantial food, raised with their own industry, which would save them from perishing. Whilst the remedy applied by the Legislature is always expensive, often inhuman, and generally inadequate for procuring relief; and what is more deplorable, this remedy, so fraught with evil and danger to the morals of the rising generation, that it is by almost all classes of society dreaded as a curse rather than regarded as a blessing. "†JOHN, Archbishop of Tuam. †PATRICK M'NICHOLAS, Bishop of Achonry. †EDMOND, Bishop of Kilfenora and Kilmacduagh. †LAWRENCE O'DONNELL, Bishop of Galway. †JOHN DERBY, Bishop of Clonfert. †GEORGE, Bishop of Elphin. †THOMAS FENNY, Bishop of Killala." 132
 VISCOUNT BERNARD , in reference to the statement of the hon. Member for the city of Limerick that that (the Opposition) side of the House had made no proposal in lieu of that of the Government, would maintain that it was not their business to do so. He would beg to quote the words of the most eloquent of living men, conveying the sentiments of the most eloquent of departed orators:—"Some there are who seek to embarrass a speaker by asking, 'What shall we do?' To them I would give the answer, the most true and just that can be given—'Do anything but what you are now doing.'" What was true 3,000 years ago of the affairs of the Chersonesus, was not less true as applied to the affairs of Ireland. Let the Government just reverse its policy. They were told that Ireland was exempt from the income and assessed taxes; but because trades and professions in Dublin and other towns were exempt from such payments, were his constituents to be called on to pay this tax now proposed by the noble Lord at the head of the Government? Again, they were told that if they did not grant this rate, the people in the west of Ireland would starve; but if that were true, on whom did the responsibility rest? He hold that the Executive Government was responsible for the lives of Her Majesty's subjects, and that they were not entitled to make the preservation of the people dependent upon the adoption by the House of this or any particular measure. The hon. Member for Limerick had proposed to confiscate a portion of the Church revenues for the support of the destitute unions; upon this principle we might have another appropriation clause,
 133 l l l l l d. d 134 l 135 Dii Patrii, quorum semper sub numine Troja est, Non tamen omnino Teucros delere parati, Cum tales animos juvenum et tam firma dedistis Pectora. l
 MR. W. FAGAN  said, the noble Viscount who had just addressed the House, stated that the measure of Her Majesty's Government would set class against class. How he made out that proposition he did not clearly explain. But he would tell the
 136 137 138 l 139 l l l l 140 l. l hors de combat 141
 MR. BANKES  said, the noble Lord at the head of the Government, towards the conclusion of his speech, had given utterance to some very strange and ominous expressions. The noble Lord had stated broadly that, after all that they had been called upon to pay for the relief of destitution in Ireland, they were to depend upon mere chance for the repayment of the sums so advanced. For what was the security proposed by the noble Lord? The security for the money which the English people were called upon to pay, was this rate in aid, which certain Irish Members
 142 l. 143 l. l 144 145
 MR. MONSELL  agreed with the hon. Gentleman the Member for Dorsetshire as to the undesirableness of this vote, but for different reasons. The subject was under consideration in another place, where evidence was being taken upon oath, and also by a Committee of this House, who were receiving evidence relative to the Irish Poor Law. He did not agree with his noble Friend the Member for Bandon, that the best mode of dealing with this question was by abstract arguments as to the relative amount of English and Irish taxation, but he considered that it must be met in a practical way. No doubt good arguments had been used, and would be used, against the imposition of additional taxation on Ireland; but he took that to be a settled question. The people of Ireland could not be left to starve by Christian legislators in a Christian country, and there was no doubt that Ireland must find the money to support them. He believed there was little doubt that this House would not consent to grant money out of the imperial resources for the relief of the country, unless some additional contributions were made to the Imperial Treasury by Ireland; and he, therefore, thought it better to meet the case as it existed, without going into theoretical inquiries, or into calculations as to what balance there might be between England and Ireland. He trusted, however, that hon. Gentlemen would pause before they consented to the proposition submitted to them by Government; for he thought he should be able to show them that the proposed mode of raising the necessary funds was the most unjust that could be devised. There certainly did appear peculiar injustice in singling out that portion of property which was at present in so lamentable a condition as the only portion now to be taxed in Ireland. He was clearly convinced that the proposition, for that reason, was one which the House ought not to adopt. But he feared that there was a sort of hopeless feeling in the breasts of
 146 d l. l l. s d s 147 l Rem, si possis, recté; si non, quocumque modo rem 148 "Turno tempus erit, magno quum optaverit emptum Intactum Pallanta."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  felt relieved, by the opening part of his hon. Friend's address, from saying much which he might otherwise have felt it necessary to say, as to the observations
 149 150 151 152 153 l 154 d s s d. 155 d
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that considering the debate had not made such progress as he could have wished, and inasmuch as he was desirous to give an opportunity to every hon. Member who was anxious to express his opinion upon the question, he should not offer any opposition to the adjournment of the debate. The first business that stood for Monday was the subject of the navigation laws; but, in consideration of the necessity of going on with this debate, he would give up Monday to go on with it. But he should, at the same time, say, that he hoped to make some ar-
 156
 SIR F. T. BARING  proposed a vote of 200,000 l.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that if it were the wish of the House that petty sessions should not be held in public-houses he would insert a clause to that effect in the Bill. At present he left a discretionary power with the magistrates on that subject.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the Bill was framed with the express intention of meeting the objection to holding the petty sessions in public-houses. It gave the magistrates the authority of appointing places, and, being disposed to leave it to their discretion, he could not consent to the clause of the hon. and gallant Member.
 MR. HODGES  expressed his unwillingness to hold petty sessions in public-houses; and as the Bill discountenanced the practice, he hoped the hon. and gallant Member would withdraw it.
 LORD D. STUART  wished to put a question to the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs. A statement had appeared in the public journals, in a shape entitling it to some credit, to the effect that a portion of the Russian army had proceeded to enter the Austrian territory, and take part in the struggle going on there between the Austrians and Hungarians. He wished to ask the noble Lord whether he had received any information on the subject; and, if so, whether he would object to lay it before the House?
 LORD D. STUART  said, the House had been told that the metropolis was sufficiently supplied, but he could not see why another company should not be allowed to afford an additional supply. He trusted the House would not show such a disregard to the demands and wants of the metropolis, and particularly of the lower class, as to throw out the Bill.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  informed the House that the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier) was desirous of making some observations regarding himself and the debate of the night before.
 MR. LUSHINGTON  said he should, on the bringing up of the report, move that it be not received.
 MR. C. LUSHINGTON  opposed the second reading of this Bill, on behalf of the parishioners, who felt aggrieved at the attempt to saddle them with additional burdens, and to charge the poor-rate with the cast of the vicar's garden and other expenses. He considered it as a mere contrivance to create a fresh endowment. Dissenters were very numerous in the parishes which it would affect, and those religionists felt themselves much aggrieved by its proposal. This was in fact a sister bill to the Whitechapel Rectors Bill, one being a job of Brasenose, Oxford, and the other a job of King's College, Cambridge. He, therefore, moved as an Amendment that it be read a second time that day six months.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Member for Dublin was probably aware that Mr. Tidd Pratt had been making the necessary inquiries, and that application was made to parties connected with the bank, with the view of obtaining possession of certain books, in order to enable the law authorities to decide on the question of the liability of the trustees. In the opinion of Mr. Tidd Pratt, particular books were necessary, with the view of coming to a right decision upon this important subject to the depositors; but the bank seemed to think that it was not bound to produce them. It appeared to him (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) that this refusal was in reality a stand taken in the way of justice, and he had accordingly informed the Solicitor to the Treasury, that he would direct funds to be provided to try the legal question, so as to ascertain the claims of the depositors. What the result of that appeal would be he knew not; but he thought it might be inconvenient if a Committee of that House should institute any inquiry while these legal proceedings were pending.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that a Bill was in course of preparation; but, owing to the largo amount of business now before the House, he was not in a position to say when it would be introduced.
 MR. URQUHART : The negotiations which led to the presence of Admiral Parker's squadron in the Bay of Naples last year, and which he stated had been satisfactorily settled.
 MR. URQUHART : Would the noble Viscount be able to state when he can give an answer, as I intend to move?
 MR. URQUHART  begged to repeat a question which he had before put to the noble Viscount the Secretary for Foreign Affairs. He had asked the noble Viscount if he would produce any papers relating to the negotiations which had led to the presence of Admiral Parker's squadron in the Bay of Naples last year; and in reply his Lordship said it would not be for the public advantage to do so. As the noble Viscount had since that time given some information with respect to those events, he begged to ask whether he had now any objection to produce those papers?
 MR. GOULBURN  hoped the House would not reject this Bill, the object of which was only to divide the living, and to appropriate a portion of the funds to the support of another incumbent; thus increasing the means of church accommodation and of spiritual provision. The parishes of Richmond and Kingston were large, and fairly called for a division—a purpose perfectly in accordance with the principle approved of by the House last night, on the Motion of the noble Lord (Lord Ashley); and he utterly denied that the project—a most momentous one—deserved the odious epithet of "a job."
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  begged to ask the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer a question in connexion with the present subject. It would be in the recollection of the House that a Committee on Savings Banks had sat to receive evidence, and any hon. Gentleman who perused the report of the testimony given would see that gross abuses existed in the system. He believed it was the intention of Her Majesty's Ministers to introduce a Bill on the subject; and his question was, when the right hon. Gentleman would legislate
 98
 MR. REYNOLDS  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer a question, of which he had given notice, connected with the failure of the St. Peter's parish savings bank, Dublin. In compliance with the wishes of the House, he would postpone the Motion he had upon the Paper for the appointment of a Select Committee of Inquiry; and in asking his question he would take the liberty of stating the facts of the case connected with the failure of the bank as briefly as possible. The number of depositors
 97 l. l Cries of
 MR. HUME  said, the House was now called upon to reject an offer to supply the metropolis with an abundant quantity of water at a reasonable price. It was proposed by this Bill, without the outlay of a single shilling of public money, to give an ample supply of water to every 50 l s
 MR. HUME  hoped, that by allowing this vote to pass without observation, no hon. Member who dissented from it was in the slightest degree compromised.
 " Resolved l.
 MR. NAPIER  said, that in the course of the debate the previous evening the noble Lord at the head of the Government had alluded to his (Mr. Napier's) observations as being "uncandid;" and, under the circumstances, he certainly had felt aggrieved that such an imputation should have been made against him. He had alluded to the noble Lord's measure on that occasion as being premature, and he did so on this ground—that as it was unaccompanied by any proposals on the part of the Government
 99 à fortiori
 MR. L. KING  said, he did not understand there was any opposition to the Bill on the part of the inhabitants in the neighbourhood. The Bill had been agreed to in full vestry of the parishes of Richmond and Kingston. Not a single parishioner had opposed it.
 MR. ROBERT PALMER , being acquainted with the locality through a part of which it was intended to carry these works, was hound to say he thought he must in perfect fairness second the Motion for postponing the second reading of this Bill for six months. The proposition was to bring the water some thirty miles for supplying London with water, at a better level, and with a better supply than any other company; and certainly no one could oppose such an undertaking, if it could be carried out in a  bonâ fide
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, the House would at once concede that it was most desirable that the denizens of this great metropolis should be provided with a pure and cheap supply of water. The report of the Commissioners of Sanitary Reform stated that a large number of the inhabitants were not properly supplied with pure water, and recommended that this defect should be supplied by encouraging competition. They would not have made this statement if the existing companies supplied all the water that was required. Why, at present 60,000 houses were not supplied with water. It was but fair to assume that each house was occupied by one family; but he regretted to say that
 94
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  rose to explain. He begged to say that he knew no more of the report than had been supplied him.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  contended, that it was most improper to make use of inns and public-houses for such purposes. The practice, however, was very general. There were 724 petty sesssions held in England, and 358 of these were held in taverns. The publicans charged nothing for the use of the rooms, because they received a sufficient profit upon the wine and grog drunk upon the premises by the parties litigant. There were thirty-six places where petty sessions were held in magistrates' clerks' offices, and in some few localities the workhouse, the gaol, and the house of correction, were all used for the purpose. It sometimes happened that the magistrates preferred sitting in the inn rather than the town-hall, and that they dined at the place where they presided. He would not permit drinking-rooms to be resorted to by the justices except in cases of necessity; and he was happy to find the right hon. Gentleman the Attorney General willing to meet the views of the House on this important subject. The hon. Gentleman concluded by moving the following clause:—
 "And be it enacted, That after the passing of this Act, it shall not be lawful for any justices of the peace in England to hold any petty or special sessions of the peace in any house licensed for the sale of excisable liquors, or, after a session-house shall have been provided under the powers hereinbefore contained, elsewhere than in such session-house, except in cases of urgent necessity, the
 157
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  reprobated the practice of holding special or petty sessions in public-houses, and hoped that the hon. the Attorney General would direct his attention to the subject.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  said, there was no one to whom he would more willingly defer than the hon. Member for Kent; but he found that in that county out of seventeen, eleven petty sessions were held in public-houses, and two in the magistrates' office, which was still worse, as more likely to exclude the public. He would, however, withdraw the clause at the request of so many hon. Gentlemen.
 SIR R. PRICE  had a decided objection to the holding of sessions in public-houses; but in some districts it was found exceedingly difficult, if not impossible, to find any other place equally convenient. He hoped the hon. and gallant Gentleman would not press his clause.
 SIR W. CLAY  opposed the Bill. His hon. and gallant Friend had talked of 60,000 houses in London being unsupplied with water. Now, was that the fault of the present companies? The report of the Commissioners, already quoted, laid it down that an ample supply of water involved twelve gallons daily to each individual. Well, then, taking the inhabitants of London at 2,000,000, the supply requisite per diem on this calculation would be 24,000,000 gallons, whilst the present companies could and did supply not less than 60,000,000 gallons. If a number of houses were unsupplied, it was not the fault of any of the existing companies. He wished to notice one very unfair statement in the prospectus of the company now applying for a Bill. They stated that the companies which now supplied London from the Thames took their water between London-bridge and Battersea-bridge. Now this was not the fact. There was only one company, supplying a small district south of the Thames, which derived their supply of water from the portion of the river in question, and last year that company obtained a Bill to change the source of their supply. The other Thames companies obtained their water respectively at Kew and Hammersmith.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : What negotiations does the hon. Member mean?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : On Monday.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he would look over those papers, and see whether they were sufficiently separated from questions still pending, to allow of their being laid before the House without objection. He rather fancied, however, that they were so interwoven with negotiations not yet completed, that they could not be produced without prejudice to the public service.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : In answer to my noble Friend, I may state that Her Majesty's Government have received information that, upon the approach of the Hungarian forces towards Hermannstadt and Cronstadt, and the frontier towns of Transylvania, the people applied to the Russian officer on the borders of Walachia for forces to protect them, as inconvenience was likely to result to them from the advance of the Hungarian troops. In consequence of that application, two bodies of Russian troops occupied Cronstadt and Hermannstadt; but they did not, I think, take any other part in the hostilities going on.
 MR. ALDERMAS THOMPSON  rose to put a question, of which he had given notice, He found in the correspondence with foreign States, which had been laid on the table, in reference to the proposed relaxation in our navigation laws, a letter from Mr. Crampton to Mr. Buchanan, the United States Minister, dated January 16 last, in which was the following paragraph:—
 "Although the proposed Bill did not attempt to make the relaxations in the British law strictly dependent upon the legislation of other countries, yet the general policy of each State will be a matter of consideration when such relaxations are in question; and I am instructed to ascertain at the earliest possible period, whether the United States will be prepared to accept advances made on the part of Great Britain for placing the ships of the two countries on a footing of equality, with the single reservation of the coasting trade; or whether the United States Government would prefer to reserve any particular privileges or exemptions to their national vessels, on the understanding that they may there by render it impossible for this country to concede to the United States shipping the whole of the advantages which will, under the contemplated measure, attach to the shipping of such States as may place British and national vessels upon a footing of more perfect equality."
 MR. B. OSBORNE  began by saying, that whatever difference of opinion there might be as to the resolutions brought forward by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, he believed it would not be disputed that the case had been fairly put to the House by that noble Lord—or that, divested of all artifice and rhetorical verbiage, the simple fact was, that the poor-law had entirely broken down in the western districts in Ireland; and that the noble Lord now came down to the House to ask them to levy a contribution on the north and south of Ireland to support the poverty of the west. Now, if he could believe that the noble Lord and his hon. Colleagues entertained any clear conception, or possessed any general knowledge, of the great difficulties with which they were surrounded—if he thought that they had any grasp over the details of this measure, he should now refrain from making any observations upon what be thought must, at best, be considered a very objectionable measure.
 171 172 l. l. ignis fatuus 173 date obolum Belisario caput mortuum Gil Blas. 174 l. l. d. l. l. l. l. l. 175 Nemo tam paruis quin prodigus exalieno. l. 176 177 l. l. s. l. 178 179
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, without one word of preface, I will address myself immediately to the two main questions now submitted to our consideration. The first of these is—in the present state of Ireland shall we leave the people to be supported exclusively by the resources of the union or electoral division in which they live?—the second, if we are of opinion that some extrinsic aid is necessary, from what source shall that aid be derived? Sir, I cannot reconcile myself to give a vote which shall throw the sustenance of the people of Ireland, in the present condition of that country, upon each individual union. I have read these papers. I have seen the exertions that have been made in many of these unions to provide for the support of their own poor; and I think a great injustice has been done in this country to the landed proprietors of Ireland. I find conclusive evidence that in many parts of Ireland, at least, most strenuous local exertions have been made—that there has been a willing submission to the law—and that if the whole amount of the rate has not been paid, it has been owing to the absolute impossibility of paying: and, therefore, to attempt to create a prejudice against the Irish proprietors, on the part of this country, is unfair and unjust. Not that I deny that in many cases there has been great impropriety of conduct, or that individuals have tried to escape from the burdens they ought to have borne; but the indiscriminate censure passed upon the landed proprietary of Ireland, after the strenuous exertions which the papers before this House show them to have made, is undeserved. I am satisfied by this evidence that if you do refuse all extrinsic aid to
 180 l. 181 ex concesso 182 l. l. l. 183 d. Loud laughter. l. 184 l. l. 185 186 Life of Ormonde. "These counties had suffered exceedingly in the war, and were reduced to a very desolate condition. The country was full of woods and fastnesses, which, on favourable junctures, would give encouragement to rebels, and at all times serve as a retreat to robbers. Great numbers of the inhabitants had perished by the sword—much greater by famine; the rest were reduced to so extreme a poverty that they were not able, if willing, to manure the ground; so that the lands laid waste in time of war were likely to continue so in time of peace." 187 "The grievances of particular persons did not prevent the general good intended to the kingdom by these plantations, in consequence of which lands were cultivated and greatly improved, towns and villages built, trade and commerce carried on and extended. The people in general, weaned gradually from their former idle and disorderly life, began to learn and practise civility, to apply themselves to business, to use labour and industry in their several stations, and to relish the sweets of peace." 188 189 190 191 192 l. l. 193 "When Erin first rose from the dark heaving flood, God blessed the green island, and saw it was good, In sun, and in soil, and in station thrice bless'd— Her back turn'd to Britain—her face to the west."
 MAJOR BLACKALL  referred to the reasons that had been assigned by the Chancellor of the Exchequer for imposing the present rate in aid in Ireland, and observed that he had been one of the Committee appointed to inquire into the alterations and amendments that it might be desirable to introduce into the poor-law in Ireland. He had voted in favour of the grant of 50,000 l. d. d. 194 d. l. l. 195 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 196 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 197 l. l. l. l. l. 198
 MR. W. BROWN  said: I will not detain the House long in the few observations I have to make; but I cannot refrain from expressing the pleasure I feel at the suggestions made by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, of the importance and advantage that would arise to Ireland from the transfer of property being made more easy, so that incumbered and other estates might find their way into the hands of those who had capital and skill to make the most of them. I entirely agree with the right hon. Baronet that it would be the best possible guarantee that could be given for the prosperity of that country. This is not a new view of this matter. Intelligent men out of doors have spoken and written their sentiments on this subject years ago; nor is it new to Parliament. Evidence was taken on it before the Lords; and it may be found in the library upstairs. It is there shown that the transfer of an estate may be made almost with as much facility as the transfer of a hogshead of sugar, or a bale of cotton. Mr. Banfield's evidence on this subject is most valuable. Indeed, I understand—strange as it may appear—that bankers in Frankfort hold part of their reserves in land; for, at an hour's notice, money may be obtained on it. I cannot help viewing the movement that is taking place in Ulster—in resisting the sixpenny rate in aid—as a most ungrateful return for the exertions that have been made in this country to relieve Irish distress. Millions have been paid from the public purse, aided by large private subscriptions; our humanity has over-ridden our judgment; yet when Ireland is called upon to aid us in this work of necessity and duty, Ulster deems it monstrous injustice. Is it greater injustice to call upon the whole of Ireland to assist their suffering fellow-countrymen, than to call upon the English labourer, artisan, and others, who have already made such honourable exertions to serve them, and who also support their own poor? Independent of this, we are suffering severely throughout the country from the Irish paupers being thrown in upon us in addition to our own. This has added 15,000 l. s. s. d. s. s. d. 200 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 SIR E. MACNAGHTEN  thought the proposition of the noble Lord at the head of the Government impolitic, unjust, and ruinous to those parts of Ireland which were not steeped in such pauperism as the west. This was nothing more than the case of the five foolish virgins mentioned in the parable, who said to the more provident virgins, "Give us of your oil, for our lamps are gone out." He quoted from an authority which he trusted would ever be quoted with reverence in that House, in spite of the effort that was being made to introduce into it parties that might be disposed
 201
 MR. SCULLY  observed, that though he agreed with many of the propositions which had been advanced by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, in the course of his speech on Friday last, and particularly in his arguments with respect to the maximum rate of 7 s. 202 l. l. l. l. l. Times d. 203 l. l. l. l. d. l. 204 l.
 SIR W. VERNER : So much had been said during the debate with respect to the province of Ulster, and as the Bill under the consideration of the House would affect that province more than any other in Ireland, and as the representative of a county in that province, he trusted he would not be thought intrusive if he said a few words upon the subject. Much reference had been made by various hon. Members to the loyalty of the people of Ulster. In regard to loyalty, he was aware that many men differed. The men of Ulster were the strong advocates of the maintenance of the Union between the countries: in that he thought they were truly loyal. The hon. Member for the city of Limerick took a different view of the subject, He belonged to an association calling itself the "Loyal Repeal Association;" yet he supposed the hon. and learned Gentleman maintained that he also was a loyal subject.
 205 206 s. s. ad infinitum
 MR. CLEMENTS  remarked, that however tempting might be the field opened to them by the observations of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, still he should endeavour to confine himself to that which was the question of vital importance at that moment before the House, and that was then submitted to them for consideration—namely, the tax that was proposed to be levied by the Government. It was admitted, on all hands, that some money was actually necessary for the relief of the distress that prevailed in twenty-one unions; and that it was shown by the feeling manifested by English Members, that the money so required must come from Irish sources. It was said that there were 11,000,000 l. l. 207 d. d. l. 208 209 d. d. 210 d. d.
 MR. BOURKE  said, the resolution before the House was one of the most difficult upon which an Irishman could address a legislative assembly. The importance of this question might not be obvious at first; but when they looked to the great interests which were bound up with this question, and the deep interest which it had excited in Ireland, and when Irish Members knew that by the speedy adoption of this law Ireland's better hopes were defeated, he might be excused for approaching this subject. The great disaster which had fallen upon Ireland, was first met by grants of public money, which, though they stifled the disease for the moment, tended rather to perpetuate the calamity. An endeavour was then made to remove the evil by the institution of public works; but after that expedient failed, the Government fell back on the poor-law. The previous system of gratuitous relief had, however, destroyed the self-reliance of the people. He did not wish it to be understood, however, when he alluded to this subject, that he refused to acknowledge the eternal gratitude which Ireland owed to England for the assistance she had offered her. There was, however, a feeling in Ireland that the immense funds which were subscribed in England might have been much more wisely expended if greater care and forethought had been exercised. He believed that in some unions the funds which it was intended should be applied to the relief of the poor had been expended in a most useless and unnecessary manner. It was not his intention, however, to discuss the Irish poor-law, which had been met by a large expenditure; it had merely kept the people alive, and had tended to perpetuate the calamity with which that country had been visited. To show how the law had worked in Ireland, he would state some circumstances which bad occurred in the county of Kildare, in connexion with which he should introduce the name of no loss an authority than that of the Hon. Mr. Lawless. A resolution having been moved at a public meeting—
 "The Hon. Edward Lawless, in seconding the resolution, said, in an adjoining union to this—the union of Celbridge—there came down, about this
 211 "Mr. Dixon: 500 l. "The Hon. Mr. Lawless: The entire sum amounted to 1 l. s. d. l. l. s. l. s. 212 "A Voice: About 100 l. "The Hon. Mr. Lawless said, he had examined the books about six weeks ago, and he was not prepared to state the exact figure, but it was 30 l. l. Loud cries of and expressions of disapprobation. l. l. d. s. d. Drapier's Letters 213
 MR. ROCHE  said, that neither of the hon. Gentlemen who had last spoken had given a practical answer to this practical question, how were thousands of people to be saved from utter and immediate starvation? Her Majesty's Government proposed that they should be saved from immediate starvation by means of this rate in aid; and the House was asked to come to this decision, would they have this rate in aid, ay or no? ["No, no!"] But as an Irish Member, what question had he to ask himself? Suppose he voted with hon. Members opposite, and by increasing their numbers succeeded in saying "No," what position was he in then? What practical measures did he get from hon. Gentlemen opposite for administering relief to the people? What would the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire do to feed the people of Connaught? He was a prudent man, and would say nothing, but button up his pocket. He turned then to the hon. Gentleman the Member for Northamptonshire; he, too, would button his pocket,
 214 d. s. d. d. l. 215 The Battle of the Diamond. "The Battle of the Diamond (Far let the watchword fly), Where craven Papist rebels crouched, Upon the earth to die. Slain by devoted men and true, Who fought with heart and blade, And slaughtered in their ambush vile, By swords they had betrayed." 216 d.
 SIR A. BROOKE  thought that this-proposition of the Government was impolitic and mischievous. Why should the burden
 217 s. l. 218 l.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that several important admissions had been made in the course of the discussion, which he was happy to say, tended to narrow the limits of the question at issue. The first of these admissions, in which there was a general unanimity, was that there existed in some of the western unions of Ireland an amount of distress which rendered it absolutely impossible that it could be wholly relieved by local resources, and rendered it indispensably necessary that some extraneous aid should be afforded in order to avert scenes of starvation and misery on which the House was not prepared to look without providing some remedy. It would be unnecessary for him to read the papers which detailed the condition of those unions, because he had not heard it controverted by any one. He had been sorry indeed to hear the hon. Member for Tipperary state he conceived the object of the present measure was not to relieve the pauper but the landlord. He could assure the hon. Member such was not the case, and that the measure was intended, not for the relief of the landlord but for those who had been reduced to the lowest state of destitution. Whilst he was speaking of landlords, he could not but observe that the hon. Member who had just sat down (Sir A. Brooke), and whose opinions were entitled to the greatest weight in the House from the admirable manner in which he discharged his duty, had made some observations with respect to the conduct of a portion of the landlords in certain parts of Ireland, in which he (Sir G. Grey) entirely concurred. The hon. Member said that the destitution proceeded partly from centuries of bad government, and partly from the conduct of the landlords themselves, speaking, as he (Sir G. Grey)
 219 220 Cheers. d. 221 l. l. 222 223 d. "That a tax imposed upon a small part of Ireland to meet an imperial calamity is unjust and vexatious, and ought to be resisted by every constitutional means." "Have heard with astonishment that it was proposed to tax the industry of Ulster for the support of the pauper population of Connaught and Munster, while the English farmer, whose harvests would rot upon the Held, and the English capitalist, whose machinery would rust in idleness, if deprived of the supply of labourers afforded by these provinces, are to be free from all contribution towards their support when visited by destitution." 224 l. l. 225 l. 226 227 228 229
 LORD J. RUSSELL  hoped that, after three nights' debate, they could have come to a decision that night upon the question. He thought they might have come to a resolution in Committee after such a length of debate, and, therefore, he should take the sense of the House on the question.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  said, that he wished to address a few words to the House before the debate closed.
 SIR J. WALSH  asked whether money to be paid by the Chancellor of the Exchequer was not involved in the question then before the House?
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the hon. Baronet was mistaken. If any money were to be voted by Parliament founded upon the resolution then before the Committee, the Chancellor of the Exchequer should make a distinct proposition on the subject.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, he was anxious to address the House on the present occasion; but after the small degree of attention which they had bestowed on the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, he could not hope for a very patient hearing at that hour.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  would take the sense of the House on the question of the adjournment. He did not think there was an Irishman on that side of the House who would not speak on the question, as it was one that affected the whole property of Ireland. He moved that the Chairman report progress.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  then moved the adjournment of the debate.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that considering the largeness of the minority, he should not further oppose the Motion.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  objected to the nomination of so important a Committee at that late hour. He hoped the hon. Baronet would postpone his Motion to another day.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  said, he would have yielded to the request of the hon. and gallant Colonel, if he had assigned a sufficient reason for his doing so; but the only reason of the hon. and gallant Gentleman was, that he wished for more time to consider the names proposed. He (Sir J. Pakington) had given notice of the Committee on Thursday last, and postponed it on Friday at the desire of the hon. Member for Northampton.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP : Then I shall move that the House do now adjourn.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that as the hon. and gallant Gentleman had resumed his
 233
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  objected to the practice of appointing hon. Members to sit upon more than one Committee in the same Session of Parliament. He could point to one or two Members who were placed upon no less than twelve Committees in the last Session. He wished to see a more equal distribution of public business to the Committees. At present, also, there was the greatest irregularity in the mode of conducting business by the Committees, and he could point at Committees where examinations had been conducted without a quorum being present, and in some cases solely by the Chairman. In this instance, he had no objection to the names upon the Committee, though he observed that the hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) was already upon one Committee, and he did not see why some other hon. Gentleman should not he appointed.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, the abuse to which the hon. Baronet had alluded was one that deserved the attention of the House. It happened on some occasions that the Chairman was the only Member of Committee that was left to examine witnesses, without there being another Member to cross-examine, or to bring out the proper bearing of the answers. To remedy this evil, he thought it would be desirable that the clerk of a public Committee should adopt the practice in private Committees, of calling the Chairman's attention to the fact, wherever there was not a quorum present, and that all business should then cease till five Members had again assembled.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said: There can be no doubt that the state of our military operations in India must be a matter, not certainly of indifference, but of the deepest interest, to every Member of this House. I can, however, only state at present, that Her Majesty's Government, after considering the intelligence which has been received, have humbly offered to Her Majesty that advice which they think best calculated to meet the emergency which at present exists in that part of Her dominions. But I have not as yet received Her Majesty's reply to the advice which I have humbly tendered to Her Majesty; but as soon as that answer is received, and can be with propriety communicated to this House, I will lose no time in laying it before it.
 MR. URQUHART  inquired when the papers relative to the presence of Admiral Parker in the Bay of Naples would be ready?
 MR. URQUHART  explained that the object he had in view was to get at the real facts of the case, not only with respect to the mode of communication between Admiral Parker and the Neapolitan Government, but as to the cause of the presence of the British fleet in the Bay of Naples in last July.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department had stated a few nights since that a measure was prepared with reference to the abuses of the Ecclesistical Courts. He wished to know whether it was in such a state as to enable the right hon. Gentleman to give a synopsis of its provisions to the House?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  replied, that there was no intention on the part of the Government to confiscate those rights which were enjoyed, under Act of Parliament or charter, by certain corporations in respect to the dues which, previous to the reciprocity treaties, were paid by foreign vessels, and which were now paid out of the Consolidated Fund.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  wished to mention that he had that morning received a letter from Mr. Berwick, with reference to the Offences (Ireland) Bill, which the hon. Baronet the Member for the city of Water-ford (Sir H. W. Barron) had introduced on Wednesday last. Mr. Berwick stated that he had communicated with the hon. Baronet, and requested him to correct a statement he had made on the day in question. He also stated that he had communicated with the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier), who possessed an intimate knowledge of the facts of the case. Mr. Berwick wished it to be distinctly understood by the House that he had not acted in the manner alleged in the course of the debate; and he not only thanked him (Mr. J. O'Connell) for what he had stated on Wednesday, but he bore him out in every particular.
 MR. WAWN , in putting a question to the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade, observed, that since the admission of foreign vessels under reciprocity treaties into British ports on payment of the same dues as British vessels, the additional or double dues formerly charged bad been paid out of the Consolidated Fund. He wished to know whether in any contemplated change of the navigation laws those dues which had been guaranteed by
 167
 MR. HUME  said: Seeing the noble Lord at the head of the Government in his place, I wish to ask him a question, but I
 168 Gazette Gazette
 MR. HUME  said, that perhaps the right hon. Baronet would have no objection to
 170
 SIR G. GREY  said, he should be setting a bad example were he to enter into any details.
 SIR G. GREY  replied, that his answer on a former night had not been correctly stated by the hon. Gentleman who had asked the question. His answer bad been, that a measure on the subject was in contemplation, but that it had not, as yet, been prepared; and, therefore, it would be premature on the present occasion to enter either into its principles or details. The Bill, however, was in an advanced state of preparation.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  replied, that he would lay on the table of the House extracts such as he had stated, showing the grounds on which Admiral Parker arrived in the Bay of Naples; and he thought that probably he should be able to produce an extract of another despatch, in which Admiral Parker stated that the negotiations had been satisfactorily concluded. [Mr. URQUHART: How soon?] In a very few days.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he had been asked on a previous occasion whether he had any objection to produce the correspondence which led to the appearance of Admiral Parker's fleet in the Bay of Naples last July? He should like to know with what view the hon. Member asked
 169
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : No official communication has as yet been received in reply; at the same time, Her Majesty's Government have no reason to doubt that such official communication, when it does come, will be couched in the same friendly spirit, and marked by the same conciliatory disposition, as is expressed in Mr. Bancroft's communication.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  said, he felt a difficulty as to the course which he ought to pursue on the present occasion. He did not altogether approve the wording of the Amendment of the hon. and gallant Member for Longford; but, having to choose between it and the proposition of the Government, he felt that he must support that Amendment; not, however, on the ground put forward by Gentlemen from the north of Ireland, that it would be
 263 l 264 265
 SIR F. BARING  felt obliged to his hon. Friend for the opportunity he had thus afforded him of giving some explanation upon the subject of the rumours to which he had alluded. From a report which he had just received, it appeared that it was quite correct that Mitchel, while on his passage to Bermuda on board the  Scourge, 252
 ADMIRAL DUNDAS  said, the order given to Commander Wingrove was to take every precaution for the safe custody of Mitchel; and, having consideration to the state of his health, to treat him in all respects as a convict. It appeared, the accommodasion the ship afforded did not allow of his having a separate cabin to take his meals in; and the captain, under those circumstances, thought it right to place him where he would be under his own eye, and at the same time separated from the other officers of the ship, with whom he never messed.
 MR. CONOLLY  had some diffidence in addressing the House on this, his first occasion; but the circumstances of the case before them were so peculiar and so important, that he felt he should not be doing his duty to his constituents, or to himself as a lauded proprietor, did he not stand up and give the measure under consideration his most strenuous and determined opposition. He considered the measure unfair, unjust, impolitic, and calculated to produce the worst results. He could very well understand the hon. Members opposite looking on this as a partial question, as a rate in aid, and as a mere temporary expedient. But to him and those who sat near him it bore a widely different character. They, looking at the whole circumstances of the country, contemplated what its fatal results might be, and looked upon it as involving the most dangerous consequences—no less than the revulsion of the whole groundwork of society—no less than the ruin of the country at largo. The measure was encumbered with an illusion which he would endeavour to dispel. Now, when they were called upon to vote a rate in aid, they ought to consider the present state of the unions in Ireland. The number of unions was 131, of which twenty were in a state of bankruptcy, and ten more, if not in a state of actual bankruptcy, were in a state of severe destitution, and totally unable to assist any others. He came then to the 100 unions remaining, which were all that could be looked to as able to afford assistance to the other unions. Out of those 100 unions there were forty unions which were burdened with a heavy debt, and which it would be monstrous to ask to pay the debts incurred
 277 278 "There is no reason that I know why that distress should continue for many years longer. My expectation is, that one of two things must infallibly happen, either you will find that by. I, return of good and plentiful harvests there will be sufficient food and employment for the people in the districts in question, and there will be such change of culture, and such an application of capital in those districts, that the people will be placed in a state of comparative comfort, and then you will be relieved from the burden in that manner; or else you will find that the people, perceiving that they have no prospect of a restoration of the food on which they depended, will emigrate to other districts—will emigrate to the more favoured parts of Ireland—will emigrate to Scotland—will emigrate to England, or to our North American and Australian colonies, or to the United States of America." 279 l l l 280 281 "This contemplated destruction of property is to be visited upon loyal subjects by the operation of the laws. It is a new thing to find Ministers of the Crown not only exonerating themselves from obligations to which the constitution pledges them, but avowing the determination to make the laws themselves instruments of evil wherever, until now, their influence, in theory at least, has been salutary. It is among the best established maxims of constitutional law that allegiance and protection are reciprocal—that loss of life, liberty, and property is to be ranked among the penalties of transgression—and that obedience to law should have its reward in preservation of life, liberty, and property. The Legislature is now called onto invert this maxim, and lavish rewards on the idle and ill-affected as well as on the helpless, and to heap wrongs and penalties on the deserving proprietors. It is indisputably an imperative duty to save life when it is possible. But although not so important, it is an equally manifest duty to protect property also; and the Minister or the Legislature who, to feed a hungry man in Galway, will reduce a laborious farmer in Antrim to beggary, is teaching a lesson more perilous to the welfare and stability of States than has ever been learned from Chartist or Repealer."
 The EARL of LINCOLN : Recollecting that at the adjournment of the House, at an early hour this morning, my hon. Friend the Member for the city of Dublin (Mr. Grogan) announced that nearly every Irish Member in the House wished to speak upon this question, I shall endeavour to be as brief as possible in the observations it is my desire to make. At the same time, as up to the present hour none but Irish Members have addressed the House this evening, I hope it will not be considered out of place, or at all impertinent, if one British Member rises now to speak upon a topic which I, at least, feel must be interesting to us all, not merely as affecting Ireland, but as affecting the kingdom at large. And in endeavouring to be brief, I shall confine myself entirely to the observations which I wish to address to the question immediately before the House—namely, the adaptation, or non-adaptation, of the rate in aid for the purposes indicated by the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government. I am aware of the disadvantage under which I place myself by not entering into other topics which, under more advantageous circumstances as regards time, might with great propriety be introduced into the discussion, and without which, I admit, the question cannot be altogether fairly or adequately argued. I am aware that I must deprive myself also of the advantage of touching upon many of those topics which have been so ably and eloquently touched upon by the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just sat down, in a speech which I am sure all the House must have been delighted to hear; not, perhaps, as bearing upon the practical subject which is immediately before the House, but as relative to the important questions of amending the poor-law, and improving the social condition of the people of Ireland generally. I admit. Sir, that during the many years I have now had the honour of a seat in this House, I do not recollect any occasion upon which I felt greater difficulty as to the decision I should arrive at, or as to the vote I should give, than upon the question now before the House; not so much from any doubt as to the principle of the measure, or from feeling any hesitation of opinion as to the merits of the plan proposed by the noble Lord, but because I feel that in the peculiar circumstances in which the two countries have been relatively
 294 295 296 297 s d 298 l l 299 d. 300 301 viva voce "It is generally admitted that the poor-law valuation of Ireland is not relative in regard to the actual value placed on the lands and tenements of one part of a single union as compared with another; and having been made by a number of unconnected individuals, each of whom interpreted the Act according to his own views, as might be expected, considerable discrepancies occur between the proportionate value which one union, taken as a whole, bears to another; and, besides, in many unions the guardians have had revisions made of the original poor-law valuation, with a view to its being reduced, although such original valuation was confessedly below the then average letting value of the lands of the union." "If we compare the gross amount of the present townland valuation of the several poor-law unions contained in five of the northern counties—viz., Londonderry, Antrim, Down, Armagh, and Tyrone, with the poor-law valuation of the same unions, though considerable discrepancies arise in regard to some unions, we find that to bring up the townland valuation to the poor-law valuation,
 302 s d "Then, if we refer to the union of Newtownards, in the county of Down, we find that the poor-law valuation is higher than the general valuation by one half, or 10 s d s d s d s s "You conceive, then, that no general rate could be imposed, taking the poor-law valuation as the basis for that general rate?—I think, as the basis of a general rate, it would be unjust, on account of the inequality. "A general rate, therefore, taken upon the townland valuation, which was based on circumstances which have varied, would not now be a just and equal rate?—The variatious have been chiefly in the west, but the valuation itself is relatively, within itself, the same as it was at the time it was made. "At the time it was made, circumstances being then as they were, it may have been just and equal; but if the circumstances in any large district in Ireland should have materially changed, the relative justice of that valuation is destroyed, is it not?—Certainly, as far as the change has taken place in one place, and not in another. "Have not changes taken place since in that valuation to a great extent over the large area which was embraced in that valuation?—They have." 303 s d s d 304 305 d. d
 MR. ST. GEORGE  said, that although he represented Galway, he felt that he could not support the proposition of the First Lord of the Treasury. He thought that the Government should be prepared
 311
 The CHAIRMAN  asked the hon. Member whether he proposed to move his Amendment as a substantive Motion, or as an addition to the original Motion to which the House had just agreed.
 The CHAIRMAN : Does the hon. Gentleman mean it to be added to the resolution?
 The CHAIRMAN : Would the hon. Member consent to have his proposition put in that way?
 LORD J. RUSSELL  thought it would be better to take the original resolution as it stood. Afterwards the hon. Gentleman might move to impose the tax on other kinds of property.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said: I will not, at this late hour (half-past Twelve), trouble the House with many observations, but there were some remarks made by the noble Earl the Member for Falkirk, bearing immediately on the point at issue, which, I think, require some explanation on my part. Let me say, in the first place, that I think the great majority of this House have decided on two points: one, that there ought to be some aid given to the distressed, starving people in the western unions of Ireland; and, secondly, that that aid ought to come, not from the Treasury of the united kingdom, but from some tax in aid from Ireland. The question, therefore, remains whether that shall be done in one of two ways; one would be by raising the taxes of Ireland with respect to those imposts which are not now imposed on that country, and then to vote the produce, whatever it might be, arising from such additional taxation. The other would be to have a special tax or rate for the purpose. The noble Earl says I propose this rate as an equivalent for a tax to which Ireland is not now subject. I certainly did not mean to state it, and I therefore wish to say, if I expressed myself obscurely before, that I did not propose it as any equivalent for any tax not now imposed on Ireland; but, as I have stated, as you must take one of these two courses, the rate I proposed, besides having other advantages, has this advantage, or it is thought to be an advantage in the eyes of all Irish Members, that the raising the taxation of Ireland to a level with that of England would impose a much heavier tax on Ireland than I propose, and that this rate would therefore be a lighter burden. The noble Earl argues, however, that besides other defects which other hon. Members have pointed out in the proposition I have made, there is one consideration which he seems to think is almost fatal, and that is the imperfection of the valuation. Now, Mr. Griffith, before he gave his evidence in Committee, prepared a paper which is almost identical with that to which the noble Earl referred, and so far from proving that the
 312 s d 313
 LORD J. RUSSELL  rose, and spoke as follows; Sir, the Hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose asked me a question yesterday relating to the affairs of India. I then stated, that Her Majesty's Ministers had tendered certain advice to Her Majesty on that subject; but that until I had received a reply from Her Majesty, I could not answer the question of the hon. Gentleman. I have now to state, that the advice which was by us humbly tendered to Her Majesty was, that Sir Charles James Napier should be appointed Commander-in-Chief of the troops in India. Sir, Her Majesty was pleased most graciously and fully to approve of that appointment; and both the Duke of Wellington, the Commander-in-Chief, and I, have seen Sir Charles James Napier to-day; and I have the satisfaction to state that he is ready to obey Her Majesty's wishes, and to proceed to India in the capacity to which Her Majesty has appointed him. The Court of Directors have not yet met,
 253
 MR. STAFFORD  here observed, that they had divided on the question "that the Speaker leave the chair," had spent two nights besides on this question, and had, that night, been defeated on the main question by a large majority. Therefore, whilst he would not abandon his opposition to the Bill to be founded on the resolution that had been passed, he did, nevertheless, think it more respectful to the House, and but due to the Government, not to take any further part on that occasion in opposition to the original proposition.
 MR. SPEAKER  here interposed, and said, that the hon. Baronet had stated quite enough to explain any personal matter connected with the affair. The hon. Baronet must not comment upon the subject.
 MR. CALLAGHAN  said, he readily acquitted the Government of the charge which some hon. Members had brought against them, of an intention to ruin the proprietorial class. He had listened with great attention to the statement of the noble Premier, but it had failed to convince him that the proposed rate in and was the proper method of alleviating the distress. He should have been ready to consent to a general rate on all the property in the kingdom for that purpose. When the union workhouse at Cork was provided, it was thought sufficient to make accommodation for 2,000 paupers; but there was now a demand for accommodation for 7,000; a striking proof that the administration of the poor-law was not placed on a proper footing. From the passing of the Irish poor-law to the present moment, the greatest dissatisfaction had existed. He had done his utmost to allay this discontent, and to ensure the proper administration of the law. He had counselled those who were dissatisfied to lay their grievances plainly in petitions before the House, and not to rely on the recommendations of any Parliamentary Committee, which might sit the whole Session without leading to any good result. In imposing this rate in aid, he thought the annuitants were a class who might very properly have boon called on to contribute: he hoped this point would not escape the attention of the Committee now sitting. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had admitted that this was a burden which might very properly be borne by the empire at large, provided all classes were equally subjected to taxation. It was true Ireland was exempt from the income and assessed taxes; but did any one believe that Ministers would not have imposed these taxes upon Ireland, had there been any chance of their being
 262 "Fruitful our soil, where honest men starve, Empty the mart and shipless the bay; Out of our wants the oligarchs carve, Foreigners fatten on our decay. Disunited, Therefore blighted, Ruined and rent by Englishmen's sway."
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  would suggest to his hon. Friend to put his Amendment as a separate resolution, because he (Mr. Roche), being anxious to vote for the original resolution, and also for that of his hon. Friend, would not otherwise be able to do so. They were, in fact, two separate and distinct resolutions, and ought to be put separately and distinctly. It might suit hon. Members opposite to refuse relief to the people of Ireland by confusing those two propositions; but he would first ask his hon. Friend to vote in favour of a rate in aid as proposed by the Government, and then, if he thought that rate could be improved by his own resolution, to put that resolution to the House.
 MR. F. FRENCH  thought that the proposed rate was objectionable in principle and insufficient in amount, and that it would be attended with consequences which
 268 l l 269 l l l "British legislation on all occasions controlled Irish commerce with a very high hand, universally on the principle of monoply, as if the poverty of Ireland were her wealth." "That the growing manufacture of cloth in Ireland, from the cheapness of all sorts of necessaries of life, as well as the goodness of material for making all manner of cloth, doth invite your subjects of England, with their families and servants, to leave their habitations, and settle there, to the increase of the woollen manufacture in Ireland, which makes your loyal subjects here very apprehensive that the further growth of it may greatly prejudice the said manufacture hero, by which the trade of this nation, and the value of lands, will greatly decrease—wherefore we humbly beseech Your Majesty in the most public
 270 "That being very sensible the wealth and power of the kingdom do in a great measure de-pond on the preservation of the woollen manufacture, as much as possible, entire to this realm, think it becomes us, like our ancestors, to be jealous of the increase and establishment of it elsewhere, and to use our utmost endeavour to prevent it: we do therefore implore Your Majesty's protection and favour in this matter, that you will make it your royal care, and enjoin all you employ in Ireland to use their utmost diligence to hinder the exportation of wool from Ireland, except for importation here, and to discourage the woollen manufacture." "I shall do all that in me lies to discourage the woollen manufacture in Ireland." l l 271 l l l "Applications were made to the Bank for loans to a considerable extent, and great expedition was used in completing the securities, but so entirely were the anticipations of the benefit of the measure realised, that the Bank did not advance to
 272 l l l 273 l l l l l l l 274 275 l l 276
 COLONEL DUNNE  considered that it was impossible to address the House without referring to the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth. He was gratified with that speech, for the right hon. Baronet spoke with justice and with kindness of the landlords of Ireland, and had used language with regard to them which was unusual on his (Colonel Dunne's) side of the House, and that was, too, very different in its tone from that adopted by the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department. There was, however, one part of the speech of the right hon. Baronet in which he did not agree. The right hon. Baronet had said that there were two questions before the House. The first, was there any necessity for extraordinary aid? The second, what was the source from which that aid should be derived? They all agreed as to the necessity; and then the whole question was, where was the aid to come from? Whether it was fair for Ireland to pay for the impoverished unions, or whether should the whole empire pay for these unions? It was said that Ireland should pay this sum, because she did not contribute an equal proportion to the taxation of the empire. Now, this was not a subject which should be permitted to rest as it was; it ought to be investigated by a Committee of the House, and he would suggest that until that Committee gave in its report, the proposition for an income tax ought to be suspended. Ireland, at the time of the Union, was to pay two-seventeenths of the whole tax, that was the 1 s d 306 s 307 l l
 MR. MOORE  was prepared to support the measure, not because he thought it the best measure which could be proposed, or because he thought it oven a good measure. It might be the worst possible measure which could be devised, but still it was the only measure which had been proposed for the relief of a starving population. In 1847, when Ministers came forward with a proposition, they all remembered the conduct of a noble Lord whose loss they all deplored. He did not content himself, like those who opposed the rate in aid, with cavilling at the proposals of others, but himself propounded substantial measures for the relief of a starving people. He stood there as the representative of a large class of helpless creatures, who had no hope but in God's mercy; and in the discharge of that duty which he had thus taken upon himself, he called upon the House of Commons to stand between the perishing people and those who boldly and unscrupulously contemplated their destruction. There was a meeting of some of the Irish Members a few days ago, when they agreed to a resolution condemnatory of the proposed tax, on the ground that it was unjust in principle, and would prove injurious in its operation; and they declared their determination to oppose its enactment by every means which the constitution allowed. In this same resolution there was not one word mentioned in regard to the distress of the suffering people. These same Irish Members had also a meeting in the year 1847, at the Rotunda in Dublin, when they agreed to a resolution declaring that, before and beyond all other considerations, was the salvation of the lives of the starving people, and in calling upon the Government as their most solemn duty to adopt such measures as would effectually afford the necessary supply of food to keep the people alive whatever amount of money might be sacrificed to attain such an end. He quoted these two resolutions for the purpose of contrasting the spirit that characterised each of them, and of showing the peculiar consistency that marked their proceedings. He should give his hearty support to the proposition of the noble Lord.
 MR. MUNTZ  rose amidst cries of "Divide!" and for some time the hon. Member could not get a hearing; at length he joined in the cry, and said, "Divide, divide!" Yes, Sir, it is all very fine to cry, "Divide, divide!" but if we vote; for the measure of the noble Lord we shall divide our property with the Irish, and never see it again, for what was the plan but another grant like the last under a new name; and he wished to know out of what fund these continued grants for Irish distress were to be repaid? Some of the Irish grants had not been repaid. Would this be repaid? Before they agreed to those grants, they ought to take into consideration the present condition of England. Were they to be for ever called upon to pay, pay, pay away the public monies to Ireland without any comprehensive measure being propounded to prevent the distress which those payments were intended to relieve? In 1846 he ventured to ask Her Majesty's Government what was the reason that there were millions of acres of land uncultivated in Ireland, whilst millions of the Irish people were unemployed? That question remained still to be answered, and Ireland still remained wretched, and was likely to sink deeper and deeper every year. What now was the reason that countless loads of produce were poured into England from all parts of the world, while Ireland remained uncultivated? Why did not that produce come from Ireland? Could not she produce what England wanted? Would nobody answer those questions? Some hon. Gentleman said, that the cause of the present distress in Ireland was the potato rot; that had been for three years the assigned cause; but what said the reports from Ireland? The report read by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tam-worth on the previous night said, that even if the potatoes were fully restored, Ireland
 308 A laugh s s l l 309 310
 MR. ROBINSON  had understood, that the order given by the Admiralty to the commander of the  Scourge
 MR. ROBINSON  said, that in putting the question of which he had given notice to the First Lord of the Admiralty, his object was to ascertain whether there was any foundation for the rumour that had been extensively circulated, that Mitchel, while on board the  Scourge, Scourge,
 SIR H. W. BARRON , in referring to this matter, observed that the name of Mr. Berwick had been mentioned in connexion with a Bill which he had introduced last Wednesday. Now, that gentleman felt and thought that the statement which he (Sir H. W. Barron) had made, was, so far as it concerned him, not literally correct. He wished, therefore, to give to the House, in Mr. Berwick's own words, his own version of the whole transaction. Here was his own statement; and certainly in some respects, and at first sight, it was not very flattering to him (Sir H. W. Barron). Still, however, he felt that, as a man of honour and a gentleman, he was bound to give Mr. Berwick's own version of the affair. That was the fair and honourable thing to do. The hon. Baronet then read extracts from the letter, to the following effect:—
 "Having seen my name mentioned in connexion with a Bill brought forward by Sir H. W. Barron in the House of Commons, and which it was said that I had suggested and drawn up—I beg to say that such statements were entirely erroneous. I was never consulted by Sir H. W. Barron, nor had I any communication with him on the subject, nor did I suggest and draw up such a Bill—much less hand it to him." "A friend of Sir H. W. Barron, with whom I am well acquainted, sent me a most voluminous Bill on the subject—a Bill which appeared to me to be in a very unfinished state. He told me that he wished me as a friend to look over the Bill, as Sir H. W. Barron was to bring the subject forward in the House. I read it through, and, having seen the same gentleman by accident some time
 254 Loud laughter "I thought that some of the matters referred to might be made the subject of a new legislative enactment, which would, in all likelihood, be impeded by the introduction of such a Bill as his. On being pressed by him to look over the document again, which he assured me was copied verbatim from the Dublin Police Act, I did road it over, merely to oblige him, but not professionally, nor in the slightest degree undertaking any responsibility, or giving any encouragement thereto." "I drew my pen through at least one half of the penal clauses, and made some trifling alterations in some others, but I did not feel myself called upon, nor, indeed, had I the time or inclination, to model or arrange anew the part which remained, the Bill being plainly in an unfinished state, and evidently requiring further consideration. I did, however, draw one clause, which I thought, and still think, most valuable and most merciful to the poor, giving to magistrates summary jurisdiction in certain cases of larceny; and I either drew or corrected a clause relative to cases of rescue, of which I also approved, and for both of which alone I feel myself responsible. But I never dreamt of being held responsible for the general clauses of a Bill of which, on the whole, I disapproved—which I never believed would be introduced into Parliament, if introduced at all, without being remodelled and submitted to the opinion of counsel; and, certainly, if Sir H. W. Barron had done me the honour of consulting me, I should have given him my opinion of his Bill as freely as I gave it to his friend." Cries of
 SIR H. W. BARRON  said that he only wished to justify himself in connexion with the Bill.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  had sat upon several juries with Mr. Berwick, and was also in a position to bear testimony to the legal abilities displayed by Mr. Berwick.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  trusted that the House would understand that Mr. Berwick disclaimed having had that share in the
 255
 MR. REYNOLDS  then rose and proposed a resolution to the effect that annuities, salaries, rent charges, &c., should be chargeable for the rate, He thought it only just and reasonable that the fund for the relief of the destitute in Ireland should be augmented by extending the rate to these sources of income. It was only right that Ireland should have the benefit of the
 317 l l
 MR. REYNOLDS : Whichever is most consistent.
 MR. REYNOLDS : I intended it to be added to the resolution. ["No, no!"]
 MR. REYNOLDS  assured the hon. Member for Warwickshire that there was no necessity for him to call upon him to prove his sincerity, for he would not propose any Motion in that House, and particularly at so late an hour, about which he was not perfectly sincere. He begged to move that the words he had proposed, therefore, be added to the original resolution.
 MR. SPOONER  indignantly repudiated the statement of the hon. Member who had just spoken, that his side of the House wished to refuse aid to Ireland; and he hoped that the hon. Member for Dublin
 318
 CAPTION JONES  was one of those who were always desirous of supporting the Irish poor-law. At the same time he thought the bounden duty of the Government in the first instance was, to compel those parties who had not paid their rates, but who were able to do so, to contribute
 266 l 267
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  said, that Ministers could not complain of a want of variety, boldness, or candour in the alternatives which had been offered by those who resisted their plan. His hon. Friends the Members for the city of Limerick and the county of Cork, said, if money were wanted to feed the poor, it ought to be taken from the revenues of the Established Church. His hon. Friend the Member for Middlesex said, it would be better to sweep away all local control, and to resort altogether to national rating. The hon. Members for Londonderry and for the county of Tipperary asked, with a significance which was not to be mistaken, why could not Connaught support
 286 l l d d 287 d. 288 289 and cries of l l l l 290 291 s d d. l 292
 SIR A. BROOKE , in explanation, denied that he had made any sweeping accusations against the landed proprietors in any part of Ireland. He had confined his observations to the proprietors in those districts which were now labouring under such extreme destitution; and he had qualified his remarks by stating that among
 293
 MR. GROGAN  said, that the proposition of the Government was a novel one, because it required that one part of Ireland should be taxed for the support of another part. He thought that the Government were not justified in throwing this burden upon the more fortunate districts without ascertaining whether or not the distressed districts were able to bear the imposition of the tax. They had made out no case for the proposed measure, except that which rested on the tyrant's plea, necessity, which would justify this as well as any other robbery. He also charged the Government with remissness, in not specifying what they thought would be the produce of the rate, and with not coming forward with any statement as to whether this rate would be continued or not. If the request put forward two years ago by the representatives of Ireland, that the English poor-law should be extended to Ireland in all its integrity, had been granted, this rate in and would not have
 256 257 l l l l s d. 258 l l 259 l 260 l l 261
 SIR G. GREY  said, that in justice to those who had drawn up the Dublin Police Act, he thought it right to state that upon comparison a great discrepancy would be found between the provisions of this Hill and those of the Dublin Police Act. He was also happy to say he had received a communication from the Lord Lieutenant, in which he requested that his testimony might be borne as to Mr. Berwick's great professional talents.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  was sure that his hon. Friend the Member for the city of Waterford had had no personal object to gain in the introduction of this Bill. The hon. Member had stated to him that he intended by his Bill the more speedy detection and punishment of offences, and he (Sir W. Somerville) had stated that he thought that to be a very desirable object. He was glad also to be able to speak to the abilities of Mr. Berwick.
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  was also happy to bear testimony to Mr. Berwick's abilities.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  thought the House would have regretted had he, when he first rose, interposed between them and the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He was extremely glad to find among them one who had displayed so
 282 283 l l.; l l l l l l 284 285 s
 MR. HENEY DRUMMOND : * "I must be permitted to consider laud as a commodity, the value of which depends on the rules which govern the value of every other commodity. In a former age we know that it was treated differently. It was considered as a means of affording a defence to the State. It was governed by a different policy. Every piece of land had an armed warrior to maintain its possession for his lord. You may smile at this, but the remnant of this system is in existence at the present moment as a legal fiction. The ideal seisin of land, as it is called, is ever present to the eye of the law, and must not be disturbed for one moment; and many absurd consequences still arise from this state of the law It is of no great practical consequence; put I mention it to show that * 324 we are in the habit of treating land as if it were essentially different from other commodities, when the reason for so considering it has entirely ceased. We make a mystery of it; we blindfold our own eyes in all dealings with it: before we can even talk respecting it correctly, we must learn a new language. We have been, hitherto, taught to consider it as a distinct article to be dealt in by a ion, under circumstances not existing in anything else."—( Stewdrt's Lectures. usufruct. 325 l. l. 326 l. l. l. l. l. l. Homer's Iliad 327 Vendors and Purchasers quoad hoc 328 "Knowing very well that there is not such a thing, to my belief, as a strictly marketable title in the kingdom, and knowing that a court of equity will not compel any man to take a title that is not free from doubt, cither as to matter of fact or matt or of law, we then submit, on the part of the vendor, this abstract of title to counsel, and request him to advise on that title, with a view of stopping all loopholes (if I may use such a term), or any objection that may be taken on the part of the purchaser. Counsel give their opinion. Whatever can be supplied in accordance with that opinion is supplied. What cannot be supplied is matter of consultation again with the counsel; and then conditions of sale are made and approved by the counsel to meet rather than to obviate any such objection," &c. "I do not differ with a word of what you state," &c. &c. "The present haw is evaded by conditions of sale. The holes in the title are stopped," &c. "I think the great bulk of the titles in this country are good holding titles, although they are not easily transferred, being unmarketable." "Sir Edward Sugden says, that out of fifty titles, the fiftieth only is bad, and that the examination of forty-nine is useless." 329 330
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  could assure the hon. Member for Surrey that he would not find amongst the present profession of lawyers one gentleman who would deny the evils of which he complained, or who did not agree with him as to the great importance of so simplifying the transfer of land that it could be made over with as much case as if it were so much stock. On his own behalf, as well as on that of those gentlemen, members of his own profession, with whom he was in the habit of conversing, he could assure the hon. Member, that the strongest desire was entertained to bring about that simplification. The only difference of opinion between the hon. Member and those gentlemen to whom he (the Solicitor General) referred, was as to the manner in which the proposed changes could be best carried into
 331 332 333 Gazette 334 335 336 brutum fulmen 337 bonâ fide
 MR. H. DRUMMOND  stated that all that he wanted was, some measure for the attainment of a practical object. He did not care about going into the lobby with a majority, but he should persist in his Motion, as he believed this was the best mode of proceeding. He wished to show landed gentlemen that there was no way to got out of the hands of the lawyers but by a registration of deeds. Unless this was made clear to the agricultural mind, they would do nothing.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  strongly recommended the withdrawal of the Bill. He protested against the establishment of a system of secret registration, as sanctioned by this Bill. Such a system would give protection to every species of fraudulent
 350
 MR. DRUMMOND , in reply: I think that to bring forward any subject merely for the sake of obtaining an expression of opinion is complete waste of time; to obtain an opinion is very well as a means to an end, and I will certainly not withdraw the Bill without a pledge on the part of the right hon. Baronet, that he will take up the measure. As to placing reliance on the exertions of lawyers in that direction, I cannot do better than adopt the sentiments and language of my right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Home Department, in his speech a few nights ago, which are as follows:—
 "He had alluded to the Act passed last Session for facilitating the transfer of land; and he must say that it was only by slow experience that a conviction was forced upon Gentlemen accustomed to the forms of law and equity, of the necessity of dispensing with some of those forms which in their notions, derived from education and long-cherished habits, were essential for the protection of the rights of property. No doubt those Gentlemen thought it necessary to lay down these rules for the protection of property, and they would be slow in receiving the conviction that they were unnecessary; it was no less true that the Court of Chancery was not a court likely to assist in the removal of the obstacles which prevented the transfer of property. At the same time, it was no doubt very desirable to accelerate the process of transfer."
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  was willing to take the whole responsibility of the matter. The Poor Law Commissioners had nothing to do with it; they acted on an opinion given by his hon. Colleague
 355
 LORD D. STUART  said, it was a great grievance that the parishes should have been made to pay contrary to the law. He considered that the Attorney General was not quite so free from blame as he imagined. He trusted the papers would be produced.
 MR. HENLEY  considered that neither the law officers of the Crown nor the Poor Law Commissioners were to blame in the matter. Certain parishes had applied to the Poor Law Commissioners for advice as to the construction of an Act of Parliament, which led to their laying the Act and case before the Attorney and Solicitor General for their opinion. In their private capacity the Poor Law Commissioners had forwarded that opinion to the various parishes throughout the country, for their guidance in arriving at a proper construction of a difficult Act of Parliament; but it was quite optional for those parishes to adopt the advice or not. He trusted that the House would not agree to any Motion which would have for its object the reopening of the accounts which had already been audited and closed. The Poor Law Commissioners had done all in their power in explaining the construction of a very difficult Act of Parliament.
 MR. BAINES  agreed with the hon. Member for Oxfordshire, that it was desirable
 356
 MR. BANKES  considered that a degree of blame attached either to the Poor Law Commissioners or to the Government, because they resisted his suggestion that a declaratroy Act should be passed, which proposition, if it had been adopted, would have had the effect of saving a very large amount of expenditure. But the Government having resisted that Motion, therefore they were to blame.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  reminded the hon. Member for Dorsetshire that when he made the Motion, the question was being considered by a Committee which was then sitting. That Committee reported that there was no necessity for a declaratory Act.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  was glad that the papers would be laid before the House, because the matter could not rest here. He considered it his duty to follow up this subject, because he considered the House would not sanction so great an act of injustice as that which had arisen from its bad legislation.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) has complained of my noble Friend having carried this discussion beyond the bounds of the Motion before the House—of my noble Friend having voluntarily taken that course, and having introduced other subjects into discussion; but the fact is, the hon. and learned Gentleman who brought forward the Motion introduced all those topics which have been characterised as irrelevant, and my noble Friend has done nothing more than follow, point by point, the statements of the hon. and learned Member, and given answers to them, which, I think, he has done in a tolerably satisfactory way. But it appears to the hon. Member for Oxfordshire that not only did he go into a great many statements totally irrelevant to this return, but also that the Motion conveys blame to the Government for what it has done in this matter. I certainly had not discovered anything of that sort in the Motion before the hon. Member for Oxfordshire told us of it. I had not been aware that a Motion of censure on a Government could have been implied in an application for an account of the number of guns sent back by the Board
 375 376 377 378
 The LORD ADVOCATE  stated that he should vote for the Amendment, and he did not do so from any dislike to the system of registration, but because he disapproved of the particular plan proposed by the hon. Member for Surrey. On the contrary, he knew that in Scotland it had given great security to the titles of estates. They had had experience of it for upwards of two hundred years, and it had not been found to give rise to litigation, but directly the contrary, as it ensured the greatest confidence in titles. The registration in Scotland was in the first place compulsory; and, in the second place, titles were not acknowledged unless founded on their registration. This registration was not close or secret, but was kept with the avowed object of publicity.
 MR. URQUHART  said, he should reserve what he had to say until the question came properly before the House. The noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) spoke as if he were not Minister of England, but ruler of Europe, as if the cares of every Government were on him, and did so after every Government had been upset or convulsed which he had pretended to put in order. The noble Viscount the Member for Tiverton had declared his readiness to meet every discussion when papers were produced, but took good care that time should never come. He would remind the noble Lord of one transaction when he urged the impossibility of producing papers when negotiations were pending, and the useless ness of doing so when they were over, in the same breath, and by that argument
 379
 MR. BANKES , in reply, said the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs had objected to the use of the word "insurgents" in his Motion. He was ready, if that would meet with the wishes of the noble Lord, to leave out that word; and he also proposed to alter the last clause of his Motion, in which it was stated that the arms were withdrawn with the consent of Her Majesty's Government. It now appeared that that was not the case; and therefore he proposed to substitute the words—with the consent of Her Majesty's Secretary for Foreign Affairs. His Motion then would run thus:—
 380 "Account of all Ordnance stores, returned from that department to any contractor in the year 1848, for the purpose of being sent to the Sicilians in arms against Her Majesty's ally the King of the Two Sicilies, with the consent of Her Majesty's Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs."
 MR. BANKES  rose to move for a return of which he had given notice. The hon. Gentleman said, he conceived that return was of some importance, because the question it involved affected the honour and character of England as a nation. It was a remarkable fact, that in this country, where matters of foreign as well as of domestic policy were so freely canvassed, the representatives of the people in Parliament bestowed but very little attention on our relations with foreign States. There was always some reason ready to be given by the Members on the
 357 358 359 360 361
 MR. MUNTZ  thought that the lawyers were the last persons to whom they should refer a matter of this kind, as their interest would be to multiply difficulties. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Circenster stated that he had a most extensive business as a conveyancer in the west of England, and no doubt he had found it to be very profitable. There were, however, difficulties in carrying out a measure of this kind which the hon. Member did not seem to appreciate. It was rather a monstrous thing that a man who had never read the title-deeds of his estates should leave it to the lawyers to involve him in litigation. He could not help referring to the present very expensive mode of transferring property. This might be done without the investigation of the title-deeds. What right had a man who was not interested in the matter to investigate another man's title to his estate? He thought that by means of some Act of Parliament, they might adopt a plan by which every man who chose might ask the Government for a re-grant of his estate, with new and simple titles; and this could readily be done, provided, however, he had advertised a certain number of times in the newspapers, stating his intention, and if no one made an adverse claim to the property within a certain period. By such a mode they might have very simple titles, and few papers would be necessary, and this could be effected at little or no expense.
 MR. MACGREGOR  said, if he had known this question would have been brought under discussion, he would have brought facts and statements to bear upon it which would have given it a very different complexion. He would say, if the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs could have been justified in any interference whatever with the affairs of other countries, it would have been in the affairs of Sicily. He did not think there had been anything like that interference with which the noble Lord was charged. He (Mr. Macgregor) knew that country well, and had travelled over many countries called despotic, but in no country did he ever see so many military executions for presumptive crimes as in the island of Sicily. The Sicilians had acted with the greatest harmony, and there was the greatest domestic tranquillity. With respect to what was done either by the English or French admirals, he considered it was neither more nor less than two gentlemen walking across a field, who interfered to prevent a great many people from ill-using a woman and her children. That was what was done at Messina. There never was a greater act of humanity than that performed by Sir William Parker with regard to the people of Messina. He had no hesitation in saying the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs had
 371
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  congratulated the House upon the full, frank, and absolute admission made by the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, of the natural and just right of nations to the management of their own affairs. He trusted, after this, he should have the benefit of the noble Lord's support when Ireland came to make the same appeal. The case of that country was, at least, equally as strong as that of the Sicilians, whilst, with the exception of a miserable pretext for an insurrection last year among a very small section of the people, she had advanced those rights only by peaceable and legitimate means, which the Sicilians had endeavoured to obtain by blood and rebellion. He congratulated the noble Lord upon this approach to better counsels, and upon his entire recognition of the compatibility of the legislative and administrative freedom of Sicily with the rights of the Crown of the united kingdom of the Two Sicilies. He would find the same compatibility in Ireland towards the Crown of England, if he would only try it. The noble Lord had said there was no divine right in kings to misrule a country. Neither was there any divine right in Parliaments to misrule a country. Nations, he said, speaking of Sicily, were not made for sovereigns or governors. Neither was Ireland. The noble Lord had spoken of the ancient Sicilian constitution, and of its perfect recognition at a former period by Naples. In the same manner he (Mr. O'Connell) might allude to the ancient Irish constitution which had existed for 500 years, and to its distinct recognition in 1782 by the English Parliament, when an Act of Parliament was passed in this country declaring that the Irish Legislature was to be free for ever. But he should not enter further on this subject, as he was sure he must have the support of the noble Lord in a Motion for the repeal of the Union, as of course the noble Lord Would not be so inconsistent as to oppose such a measure after his speech that day. There was only one other point on which he would beg leave to make a single remark,
 372
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the noble Viscount the Secretary for Foreign Affairs had made no effort to justify his interference in Sicily, but had put forward one of his hon. supporters on the bench behind him (the hon. Member for Glasgow), to perform that task. The question before the House was the simple and narrow one of the propriety of interfering with people who were fighting in another part of the world; but though the noble Lord had said a great deal on every other subject, he had not made a single allusion to this main question, except one incidental but very remarkable one. The noble Lord had shown extreme sensitiveness—or something more—lest there should be any expression in the resolution that might in any way pledge the House to any opinion as to the matter in dispute; but it was very strange that the noble Lord should, in the very same breath, have himself used the terms "Sicilian Government," with regard to the revolted subjects of the King of the Two Sicilies, while he was so thinskinned lest a word that might be construed into an expression of opinion should proceed from the House. The noble Lord's observation proved that he had himself, at all events in his own mind, recognised a Government in Sicily, distinct from that of the King. This observation of the noble Lord was followed up by the speech of the hon. Member for Glasgow, in which the hon. Member had expressed his conviction that the noble Lord had done more than any other statesman
 373
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought that there were many persons who might be favourably disposed to the general principle of registration, who would yet consider the details of such an onerous and complex a nature, that they would consider them to more than outweigh the advantages to be derived from the adoption of the general principle. It had been said by some hon. Members that a system of registration would tend to improve the value of property—and the hon. and learned Member for Oxford had said, that on the Continent, where a system of registration prevailed, land was sold for several years more purchase than it was it England. He had not, however, heard it said that land realised higher prices in Middlesex, where a system of registration prevailed, than in Surrey, where it did not exist. The present Bill proposed to arrange the transfer of property on the principle of registration. He did not think the adoption of such a measure either very advantageous or very feasible. The principle of the transfer of property was very different from that of registration. He did not wish to go against the feeling of the House, in opposing the second reading of this Bill; but he wished, in giving his support to it, to guard himself against being considered as pledged in any
 348
 MR. HUME  said, he rose principally in order to express his gratification at the high position in which, according to the noble Lord, this country stood, in being enabled by its moral force alone to preserve the peace of the world, because, when he brought forward his resolution at a future period for a reduction in the estimates for the support of the Army and Navy, he believed he could now fairly ask the noble Lord for his support on the occasion. The question before the House was a very simple one. That which occurred now might have occurred very often before, namely, that a contractor, having orders from different parties, might ask one party to allow a portion of the arms furnished under the contract, to be returned for the purpose of giving them to another party whose order was of a more pressing character. But at the same time it was certainly very unfortunate that the Government, after having decided to remain neuter in the contest, should have been a party to an act having so much
 374
 MR. MULLINGS  could not agree to the principle of the proposed Bill. As one acquainted with the details of one of the largest conveyancing firms in the west of England, through whose hands thousands of properties had passed, he denied that the expense of transferring property would be lessened by its operation. On the contrary, he believed, if the Bill were carried into effect, transfers of property would be attended with a vast deal more of cost. Neither did he consider it would facilitate the sale of lands. When people were about purchasing, it was not so much about the title that an inquiry was made, as the condition of the property. Those were the considerations which governed the purchase of property, and the expense of conveyance did not influence the transaction. The instances of great expense attending the conveyance of property to which the hon. Member for Surrey had referred, must have occurred previously to the abolition of fines and recoveries. Since that abolition had taken place, that which used to cost 100 l. 349 l.
 MR. SLANEY  said, he entirely concurred in the view taken of the subject by the hon. and learned Member who had just spoken, and thought that the gratitude of the House and the country was due to the hon. Member for Surrey for bringing forward that measure. At a time when they were addressing themselves to the consideration of the burdens upon land, it was a fair subject to discuss the large charges to which it was subject in consequence of the difficulties and expense of conveyancing, and the legal technicalities and inconvenience attendant upon its transfer from one party to another. Now, when all were agreed about the existence of the evil, it was time that something should be done to remedy it. He hoped, therefore, they would hear some statement on the part of the Government to the effect that if the present Bill was not allowed to be referred to a Select Committee, they would bring in some other measure upon the subject to do away with an acknowledged evil. There was another point of view in which he would look at the question. The great, the rich, and the opulent were able to take
 345
 MR. EWART  was satisfied with the assurance given by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, that the Government was well disposed to legislate upon this subject. He did not think it would be fair to bind them down at the present moment, in the absence of the report from the Commissioners, to introduce a measure on the subject. When that report was presented, the expectation throughout the country would be that Her Majesty's Government would act upon it. As he considered it would be objectionable to proceed with this measure while that report was pending, he hoped that the hon. Member for Surrey would withdraw the Bill, on the understanding that the Government would take up the question at the earliest moment possible.
 MR. W. P. WOOD  had listened with great anxiety to the speech of his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General, for the purpose of seeing whether or not there were any hope of some measures being at last taken to carry into full and complete
 338 Treatise on Conveyancing 339 bonâ fide 340 l. 341 342 343 344
 SIR G. GREY  said, that he quite concurred in the opinion expressed by the hon. and learned Member for Oxford, that the House was very much indebted to his hon. Friend opposite for having brought this subject before the House in a definite shape. If the hon. Member's object had been to elicit from the House an expression of its opinion in favour of a general system of registration of deeds, and documents affecting land, with a view not only to the security of property, but to the increased facilities for the transfer of real property, and a diminution of the present enormous expense which now attended it, he thought that he ought to be well satisfied with the result of his exertions. There had not been the slightest opinion expressed in that House by any hon. Member hostile to the principle of a general registration of property. Every hon. Member who had addressed the House, whatever might have been his opinions with respect to the details of the measure, had expressed
 346 347
 SIR G. GREY  admitted the fairness of the retort made by his hon. Friend; but be hardly expected that what he had said with reference to the Irish Encumbered Estates Act would be quoted in favour of the abolition of protection to the rights of unborn children; for that it was alleged would be the effect of his hon. Friend's plan. He confessed that he had never thought that a speech of his upon such a subject would have been quoted in defence of such a measure as the present, for his observations had not the slightest reference to such matters. He was desirous that every facility should be afforded—with every regard to the rights of property—to diminish the expense of the transfer of property, by shortening the length of conveyances—by
 351
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  seconded the Amendment.
 SIR H. VERNEY  should also vote for the second reading of this Bill, because he believed it to be the only plan by which they could give effective security to title-deeds. He believed that a measure like the present was of great importance to the poor man who wished to become the proprietor of a small piece of land. He was sorry the Attorney General had not promised to introduce a measure of this kind, as he should have preferred leaving the matter in the hands of the Government; but as they had no intention of the kind, he should vote for this Bill.
 SIR J. WALSH  said, the noble Viscount the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs had entered into an unusually discursive course on the present occasion, and had been tempted, very much contrary to his wont, into a general discussion of the politics of Europe. He had spoken of the commanding position occupied by this country in the eyes of Europe, and of the general assurances of good-will which she received from foreign Powers. He had also entered, without waiting for the papers of which he had spoken, very much into the merits of the Sicilian question, and had more than indicated his belief that the Sicilians had very good grounds for their quarrel. He would, however, rather follow the noble Lord's precept than his example, and defer any discussion of the general question till they had before them the long-deferred papers. He would only mention one point which the noble Lord had omitted on this occasion, although he had referred to it on the Motion of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, on Italian affairs. The noble Lord had remarked more than once that the Earl of Minto had interfered in the affairs of Naples and Sicily at the request of the King of Naples; but on the former occasion to which he had alluded he had understood the noble Lord to say, that the Earl of Minto was on the point of arranging all points of difference, on satisfactory and amicable terms, between the King of Naples and his Sicilian subjects, and thought he would have accomplished that object had not the Sicilians, in consequence of the stimulus and excitement imparted by the events of February, broken from all the stipulations which had been made by the Earl of Minto, and nearly agreed upon. This he thought an important point, as showing that it was the Sicilians who rejected the terms proposed by the Earl of Minto. The question more immediately before them lay in a very narrow compass, and did not necessarily include any reference to the merits of the quarrel between the King and his Sicilian subjects. It was simply this, were we neutral in the struggle going on between Naples and Sicily—was the position of England that of a neutral Power—and, if so, was this transaction inconsistent with the position and character of a neutral Power? That was the plain question which was raised by the Motion of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Dorsetshire.
 369 370
 SIR R. PRICE  remarked, that it struck him that it was essential that something should be done with respect to a registration of deeds, but he felt that great difficulties were attached to many clauses of this Bill. The present system pressed most heavily on the landed proprietors of this country. The Bill of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Surrey did not go the length which was requisite; but he should vote for it with the view of showing that he thought some form of general registration was absolutely necessary, so that they might get rid of that constant system of fighting and attacking every title-deed.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, as the hon. and learned Gentleman has stated, I shall have no objection to produce the accounts for which he has moved, provided he will omit, or, if he does not consent, I shall call upon the House to sanction the omission, of the last words of the Motion he has proposed. I object to the latter words, because those words imply an opinion as to the merits of the question pending
 362 363 "The right divine of kings to govern wrong." 364 "Fell not, but stands unshaken, from within, Or from without, gainst all temptations armed." 365 366 367 368
 VISCOUNT MAHON  rose to call the attention of the House to the instructions issued in the years 1846, 1847, and 1848, with respect to the transportation and discipline of convicts. The noble Lord commenced by observing, that it was evident, from the papers laid upon the table of the House, that the ground between him and hon. Gentlemen opposite had been much narrowed. The noble Earl the Secretary for the Colonies had again and again declared that transportation should be disused, and that we ought to provide for our convicts by the use of hulks, and by the construction of penitentiaries at home. That was the ground which the noble Earl in former years, as a Member of this House, had been accustomed to assume. Now he (Lord Mahon) certainly could not consider it a matter of blame against the noble Earl, that he had, in dealing with a most intricate and delicate subject, been led greatly to modify his views. But what he did complain of was this—that Earl Grey had cast aside some valuable recommendations of his predecessors,
 385 386 387 388 "I have to inform you, that it is not the intention of Her Majesty's Government that transportation to Van Diemen's Land shall be resumed at the expiration of two years, for which it has been already decided it shall be discontinued." "The change intended was of no less extent than a virtual abolition of the system of transportation which had for so many years prevailed under
 389 "I have already said, that the change which Government has considered ought to be introduced extends to no less than a virtual abolition of transportation; because, when I speak of transportation, I do not include the punishment of offenders at Gibraltar or Bermuda." 390 l. l. l. l. 391 392 bagnes 393 394 l. 395 "That in the opinion of the petitioners transportation had proved an admirable means of punishment, as well as for the moral reformation of the convicts; and further, that whilst the transportation of prisoners relieved the pressure of competition in the labour market of the mother country, aggravated as it was by the labour of the convicts in the Penitentiary competing with the industry of the poor but honest classes in England, it was at the same time a great advantage to the colony, and added to the demand for labour at home by increased consumption of English manufactures, the raw materials for which were also raised in the colony almost entirely by convict labour." "He was strongly inclined to believe that the supply of labour furnished will have been at least equal to the demand, or, at all events, to such a demand as would realise the fair expectations of the emigrants." "During the last twelve months, immigration has been carried on to an unprecedented extent. Nevertheless, those now arrivals, with exceptions
 396 "most strongly persuaded, that unless measures be taken for the resumption of emigration not later than the spring and summer of next year, the want of labour will be felt as injuriously here as ever, and wages will rise to their former exorbitant rate." "We want labour for other reasons. The present insufficient supply is tending to produce a total disruption of society. The capitalist and the employer are the insulted drudges of the persons they are, nevertheless, forced at any rate to employ; whilst the exorbitant wages paid lead to idleness and dissipation; and there is no present help for it. A settler must give 30 l. l. s. 397 "I was informed, that it is not the intention of the Government that transportation to Van Diemen's Land shall be renewed at the expiration of two years." 398 "As a Christian prelate, my first wish would he, that the flock committed to my charge should be preserved as far as possible from any admixture of crime, or any chance of contamination by those who have been convicted. But if I am to look to transportation, and to the influx of convicts as a settled point, if I am told it is to remain as a part of the imperial policy of England, I should then say, that of all systems for Van Diemen's Land with which I have become acquainted from information or from reflection, the most promising, most effective, and most capable of being worked out, is an improvement of the system of assignment." "On this single establishment (he added) by one master seventy labourers have been employed at the same time. They were nearly all convicts. By convict labour, and that alone, this fine establishment was founded and maintained. Nothing of the sort could have existed in the island if convicts had not been transmitted thither, and assigned upon their landing." 399 Optimus ille est, qui minimis urgetur. 400 "An Address for Copies or Extracts of any Communications received by the Secretary of State from the Governors of Ceylon and the Cape, respecting the Transportation of Convicts to those Colonies."
 VISCOUNT MAHON , in explanation, said he referred to a recommendation of Viscount Howick, when Secretary at War, respecting Norfolk Island, and not to any recent despatches.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  resisted the Motion.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  would not divide the House, but thought the hon. Baronet had manifested more obstinacy than good sense in the course he pursued. The hon. and gallant Member then moved that the name of the Attorney General be substituted for that of Mr. Horsman. If it were urged as a reason for placing Sir J. Hanmer on the Committee that he knew a great deal about this sort of business, then it applied with increased force to his Motion, for the Attorney General knew a great deal more. The Treasury bench affected great purity, but the fact was, they almost stunk of bribery.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  was quite ready to serve, if such was the wish of the House; but if it was merely to gratify the hon. and gallant Member he should decline.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP : The hon. and learned Gentleman is either very much conversant with bribery, or else he is very much belied.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL : The hon. and gallant Member has no right to say so. I have already denied it. [Colonel SIBTHORP: What?] What you say I have been guilty of. I have denied in this House that I have had anything to do with bribery, and the hon. and gallant Member has no right to repeat it.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  utterly denied having charged the Attorney General with having been guilty of bribery. ["Oh!"]
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  hoped this matter would go no further.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I rise with the hope that I may induce the House of Commons to adopt a great measure of justice, of conciliation, and of policy. It is not my intention, on this occasion, to enter into any details demonstrative of the great distress which exists among the agricultural classes of this country. Whether that distress exist or not, is unnecessary for the argument which I mean to recommend to the attention of the House in the resolutions which I have placed on the table. It is still less necessary to enter into these details, because there is a great authority that this distress does exist. It is only a few nights since an hon. Gentleman, a member of this House, came forward and offered his voluntary evidence, if it were necessary, to establish the fact—a witness not to be suspected of any morbid sympathy for the agricultural class—I mean the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright). He told us the other night that he could not conceal from himself, that the distress amongst the agricultural class was severe and terrible. I am willing to allow this state of affairs to rest on the testimony of that hon. Member. Nor am I going to enter into any inquiry as to the cause of this distress. That is not essential or necessary to the argument which I mean to offer in support of the resolutions which I have placed on the table. But if I wanted to know what was the cause of that distress, I would also appeal to another witness on the benches opposite, one that will be admitted by all as a great and unimpeachable authority—I mean the hon. Member for the West Riding
 425 426 l. l. 427 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 428 l. 429 430 Vœ victis! s. 431 432 à priori 433 434 435 l. l. 436 437 l. l. l. 438 439 l. l. l. 440 l. 441 l. l. l. 442 l l. 443 l. l. l. 444 Hansard. "Lord John Russell is deeply sensible of the embarrassment caused by the present state of public affairs. He will be ready, therefore, to do all in his power, as a Member of Parliament, to promote the settlement of that question, which, in present circumstances, is the source of so much danger, especially to the welfare and peace of Ireland. Lord John Russell would have formed his Ministry on the basis of a complete free trade in corn, to be established at once, without gradation or delay. He would have accompanied that proposal with measures of relief, to a considerable extent, of the occupiers of land from the burdens to which they are subjected." 445 446 447 s. 448 449 450 451 452 453
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, as the debate could not probably be brought to a close upon that night, he thought an adjournment would be desirable. He would, therefore, suggest that the debate be adjourned to Wednesday next.
 MR. URQUHART  rose to put a question to the noble Lord the Secretary of
 384 Clamor Publico
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  seconded the Motion. He would confine himself to the state of the Irish prisons, and begged the attention of the House and the Government to the subject. They had been accustomed to bear of violence, famine, and disease from Ireland, but he wished to direct their notice to the condition of the Irish gaols. It appeared, from the report of the Inspector General of Prisons in Ireland, that in 1847 there were 12,883 persons crowded into gaols designed to contain no more than 5,655. He regretted to say that of late years there had been, in that country, an increase of crime as well as of distress. In 1845, the number of convictions in Ireland was 7,105; of committals, 16,696. In 1846, convictions, 8,693; commitments, 18,492. In 1847, convictions, 15,233; committals, 31,209. So that between 1845 and 1847, the commitments and convictions had nearly doubled. But there was still a more awful part of the subject. The deaths in gaols were truly frightful. In 1835, they were only 81; in 1836, they were 132; but in 1847, they reached the alarming amount of 1,315. It might be said, perhaps, that those deaths had arisen from the want of due care and attention on the part of those officers who were bound to look after these matters; but it was not so, as would appear from the following extract of the report of the Inspector General of Prisons in Ireland, which he would read to the House:—
 "No task can well be more discouraging and, indeed, melancholy than that of attempting to detail the history of the Irish prisons for the year 1847. Years of untiring assiduity had overcome many of the evils under which they formerly laboured. Our predecessors as inspectors, and the various boards of superintendence, local inspectors, and governors had, under circumstances of great difficulty, brought the country gaols, as a general rule, to a state of which any country
 401 "To provide for this latter body (convicts), we see no other mode practicable, at the present moment, except by procuring hulks, to be stationed either in Kingston or Cork harbour, or making arrangements for sending still greater numbers abroad, should it be found possible to resume the system of transportation. We may further observe that the prisons at this moment most crowded, are, by a singular chance, almost all seaport towns—namely, Cork, Tralee, Galway, and Castlebar; and it might be worth the consideration of Government, whether they should not supply, or empower boards of superintendence to hire, tonnage in the various harbours, for the purpose of confining prisoners, as a temporary measure for meeting the present emergency. Such a scheme as this, of course, could only be contemplated under the extreme circumstances of misery, distress, and disease at present existing in those prisons. For the gaols more inland, such as Roscommon, Carrick-on-Shannon, Armagh, Omagh, &c., we feel that there exist no remedies except
 402 "In fact, we have little doubt, that had matters progressed, as we had every reason to hope they would, that the very greatest benefits, both to the criminal population and the rest of the community, would have resulted from the very general effort which was making in almost all the prisons to improve their discipline, introduce a system of constant employment, and gradually to carry out the principle of separate confinement. It is lamentable to reflect that this prospect is entirely overcast, and that it is impossible to say, in the present melancholy state of things, resulting from the distress of the lower orders, and the financial difficulties of the different counties, when it will be practicable to resume the onward course from which we expected so much advantage. At the present moment, we grieve to say, that the efforts of the boards of superintendence and the inspector general will avail little, except to palliate in a degree the almost inevitable evils with which they have had, and for some time must have, to contend."
 MR. BRIGHT  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. HUME  said, he had listened with attention to the speech of the hon. Member who had just resumed his seat; and he could not but express his utter astonishment at the remedies suggested by the hon. Member, and the extraordinary means by which he proposed to relieve that distress which he depicted as existing amongst the agricultural interests. He (Mr. Hume) had paid particular attention to the hon. Gentleman's speech, in order to guess, if possible, by what means—by what practical means—that distress was to be removed; but he had listened in vain. The fact was, the hon. Gentleman's speech was not at all in accordance with the resolutions proposed. It was stated, that certain burdens had pressed with undue severity upon the occupiers of land. They had, however, heard nothing whatever of the occupiers of land from the hon. Gentleman, for his observations were principally directed to matters affecting the landlords. With respect to local taxation, he wished to ask those on whose behalf the hon. Gentleman had come forward that evening, how the tenant farmers could be
 454 l. d. s. d. 455 456 l. l. ad misericordiam 457 d. l. l. 458 l. l. d. and a laugh. d d. 459 l. l. l. l. l l. l. l l. l. l. l. 460 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. 461 Cheers.
 MR. HUME  said, much that had fallen from the right hen. Home Secretary, would have been better understood by the House and the public if the rule existed of bringing before the House a detail of the measures that had been adopted during the last year. Many statements had been made by the right hon. Baronet which were perfectly new. The right hon. Baronet had read extracts from a great many papers and documents, but it was impossible for any one to carry them all in his mind. [Sir G. GREY: I did not read a single despatch that has not been already laid before the House.] He was not aware of it. Two things had come out in the course of the discussion—namely, that the noble Earl the Secretary of State for Colonial Affairs had made very hasty and
 417 418
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  begged to ask who were the parties responsible for the frightful overcrowding of the gaols of Kerry mentioned by the hon. Member for that county?
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, that while discussing the horrors of transportation they had overlooked those of the gaols in this country, which he considered equally great. [ A laugh.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he was anxious to say a few words on the subject before the House, and chiefly on the portion of it in regard to which justice had scarcely been done to many distinguished persons who were in office at the time; he meant the probation system which was pursued in Van Diemen's Land with the convicts carried from this country in the year 1846. He believed it was entered upon by the noble Lord now at the head of Her Majesty's Government; that it was developed by his noble Friend Lord Stanley; and when he (Mr. Gladstone) afterwards took the Colonial Office, he began to check that system, and to impress his Colleagues in office with a growing suspicion of it, after it had existed for eighteen months or two years. It was unfortunately true that that system had been productive of the greatest horrors and iniquities. But it was only fair justice to those who adopted that system, and also to those who developed and applied it, to state that those horrors and iniquities were not to be charged on the main principles of the system itself. The House would agree with him that much necessarily depended on the working out of any system whatsoever; but the instrumentality by which this system was carried out was strikingly defective; the rules were narrow, and the management so glaringly bad, that it would require the exertion of the greatest ingenuity more effectually to defeat the end proposed. He was now speaking of the system and its rules and discipline, as applied to the convicts; and he was obliged to say that during the period when the greatest evils existed, and when official information was of the greatest importance. Government were kept in utter darkness; and that when they struck the blow at the system, they did so on the strength of private information, and not on information derived from official sources. It was duo to Lord Stanley to keep in mind that when this system was in full operation, it had never been, up to that period, fairly carried out in Van Diemen's Land; and the best proof of that was, that the system was at the present moment still in operation. There were 30,000 convicts still subject to that system in Van Diemen's Land. [Sir G. GREY disputed this observation.] He repeated it, that the system was still in force, and there were several thousands of individuals in probation parties. The question then was, what were those improvements? Sir W. Denison, in June
 421 422 423
 MR. EWART  agreed that it was by dispersion rather than compression that any good was to be hoped for from transportation; but he rose to ask two questions—first, how far the principle of dispersion was carried out at the present moment; and, secondly, whether Van Diemen's Land was to be continued as the principal colony to which transports were to be sent in future?
 SIR G. GREY  said, there could be no objection to the Motion of the noble Viscount the Member for Hertford. He had understood the noble Lord to have stated on the previous day, in reply to a question he had put to him, that it was not his intention to ask for any opinion from that House on the subject which he had brought under their consideration, and that his principal object was to elicit from him (Sir G. Grey) a statement of the means at present adopted by the Government for carrying into effect the sentence of transportation. He thanked the noble Lord for giving him the opportunity of making such a state-
 403 404 "They have described the system as lifeless and inert for the purposes of good, the redundance of moral evil as overflowing upon the colony at large, in increase of crime, and sensibly affecting the general security; the probation parties, intended to be the scone of reformatory influences, as nothing else than schools of advanced depravity, in which the only effective instruction to be acquired, was instruction in the way of effacing every remaining trace of virtuous sentiment or habit." "While much exaggeration may possibly prevail, yet certainly such a state of things subsists among the convict population of Van Diemen's Land, and particularly in the probation parties which form the basis of the whole system, as to make it the imperative duty of Her Majesty's Government to use immediate and vigorous efforts for its effectual reform." 405 406 "The result of our entire experience is the conclusion that the separation of one prisoner from another is the only sound basis on which a reformatory discipline can he established with any reasonable hope of success. In carrying out any system of separate confinement, we are of opinion that it is quite indispensable to secure a constant and vigilant medical superintendence, and those mitigations of absolute solitude, which we believe to have operated so beneficially for the bodily and mental health of the prisoners at Pentonville. We mean chiefly a regular and frequent visitation by the superior officers; moral and religious instruction judiciously imparted; employment that will interest the mind as well as occupy the time of the prisoners; and regular exercise out of doors. If these precautions be duly attended to, we have no doubt that great public advantage would result from the general application of this modified system of separate confinement. For whilst we believe that it is open to no objections which are not applicable to every other mode of imprisonment for long periods, we are confident that it affords moral advantages which no other can secure." The Precise Present Character of Transpor- 407 tation "This sort of confinement has of late years been extravagantly commended by some, and as loudly reprobated by others. The truth seems to lie between the two extreme opinions. We are led, by our own observation, to value it but little as an active agency for reforming criminals, but to allow it a high place as auxiliary, in general, to that which is reformatory in the highest degree—Christian instruction in the hands of Christian men. The separate system is free, certainly, from many things which impede the reformation of criminals; from the perpetual distrust and perpetual punishment which are necessary to enforce silence in association; and from the grosser vices of the older style of persons, mutual contamination and hardening in villany. It allows a return to feelings of self-respect. It removes all possibility of combination for evil purposes, and prevents the exertion of that fascinating influence which the practised villain exerts so destructively over the novice in crime. It protects the penitent in his first desires and efforts to return to God. It is something, also, as regards others less hopeful, even for a time, effectually to break the chain of their evil habits, and to compel the mind, however reluctant, to turn inwards and reflect, until the dormant powers of conscience be aroused. Beyond this it does not seem to go in producing amendment; and we are persuaded, that if the benign and saving influence of our Divine religion were withdrawn from a prison on the separate plan, not a single inmate would ever leave its walls a whit more reformed than from any other. If it be thought, from what has been written of late years on the subject, that a greater efficacy should be attributed to separate confinement, let it be borne in mind, that contemporaneously with its adoption in any prison, there has been very much greater care taken than ever used to be in the selection of officers to superintend the discipline, and to convey moral and religious instruction to the prisoners." "But, whatever may be thought of the influence of separate confinement as a means of reformation, there should be no doubt about its utility as a punishment, if not carried to an extreme. It is a most severe one, certainly; but this is not without great advantages, even in an economical point of view, for, in proportion as it is severer, the sentence may be abridged, and its heaviest pressure is upon those who deserve it most. Criminals, of all men, can least boar to be alone. A thoroughly bad man, by himself, is the greatest coward, and, without his accustomed stimulants, the most wretched of beings; we have no hesitation, therefore, in stating, that such a man would prefer even the scanty food, the vermin, and the
 408 "The decision of Lord Brougham's Committee on the point, it is important to observe, is, 'that the separate system seems exactly to supply what was needed in gaol discipline, but should be administered with great care.' " "We conclude these general observations by a
 409 410 l. l. 411 l. 412 413 414 415 l. 416
 SIR G. GREY  replied to the hon. Member for Droitwich, that character and conduct would be considered in determining whether there should be any abatement in the sentence of prisoners; but that the maximum period of separate imprisonment should be eighteen months. In answer to
 424
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  thought it had been the feeling of the House and of the country for some time past, that the state of this question was most unsatisfactory, and he therefore thanked the noble Lord for calling attention to it. In a debate which took place two years ago, he had himself expressed an opinion to the effect that, provided there was sufficient gaol accommodation, it might be desirable that the earlier period of the convict's punishment should be passed in this country. But the change was made prematurely, and he was afraid that without increased prison room most serious evils would arise. Whatever course the Government might think proper to pursue hereafter, with regard to it, he hoped that it would be such as to relieve the overcrowded gaols of this country. The magistrates of Yorkshire felt
 419 s. d. l. s. l. l.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : With regard to the first question which had been put to him by the hon. Member, he had no communication to make to the House, except that the statements referred to were not true. As to the second, whether he was prepared to lay on the table the communications brought by Count Mirasol, his answer was, that he had them not, and, therefore, could not produce them.
 MR. HERRIES  rose to oppose the further progress of the Bill, and stated that he should conclude his remarks by moving as an Amendment that it be read a second time this day six months. He had undertaken to make this Motion, because he objected to the principle of the Bill. If it were not conceived in the spirit in which it was conceived—if it were not framed in the manner in which it was framed, he should, in conformity with what he had stated last Session, have not been unwilling to allow a measure of this great im-
 465 466 "That your petitioners view with the greatest alarm the progress of a measure by which it is proposed to take away from this country the advantages it has so long and so successfully enjoyed, and by which such great results have been produced; and (as they believe unwisely) to invite foreign nations to share those advantages with us—nations utterly unable, even if willing, to confer upon us an equivalent in return. That one self-evident result would be the substitution (to a great extent) of foreign for British and colonial shipping, the employment of the labour and capital of other countries in lieu of our own, and the creation of new relations between foreign nations and our own colonies; thus weakening the ties which bind the latter to the mother country, and diminishing British power and influence throughout the world. But above all these, your petitioners would most earnestly implore your honourable House to look at the consequences of this measure as regards the British Navy. Dependent as this is for the supply of the best seamen upon the mercantile marine, can it be supposed that it will maintain its present power when that supply is withdrawn, as it inevitably will be, by the diminution of merchant shipping? and with a navy badly manned and inefficient, how, in the event of war, your petitioners would respectfully ask, will our remaining trade be protected, our colonies continued to us, or even our national existence secured?" 467 468 469 "That it is the opinion of the meeting that the abolition of the navigation laws, so far as Canada is concerned, would prove disastrous to its prosperity—compelling its inhabitants to compete with foreigners whose resources and whose restrictive policy give them a prodigious superiority over us, enabling them, while they exclude our shipping from the navigation of their waters, to possess themselves of our carrying trade, thus producing results which must prove destructive, not only to Canadian interests, but also to those of the British shipowner." 470 471 472 473 A ces questions, le Ministère Impérial ne peut que répondre en rappelant ce qui a subsisté jusqu'à présent. Appréciant la haute importance des relations commerciales entre les deux empires et les avantages qui en résultent réciproquement, le Gouvernement Russe a toujours eu soin de traiter les bâtimens Britanniques qui visitent ses ports sur le pied d'une égalité aussi parfaite que possible avec les bâtimens nationaux. Ce principe a été maintenu en Russie alors même que les bâtimens Russes ne jouissaient pas encore d'une parfaite réciprocité dans les ports Britanniques. Le même principe a été formellement consacré par le traité de commerce et de navigation conclu le 30 Decembre—11 Janvier, 1842–3. Ce traité est encore en vigueur. L'état de choses qu'il a établi en faveur du pavillon Britannique, le Gouvernement Russe n'a, ni peut avoir, l'intention d'y apporter un changement quelconque. Mais il sera toujours prêt à s'entendre avec le Gouvernement Britannique sur l'extension, que l'application du principe de parfaite égalité peut encore recevoir en Angleterre en faveur du pavillon Russe. Les seules réserves qu'il croirait devoir y apporter seraient celles qui concernent le commerce de cabotage, expressément réservé déjà par l'article X. du traité de 1842–3, et les clauses contenues dans les articles séparés du même traité." "Ce n'est pas sans surprise que le Gouvernement Impérial a vu qu'une question telle que celle à laquelle il s'agit de répondre, a pu lui être adressée par celui de la Grande Bretagne. "Il croyait pouvoir se flatter que les principes on ne peut plus libéraux qui président à la législation Autrichienne sur la navigation, et qui sont justement appréciés par toutes les nations commerçantes, ne seraient pas ignorés en Angleterre. 474 "Il espérait que le Gouvernement Britannique n'aurait pas voué à un entire oubli ce que l'Autriche a si franchement fait valoir dans plusieurs occasions, et particulièrement lors des négociations qui ont précédé la conclusion des Traités de Commerce et de Navigation du 21 Décembre, 1829, et du 3 Juillet, 1833, savoir: que les bâtimens Anglais ne sont assujettis dans les états de l'Empereur à aucune espèce de mesure restrictive, quant à leur provenance ou leur destination (le cabotage seul excepté), ni quant à l'espèce de marchandises qu'ils transportent; et que l'on ne perçoit en Autriche de ces navires, à la suite des dits traités, aucun drot différentiel quelconque. "La navigation Anglaise jouit en conséquence en Autriche dos avantages les plus étendus, puisqu'elle y est placée, à l'exception du cabotage, sur le pied du'une pleine et parfaite égalité avec la navigation indigène. "La preuve, par contre, que le pavillon Autrichien n'est point traité en Angleterre d'une manière analogue, est amplement fournie par le mémorandum mentionné plus haut." "L'Autriche se trouve d'ailleurs à présent dans un état de transition. Si ume telle situation rend par elle-même à tout gouvernement très difficile, sinon moralement impossible, d'arrêter et de proclamer d'avance tout un système politique, une pareille entreprise serait aujourd'hui pour Autriche encore spécialement difficile par rapport à sa politique commerciale, vû aussi la position dans laquelle elle se trouve placée en sa qualité de membre de la Confédération Germanique." "I have the honour herewith to transmit to you a copy of a note which I have received from the Minister of Foreign Affairs in reply to the
 475 "I expressed to your Lordship at the time that it was not probable that the Belgian Government would abolish the differential duties now levied in the ports of this country on British goods not imported in Belgian vessels. "Subsequent conversation with M. d'Hoffschmidt, and the tenor of the present note, confirm that opinion; indeed, I very much doubt, considering the strong tendency which prevails at this moment in the Chambers to give extraordinary impulse and protection to all branches of national and internal industry, whether a proposition to admit of competition on perfectly identical terms between British and Belgian vessels would be listened to for an instant. "British vessels are not at present subject to any higher port duties or charges than Belgian vessels, but on their cargoes an additional duty of 10 per cent is levied. "Notwithstanding the disadvantage under which such imports labour, the general balance is still much in favour of British navigation, though, I believe, owing to this protection enabling them to work at lower rates of freight, steamers under the Belgian flag compete successfully with those of England." 476 477 478 479 "There is an end, therefore, in all its branches of the nursery question. No pretext is loft for the continuance of a navigation law on any Royal Navy plea." argumentum ad hominem 480 "At that time—I hare it from the Americans themselves—the French had three times the force of ships of war that America had. Admiral Mackau was in the Gulf of Florida with a fleet large enough to ravage the whole coast of Florida and bombard her towns. But did France rush into war with America? She paid the money. Why? Because she knew well if she provoked an unjust war with the United States, her men-of-war were nothing compared with the force which would swarm out of every American port when brought into collision with another country. France knew that America had the largest mercantile marine; and though at first the battle might be to the stronger in an armed fleet, in the end it would be to that country which had the greatest amount of public spirit, and the greatest amount of mercantile marine." 481 from the Ministerial side of the House 482 "J. Horsley Palmer (not a shipowner). Have you experienced any injury or inconvenience from the operation of the navigation laws?—I have not been aware of any. "Patrick Francis Robertson (China and East India merchant).—I cannot say that I know anything about the operation of the navigation laws, they never interfere with us. "Augustus Bosanquet (West India merchant). As a merchant, having concerns both in the east and west, will you state, whether in your opinion, the commercial interests of this country suffer materially from the operation of the navigation laws?—I do not see that they suffer at all by the operation of the navigation laws. "Have you any suggestion to make as to any alteration of those laws, by which the general trade of the country would be benefited?—I am not read in the navigation laws; I merely take them as I suppose their effects to be in the world, and though I have looked over Mr. Ricardo's book, and the answer to it, still this amounts to so little that I cannot answer such a question." The reading of these and similar answers excited ironical cheers from the free-trade benches "Russell Ellice. Do you consider, as a merchant, shipowner, and West Indian proprietor, that the repeal of the navigation laws would in any degree relieve you in your present difficulties?—I think it would not assist us in the least, as far as I can judge. "Have you, in your commercial transactions, experienced any injury or inconvenience from the
 483 "Henry Davidson (West India merchant). Have you, in your commercial transactions, sustained any inconvenience from the navigation laws?—I am not aware that we have. "Have you ever considered the way in which your trade is affected by those laws?—No, I have never particularly attended to it. "Alexander Geddes (Jamaica planter). Have you any grievance to complain of in the operation of the navigation laws?—No, none. "You think the repeal of those laws would do you no good?—I do not think it would be of any material importance. "Robert Brooks (Australian merchant and shipowner). Is your interest the greater as a merchant or as shipowner?—The larger portion of my capital is in merchandise. "Do you understand the operation of the navigation laws?—No, I do not thoroughly; very few men do, I think. "Are you aware of any inconvenience in the colonial trade from those laws?—I do not know of any whatever. "Do you know of any complaint having been expressed till recently in the colonies from those laws?—I never heard of any; not even recently. "Supposing they interfered with your trade, you would soon understand them?—Yes, no doubt. "John Gore (merchant to New South Wales). Have you ever entertained the question of the navigation laws?—Never; I know nothing of them. "You know nothing of them?—I never heard anything of them till lately. "All you know is that they never interfered with you?—Never to my knowledge. "Have you ever heard your friends complain of the navigation laws?—I never heard it mentioned till a few months ago, when something was said in the House of Commons. "Francis Shand (merchant and proprietor in Antigua). Have you experienced any inconvenience from the navigation laws?—I am not aware of any. "George Booker (merchant and proprietor in Demerara). As a West Indian proprietor, have you no reason to complain?—I have no complaint to make so far as regards the navigation laws. "Thomas Augustus Gibb (merchant and agent, resident in China). Do you understand the operation of the navigation laws?—No further than that they restrict our direct shipments from China to British vessels—but I am not a shipowner. "As a merchant, have you ever found any inconvenience from that restriction?—No; none at all. I do not anticipate that I should ship my teas cheaper if you were to abolish the navigation laws to morrow. "Robert Alexander Gray (house of Melhuish, Gray, and Co., trading with Brazils, America, Newfoundland, Portugal, and Mediterranean). Have you experienced any difficulty or loss in your commercial transactions from the operation of the navigation laws?—Not in the slightest degree. "Would the repeal of those laws place you in a more favourable position with respect to your export and import trade?—Certainly not. "Are you a shipowner?—I am; but our interest as shipowners is so small compared to our
 484 "Does not the prohibition to import the produce of the distant quarters of the world from Europe give rise occasionally to cases of hardship and inconvenience?—The instances of inconvenience are so few that I may say generally that no inconvenience has been experienced. "David Cooper Aylwin (Calcutta merchant). Have you ever felt any inconvenience from the navigation laws?—As a merchant engaged in the constant importation and exportation of merchandise, I have, during a nine years' residence in India, invariably found that the navigation laws have secured me a regular and sufficient supply of shipping, at fair and moderate rates of transit. I should say that the removal of the navigation laws would not be of the slightest benefit to the merchant, as I do not consider they operate as a restriction on trade. " 485 l l
 MR. J. WILSON  was ready to admit that the right hon. Gentleman who had
 486 487 s l 488 l s l l s 489 490 491 492 493 
 
 American tonnage for foreign trade was in— 
 Tons. 
 1827 747,170 
 1844 1,068,704 
 Increase 43 per cent. 
 
 United Kingdom:— Tons. 
 1827 2,400,500 
 1844 3,637,231 
 Increase 48 per cent. 
 
 Tons. 
 Increase—American 321,594 
 British 1,176,731 494 from the Opposition 495 496 497 498 499 500 501 502 503 s s 504 Mr. Gladstone had just entered the House and taken his seat 505 506
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  said: I hope the House, in coming to a decision on this important question, will not allow itself to be influenced by the arguments used in the commencement of the speech of the right hon. Gentleman who introduced this measure. The right hon. Gentleman contended that, whatever might be the consequences—whatever might be the effect—however unfortunate and however mischievous the results might be of the course which the Legislature had adopted for the last four years, that course was to be persevered in, and the laws which so long protected the navigation of Great Britain must be repealed. Now, I hope the House, in coming to a decision on this question, will decide according to present circumstances, and not in accordance with any antecedent legislation. The question we have to consider is, whether the British shipowner can or cannot compete with the
 507 l l l 508 The Western World "Her resources in almost every point of view are infinitely greater than any that we possess. Look at her forests, her fertile valleys, and vast alluvial plains. Look at the variety of her productions, including most of those that are tropical, and all that are yielded by the temperate zone: and look at her mines teaming with coal, iron, load, copper, and, as has just been discovered, wish silver and gold. Look again at her enormous territory, and at the advantages she possesses for turning all her resources into account, in her magnificent systems of lakes and rivers: in her extensive sea-coast; in her numerous and excellent harbours; and in her geographical position, presenting, as she does, a double front to the Old World, or holding out, as it were, one hand to Asia and the other to Europe. But such resources and advantages are only valuable when properly turned to account. It is only by their being so that they will become formidable to us. We have only to look to the race possessing them to decide whether they are likely to be turned to account or not. The Americans are Englishmen exaggerated, if anything, as regards enterprise. This is not to be wondered at, as they have, as a people, more incentives than we have to enterprise. Of this we may rest assured, that the most will be made of the resources and advantages at their disposal. This is all that has made us great. We have turned our coal and our iron, and our other resources, to account, and the world has by turns wondered at and envied the result." "The American stock of coal and of iron is more than thirty times as great as ours, and more than twelve times as great as that of all Europe. Their other resources are in the same proportion, as compared with ours. And if our resources, turned to good account, have made us what we are, what will be the fabric of material greatness which will yet spring from the ample development of resources thirty times as great? If the industry of from twenty to thirty millions of people, with limited means, have raised England to her present pinnacle of greatness and glory, what will the industry of 150,000,000 yet effect in America, when brought to boar upon resources almost illimitable?" "It is the consideration that America will yet
 509 "Not that England will not always be able to maintain her position in Europe. The powers which are destined to overshadow her are springing up elsewhere, and are of her own planting. Of these the American Republic, or Republics, as the case may be, will politically and commercially take the lead, when England, having fulfilled her glorious mission, shall have abdicated her supremacy, and the sceptre of empire shall have passed from her for ever." "I think the British shipowner for some time past has been rather badly paid, I found at one
 510 "I think the British shipowners do not pay English captains well enough, neither do I think they treat them with sufficient respect." 511 s d 512 513 s s 514 515 "It has not unfrequently happened that Canadian importers of sugar have been unable to procure British vessels on any terms at Havannah and other foreign ports." 516 l l l l l l l l l 517 518 "Cùm fatalis equus saltu super ardua venit Pergama, et armatum peditem gravis attulit alvo." 519
 MR. CARDWELL  said, the noble Lord who had just down, and the right hon. Gentleman who moved the rejection of the measure, anticipated with deep alarm the decay of our mercantile marine, and the declension of our maritime power. Though he (Mr. Cardwell) could not share in their gloomy apprehensions, yet the same natural anxiety weighed upon him in approaching a question of this great importance. He also desired to avoid a rash or precipitate measure, and to take every precaution, and to be guided by prudence, in the course on which they were about to enter. But sharing to that extent with them in the spirit in which they approached this question, he could not reconcile their conclusion to his conviction of what was due to the great mercantile interests of this country, of what a sense of justice to our colonies imperatively demanded; and he thought it would not be difficult to show, in some important respects, of what a due regard to the welfare of the shipping interest itself required at the hands of the House of Commons. It was difficult to understand, from the speeches he had heard, the exact position in which the question was supposed to stand by those who desired to reject the Bill, nor was it easy to collect it from the most laborious attention to the evidence taken before the Committee of the House of Lords. Let him ask those Gentlemen what opinion they entertained with respect to that clause which was said to secure to England the long voyage to distant parts of the world? If he looked to the evidence given before the House of Lords, he found witnesses of the first consideration stating that they regarded it as an essential element, one of the fundamental principles of the law; but he did not think it would be right to import into this debate any prejudice against the shipping interest in general by an allegation that they identified themselves with that particular clause, for he found that many of
 520 entrepôt entrepôt 521 522 and a laugh 523 524 525 526 527
 MR. HENLEY : Sir, the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down said that as the navigation laws existed there were certain anomalies, and having declared this, what course did he propose? Why, he said if they removed these anomalies, he would vote for this Bill. Now the very principle on which he proceeded was, not to remove these anomalies, but to sweep away these laws altogether. The hon. Gentleman, not respecting the petitions of large constituencies, told the House of Commons to remove certain anomalies, the very object of the Bill being to sweep away the existing law altogether. That was a policy which he could not understand. But what was the next argument of the hon. Gentleman? He said that there was a great agitation raised on this subject, and that, consequently, capital did not flow into the general channels for which it was wanted; and, therefore, he supposed because there was an agitation on the question, he was to understand that there was no remedy for it but by sweeping the whole law away. No matter whether it were for good or for evil, only begin an agitation, and there would be no chance of relief but by sweeping away the law altogether. The next point referred to by the hon. Gentleman was the American trade; and he had laid down this principle with regard to it, that we were not afraid of competition, and that when the rate of interest was low we could always compete. And the hon. Gentleman had endeavoured to illustrate his argument by referring to what had taken place in America, as showing that we should always have a commercial intercourse, and that, because she had not the capital to fill
 528 Laughter 529 530 531 532 s s s s s 533
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he had no objection, to the adjournment, provided it was understood distinctly that the debate would be resumed on Monday, that the House would then come to a division, and that no further adjournment on that day would take place.
 MR. KER  was most anxious to say a few words in explanation of the vote he intended to give. He thought that Irish Members had a right to speak on navigation subjects, and he was of opinion, from the manner in which this and other mea-
 534
 SIR G. GREY  reported to the House, that their Address of the 1st day of this instant March, that Her Majesty would be graciously pleased to appoint a Commission to inquire into the practicability and mode of subdividing into distinct and independent parishes, for all ecclesiastical purposes, all the densely-peopled parishes in England and Wales, in such manner that the population of each, except in particular cases, at the discretion of the Commission, shall not exceed 4,000 souls, had been presented to Her Majesty, and that Her Majesty had commanded him to acquaint the House that She will give directions accordingly.
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  opposed the Motion, upon the ground that the improvements were now, and had been for some time past, in the hands of the Board of Works in Ireland, who had expended a considerable sum of money upon the undertaking. The millowners in the immediate neighbourhood had sent several petitions to the House, in which they repudiated the company, stating they had never placed any confidence in it, and praying the House to empower the Board of Works
 539
 MR. DIVETT  explained that his sole object in moving the second reading was to send the whole subject before a Committee of the House, to inquire and report. He had great confidence in the decision of a Committee, but he confessed that he had not any either in the Board of Works, or the hon. Member for Galway, who, according to information received, had agreed to take shares in the company, and afterwards declined to pay up. The company had expended 15,000 l l
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  said, he had been induced to become an original shareholder by reason of his having seen the names of several respectable gentlemen at the head of the list of directors; but these gentlemen had afterwards repudiated the introduction of their names. [ Cries of
 MR. J. PARKER  thought that, as the Board of Works had been making considerable progress with the improvements, the second reading of the Bill ought to be postponed.
 MR. B. DENISON  thought the application of the promoters of the Bill perfectly reasonable, particularly after they had already spent 15,000 l
 MR. AGLIONBY  supported the Bill. He had gone through the papers which had been placed in his hands, and had endeavoured to make himself master, as far as any gentleman could, of an Irishman's actions, and, having done so, he had come to the conclusion that there never had been a case of more overhearing mismanagement on the part of the opponents of the company—on the part of the Government officers, the Board of Works. He said that at least 16,000 l 540
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  observed that his hon. Friend the Member for Exeter had not gone to the bottom of the case. The question was, whether the Bill should be permitted to pass, in order to further progress being made by the Board of Works. The company had been formed in 1838, and for seven or eight years they had not done anything, with the exception of erecting a breakwater, which was very speedily washed away. The Board of Works then commenced the improvements, and went deliberately on with them for two or three years, when, all of a sudden, the company, which he might designate a sort of resurrection company, came forward and wanted to do the very work which the Board had already executed. He admitted that the English shareholders had some reason to complain, and that they were damaged by having got into a bad concern; but whatever had been the result, it was a monstrous thing now to attempt to stop the improvements altogether.
 MR. CLAY  said, he looked upon the measure, being almost similar to that brought forward last year, if not with pleasure, at least without the slightest alarm; and he had heard nothing since that period to alter the opinion he had then expressed. He had heard, in the course of the debate, many conflicting opinions, and
 575 576
 MR. RICARDO  said, the reciprocity of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down was of that extreme nature adopted by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stamford, and was embodied in the maxim put forth to the world before the debate was adjourned the other night. On that occasion, the right hon. Gentleman said, "Hold what you can, and concede what you must." The hon. Gentleman, behoving that Russia could force us to concede nothing, advised us to retain all the prohibitions and restrictions we could, so far as Russia was concerned. He remarked that Russia had no ships, and therefore would be obliged to use ours; that we must not admit the ships of Russia because Russia could not do without us. But he (Mr. Ricardo) was somewhat more surprised that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford, after having clearly demonstrated, with the ability with which he demonstrated everything he took in hand, the mischief and inconvenience of the navigation laws, should turn round and say that the abrogation of this mischief and inconvenience should be conditional on the abrogation of them by other nations; that he should acknowledge the impolicy and bad operation of the navigation laws, but refuse to alter them unless other nations consented to do so previously. The right hon. Gentleman, in allusion to something that had fallen from the hon. Member for Westbury, remarked that shipping was not to be guided by the same rules as other commodities. He (Mr. Ricardo) could not see any difference. The right hon. Gentleman had supported the commercial policy of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth with respect to the repeal of the corn laws, and the admission of foreign sugar; and he (Mr. Ricardo) could not understand upon what principle the right hon. Gentleman hesitated to advocate a similar measure on the present occasion. If the right hon. Gentleman supported the former measures without any guarantee of reciprocity from other countries, why refuse to do the same in the case of shipping? But the right hon. Gentleman surprised him the more, because he based his whole argument for free trade on the doctrine laid down by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tam-worth, namely, that it was advisable for this country to buy cheaply whether other
 599 600 601 l s l s l s l s 602 603 604
 MR. H. DRUMMOND  said, it would be gratifying to at least one Member of the House, if he promised the hon. Gentleman the Member for Stoke, that he would not use any of those arguments which he had described as having been disinterred from past debates. He would rather take the liberty of examining into the truth of the position, whether the naval and military officers of this country were men whose opinions were not to be attended to, on points where the honour and safety of the empire were at stake. Before he proceeded, however, to that part of the subject, he must say that when the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford taunted the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Russell) and his Colleagues, with entertaining a difference of opinion on this question, it would have been as well for him to have remembered that he (Mr. Gladstone) himself had that night argued on one side, and intended to vote on the other. He believed also, without meaning to cast blame where none ought to be cast, with the hon. Gentleman the Member for Stoke, that much of the discussion had turned not upon the principle but upon the details of the measure. But he must further say, there was a reasonable excuse for that, inasmuch as the principle of the Bill was nowhere to be found in it. In its very first words it professed to be a Bill to amend a certain thing; and the way in which they proposed the emendation was, in the language of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford, by abrogation. Now, really, abrogation was one of the most extraordinary means of amelioration that he had ever heard of. This measure proceeded, at one sweep, to got rid of no less than eighteen statutes. Those statutes might be right or wrong; but, without entering into that question, he would say, that this wholesale proceeding was no way to treat them. The principle of the Bill was this: In all past times the object of every statesman, whatever opinions he might have held, had been to prevent capital from going out of this country, on the ground that if the capital went out of the country,
 608 ad libitum "There is in maritime States a corruption and
 609 "The vagrancy and dissipation of the citizens proceeded from their over-greediness in trade and navigation, which induced them to relinquish the cultivation of their lands." "In consequence of her commercial relations, she was so thoroughly under foreign influence, and so polluted by a mixture of all foreign manners, that her population could be hardly said to have a character of their own." "But," (said the same writer) "let no one blame them for forgetting, in the pursuits of the money speculator and merchant, the interest of their country, or at least before doing so, let him visit the ports of London, Liverpool, or Bristol, and discover—if he can—a purer foundation for English patriotism." "As their (the manufacturers') thoughts, however, are commonly exercised rather about the interests of their particular branch of business than about that of society, their judgment, even when given with the greatest candour (which it has not been on every occasion) is much more to be depended upon on the former than on the latter. The interest of the dealers in any particular branch of trade or manufacture is always in some respects different from or even opposite to that of the public." 610 "Lives there a man with soul so dead Who never to himself has said, This is my own, my native land?"
 ADMIRAL BOWLES : Sir, it is not my intention to trouble the House at any length on the present occasion. I expressed, last year, my strong objections to a measure so entirely at variance with the former policy of this country, and I have heard nothing since which induces me in the slightest degree to change the opinion I then entertained of its dangerous tendency; if I had still any remaining doubts, they would have been dispelled by the brilliant and eloquent speech of the right hon. Member for the University of Oxford, who, although unable to convince himself, has furnished us with most excellent arguments against the measure he intends to support. But, Sir, experience is worth a thousand theories; and the lapse of another year has shown us still more clearly the results of a similar experiment, tried on our West Indian colonies: the reasons alleged, and the language held, were precisely alike in both cases. I will not, again, read the sanguine predictions hazarded by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but any Gentleman who will refer to the debate may see that all the misfortunes of our West Indian merchants were attributed to the absence of competition; and the most confident expectations were expressed, that the moment this new stimulant was applied, they would start from their lethargy and outstrip all their competitors. Alas, Sir! what has been the result of this new-fashioned practice? The medicine has, it is true, been administered in its full and potent strength; but what is the present state of the patient? Let those who are acquainted with the sufferings, and apparently irretrievable ruin of all our sugar colonies (and Her Majesty's Government cannot be wholly ignorant of them) answer this question. And now, Sir, let us pause for a moment, to ask what were our motives for that great and sudden change? We imagined, I apprehend, that we should obtain a very considerable increase of commerce and revenue, and particularly some favourable treaty with Brazil, by abolishing our differential duties, and admitting slave-grown sugar on equal terms with our own. Are not these (although on a larger and more extended scale) precisely the objects alleged in support of the proposition we
 605 606 607
 MR. C. BRUCE  could assure the hon. Member who had just sat down that the agricultural interest had no desire to see, nor would they assist to put any other interest in those difficulties in which they had been involved. They utterly repudiated any argument founded upon the fable of the fox which had lost his tail. The main consideration involved in the measure propounded by Her Majesty's Government had been very little touched upon—viz., the maintenance and supremacy of the maritime power of this country. It appeared to him that all other considerations connected with the measure sank into comparative insignificance before that, which was the vital one. For anything he had yet heard during the debate, and after reading the evidence given before the Committee of the other House, it appeared to him that
 587 588 589
 MR. WILLCOX  said, that he, as a shipowner, regretted the intention of the Government in proposing to retain that clause of the navigation laws which compelled British shipowners to have three-fourths of their crews British seamen, because that restriction afforded a peg for the protectionists to hang an argument upon, and to say that protection was taken away from them entirely, whilst it was still given to the mercantile marine. In his opinion, for the practical purposes of the naval and mercantile marine, it was a matter of utter indifference to those branches of employment for seamen, whether the clause was retained or not. The navigation laws always had allowed a British ship's crew to consist of one-fourth foreigners; and where, he should like to know, were the 32,000 foreign seamen who ought, if the fears of the hon. Members opposite were well founded, to have constituted the statutory fourth of the 130,000 seamen habitually employed in navigating British ships? There were not in reality 4,000 foreign seamen engaged in the British mercantile marine, and therefore for any practical purpose the House might just as well pass a law against carrying foreign coals to Newcastle, as enact that not more than one-fourth of the crew of British bottoms should be foreigners. Then, again, as to the results which protection under the navigation laws had had upon the British mercantile marine—what were they, and how had that branch of industry prospered under the protection, as it was called, which it had enjoyed? It was not necessary to look far to discover them. Let the House look at the South Sea whale fisheries. Where was that branch of occupation? It was gone. The Americans had driven the British whalers out of the field. And no wonder. A trade nursed by bounties and cradled in protection, like a ricketty child, was certain to be ruined by the indulgences afforded it. An hon. Gentleman had alluded to Spain. The Spa-
 590
 MR. MUNTZ  said, that he should not consider it seemly to occupy the House at that hour, knowing how desirous they were of dividing, if it was not for the importance of the question involved in the proposition before them. The right hon. Gentleman who had sat down had evidently himself great doubts of the result of his proposition on the prosperity of the Navy of the country. That he had those doubts the observations which he had just made showed them, coupled as they were with the provision in his Bill, that the shipowner must employ three-fourths of his crew of English seamen. Nothing could show stronger the doubts he had. Now, as he (Mr. Muntz) was going to do what was called speak one way and vote the other, perhaps the House would indulge him while he made a few remarks. The course he was about to pursue would not be called speaking one way and voting the other, if hon. Members would learn to separate questions. He considered that what they had to determine was, whether they should stand as they were, or whether they should repeal the navigation laws. Now the questions were quite distinct, whether it was just to other interests which were unprotected, to maintain the laws as they now stood, or whether it was just to the shipowners to repeal them. No doubt the repeal of those laws would have the effect of lowering profits and lowering freights; but he would ask, where was the economy of the alteration? Who would be the gainer? Who had been the gainers by the repeal of any protective laws? The repeal of these laws was, in fact, only taking the profits from English shipowners and giving them to others—as had been the effect in other cases. They had yet to learn that these alterations did not effect national savings; but, though he did not believe this would be so, taking the best view of it, he would give his vote as he was invited by the right hon. Gentleman in favour of a repeal of the navigation laws. [ Laughter "And the loud laugh which spake the vacant mind." 622 623 l s l s l 624 l l 625
 MR. ROBINSON  said, as he was intimately connected with the shipping interest, and could appeal moreover to the results of personal experience as regarded the colonies, he hoped the House would indulge him with a hearing. The opponents of the navigation laws seemed in general to suppose that those laws greatly increased the prices of commodities imported into this country; but the hon. Member for Westbury had admitted that the navigation laws had not had the effect of giving to the British shipowner an exorbitant rate of freight; and in the opinion of the hon.
 564 l 565 "The importance of such a measure cannot be exaggerated; it will open to our enterprising
 566 567 568 569 570 571 572 573 574
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that he was not at all disposed to give his support to this measure on the grounds which the hon. Gentleman imputed to that (the Ministerial) side of the House. On the contrary, if he were not able to argue the necessity of the measure on British grounds alone—if he were not able to prove that it would tend to the promotion of British interests, and especially of that great branch of their trade that was more immediately concerned—the British mercantile marine—that even were the most solemn reasons urged in its favour, he should not give it his support on any other grounds. He had so often and so recently addressed the House on this question, that it was, he assured them, with sincere reluctance that he again trespassed on their time, especially at that late hour; but so many references had been made to him during the discussion, that he knew the House would for a short time extend to him that indulgence which the necessity of discharging his public duty alone induced him to ask for. He should confine himself as much as possible to the principle of the measure, avoiding those details that might be more properly considered in Committee. The question before the House was, he conceived, simply the principle of the present Bill; and that principle, he apprehended,
 611 priori 612 613 614 615 à priori 616 s d 617 618 619 620 Cries of 621
 MR. HORNBY  confessed that since he had heard the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford, he felt some doubts as to the course he ought to take, because he wholly agreed in the view of the question taken by that right hon. Gentleman. The right hon. Gentleman had, however, announced his intention of voting for the second reading of this Bill. He (Mr. Hornby) could not himself sec how the right hon. Gentleman could express the opinions he had done, and then vote for the second reading of the Bill. It appeared to him that the measure advocated by the right hon. Gentleman was directly opposed to that of Her Majesty's Government. He was glad to hear him confess that notwithstanding the motives that actuated him and the other supporters of the free-trade measures, there had not been a reciprocity manifested on the part of foreign Governments towards this country; and he observed that experience of the past ought to be their
 577 578 ad misericordiam 579 Howe Indus Indus Howe 580 l 581 582 pari passu s d
 MR. WAWN  said, the hon. Member for Oxford University had said that since the passing of the Reciprocity Acts the shipping interest had increased; but that was a statement which was calculated to mis-
 586
 MR. R. C. HILDYARD  complained of the manner in which this measure had been introduced to the House by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade; for, turning round to the body guard that sat behind the Treasury benches, he said that it was impossible for the House, unless it was prepared to recede from the policy it had already adopted, to refuse its assent to this Bill. In so dealing with this question he did not think that the right hon. Gentleman treated them fairly. The measure now before them was not like the repeal of the corn laws; for if England required a greater quantity of corn than its soil could produce, and the law prevented that additional quantity being brought into the country, then so far the English agriculturists might be regarded as monopolists. So, if England required a greater quantity of sugar than their colonies could produce, then, so far as they excluded
 591 Cheers from the Ministerial benches 592 593 seriatim 594 l l l l 595 pari passu 596 597 598
 MR. MITCHELL  would not attempt to follow the hon. Member who had just sat down into the curious explanation of the line of policy he had thought proper to adopt with regard to free trade. The hon. Gentleman voted for the total repeal of the corn laws, and now he turned round and said that he advocated free trade upon the principle of reciprocity. There was manifest inconsistency in such a course, because he (Mr. Mitchell) had never heard a free-trader yet state that his doctrine of free trade was founded upon the principle of reciprocity. The hon. Gentleman then proceeded to enlighten them upon several other points. He said that any reduction of freights which might take place if the navigation laws were repealed, would be of no benefit to the consumer. Now that was a fallacy which he (Mr. Mitchell) had hoped was exploded. He certainly did not think that any permanent reduction of freights would take place in consequence of the repeal of the navigation laws; but the slightest reduction could not fail to be beneficially felt by the consumer. Mr. G. F. Young, the great defender of the navigation laws, gave it as his opinion that freight would be reduced 25 per cent if those laws were abolished. Now he (Mr. Mitchell) would take the article of sugar. The freight of sugar from Cuba averaged 3 l s s d 583 584 s d l l s l l 585 s
 MR. GLADSTONE,  who said: Mr. Speaker—Sir, I can have no hesitation with respect to the vote which I feel it to be my duty to give on this question. Being convinced that the time has arrived when Parliament ought definitively to consider the question of the navigation laws—being prepared to assent to a great change in those laws, and, indeed, being eager that such change should be made—I cannot refuse or hesitate to vote for the second reading of a Bill which offers me an opportunity, and the only opportunity likely to be presented, of inducing the House to agree to such a change. With regard to the
 541 rari nantes 542 543 544 545 546 "The shipowner must not expect, on abstract grounds, any exemption from the competition to which other interests are subject, or the continuance of any immunity from which they are excluded; but must rest his case on the inseparable connexion existing, on every principle of justice, between special burdens and a special and equivalent protection." 547 548 549 550 551 552 553 durante bene placito 554 555 556 557 "Your petitioners humbly beg leave to represent to Your gracious Majesty, that they are firmly of opinion that the measures now under consideration of the Imperial Parliament, as introduced by Mr. Labouchere, if they become law, will prove generally prejudicial to the British empire, and particularly to this loyal colony, inasmuch as there is no reciprocity to be found in the plan proposed for the alteration, or rather the abrogation, of the navigation laws; and, more-over, that there is no equivalent provided for Your Majesty's subjects in the concessions to be made to foreigners for the privileges and benefits of the colonial and intercolonial carrying trade, as, in fact, they have none to offer, save and except the coasting trade of the United States of America, which is not to be given up to British subjects, unless the coasting trade of Great Britain be conceded to them, which is not contemplated in the measure now under consideration of Parliament." 558 559 560 561 562 563
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  wished to say, on behalf of the constituency he and the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down represented, that they had a considerable interest in the repeal of the navigation laws, as Birmingham carried on a very large and lucrative trade with the colonies, but which for some time past had been in a declining-state. If free trade had failed, it had been because it had not been carried out to the fullest extent, or because it had not been accompanied by those changes in the monetary system which were absolutely essential. His hon. Colleague had referred to the prices of the Continent; but if the articles he spoke of could be supplied there cheaper than in this country, how did it happen that we were supplying America with them? He doubted not his constituents would be considerably benefited by the repeal of the navigation laws.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that he still entertained the same objections to this measure which he had expressed on a former occasion. He had hoped that the interval which elapsed since its first reading would have brought the promoters to their senses. He ought more properly to have spoken in the singular, and said the "promoter," for an attorney was the only individual who seemed most interested in its fate. It was a Bill of costs, which would impose heavy burdens on the Irish metropolis; and he appealed in sober seriousness to his hon. Colleague (Mr. Grogan), and asked him how he could reconcile it to his feelings, as one of the representatives of the city of Dublin, to force on his constituents so extravagant and unconstitutional a measure? If he (Mr. Reynolds) possessed the concentrated eloquence of both sides of the House, it would be impossible for him adequately to describe its monstrosity, or to designate its true character. It would abolish municipal rights, and transfer the taxing powers of a responsible corporation to a number of  ex officio
 SIR J. Y. BULLER  said, that two or three days ago, he had received a letter to the effect that this matter had been arranged, that the three Dublin Bills which now stood for second readings would be withdrawn, and that the Government would introduce a general measure which would satisfy the wishes of all parties. He wished
 631
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  regretted that he was unable to give so satisfactory an answer to the question as he could desire. He could assure the House that Her Majesty's Ministers were exceedingly anxious that the disagreement between the parties in Dublin relative to the three Bills in question should be settled, and that they should come to some sort of compromise with each other. He had been in hopes the day before that he should be able now to make an announcement that the disputes were ended—but he was sorry to say that one of the parties was not disposed to withdraw their Bill. At the same time, he was not without hopes even still that there was a possibility of an amicable conclusion being arrived at on the subject.
 MR. GROGAN  observed that he would not oppose this proposition, provided the Government would regulate differences by the introduction of a Bill of their own, and then allow the whole of the measures to be transferred to a Committee for full consideration.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  could not give any assurance that such a suggestion as this would be adopted by Her Majesty's Ministers.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  thought the proposal of his hon. Friend the Member for Devonshire was a very excellent one—that the three Dublin Bills should, under the circumstances, be postponed for three weeks.
 MR. GROGAN  denied that there was any job or injustice contemplated by the Bill, the best proof of which was, that all he asked the House to do was, to refer the Bill to a Committee to inquire into its merits, and if, then, it were found to contain audacious or tyrannical clauses, he, for one, should be quite ready to abandon them—whereas the opponents of the measure shrank from the Committee.
 MR. T. O'BRIEN  opposed the second reading of the measure, and stated that the citizens of Dublin were almost unanimously averse to its provisions. He denounced the Bill as being monstrous and impolitic, and declared that it was the scheme of a speculating solicitor to obtain costs.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  believed that the House had become heartily sick of this subject. These Bills had been postponed in order that Government might ascertain whether such alterations could be introduced in them as to enable it to support them. He apprehended that the Government had no great favour for cither of the Bills. An influential meeting had recently taken place in Dublin, from which it appeared that the Irish Government, the Lord Mayor, &c., and the Chamber of Commerce, of Dublin, were in favour of the withdrawal of the Bills, in order that the subject might be undertaken by the Government. If the Government were disposed to take up this subject—and he thought that they ought to do so, as the subject matter of the Bill was one which ought to be dealt with by the Government, and not by private individuals—he considered that the course proposed by the hon. Baronet (Sir J. Y. Buller) was a prudent one. He trusted that the Government were in earnest in this matter, and that they would take themselves take the initiative.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  repeated what he had said before, that the Government were perfectly in earnest in desiring to bring the  vexata quœstio
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Wiltshire, who supported the present Bill, was an Irish absentee landlord—that no portion of the burden of taxation in Dublin fell upon his shoulders—and that he did nothing in the country but most scrupulously receive his rents. The question before the House was, whether they would uphold Mr. Jackson, the attorney, who was the solitary promoter of the measure, or the interests of the citizens of Dublin.
 MR. J. H. HAMILTON  stated, that a better landlord than the right hon. Member for Wiltshire did not exist.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that if a postponement of the second reading for a fortnight were assented to, he would not put the House to the trouble of proceeding to a division.
 SIR J. Y. BULLER  had no objection to substitute a fortnight for three weeks, if the right hon. the Secretary for Ireland could amicably arrange and bring in his Bill in that space of time.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  thought that
 633
 MR. COBBOLD  supported the Bill, and trusted that the House would not regard what had dropped from the he Members for Cockermouth, for that no representations could have been more erroneous.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, the Bill was a very objectionalde one, but hoped his hon. Friend would withdraw his Amendment, and move the postponement of the Bill for a fortnight.
 MR. HUME  thought it would not he fair thus suddenly to throw the Bill out altogether, and as a legal meeting of the company could not be had before a month, he begged leave to move that the Bill be read a second time that day month.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that as this suggestion came from him, he therefore withdrew his Amendment to make way for that of his hon. Friend.
 MR. HEADLAM,  in seconding the Amendment, regarded it as a satisfactory settlement of a complicated question. There were large numbers of persons who entertained conscientious objections to contribute towards the maintenance of the fabric of the parish church, and it would be no longer possible to maintain that system. In the town which he had the honour to represent, many Dissenters had contributed in a voluntary form that which they had refused under a compulsory system. It was a matter of fact that there were a very large number of persons who conscientiously objected to the payment of church rates; and he did not think that it was even to the interests of the Church itself, that it should be supported by the forced contributions of those who objected to payment of these rates. He saw no reason, however, why those belonging to the Establishment should not be compelled to contribute; and he thought the Church of England had a sufficiently strong hold on the community not to be prejudicially affected by limiting the contributions levied for the purpose of maintaining the fabrics of the Church to those who did not choose to allow themselves Dissenters.
 MR. RICE  had listened to the speech of the hon. and learned Member for the city of Oxford with great satisfaction, for it had relieved him from a very great difficulty under which he had always laboured in reference to this subject. He hoped the hon. and learned Member would follow up his Amendment by a Bill. He would venture to throw out, merely as a suggestion, that a general rate might be made throughout the country for the maintenance of religious edifices, the contribution to be applied to the church of the contributor.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, he had been instructed to support the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Tavistock, and he should shortly state the reasons upon which he conceived those instructions to have been founded. The instructions came from men of wealth and liberality unbounded—from men of great ability and intelligence—and he thought their form of expression rather ominous. He was told by those who instructed him that ever since the year 1836 they had in their own district practically abolished church rates; and they said that the liberty which they had achieved for themselves they wished to extend to others. Thus it appeared that liberty from church rates might be achieved. But why were church rates so loudly complained of? Simply because they were deemed an injustice to the Dissenters. In reply to that, it was alleged that the Dissenters had purchased their properties subject to church rates. But he would ask, had all the Dissenters purchased all the estates which they possessed? Surely some Dissenters inherited their properties from fathers who said to them, "This church rate was a robbery on me—it was a robbery on your grandfather before me—it was a robbery as far as human memory extended. I hand down this land to you with a protest against church rates, and I enjoin you to resist them to the utmost of your power," Under such circumstances it would not be denied that church rates were a hardship upon Dissenters. In reply to that, however, it had been said, and often repeated, that church rates were legal. Doubtless they were legal, but that was not the question. All the heretics burnt in Smithfield were burnt legally.
 657
 MR. C. W. MARTIN  said, that in the borough which he represented very "fierce struggles had been going on for many years on the subject of church rates, the Conservative party having felt it their duty to take their stand upon the law of the land, and not surrender what they considered to be a most important principle. A church rate not having been levied for a considerable number of years, the principal church of the town was in a very dilapidated condition, and one of the churchwardens paid for some repairs out of his own pocket. At last, however, the Churchmen had been reluctantly compelled to surrender altogether the principle for which they had contended, rather than that the church should fall about their ears; and they undertook to rebuild it by a voluntary subscription. That subscription, he had great pleasure in saying, had filled with considerable alacrity, and no difficulty whatever was found in raising a sum of 5,000 l l
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he had complained last year of an officer of the House keeping the door closed between two divisions—a proceeding, he apprehended, totally contrary to all principle, as Members who abstained from voting in the first, might wish to take part in the second, but were prevented from doing so. The right hon. the Speaker, upon that occasion, called the officer to the bar, and desired that the door should be opened. The same thing had occurred this evening, and several Members, like himself, amongst others the noble Lord the Member for Hertford (Viscount Mahon), were thereby excluded from voting in the second division. He submitted that the officers should have directions to open the doors on every occasian when the numbers were declared.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  congratulated the hon. Member for Tavistock on what had passed in this debate: for, of all those who had spoken on the subject, not one had attempted to defend the continuance of church rates, and therefore it might be concluded that before long they would be put on a different and a better footing. He confessed that the views of the hon. and learned Member for the city of Oxford agreed, in a very great degree, with his own; because, while he felt the necessity of making provision for the repairs of the churches, he was extremely anxious that Dissenters should be relieved
 658 de novo A laugh 659
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the hon. Member for Middlesex gave the House rather
 673 674 675
 MR. HAWES  said, that no despatches had been received from the Governor at the Cape in answer to the instructions regard-
 636
 MR. HAWES  repeated that he was not aware to what the hon. Member alluded, unless it was to something that had appeared in the newspapers. But the Government had received nothing officially in answer to the noble Lord's (Earl Grey's) despatch, and he (Mr. Hawes) therefore had nothing to lay before the House. When any answer was received, it should, however, be laid before Parliament.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that Earl Grey had stated most distinctly, in another place, the other day, that the Governor of the Cape had intimated to him that very general dissatisfaction had been expressed in that settlement with reference to the intention of sending convicts out there.
 MR. ADDERLEY  wished to ask the hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies if he had any objections to lay upon the table certain communications, alluded to by Earl Grey in another place, as having been lately received from the Governor of the Capo of Good Hope, intimating that the announcement of the intention of the Colonial Office to send convicts to that settlement had excited very general dissatisfaction amongst the colonists? Also, to what part of the settlement convicts were to be sent, and whether there was to be any further restraint than is supposed to exist in a ticket of leave?
 MR. SPEAKER : The doors should be opened after the numbers are declared for the first division, and before the second question is proposed. When there is a very small inverval between the divisions, it sometimes happens that the outer doorkeeper is not aware of the door of the House having been opened. The bell is also to be rung, when strangers are ordered to withdraw.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER,  in reply to the question of the hon. Gentleman, begged to say that it was still necessary to make the returns, if for no
 639
 MR. G. SANDARS  wished to ask the noble Viscount the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, for some information on the following subject: "As the armistice between the Danish and Russian Governments on the affairs of Schleswig-Holstein is to cease on the 26th instant, and as there exists great desire on the part of the merchants trading to the Elbe and the ports on the Baltic to know the present state of the question, how the question stands; and whether, after the 26th instant, he anticipates a renewal of hostilities, and a blockading of the ports under the Germanic Confederation, and, if so, whether the property of British merchants, in either British or foreign ships, will be held free from capture and forfeiture?"
 MR. G. THOMPSON : As to the word "substitute," there seemed to be some misunderstanding. The resolutions proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Tavistock did not preclude any one from proposing a substitute for the rates he wished to abolish. He must say that he had hoped for greater encouragement on this occasion from Members on the Treasury bench, as so many of them had voted for a Bill for the abolition of church rates, and to make other provisions on the subject. In the minority on that occasion he found no less than four of the present Members of the Cabinet—the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, the President of the Board of Control, and the Secretary for the Home Department. Besides these, he found other inferior Members of the Government had voted for it, amongst whom were the Chairman of the Committee, a junior Lord of the Treasury, the Under Secretary for the Colonies, the Secretary for the Admiralty, the Secretary for Ireland, the Paymaster of the Forces, together with several others. One fact must be apparent, namely, that the Dissenters had a right to complain of the intolerable grievances which they now suffered; and if there were not numerous incarcerations for the non-payment of church rates, it was because there existed in the majority of the parishes a disposition to waive the question of church rates, and to find other means of supplying the funds necessary for the purposes to which they were applied. But there was no diminution of the hostility which had been always felt towards church rates. On the contrary, the delay in their abolition had excited hatred not only to that but to all other classes of church imposts. He did not believe that any substitute would be acceptable, particularly to the Dissenters, which would not have the effect of freeing them for ever from having to contribute to the repair of churches, and which did not at the same time impose that burden upon Churchmen and church property exclusively. When his hon. Friend the Member for Middlesex referred to the resolutions which had been agreed to in favour of the ballot, he only did so in order to show the House that by assenting to an abstract resolution, they did not
 677
 MR. G. THOMPSON  was surprised at the most discouraging and dispiriting speech which the House had just heard from the noble Lord on the Treasury bench—a speech more calculated to depress the hopes of those who opposed church rates could not have been heard from the Treasury bench. Justice had not been done to the resolution before the House. All that it affirmed was, that it was necessary for some steps to be taken for the abolition of church rates. It would be competent for any other Member to suggest a substitute for the resolution; for all that it did was to pledge the House to abolish church rates, and to provide some other means for equitably raising the funds necessary for the repair of churches. The right hon. Secretary for the Home Department seemed to deny the statement made by the hon. Member for Montrose, that he had voted for a Bill to abolish church rates.
 MR. AGLIONBY  could not say that the hon. and learned Member for the city of Oxford had relieved him from any difficulty; on the contrary, he had placed him in a still greater one than before. The great objection to the resolution of the hon. and learned Member for Tavistock was that it was too vague, and many were disposed to say that it should have been followed up by some definite or specific proposal, by which means would be pointed out of supplying the defect that would be thereby occasioned in the funds for the maintenance and repair of the edifices of the Church. His desire was, that such rates should no longer exist; but he certainly contemplated the substitution of some other mode of maintaining the edifice and performing the
 653 654
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that the House had been employed on many occasions in considering how means might be devised
 661 662
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department if it was the intention of the Government to introduce any change in the law with reference to the transmission of Irish paupers from England to Ireland, as the noble Lord at the head of the Government had stated a few nights ago that he expected a large accession to the numbers of Irish poor that were constantly flocking into this country?
 MR. BRIGHT  said, it could not have been otherwise than gratifying both to those hon. Members who were Dissenters, and to those who were sincere Members of the Church of England, to observe the manner in which the question had been discussed. It was desirable that this question should be settled clearly and distinctly, and this with the least possible delay. There had been various projects suggested to the House on former occasions and in the course of the present debate; among these the proposition of the hon. and learned Member for the city of Oxford was certainly entitled to great attention, though, from what he knew of the condition of the population in the parishes of the north of England, and he believed the case was pretty much the same elsewhere, he doubted considerably whether any such plan as that of the hon. Gentleman's could be worked in such a manner as even to mitigate the evils arising out of the present state of this question. There were many difficulties surrounding the matter; and these difficulties would certainly not be lessened by the endeavour to separate, in the manner suggested, the population of large parishes into Dissenters and Church people. More than this, there was involved in his hon. and learned Friend's proposition a principle which he could not admit; he would never consent that Dissenters, because they were Dissenters, were in any degree to be shut out from any participa-
 663 l l l l l l 664 665
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  understood the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department to say, in answer to a question from the hon. Gentleman the Member for Kerry, that he had received a representation from Belfast, that there was a society established there to return back to Scotland the Irish paupers who were sent to Belfast. He begged to ask if the right hon. Gentleman had received any notice from Glasgow of the fact that a very large number of the persons sent from Glasgow to Belfast had been persons located in Scotland, and perhaps in Glasgow itself, and who had added to the wealth of that city.
 MR. TRELAWNY  rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice, for the abolition of church rates. He disavowed any motive of hostility towards the Established Church, of which he was a member, and whose great usefulness he admitted. He conceived that the only chance of settling this question was by coming to a determination that church rates should be abolished. This was the object of his Motion, which did not include the suggestion of any substitute for this impost; but if any other hon. Member had any plan to propose whereby all interests might be reconciled, and both Dissenters and Churchmen satisfied, it would be open for him to do so. He would first state the proceedings which had been taken at various times in that House on the subject of church rates. In March, 1834, Mr. Divett brought forward a Motion for the abolition of church rates in England and Wales; which he withdrew upon Lord Althorp's promising to submit to the House a satisfactory measure. On the 21st of April, the House having, on the Motion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer (Lord Althorp) resolved itself into a Committee, the noble Lord brought forward a resolution—
 "That, after a time to be fixed, the payment of church rates in England and Wales shall cease and determine; that in lieu thereof, His Majesty be empowered to grant, out of the proceeds of the land tax, a sum not exceeding 250,000 l "That it appears to the Committee inexpedient to take into consideration any proposition for charging the public revenue with maintaining the edifices of the Established Church, until it shall be shown that the funds now belonging to that Church are not adequate to meet this and the other charges for its support." "For the abolition of church rates, and to make provision for the necessary repairs of parish
 640 l gravamen "That it is the opinion of this Committee, that
 641 "That it is the opinion of this House that funds may be derived from an improved management of church lands, and that these funds should be applied to religious instruction within the Established Church, where the same may be found deficient, in proportion to the existing population." "For the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the mode of granting and renewing leases of the landed and other property of the bishops, deans, and chapters, and other ecclesiastical bodies of England and Wales, and into the probable amount of any increased value which might be obtained by an improved management, with a due consideration of the interest of the Established Church, and of the present lessees of such property." 642 "That nothing was more clear than the absolute necessity of introducing some measure by which the heart burnings of a great portion of the population of this empire might be removed." "What consequences does this state of things lead to? First, repeated vestry meetings, where you have the clergyman in the chair, and his party ranged on one side, and the opposing party on the other—violence of language ensues—the passions become excited—and the whole scene is one of agitation, confusion, exasperation, and violence, and the entire parish is immediately plunged into a state of uproar and exacerbation." "That there was a great difference, in point of principle, between the payment by Dissenters of tithes and church rates. Church rate was a
 643 "Was perfectly ready to admit such maintenance of an Established Church ought to be conducted upon principles and in a manner the least irritating and offensive to other parties, both as respected the amount and the mode of collection. He was ready to acknowledge that church rates, as they stood, formed to Dissenters a serious and substantial grievance." "That the subject of church rates did not yield to any other in emergency; that it was, as much as any question, important in the maintenance of social harmony. He even thought that, in consideration of the interests of the Church, for the satisfaction of a large body of the public, for the promotion of subordination and obedience to the law, the Government ought not to suffer the law respecting church rates to be made the theme of discussion at public meetings, and the subject of angry comment from parochial martyrs, for another twelvemonths." "That the question of church rates was an unnecessary and vexatious source of animosity, and that any method by which the grievance which they occasioned might be either diminished or taken away would be a benefit to the Established Church." "That John Thorogood, a Protestant Dissenter, has been confined in Her Majesty's County Gaol of Essex since the 16th of January last, for neglecting to appear in the Consistorial Court of the Bishop of London, for the non-payment of 5 s d 644 l s l s d 645 d l l s d l s d 646 Congregational Magazine 647 l l l l l l l l l 648
 MR. HENLEY  observed, that a remark had been made that less interest was felt in this question, because the usual number of petitions had not been presented against church rates. He was inclined to think that this circumstance was to be accounted for by a desire on the part of the people to obey the law when it was settled. He said, that one of the arguments by which the resolution had been defended was manifestly a wrong one. It had been attempted to be shown, that the resolution was brought forward on the strength of former decisions of the House, which decisions had been come to upon entirely different grounds. As long as the question of church rates was unsettled, the people had a right to dispute their payment. But the people were naturally inclined to obey the law as soon as any great question was settled by the law's decision; and their refusal to pay church rates only lasted until the Judges had decided, in the absence of legislative interference, that church rates were legally demandable. The strong opinions which had been expressed on the subject of church rates by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth and others only had reference to the state of things previous to the decision of the courts as to the liability of all occupiers to pay those rates; and that decision being solemnly declared, the eyes of the people became at once opened to the necessity of paying them. He felt bound, as a Churchman, to express his thanks to the noble Lord at the head of the Government for
 678 679
 MR. HUME  said, 80 hon. Members in all had voted for Sir J. Easthope's Motion. The proposition of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the city of Oxford appeared to him perfectly satisfactory, providing sufficiently for the maintenance of the Church, while it released Dissenters from the unpleasant situation in which they were placed. He should support the Amendment in the belief that it presented the best means of getting out of the difficulty.
 MR. HUME  said, that when it was formerly proposed that the burden of church rates should be transferred to the Consolidated Fund, he strongly objected to that proposal. At the same time, he had always thought it desirable that some remedy should be adopted. He admitted that the land was charged with the payment of church rates; but, considering the effects which had been produced in a great many parishes, he thought sound policy required that such unpleasant proceedings should be stopped. He agreed with the hon. and learned Member for the city of Oxford that those who attended the Established Church should not be exempted from contributing as heretofore; but it was desirable to provide for the alternative. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department had, on a former occasion, shown the injustice of church rates; and he (Mr. Hume) could, he thought, count on the Treasury bench five or six hon. Members who had voted for their absolute abolition.
 MR. OSBORNE  wished to ask whethe the returns required to be made by corn merchants, under the Act 4 Victoria, cap. 14, for the purpose of adjusting the duties on foreign corn, were any longer necessary, now that the duty had expired, or was reduced to one shilling? He wished to know what reason now existed for compelling merchants to make returns with respect to the price of corn when the tax was removed, and there could be no necessity for ascertaining the price?
 MR. OSBORNE  said, that from the right hon. Baronet's manner, and from the reasons which he had given against the Motion, it would load any one to suppose that the question of church rates had never previously been under discussion. The right hon. Baronet said, in the year 1835, in a debate on this subject—
 "With respect to municipal corporations, he was not about to say a word on that question; but without undervaluing its importance, he must observe that the subject of church rates did not yield to it in urgency. So far as any question could be important to the maintenance of social harmony, to the promotion of satisfaction among the great body of the Dissenters, there was not a single question, excepting that of the Irish Church, which so much pressed for an immediate practical settlement as this of the church rates." "In consideration of the interests of the Church Establishment, for the satisfaction of a large body of the people—for the accomplishment of their own pledges—to promote subordination and obedience to the law—to suppress individual complaints of grievance—surely to accomplish all
 670 l l 671 l
 MR.COBDEN : Sir, the hon. Member who has just sat down has expressed an opinion respecting the members of the Church of England, which I trust will be found not to apply to them, or to have any foundation. The hon. Member has told the House, that if for conscience sake we permit the people at large to exempt themselves from the necessity of paying church rates, the churches will never be repaired, for no one would ever consent to pay the rates. [Mr. HENLEY: No, no!] I certainly think the hon. Member said that such was the elasticity of the people's conscience, that if Dissenters were exempted from paying church rates, the churches would never be repaired, because no one would ever pay the rates. I therefore repeat that I do hope the hon. Member has misrepresented the great body of Church-of-England men who are in this country. The hon. Member began his speech by thanking the noble Lord the Prime Minister for the declaration contained in his speech, and he ended his speech by again thanking the noble Lord. If that noble Lord has pleased the hon. Member and his Friends on the other side of the House in respect to this resolution, he must he prepared to please them in many other measures. But I warn him that he will by so doing lose many of his Friends on this side of the House. The hon. Member for Oxfordshire argued the question as if the scruples of conscience which had formerly existed relative to church rates had been quieted as soon as it was found that the law had declared that the rate was legally demandable. But the hon. Member was wrong in his deductions from the state of the law. It was true that the rate was absolutely levied, and could not under the law be refused to be levied; but the majority of the parishioners declared what the amount of the church rate should be. There was a case in point occurred some time ago at Rochdale, where, according to the law, it was indispensable that a church rate should be made. It was proposed that it should be one farthing in the pound. But so strong was the conscientious objection to the principle of a church rate, that out of some hundreds of men
 680 681
 MR. GLADSTONE  remarked, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, in reference to the abstract resolution before the House, stated that it was simply the duty of the House to abolish church rates, and leave the fabric of the church to shift for itself. [Mr. OSBORNE: NO, no!] Yes, the hon. Gentleman said, that if they left the maintenance of the fabric of the church to voluntary contributions, the result would be perfectly satisfactory. During the whole course of the discussion, in which several hon. Gentlemen had taken part, the hon. Member was the first to say that it was the duty of the House to abolish church rates, and not provide a substitute for them. If the feeling was, to abolish simply church rates, and not substitute anything in their place, he could understand their supporting this resolution; but those Gentlemen who felt differently were bound to find a substitute. He agreed in all the observations which had fallen from his right hon. Friend the Member for Tam-worth. There was no inconsistency in the quotation read by the hon. Member for Middlesex, and what had then fallen from his right hon. Friend. The hon. Gentleman had confounded the inquiry as to the proper course of proceeding, with the advocacy of an abstract resolution. They might proceed at least without the adoption of any abstract principle, while the abstract resolution might be an impediment to delay the subject. In how many instances had they proofs that they had not advanced a question one single step towards its settlement by the adoption of an abstract resolution? He hoped that the House had too much regard for its character, and for the interests of the country,
 672
 MR. W. P. WOOD  said, that he regretted that he had not been able to hear the greater portion of the statement of the hon. Member who had brought forward the present subject. The subject was one of considerable interest, and one which he felt must, sooner or later, be discussed by hon. Members. He did not know that he quite concurred in the sentiments which he understood the hon. Member for Tavistock had expressed with respect to the conscientious scruples of the Dissenters. He did not, however, measure their consciences by his own, and he felt constrained to give them full credit for the scruples which they said they entertained. For his own part, as a member of the Church of England, he confessed that if he had received property charged with a rate for the maintenance of Baptist, Wesleyan, or Roman Catholic edifices of worship, and if that charge had been made upon the property from the earliest time, he should not have conceived his conscience to have been in the slightest degree affected by the payment of that rate. There was undoubtedly a legal right by which the rate could be enforced upon every property in every parish; and, on the other hand, there were objections to the present state of the law on the subject, affording, as it did, so many opportunities of evading the payment of the rate. Parties meeting together to impose and assess the rate, had, somehow or other, a feeling generated in their minds, that it was a voluntary act on their part to make the rate. It was not every person who could take the legal distinction which existed on this subject, or could be convinced that it was their imperative duty to make a rate. Many of the parties engaged in making the rate would say, plausibly enough, that if they were to make a rate, they were to express an opinion upon it—to decide in favour of, or against, it—hence scruples arose in many minds upon the subject. The law upon this part of the subject was very unsatisfactory; if the majority assembled to make the rate decided that no rate should be made, their votes were thrown away, and the minority might, under certain circumstances, bind the ma-
 649 650 "discharging persons dissenting from the Church as by Law established, from contributing to
 651 s s
 SIR G. GREY  hoped that the House would not now be led into a discussion on the question which had been adverted to by his hon. Friend behind him, with respect to the management of church property. The question referred to the House for consideration was of an entirely different character; and it would be time enough to consider whether the charge now borne by church rates, for the maintenance and repair of the fabric, should be borne by funds derived from other sources, when a distinct proposition to that effect should be laid before them. The two propositions already formally before the House were assuredly wide enough for their present consideration. With regard to the first proposition which had been made, he certainly was not prepared to give it his assent. He did not understand that the hon. Member for Tavistock had in contemplation any plan by which he proposed to supply the deficiency which would be occasioned by the abolition of church rates; and indeed the hon. Member went so far as to say, that no plan which had been hitherto proposed could be accepted by those who alleged that they had conscientious scruples against the payment of church rates. With regard, however, to the Amendment of the hon. and
 655 656
 SIR G. GREY  said, the hon. Member was mistaken so far as he was concerned.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that complaints had been made with respect to the removal of paupers to Scotland from Ireland, and the matter was investigated by the Board of Supervision in Scotland, by whom a report was made that great dissatisfaction was felt in Scotland, in consequence of the return of paupers sent back by a society in Belfast; but he had no information of any number of cases, and he believed there was only one case where it was alleged that the paupers had been resident for a sufficient time to become chargeable.
 SIR G. GREY  said, it was desirable that hon. Members putting questions should confine themselves only to the facts: the noble Lord had never meant to say what the hon. Member had attributed to him. The Government had received a deputation on Saturday last, which represented that a very large number of paupers had been removed under the law affecting the removal of Irish paupers born in Ireland, and not having settlements in this country. These removals were chiefly from Glasgow, and 12,000 (he believed) was the number stated to have taken place last year; but he did not think the real number was so great, He certainly thought there were some grounds for complaint, and that being the case he should have been ready to listen to any reasonable proposal for the amendment of the law; but he must say that he had not
 638
 SIR G. GREY  had never voted for the total abolition of church rates. He had voted for the Bill introduced by Sir G. Easthope, providing a substitute for the rates.
 SIR R. PEEL  observed, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down said very truly that the discussion on the important matter under their notice had proceeded with great temper, and without asperity. That was an additional reason why they should not be hurried into a hasty decision on the question by supporting a resolution which was in point of fact a condemnation of the existing law. It was easy to deal with matters of this nature by means of a resolution; but the introduction of a Bill gave frequent opportunities for the consideration of the subject. The assent to the first or second
 666 667 668 669
 SIR W. CLAY  remarked, that the real question before the House was, not what the present state of the law was, but whether the law now in existence was a just law. That law, as his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the city of Oxford had stated, might have been, and no doubt was, a just law when it was first enacted, because the people of this country were then all of one faith; but now it was most unjust that a tax should be imposed on the whole country for the benefit of a portion only of the community. What made it particularly hard upon the English Dissenters was, that in a part of the empire the Nonconformists were exempted by law from the payment of this tax. In 1833 a law was passed by which church cess was abolished in Ireland, and the sums necessary for the purposes to which church cess had been applied were provided from other sources. There was another important point to which he wished to advert. When the law was passed which permitted marriages and baptisms to be registered, though the ceremony was not performed within the walls of the Established Church, the Legislature took away the last ground for contending that Dissenters derived any advantage from the Establishment. But he was not curious to find out arguments for asking Dissenters to pay church rates. He would frankly confess that, as a member of the Church of England, he was ashamed of the thing. He was ashamed that the members of the most richly endowed Church in the world, which comprised within its ranks the wealthiest among the higher and even the middle classes of society, should apply to the poor Dissenting shopkeeper to furnish the sacramental bread and wine, to pay for the warming and lighting of the church, and the washing of the clergyman's surplice.
 "Pudet hæc opprobria nobis Et dici potuisse, et non potuisse refelli."
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The question which the hon. Gentleman has put to me is certainly a very important one, and the commerce of all Europe is deeply interested, that the negotiations now going on, with respect to those duchies, should be brought to a successful termination. It is true, as the hon. Member, in his question, states, that the Danish Government have given notice, as they are entitled to do, by the conditions of the convention of Malmoe, of the termination of the armistice on the 26th of the present month. But, in giving that notice to the parties concerned, they have, at the same time, declared in writing, officially, that it is not their intention to recommence hostilities; and that their object in denouncing the armistice is rather a wish that some sepa-
 637
 MR. LACY  proposed as an Amendment, "That the Bill be read a second time this day six months." He opposed the Bill, because he conceived it would hold out a premium for insincerity by allowing individuals in holy orders to leave the Church. Without thinking that there were many
 697
 MR. BOUVERIE  would not detain the House for many minutes on this matter, as he had on a former occasion explained the general objects and purposes of the Bill. He would therefore confine himself to the objections urged against the measure by the hon. Member who had just sat down. The hon. Gentleman's objection to the Bill was, that it would create insincerity. But, as the law stood at present, it not only afforded a temptation to insincerity, but in many instances, made clergymen insincere on compulsion; because, although they dissented from the doctrines of the Church, they must remain in it, or subject themselves to penalties for preaching, in a building unlicensed by the bishop, what they believed to be the truth. No reasonable man could wish such a state of the law to continue, and therefore, he submitted to the House that this Bill deserved a second reading.
 MR. HUME  supported the Bill. Nothing
 698
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that they had a discipline for clergymen, and how far it was desirable to release them from that discipline he did not know, nor would he assume the province of determining. He did conceive, however, that there would be a door opened to insincerity. The objection of the hon. Member for Bodmin was this, viz., that any clergyman who had violated the discipline of the Church, and laid himself open to a prosecution, had nothing more to do than to go before a magistrate and make the declaration included in the present Bill, and he was immediately released from all the vows he might have made. Considering the great importance of the subject, and the short discussion which had as yet been devoted to it, he thought it his duty to oppose the second reading, and to support the Amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for Bodmin.
 MR. SPOONER  had come to a very different conclusion from that formed by his hon. Friend the Member for Northamptonshire. The evil now complained of was, that a clergyman who had entered into holy orders, and had changed his first opinions, was either compelled by the necessities of himself and his family to exercise duties which his conscience told him he could not faithfully discharge, or to expose himself to ecclesiastical penalties for acting as his conscience dictated. These were the evils from which clergymen who subsequently were unable to hold the doctrines of the Established Church sought to be delivered. There were many instances of clergymen who had seceded from the Church, and had acted as Dissenting ministers with great advantage to the religious interests of the community, of whom no notice had been taken. But notice had been taken of the secession in a few instances to which he need not now particularly refer, and the ecclesiastical penalties had been enforced. It had been objected that, as the Bill now stood, a person who had subjected himself to penalties under the Church Discipline Act, might evade those penalties by making the declaration; but that was a question of detail, which the House might have considered and amended in Committee. To the
 699
 MR. WAWN  said, as the law now stood, when a minister of the Protestant Church left that body, and entered the Roman Catholic Church, he was free from penalty; but if an individual connected with the Church, yet dissenting from its doctrines, joined any dissenting body, he might be prosecuted for so acting. At the present moment, an individual was now suffering from this anomalous state of the law. He should support the second reading of the Bill, because he wished to see persons dissenting from the Church, and joining one of the various dissenting bodies in the kingdom, placed in the same position as those who might go from the Established to the Roman Catholic Church.
 MR. H. DRUMMOND  asked if they could carry on the Army and Navy effectually if they repealed the Mutiny Act? He thought not. He believed that the ecclesiastical authorities had, in the same way, a right to use the civil sword to enforce ecclesiastical censures. He did not, however, think that right. That, however, was not the question; but so long as that was the law, no bishop did his duty who neglected to enforce them. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down did not seem to understand the question in the least, as it applied to Roman Catholics and to Dissenters. In one case the man was in holy orders, and in the other was not. ["No, no!"  and laughter. 700
 SIR G. GREY  said, the Bill was calculated to redress a great practical evil, and he would give it his support. He thought the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down would be one of the last to deny to a clergyman of the Established Church, who might later in life entertain conscientious scruples which might prevent his any longer remaining a member of it, the right of transferring his ministrations to any denomination of Protestant Dissenters. If such a person became a member of the Church of Rome, no penalty attached to him; he was considered to do nothing irregular if he celebrated mass. He expressed no opinion whether that was right or not, but it must be considered a great practical grievance that a penalty did attach to him, if he became a minister of a dissenting congregation. Was there anything unreasonable in affording facilities for the exemption of such persons from the proceedings which might be instituted against them at any period of their lives, if they exercised their talents in giving spiritual instruction in any other denomination than the Established Church? The hon. Gentleman the Member for Bodmin, who moved the Amendment, objected to the Bill because it did not go far enough; he said it ought to enable ministers of the Church of England to become not only dissenting ministers, but even Church laymen. He (Sir G. Grey) was not aware of the existence of any ecclesiastical process which could be put in force against him, if a clergyman of the Church of England wished to retire into private life, if he had not committed any offence which would render him amenable to the ecclesiastical court. But another hon. Gentleman took quite a different view, for he said that the Bill exempted clergymen of the Church of England from ecclesiastical censure, on account of immorality. Now, he (Sir G. Grey) admitted that if a clergyman committed an immoral offence whilst a clergyman of the Church of England, he should not be exempt from the consequences of that act, for, otherwise, he might leave the Church, in order to evade them. He, therefore, thought that there should be a limited time within which proceedings might be taken after the commission of any
 701
 MR. KERSHAW  said, it would be much to be lamented if, at this time of day, the House should refuse its assent to this measure, especially when clergymen of the Established Church could become Roman Catholics without any restraint or hindrance.
 MR. HENLEY  wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman opposite (the Attorney General) whether it was correct, as stated by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, that a person leaving the Established Church and joining the Roman Catholic Church, was free from all penalty and hindrance, because if that were so, he thought both sides ought to be placed on the same footing.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the question put to him was a difficult one—it was a point about which great difficulty existed both in the civil and the ecclesiastical courts. If the hon. Gentleman would permit him, he must decline, without further consideration, to answer it.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  asked whether it was not competent in a clergyman whose opinions did not coincide with those of the Church, to leave it, free from all penalties, by submitting to be degraded from his office?
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said it was not.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that he agreed with the hon. Gentleman the Member for Bodmin in his view, and he would be prepared to vote in Committee for a clause to carry it out; but as his present Motion would have the effect of throwing out the Bill altogether, and thus bringing the House to an opinion hostile to his own views, he hoped he would not persevere. He was mistaken if he supposed that the clauses of a Bill always agreed with the title.
 MR. MULLING S  objected to the Bill, because he considered legislation to be very dangerous, and likely, in many cases, to lead to great injustice. He wished to appeal to Her Majesty's Attorney General, whether, before the provisions of this Bill could be carried out, it would not be necessary to pass a Bill to provide for the cases of such tenants for life as beneficed clergymen, &c. In those cases they could not make a contract which should be binding upon the tenant with reference to his successor, because there was no privity between him and his successor. He would be entitled to take off the land all the growing crops, and the landlord could have no remedy against him. He (Mr. Mullings) objected to this Bill, because, whatever laws they might pass, all these matters must be subjects of contract between landlord and tenant: however stringent their laws might be, agreements would be entered into between the contracting parties which would have the effect of controlling the acts of the Legislature. He thought that tenants at will would be fully satisfied, if they were not to be compelled to resign their farms before the expiration of two years from the service of notice to quit, such right to determine in case the tenant refused to perform the conditions of his contract.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  thought, if the Bill had stood for a third reading, the observations of the hon. Gentleman would have been justified. The objection of the hon. Gentleman applied to the details and not to the principle of the Bill. If a Committee were appointed, such as had been suggested, the hon. Gentleman would have an opportunity of bringing his suggestion before them. All the House was now called upon to do was, to affirm the principle of the Bill by agreeing to the second reading; the details would be taken into consideration by the select few who were to assemble under the hospitable
 695
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, keeping accounts was never a point on which he thought himself strong, but it did appear to him that an item had been dropped out of the schedule on the present occasion. It was a very brief period since a tax existed in this country which pressed very hardly upon Gentlemen on his side of the House, and which was supposed to press in favour of Gentlemen on the other side. It was six little weeks—"the funeral bated meats" were hardly cold in Manchester—and he helped to eat them—and in that period hon. Gentleman came forward and
 741
 The EARL of MARCH : * * 742 s. s. from the free-trade benches. l. l. l. l. l. l. 743 "The tenant farmers lay great stress on the malt duty and its injurious interference with the cultivation of barley. The Committee, however, cannot consider that impost, which, on the average of the last ten years, has produced very nearly 5,000,000 l. s. d. s. d. s. "The highway rates, exclusive of those which are at present relieved by the aid of the turnpike trusts, amounted in 1839 to 1,169,891 l. l. 744 A. has an entailed estate, valued at a clear rental of 5,000 l. 
 
 Poor, county, highway, and church rates, at 3 s. £750 
 Land tax 179 
 As income tax upon an actual rental of 4,600 l. 138 
 As tenants' property tax upon farm above 300 l. l. 36 
 £1,103 
 House in London assessed for rates at 3 s. l. 60 
 Total £1,103 B. receives 5,000 l. 
 
 For house in London, rated on a 3 s. l. £60 
 Income tax on 5,000 l. 150 
 Total £210 l. l. 745 Ironical cheering from the free-trade benches. "Lord John Russell is deeply sensible of the embarassment caused by the present state of public affairs. He will be ready, therefore, to do all in his power, as a Member of Parliament, to promote the settlement of that question, which, in present circumstances, is the source of so much danger, especially to the welfare and peace of Ireland. Lord John Russell would have formed his Ministry on the basis of a complete free trade in corn, to be established at once, without gradation or delay. He would have accompanied that proposal with measures of relief, to a considerable extent, of the occupiers of land from the burdens to which they were subjected." 746
 The EARL of MARCH : Then, what did the hon. Gentleman say?
 The EARL of MARCH : If there are? then it is, at all events, a matter of doubt with the hon. Gentleman. But I will take the liberty of reading to him, and to hon. Gentlemen who act with him, something upon this subject—not a hasty expression, or language uttered in the heat of debate, but the cool, well-considered opinion of a political economist, whose name stands high with hon. Gentlemen opposite. Mr. M'Culloch, after speaking of the burdens upon land, says—
 "Such being the case, the agriculturists are clearly justified in demanding, in the event of the free importation of corn being permitted, that it should be burdened with a fixed or constant duty sufficient to countervail the peculiar charges that would fall on the land were the ports unconditionally opened. It is impossible to refuse them this, without trampling on every fair principle. Such protection is not given to the agriculturists as a favour, but to keep them, where they have a right to be kept, on the same level as the other classes of their countrymen. If they be relieved from these peculiar burdens, the necessity for the countervailing duties will, of course, cease, and they may, and indeed should, be repealed forthwith; but the equalisation of taxation at home should, in all cases, precede the repeal of duties on importation." 747
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  thought that the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down showed conclusively that the mode of remedying the evils intended to be abolished by this Bill was not by the tenant farmers taking up leases. There were several reasons why the taking up of leases offered no remedy at all; one was, that the landlord was not willing to grant them; and another was, that the farmer was afraid to take one, especially at this moment. [ Cheers. 693 Laughter
 MR. DISRAELI  rose, and presented a petition from a meeting held in the parish of St. George, Westminster, of owners and occupiers of land from various places, signed by the Duke of Richmond, as chairman of the meeting at which it was adopted. The petition set forth the extreme distress under which the agricultural classes at present laboured, which distress was attributed to recent legislation. The petitioners asked for some mitigation of their sufferings by the removal of local taxation, the repeal of the malt tax, and concluded by recommending the imposition of a small import duty on all articles of foreign produce.
 MR. DISRAELI : I did not include them.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  would confidently vote for the second reading of the Bill. It had been his fate, on a former occasion, to move for a Committee of Inquiry into this subject, and, after hearing the evidence brought before that Committee, and reading this Bill, he did not hesitate to say that this proposition of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Berkshire would meet with the approbation of the tenant farmers, He (Mr. Newdegate) could not agree with the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, in thinking that there was no justification for the excitement which prevailed in the agricultural districts; and he must say, that if this Bill was brought forward to enable landlords, particularly such as were incapacitated from giving adequate security for compensation in consideration of improvements made by their tenants, owing to their having only life or limited interests in their estates, to do justice to their tenants—entertaining, as he did, the gravest apprehensions with respect to the future prospects of agriculture—he thought that this was peculiarly a time when the House ought to afford every means of relief to tenant farmers, and to aid the landlords of this country in their endeavours to render their tenants capable of resisting the new pressures to which they were likely to be exposed. The speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Hampshire that day reminded him (Mr. Newdegate) of certain expressions which fell from the same right hon. Gentleman during the great discussion on the corn laws, when he said that the agricultural interest came whining to that House for protection. He (Mr. Newdegate) thought the right hon. Gentleman would find that
 694
 MR. PACKE  said, this Bill appeared to him to remedy a very serious evil as regarded tenant farmers. There were many instances, such as when a landlord became insolvent, and his lands came into the hands of his creditors, in which the occupying tenants were very unjustly treated. No mercy was shown to them, although they and their ancestors might have expended their strength and capital upon their holdings. He did not agree with the hon. Baronet the Member for Bedford that it would be well if the system of leasing were adopted throughout the country. In that part of the country in which he resided leases were unknown. He had talked to several tenant farmers, all of whom assured him that they preferred tenancies from year to year to leases. He entertained objections to some of the details of this measure, but they could be discussed in Committee. He objected particularly to that part of the Bill which proposed to give unlimited power to tenants to remove fixtures, as he thought it would often lead to serious mischief.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  should move, as an Amendment, "That the Bill be read a second time that day six months." He had always opposed this Bill; he had objected to its introduction in 1847, and again in 1848; and he must say, the hon. Member for Berkshire had chosen a very unfortunate time for its reintroduction on this occasion. Under the existing usages and Customs prevalent throughout the country, the greatest good feeling and mutual confidence had grown up and been cemented
 689 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : * * 703
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  continued: I must then add to the
 720 l. l. l. l. 721 l. l. l. l. l. l. 722 l. l. l. l. l. 723 l. l. l. 724 725 726 727 
 
 BEEF. 
 1844. 1848. 
 s. d. s. d. 
 January … … 4 2 … 4 10 
 February … … 3 8 … 4 8 
 March … … 3 10½ … 4 4 
 April … … 3 9½ … 4 4 
 May … … 3 9½ … 3 11 
 June … … 3 8½ … 4 0 
 July … … 3 10½ … 4 0 
 August … … 3 10½ … 4 1 
 September … … 3 9¾ … 4 1 
 October … … 3 11½ … 4 2 
 November … … 3 10¼ … 4 4 
 December … … 4 3 … 4 6 
 Average … … 3 10¾ … 4 3¼ 
 
 MUTTON. 
 1844. 1848. 
 s. d. s. d. 
 January … … 4 3¾ … 5 2 
 February … … 4 6 … 5 6 
 March … … 4 4 … 5 4 
 April … … 4 0 … 5 3 
 May … … 3 9 … 5 0 
 June … … 3 10 … 4 11 
 July … … 3 11 … 5 0 
 August … … 3 11 … 4 11 
 September … … 3 11 … 5 4 
 October … … 3 11 … 4 10 
 November … … 3 10½ … 4 10 
 December … … 4 2 … 5 2 
 Average … … 4 0½ … 5 1¼ 728 
 
 1844. 1848. 
 s. d. s. d. 
 Inferior beasts 2 7 … 3 2¾ 
 Second class 3 3¾ … 3 7½ 
 Third class (large prime) 3 0¾ … 3 11½ 
 Fourth class (Scots) 3 10¼ … 4 3¼ 
 Inferior sheep 3 2¾ … 3 9¼ 
 Second class 3 4 … 4 2¾ 
 Third class (long coarse woolled) 3 8 … 4 8½ 
 Fourth class (South Downs) 3 11¾ … 5 1¼ 
 Lambs 4 10½ … 5 5¼ 
 Coarse calves 3 9¼ … 4 0¾ 
 Small prime calves 4 3¾ … 4 6¾ 
 Large hogs 3 3 … 4 1 
 Small neat porkers 3 10¾ … 4 9½ s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. 729 Cries of l. l. l. s. d. s. d. s. 
 
 Bedfordshire 43 per cent. 
 Sussex 41 per cent. 
 Kent 39 per cent. 
 Suffolk 38 per cent. 
 Buckingham 33 per cent. 
 Norfolk 32 per cent. 730 l. l. l. 731
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It is quite true that my hon. Friend the Member for Montrose did propose to do away with the Excise; but he extended his views of destruction much further, and proposed—for I took down his words at the time—to do away with the counties also. I am perfectly convinced that I am correct, from the note which I took at the time, and which I now have by me, that my hon. Friend said he would do away with counties. 704 l. l. l. 705 706 l. l. l. l. 707 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 708 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 709 710 l. l. l. l. 711 l. l. l. l. 712 713 s. s. s. s. 714 715 716 
 
 DUTIES REPEALED. 
 Beer £3,106,000 
 Cider 52,000 
 Hides, &c. 735,000 
 Starch 117,000 
 Tiles 33,000 
 Vinegar 59,000 
 4,102,000 
 
 REDUCED. 
 Malt. 2,352,000 
 Spirits 381,000 
 Total repealed and reduced. £6,835,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. 717 
 
 In 1839 19 
 1840 14 
 1841 22 
 1842 12 
 Making a total of 67 in the four years. 
 
 In 1845 42 
 1846 90 
 1847 87 
 1848 69 
 Making a total of 288 718 l. l. l. vœ victis 719 l. l.
 MR. HENLEY  would give his most cordial support to this measure, because he
 692
 MR. HUME : I said do away with the Excise, and not counties.
 MR. HUME : Oh no! I did not say that.
 MR. HUME : I said if there are.
 MR. PUSEY  said, that last Session it had been thought desirable that further inquiry should be made respecting the matters involved in this measure; that inquiry had accordingly taken place; and the evidence collected had been placed before the House; when it was considered desirable that a Bill should be introduced on the subject. He therefore begged to introduce this Bill to the House for the third time during the present Parliament. It was strictly in conformity with the report of the Committee of last year; its clauses were such as had received the Committee's full sanction; and he therefore trusted the Bill had a sufficient claim to be allowed to pass a second reading.
 MR. PUSEY , in reply, said, he was willing to admit that, in some instances, excellent arrangements had been, notwithstanding, entered into by landlords and tenants; for instance, in the Earl of Yarborough's extensive estates in Lincolnshire the tenantry was flourishing under a system of tenant right which could not be too highly commended; and it appeared from the evidence taken before the Committee, that the noble Earl was desirous of extending the advantages of that system to the tenants on his property in the Isle of Wight. It was, however, a mistake to suppose that this was a matter which could in all instances be settled by a voluntary agreement between landlord and tenant, for he was informed by high legal authority that an agreement for compensation, when not supported by the custom of the country, would be of no more value than waste paper.
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  said, that he should be very brief in the observations which he had to address to the House in answer to the speech of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. His right hon. Friend admitted the great distress of the labouring population; but in his (Mr. Christopher's) opinion, that distress had been produced by what was called free trade. They had removed every particle of protection from the agricultural interests, while, either for the purpose of revenue, or some other motives, they still continued some limited amount of protection to every other interest in the country. That being so, it became the duty of the agriculturists to look with more care into the nature of the burdens which pressed upon them in particular. He should not attempt to enter into all the statistics that had been referred to by his right hon. Friend. He gave the right hon. Gentleman full credit for sincerity in the views which he entertained on this subject; but at the same time he did not think that the right hon. Gentleman had dealt fairly with the Motion before the House. The Motion had been brought forward by his hon. Friend the Member for Buckinghamshire in a spirit of conciliation. He had not asked for any new system of taxation; but simply that the House should resolve itself into a Committee to hear the alterations that he had to propose in the local burdens of the country, or else allow him to bring in a Bill at once upon the subject. His right hon. Friend the Chancellor
 732 l. l. l. s. 733 "The law of England was, and is, except by an act of what I may call legislative violence, that the profits of personal property should be assessed to the poor-rate. Now, at first, the land represented by far the greatest body of property in the country. There might have been at that time a population of 4,000,000, and above 3,000,000 of them were upon the land. Now, the progress of events has led to this state of things: you have a non-agricultural population double that of the agricultural, and that non-agricultural population is put in motion by a mass of capital greater than any that the world has yet seen applied to any system of industry in any country; and by an alteration in the administration of the law, the whole vast income derived from that property has been withdrawn from any contribution whatever to local taxation. The law of Elizabeth was, that everybody should contribute according to his ability, that ability being estimated by the annual value of his property; and the courts of law do not fail to assert that general principle, though they found it difficult to apply it. It was not on account of any alteration in the law, or any alteration in the principle of assessment, but simply from the difficulty created to the courts of law, that this mass of property, which now amounts to, I think, three times, perhaps five times, the amount of the real property assessed, has been entirely withdrawn from local taxation." 734 735 s. d. s. s. d. s. d. s. d. l. 736 s. d. s. 737 ad valorem 738 l. 739 740
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  admitted that this Bill was a great improvement upon that introduced by the hon. Gentleman last Session; but as he was opposed to all legislative interference between landlord and tenant, he felt it his duty to vote against the further progress of this measure. He thought that the object aimed at by the proposal of the hon. Gentleman could be better effected by agreements between landlord and tenant than by any compulsory legislative enactment. The custom of Lincolnshire was unquestionably a most liberal one; under it, all outgoing tenants were compensated for any unexhausted improvement in draining, buildings, or otherwise, which they might have made upon the land they occupied. That custom had been in existence during the last fifty years; and he was sure that in case of any dispute on the question of compensation, no jury that might be empannelled in Lincolnshire would hesitate to recognise it. But what introduced that custom? The enterprise, industry, and skill of the tenant farmers of that county. In Lincolnshire there were no leases at least, if there were any they were merely exceptions to the general rule; and he believed that, in nine cases out of ten, the tenant farmers would not accept leases from the landlords. He thought that landlords and tenants generally approved of the present system; and he should, therefore, vote in favour of the Amendment of the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln.
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  said, it was his intention to vote in favour of the second reading of the Bill, because he believed
 691
 MR. ANSTEY  begged to address a few words to the House, respecting the count out on the previous night. He did not dispute the right of hon. Members to absent themselves if they pleased; but so far as public time was concerned, of which they had recently heard a great deal, he certainly was of opinion that it would be quite as well if there was not a count out on important occasions. They were, the night before, within only one of making a House, and therefore the opportunity was ill-timed for putting forth what must be considered at best as a most invidious rule. He did not complain of the conduct of the hon. Member who had moved the counting of the House on that occasion, and he was most willing to admit that the Government had done all they could, and that they were most anxious to keep forty Members present. The whole discussion on Van Diemen's Land would probably not have occupied more than an hour and a half; and he had gone through half his statement at the time the adjournment took place. But though he did not complain of the conduct of hon. Members, he felt aggrieved by the manner in which some of the officers of the House had acted. He knew not who those officers were, but he alluded to those of them whose duty it was to ring the bell.
 688
 SIR H. VERNEY  said, he felt constrained to second the Amendment of the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had just sat down, and regretted to be compelled, by the strong and decided opinion he entertained upon this measure, to adopt this hostile course with regard to any Bill introduced by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Berkshire, because no Gentleman in that House had conferred greater benefits upon the whole agricultural interest of this country, than that hon. Gentleman had done by his valuable services. The agricultural interest was deeply indebted to him for having volunteered to conduct the  Agricultural Journal 690
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHE- QUER  begged pardon if he had misconceived the day. He confessed that he was not prepared to answer the long string of questions which had just been asked; but if they were repeated on Monday, he would endeavour to reply to them  seriatim.
 LORD NORREYS  said, that as the plan of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire must necessarily lead to an addition to the present income tax, and as he was not prepared to vote for any such addition, he could not support the resolution of the hon. Member. The proposition appeared to him to be a step towards that system of centralisation which, whilst it increased the public expenditure, would destroy that local government which secured the peace and tranquillity of the country, and was at the foundation of public liberty. He knew it might be said—and it had been said by the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken—"Why not vote for the resolutions, and allow us to go into Committee to consider the subject?" But entertaining the opinion he did with regard to the plan, it would be, in his view, only a waste of the time of the House, and a mere delusion on the agricultural interest, to vote for going into Committee. Having voted a few nights ago against the Motion of the hon. Member for the West Riding, he could not now, consistently with that vote, and the maintenance of faith towards the public creditor, vote for the
 773
 MR. C. LEWIS  thought, that the House was not fully aware of the great amount of change and the magnitude of the considerations involved in the plan of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire. Having listened to the brilliant declamation which that hon. Member had addressed to the House, it appeared to him that his mind had been principally directed to the evils which existed in the present system, and that he had not, with sufficient attention, considered the consequences of the vast and extensive alteration which he had proposed. The argument of the hon. Gentleman might be stated in a few words—it was that local taxes, as they now existed, fell exclusively upon real property, and were devoted to purposes of general and national interest, and that, therefore, it was not just that they should fall upon that species of property exclusively. That, he thought, was a fair summary of the arguments of the hon. Member, and a correct representation of the principle upon which his resolution was founded. So far from the hon. Member having exaggerated the amount of the local burdens, he believed that he had even underrated them, and he felt bound to admit that nothing could be more accurate and precise than the foundation of his argument. He wished to call the attention of the House briefly to the origin of the incidents of local taxation. They had mainly arisen from the incidence of the rate levied for the relief of the poor. The extensive imposition of that tax had served as a model upon which to found most of the others. The 43rd of Elizabeth, c. 2, provided that the overseers of the poor were to raise weekly, or otherwise, by taxation of every inhabitant, a sum according to the ability of the parish, for the relief of the poor in the parish. Undoubtedly the word "inhabitant" occurred in the statute; and there was no doubt but that personal property was comprehended in the terms of the Act of Elizabeth. But the Court of Queen's Bench, in applying this principle, have, from the beginning, given a narrower construction to the Act, and we have no reason to believe that there ever was a time when personal property was generally rated for the relief of the poor, or for any other local rate. It had been held that a person residing in one parish, and having personal property in another, was not liable to be rated; farming stock
 774 l l l l l l 775 l l l l l l l l l l l 776 l 777 l l l
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  rose and said: Sir, I believe there is a general wish upon the part of this House that there should be a division to-night. I
 817 l l l s 818 s 819 l l l l l l l
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY : With regard to the taxation thrown upon land, in comparing France with England, he found a vast difference in the amount paid. Mr. M'Culloch states in his work, that he touches upon this point chiefly from the light which it throws upon the subject, and partly because it was so little understood in this country. Mr. M'Culloch says—
 "So little do we know of the mode in which the public revenue is raised in France, that it is a common error to suppose that it is principally derived from the land, or, at the least, that a large proportion of it is paid by the land. Nothing can be more completely unfounded than such a supposition. The land of England is quite as highly taxed as that of France." s s 820 "The whole of the farms on the road from North Corney to Cheltenham—a distance of about ten or eleven miles—are now either in the hands of the proprietors, or about to be vacated by the tenants at Lady-day next. The soil of that district is very thin on the brach, and it, therefore, will not admit of tenants paying rent at all, at the present low price of corn." l 821 822 "I admit that if unlimited foreign import, which the war had suspended, were now again allowed, broad might be a little, though very little, cheaper than it now is for a year or two; but what would follow? The small farmer would be ruined, improvement would stand still, inferior lands now producing corn would return to a state of waste, the home consumption and brisk demands for all the various articles of the retail dealer would rapidly decline, to the great injury of our towns, especially those which are not connected with manufactures or commerce." 823 
 
 GRANTHAM UNION. 
 PROVISION CONTRACTS—SEPT. AND DEC. 1848. 
 Sept. 1848. Dec. 1848. Gain per week in Dec. 1848. Loss per week in Dec. 1848. 
 s d s d s d s d 
 Flour:— 4½ · Being 2 d. 
 Second 41 0 36 0 
 Thirds 39 0 34 0 
 Coals 15 0 15 0 · · 
 Butter 1 0½ 1 1½ · 0 1 On 1lb. 
 Milk 0 2 0 2 · · 
 Cheese 0 7 0 6½ 0 0½ · 
 Beef 0 6 0 5¾ · · None bought. 
 Mutton 0 6 0 5½ 0 1 · Suppose 4lb. are bought. 
 Suet 0 6 0 5¾ · · None bought. 
 Oatmeal Peas 5 9 4 3 · · Seldom bought. 
 Candlea 5 6 5 5½ 0 0½ · On 1lb. 
 Rice 21 0 19 0 · · Seldom bought, but the reduction is not 1¼. per lb. 
 Sago 0 3½ 0 3 · · Seldom bought. 
 Tea 3 3 3 2 · · Nothing saved. 
 Coffee 1 4 1 4 · · 
 Sugar 0 5 0 4½ 0 0½ · On 1lb. 
 Soap 43 0 43 3 · · 
 Salt 2 1 2 1 · · 
 Gain 0 7 0 1 
 Loss 0 1 
 Balance 0 6 "I have a great many moo who have been with me ever since I began farming; and when I told these men, three years ago, that I must lower their wages to 10 s s s "Do you think that in proportion as the price of bread was low the amount expended upon the poor was high? I should think there can be no doubt of that; the price of corn being very low tends invariably to throw a great number of persons out of employment, and those persons have no means of supporting themselves, except by seeking an asylum in the union workhouse." Cries of "Divide !" 824
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT , seeing a great number of Gentlemen anxious to address the House, would undertake to reduce the argument which he wished to submit, in illustration of his views, to as short a compass as possible; but he was anxious to take some part in this discussion, because he came to the consideration of the Motion of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire with all the bias, if he might say so, of a person connected by birth and representation with the landed interests. He had listened with great attention and admiration, in common, he should think, with every person in the House, whether opposed to him or not, to the very able and acute speech which had been delivered by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, though he had not been able to agree with every portion of it. He thought the right hon. Gentleman, residing, as he did, and connected by tenure of land, with a district of the country which happened to be particularly exempt from the suffering that oppressed the agricultural classes of England, had, in some degree, underrated and undervalued the amount of that distress. They were all, perhaps, too apt to judge by what fell under their immediate observation, and to argue from that to a wider field. Coming, therefore, from a part of the country peculiarly affected by this distress, he was inclined, perhaps, to attach more importance, not to the intensity but the extent of that distress, than he ought to do; for, though the distress was local, yet the locality was not so small as was supposed, and in that locality the distress was very considerable. But, if he differed from the right hon. Gentleman as to the extent of the distress, he was afraid he differed more from hon. Gentlemen who sat near
 806 s s s s s s s s s 807 l 808 l 809
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, if anything could prevail upon me to vote for a Committee of the whole House, as the hon. Gentleman recommended in his very able and oratorical speech, it would be from the motive of curiosity to see what the hon. Gentleman's plans really are, seeing they were so vaguely and indefinitely sketched that no distinct outline of the scheme has been given in the whole course of the debate. Every one supposed, from the speech of the hon. Gentleman, that he was about to propose an increase of the income tax. That one of the most important interests of this country is in a state of distress no one denies; and my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer admitted it fully with regard to a great portion of the country. Well, then, the first step of the hon. Gentleman is to take off 6,000,000 l 830 l l l 831 l s l l l 832 s s s l l 833 l 834 Laughter. l l
 MR. DISRAELI  then rose to reply. He said: Sir, I can assure the House that at this hour of the night (past One o'clock), I shall not abuse the privilege of reply; but at the same time, I hope the House will agree that under the circumstances, to a certain degree, I may fairly avail myself of it. It appears to me, after having carefully listened to every speech that has been made during this prolonged and interesting discussion, that the objections to the resolutions I have proposed may be classed under three heads:—First, to the justice of the allegation that there are unfair burdens upon the land; secondly, to the practicability of the remedial suggestions I have made; thirdly, it is maintained, that even, if practicable, the scheme which I
 847 848 l l s 849 l l 850 l l l l 851 l l l l d d d s s d l l s s d 852 s s s d 853 854 855 l "It appears that there has been a large increase in the year 1847–48 over 1846–47 in the amount of the poor-rate. This increase has been mainly caused by the general depression which existed in the manufacturing districts, and by the influx of poor persons from Ireland in a state of destitution." 856 l l 857 A laugh.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  then rose and addressed the House. What, he asked, was the cause of the anger of the hon. Member for Manchester? In the first place, the hon. Member seemed to fear that a hope was abroad that the corn law might again be imposed. This excited his ire; but what had principally and chiefly roused him was the mere idea that the people in the south of England should reject the manufactures of the north of England, and amongst them cotton goods made of the twist he spins. He (Mr. Newdegate) had not risen to reply to the angry tone of the hon. Member's speech; nor need he comment upon the evident weakness of a cause which had to be defended by such a base weapon as mere vituperation. The proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Buckinghamshire was, in his (Mr. Newdegate's) opinion, founded in justice; and it was so comprehensive in the relief it would afford, as to be indisputable in its claims upon the House; so its opponents seemed to feel, since all argument against it had failed, and nothing but vituperation would serve the turn of such opponents as the hon. Member for Manchester. He would now proceed to advert to one or two points which had been touched upon by the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the right hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Gibson), both of whom had distinctly stated that the pressure of local taxation was not heavier upon the land than upon the other interests of the country. Now, he thought it was in his power to show the House that this was not the case. The report of the Poor Law Commissioners contained an account of the pressure of the poor-rates, upon the value in the pound of rental, and per head of the population, in the year 1847, in twenty-four large towns, and in nineteen agricultural unions; and it showed the following result—that in the twenty-four large towns, quoted by the Poor Law Commissioners,
 803 s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d 804 s d s l l l l l l l l 805 l l l l
 MR. SPEAKER  informed the hon. Member that it was contrary to precedent for such a question to be submitted to a private Member.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that pending certain legal proceedings which were going on with respect to these banks, the Government did not think it would be advisable to institute further inquiries.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Your statement of my words is wholly incorrect; what I said was this—the real property in those countries bore a greater proportion of taxation than the real property in this.
 MR. CAYLEY  was able to give a direct contradiction to the statement that there were no complaints of distress from the north of England; for no later than the preceding day he had received a letter stating that a large meeting was about to be held in an important agricultural district with which both the North and the East Riding of Yorkshire were connected on the subject of the low price of corn. But even if that were not so—had the north no reason for alarm when they knew that a great part of England had sustained a great loss of property from which they had escaped only through being blessed with a better crop—when they knew that the price of corn was not higher than 45s. per quarter, notwithstanding the great deficiency in the southern harvest? Under the fall of prices in 1822, and in 1834 and 1835, and the consequent distress, hope, at least, was left at the bottom of the box—it was expected that with the revival of trade there would be a rise in the price of agricultural produce. But no such hope existed at the present time; for, notwithstanding the deficiency in the crop, there had been no compensating rise in price, and the prospects of trade were anything but promising. In the former years he had referred to—1822 and 1835—the fall in price took place under a great abundance of corn, whereas now it occurred concurrently with a deficiency of supply. Was there under these circumstances no reasonable ground of alarm. It had been stated that there was a great desire on the part of the manufacturing population to join in an attempt to reduce the Government expenditure: he (Mr. Cayley) could bear testimony to a similar desire on the part of the agricultural body, because they found the present rate of taxation intolerable under the existing price of their produce. There was reason in the agriculturists making those complaints; but his surprise was, that the manufacturers made complaints of that nature. The manufacturing body, according to the predictions of their leaders, should now, under free trade, be in a state of prosperity. They might be assured, however, that neither the mercantile nor agricultural bodies ever made those complaints unless the shoe pinched. Was
 810 811 812 l l l l l l s d s s d s s d s l l l 813 l l l l l l l 814 815 l l l l l l l l 816
 MR. GOULBURN  confessed, that he was anxious to express his feelings on the Motion before the House, and he could assure the House that he would confine the few observations he had to make within the shortest possible space. It was impossible to have listened to the course of this debate without observing that great changes had taken place in the course of it in the views of those who supported the proposition. He listened, on the first night of this discussion, to the speech of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire—he listened with that attention which the hon. Gentleman's powers of eloquence and of argument always demanded, and still more with that attention which was due to the temperate manner in which his argument was stated. He thought he understood the proposition of the hon. Gentleman. He thought that he understood him to intend to relieve the real property of this country from the burden of six millions of taxation, and to charge that amount on the Consolidated Fund of this country; and he suggested means by which the vacuum in the Consolidated Fund thus created, should afterwards be supplied. The hon. Gentleman stated the amount of the void which would thus be created, and then, though he did not say indeed that the vacuum should be supplied by an increased property tax, yet he did say, that
 825 826 l l 827 l l l l 828 l 829
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  begged to ask the Member for the University of Dublin whether there was anything in the present state of legal proceedings pending in the matter of the savings bank of St. Peter's parish, in the city of Dublin, which rendered necessary the postponement of an inquiry by a Committee of this House, into the affairs of the said bank?
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  asked, whether it was the intention of the Government to prosecute any further inquiry into the circumstances connected with the late failure of certain savings banks in Ireland? The Committee of last Session reported that they had proceeded with the inquiry intrusted to them by the House; but, owing to the late period of the Session, they found themselves unable to bring it to a satisfactory conclusion; and they were of opinion that it was advisable that a further inquiry should take place during the recess, or in the next Session of Parliament, into the existing system of savings banks.
 MR. KER SEYMER  could bear testimony
 768 s 769 l 770 771 772 ignis fatuus
 MR. BRIGHT : It seems. Sir, to me that a very great deal of misapprehension exists among hon. Gentlemen on the benches opposite with regard to the proposition of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire. We were originally given to understand, if I mistake not, that the basis or groundwork of that proposition was the prevalence of great distress among all classes of the community connected with agriculture in this country. But the speech of the hon. Mover of the proposition described a case of a very different description, whilst the speech of the hon. Member for Somersetshire, who has just sat down, has apprised you that none of the distress resulting from the burdens on land complained of falls on that class whom the hon. Mover would induce you to relieve by adopting his proposition. The hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, in his speech on introducing this question, quoted something I am said to have stated on a former occasion, admitting the great distress prevailing among the agricultural classes. He misquoted what I then said; very unintentionally, I am quite sure, but very strangely. I never expressed myself to the effect—and, if I had done so, I should have betrayed great ignorance of that which must be within the cognisance or experience of almost every man—that, generally speaking, the distress of the times had been very severely felt by the agricultural community. I said that little had been said about the pressure of agricultural distress more northward than Cambridge or in Suffolk, and that in the south of England the cry of agricultural distress had scarcely been heard of. And I say further, that hardly anything has been ever asserted of late in the north as to the depression of agricultural prices. ["Oh, oh!  "from the Opposition benches. 792 s s s 793 s s s s 794 "The practice of rating stock in trade never prevailed in the greater part of England and Wales. It was, with comparatively few exceptions, confined to the old clothing district of the south and west of England, It gained ground just as the stock of the woolstaplers and clothiers increased, so as to make it an object with the farmers, and other ratepayers, who still constituted a majority in their parishes, to bring so considerable a property within the rate. They succeeded by degrees, and there followed upon their success a more improvident practice in giving relief than had ever prevailed before in England. It was in this district, and at this time, that relief by head-money had its origin, and produced its most conspicuous effects in deteriorating the habits, and depreciating the wages, of the agricultural labourer. When the practice of rating stock in trade was fully established in this district, the staple trade rapidly declined there, and withdrew itself still more rapidly into the northern clothing districts, where no such burden was ever cast upon the trade." d s s 795 l l l l l l l l l 796 l l l l Laughter. 797 Mark Lane Express. 798 "Their lips are now forbid to speak That once familiar word." 799 Standard, Standard 800 801 s d s 802
 MR. HERRIES  entirely concurred in
 758
 MR. HUME  said, that he assured the House there was nothing that he did within its walls that he was unwilling to be made public. He regretted that the noble Viscount had selected the papers moved for by him instead of by every other hon. Member. The noble Viscount fancied that he had found out something new; but he had to inform him that that was the third time this question had been mooted. He feared, however, he was one of those who "did nothing themselves, and who found fault with those who did." He did not deny that he had taken an active part in moving for returns; but if the noble Viscount would mention any returns which he had not acted upon, or which had not been of public service, then he would take all the blame that should attach to him for having moved for useless returns. But when many had moved for returns of which, and of the use to be made of them, they knew nothing, he apprehended that they were to blame, and that he (Mr. Hume) was blameless. From a paper moved for by him, showing the number of papers moved for by hon. Members, it appeared that, in the list from 1 to 60, his name did not appear, neither did it from 50 to 69; and if the noble Viscount would examine the lists, he would find that he (Mr. Hume) had moved for a variety of papers which he conceived most important; and if the noble Viscount would move the appointment of a Committee on the subject, and would state before it the ground on which he made his Motion, he (Mr. Hume) should be prepared to show that all the papers he had moved for were of the utmost public importance—moved for mainly to show how the money of the nation was expended; and he did not, therefore, wonder at the noble Viscount and others objecting to such returns, because, perhaps, they were interested in its reckless expenditure. He hoped the House would agree to his Amendment, and he expressed his gratitude to the noble Viscount for showing the public the pains which he (Mr. Hume) took to instruct them
 757 l s l l
 MR. HUME  seconded the Motion.
 MR. COBDEN : Sir, I have been alluded to so frequently in the course of this debate, that I am not willing to allow it to cease without saying a few words. I shall not weary the House by a reference to the speech of the hon. Mover of the original Motion; I consider that to do so, after the able speech of the right hon. the Chancel-
 835 l l s s 836 837 d s d d. s s d d. s d. s s. 838 Hansard? 839 s s 840 841 Laughter. 842 843 844 845 l Punch l 846
 MR. ANSTEY  begged to give notice that he would ask them over again on Monday.
 MR. ANSTEY  said, that by the 3rd of Geo. IV., chap. 53, the sale of any species of roasted vegetable instead of coffee was forbidden, except under a license, which, according to that Act, dealers in coffee could not obtain, the object of the Legislature being to secure the sale of a cheap beverage to the public, and to prevent adulteration. Now, he wished to know whether it was true, as stated in a
 750 l
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he was desirous of explaining to the House the grounds upon which he should feel it his duty to vote on the Motion now under the consideration of the House; and knowing the general desire of the House to be that they should come to a division on the question that night, and having no doubt that many hon. Members on both sides would be anxious to express their views upon it, he would endeavour to make his remarks as brief as possible. The House had two proposals, each involving entirely different principles, now placed before it. The one moved for by the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire was a proposal founded upon leaving the whole amount of the public burdens and public taxation as it stands at present, and merely transferring a portion of the present taxation from one class to another; while the proposal of the hon. Member for Montrose sought to give relief to all classes, agricultural and commercial, by, first, a reduction of the public expenditure, in order that the claims of the national creditor might be duly regarded; and, secondly, by applying the surplus procured by the reduction of the expenditure of the country to the repeal of those taxes which press upon both agricultural and commercial industry. It was of importance that the House should carefully mark the distinction in principle between these two propositions, and then of course it would be the duty of those who approved of the principle of seeking relief from the pressure of taxation for all classes, by reducing the public expenditure, to support his hon. Friend's (Mr. Hume's) Amendment; while those who preferred the prin-
 759 760 761 l l l l l l 762 l 763 status 764 status 765 766 l 767
 MR M. GIBSON : We contend for a reduction of that which was to be temporary expenditure.
 MR. EWART  accepted the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet.
 MR. EWART  presented two petitions from the inhabitants of Birmingham, complaining of the want of public libraries. The hon. Gentleman then proceeded to move the resolution of which he had given notice. He said, for several years they had introduced into this country various enlargements of our formerly exclusive system, in reference to the arts, after the
 752 753 Life of Lorenzo, Leo the Tenth. l 754 755 "That a Select Committee be appointed on existing Public Libraries in Great Britain and Ireland, and on the best means of extending the establishment of Libraries freely open to the Public, especially in large Towns."
 MR. MONSELL  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary a ques-
 751
 SIR G. GREY  said, he had freely admitted the other night, that the prisons in Ireland were crowded at present to a most dangerous extent, and that a correspondence had taken place between the Government and the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland on the subject. Every effort was being made to afford accommodation, and within a week or two room would be obtained at the Government depot at Spike Island, and ships would be provided as speedily as possible for the reception of those who were under sentence of transportation. He was not aware that cholera had broken out in any of the Irish gaols; but it was necessary to guard against such a visitation; and one mode of doing this was, to permit the local justices to recommend the discharge of all prisoners who had nearly completed their respective terms of confinement, and whose conduct had been such as to entitle them to a manifestation of lenity.
 SIR G. GREY  said, there was a Committee already sitting upon the subject of the British Museum, whose inquiries would include the library of that institution, and the Committee proposed by the hon. Gentleman would only interfere with the peaceful progress of the labours of the Museum Committee. He was scarcely aware of the object of the inquiry sought by the hon. Gentleman, although he entirely concurred with him that every available and legitimate means should be used for the purpose of extending the establishment of public libraries in all the large towns throughout the country. Nothing could be worse, however, than the extremely vague and indefinite manner in which the hon. Gentleman had spoken of these institutions; and he (Sir G. Grey) did not collect from his remarks any definition of what should be considered a public library, and what should not. The hon. Gentleman had referred to the Advocates' Library, Edinburgh; the Bodleian Library, Oxford; and to the deanery and parochial libraries; but he (Sir G. Grey) did not think that either of those which he had enumerated came within the definition of public libraries. He (Sir G. Grey) was prepared to agree to the appointment of a Committee, but not in the terms used in the hon. Gentleman's Motion. If the hon. Gentleman would omit the words "existing public libraries in Great Britain and Ireland" from his Motion, he (Sir G. Grey) would be quite ready to assent to it.
 SIR G. GREY  hoped the House would not accede to the Motion; for, notwithstanding the disclaimer of the noble Viscount, the Motion did imply a reflection on the hon. Member for Montrose, which in his case was most unmerited. He could not admit that any hon. Gentleman was responsible for the expense incurred in printing returns; because it was not in the power of any individual to order returns to be made. No returns could be made except by order of the House, or by address to the Crown; and it was the duty of every hon. Member, if he thought any Member moved for a return which ought not to be made, to oppose its production. The House was the best judge whether any returns moved for were of sufficient importance or not to be ordered, and the House alone, therefore, was responsible for the expense. He hoped, therefore, the noble Viscount would not press his Motion.
 SIR M. J. CHOLMELEY  hoped that, as he was so little in the habit of troubling the House, he might reckon upon their attention for a short time while he made a few observations upon the subject then under discussion. In the outset, he would say that it was his intention, after some hesitation, to vote for the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Buckinghamshire. He believed it was allowed on all sides of the House, that there existed at present great alarm and despondency in the agricultural interest, and he did think that it was due to that important interest that this House should at least express their sympathy with it by granting the Committee that was moved for by the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire. He confessed that he was rather startled, and felt some hesitation as to the course he should take, after the able speech that was made last night by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Were he convinced that the only alternative left
 780 s d 781 s l
 SIR R. LOPES  said, that in making the few observations which he had to address to the House, he should not forget that it was useless to speak of protection. That the removal of protection had a great deal to do with the present position of agriculture he firmly believed— hinc illœ lachrymœ 778 s d 779
 MR. W. MILES  said, he had listened to the speech of the hon. Member the Under Secretary of State for the Home Department with great respect, not only on account of the situation he at present held, but from the recollection of those duties which, in another department, he had filled so ably for so many years. He found that the hon. Gentleman, in speaking of the construction to be put upon the Act of Elizabeth, as to the parties liable to be rated, admitted that all kinds of property were taxable, and yet he went on to state that stock in trade was the only kind of personal property now held by the courts to be rateable; and that an annual Bill exempted stock in trade from the tax. But
 782 783 ad captandum 784 s s. "The Committee beg to glance at certain outgoings borne by the farmer, which are clearly established by the evidence—burdens which, when there is a profitable return, press upon him most severely, and which, at the present prices, reduce him to the greatest distress." s "while these burdens pressed exclusively upon the land, it behoved Parliament to watch those burdens imposed by law which they had in their power, and endeavour to reduce them." "expenses for the general utility were defrayed by local taxation." "The poor of England, till the time of Henry VIII., subsisted entirely upon private benevolence, and the charity of well-disposed Christians. For though it appears by the Mirrour, that by the common law the poor were to be sustained by parsons, rectors of the Church, and the parishioners, so that none of them die for want of sustenance; and though by the Statute 12th Richard II., cap. 7, and the 19th Henry VII., cap. 12, the poor were directed to abide in the cities and towns wherein they had dwelt for three years (which seems to be the first rudiments of parish settlements), yet, till the Statute of 27th Henry VIII., cap. 25, I find no compulsory method chalked out for this purpose; but the poor seem to have been left to such relief as the humanity of their neighbours would afford them. The monasteries were, in particular, their principal resource; and among other bad effects which attended the monastic institutions, it was not, perhaps, one of the least (though frequently esteemed quite otherwise), that they supported and fed a very numerous and very idle poor, whose sustenance depended upon what was daily distributed in alms at the gates of the religious houses. But, upon the dissolution of these, the inconvenience of thus encouraging the poor in habits of indolence and beggary was quickly felt throughout the kingdom, and abundance of statutes were made in the reign of King Henry VIII. and his children, for providing for the poor and impotent,
 785 l l l l l l l l 786 s s 787 Mark Lane Express Mark Lane Express "Within the last few days, a statement has been issued by the Board of Trade, purporting to give the total imports of foreign stock into the United Kingdom, during the month ending on the 5th of February, 1848 and 1819. The statement in question is as under:— 
 
 Oxen 478 477 
 Cows 245 235 
 Calves 67 196 
 Sheep 728 786 
 Pigs 29 28 
 Total 1,547 1,722 788 "It must be obvious to all acquainted with the subject, and more particularly to those who have watched the progress of the arrivals, that the above returns are extremely inaccurate. That correct official returns are invariably important, not a doubt can be entertained, but such extremely erroneous as those given above are calculated to mislead the grazing community, as well as the public at large. To prove our position, we here give the arrivals of stock into London only from the 6th of January to the 3rd of February inclusive—the period, doubtless, embraced in this official document. "Arrivals of stock from abroad into London from the 6th January to the 3rd February inclusive, current year:— 
 
 Week ending. Beasts. Sheep. Calves. 
 Jan. 13 188 817 50 
 Jan. 20 177 1122 107 
 Jan. 27 150 616 78 
 Feb. 3 369 799 182 
 Total actual arrivals 893 3354 417 
 Corresponding month 
 in 1848 473 2432 93 "Now, it may be asked, how have these discrepancies crept in, when it is shown that a larger number of sheep alone came into London than the whole of the stock stated by the officials to have arrived in the United Kingdom? The fact is, a most serious, we will not say wilful, blunder has been committed by some parties, and the sooner it is corrected the better. It must be understood that the Customs in London publish daily a statement, compiled from the ships' manifests of the imports, deliveries, &c., of all articles reported. Those returns prove the accuracy of our own, and the absurdity of those published by the Board of Trade," l 789 "I admit," said the right hon. Gentleman, in reply to him (Mr. Miles), "that the landed interest is entitled to protection, but, at the same time, I feel that these peculiar burdens are rightly placed, and I am opposed to their removal. The landed interest derives a certain protection on account of these burdens, and I do not think it should attempt to throw them off; and, at the same time, to retain that protection which given on account of them." 790
 MR. MILES : Had the times so changed as that they could get rid of their temporary expenditure? Were they to reduce 11,500,000 l l l 791 Laughter
 VISCOUNT DRUMLANRIG  disclaimed all feeling of hostility towards the hon. Member for Montrose, in introducing the Motion on the Paper, and he was quite ready to accept the hon. Member's Amendment.
 VISCOUNT DRUMLANRIG  begged to move—
 "That there be laid before this House, a Return of the expense the Country has incurred from printing and publishing and collecting Returns moved for by the hon. Member for
 756
 MR. BROWN  said, its main design was to insure the lives of passengers by railway, and to grant them compensation in case of injury or accident. It proposed to obviate the difficulty of paying stamp duties in every case by paying 5 per cent
 866
 MR. BROWN  stated, that it was optional with any other assurance company to obtain a similar Bill if they pleased.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, the Bill empowered certain parties to be incorporated, for the purpose of insuring the lives and limbs of passengers by railway carriages, and of enabling the company, instead of paying separate stamp duties, to compromise with the Stamp Office, by handing over 5 per cent upon their receipts. This was the drift of the Bill; and, before it was considered by the Committee upstairs, it was necessary that the resolution now proposed should have the sanction of a Committee of the whole House.
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  said, that no danger would accrue to the public revenue from the passing of the measure.
 The CHAIRMAN  reported progress, and the House resumed.
 The EARL of ARUNDEL AND SURREY  wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Railway Board. In consequence of a dispute between the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway way Company and the East Lancashire Company, a disgraceful scene had occurred at Clifton on the 12th of this month. He begged to ask whether the matter had been brought under the notice of the right hon. Gentleman?
 The EARL of ARUNDEL AND SURREY : Do I understand the right hon. Gentleman to say that the Commissioners have no right to interfere where the lives of the public are in jeopardy?
 SIR F. BARING : Well, in 1841, the number of men voted for the Navy was 39,365. In 1835, no doubt, the number was smaller; but what was the fact? The Government in 1835 had tried the experiment of reduction, but it had not succeeded. They had found the amount of men voted on that occasion was not sufficient, and it had been increased by the general assent of the House. The number voted for the year 1837–38 was 34,165 men; but his hon. Friend forgot that the world had not stood quite still between the years 1835 and 1848. His hon. Friend said, let the House refuse the men, and they would get rid of the squadron on the coast of Africa; but he forgot that we were compelled by treaty to keep up that squadron. It was not for naval purposes that that squadron was kept up, but for great political purposes, quite unconnected with naval considerations. If they now reduced the number of men under the supposition that they could get rid of the African squadron, they would act under an erroneous impression; for the truth was, that they could not withdraw that squadron, as they were bound by treaty to maintain it; and the only effect of a reduction would be that they would have to withdraw their ships and men from important naval stations—from the real naval service of the country—for the purpose of placing them upon the African station. That subject, how-
 917 918
 SIR F. T. BARING  rose and said, that he hoped his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose would not deem it a disrespect towards him, if he did not embark in a discussion of the budget with which he had concluded, and his proposition for reducing 10,000,000 l 915 916
 CAPTAIN HARRIS : The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had read an account from a French paper of the state of the French navy. Now, he believed that the true basis on which we ought to proceed was to keep our armaments, looking relatively to the navy of France. The hon. Gentleman had read the particulars of the number of ships building, but he did not state the number of men the French Government had voted, nor the men who had been voted for the navy this year. The number of men voted this year was 29,000, and 11,000 marines; making a total of 40,000 men; and they could, within a few weeks, have 20 sail of the line ready, with 29,000 men. With respect to impressment, he must remind the hon. Gentleman that it was very easy to make appeals to the country, either from the hustings, or in this place in Parliament. He (Captain Harris) was as much opposed to the system of impressment as any man could be, and he hoped it would never be resorted to again. He, however, thought it was the duty of the Admiralty to take into their most serious consideration some great and comprehensive plan for manning the Navy. He had brought this subject under their notice last year and the year before, and he thought it of such paramount importance that he should not cease to agitate it. He bore testimony to the great merits of the late noble Earl who presided over the Admiralty, who had always evinced the most lively interest for the service; and any one who looked over the evidence of that noble Lord would see that that was the feeling which animated him. He again called the attention of the House to the necessity of adopting some comprehensive plan for manning the Navy during this year, and in a period of peace, and before we could be hurried into a war. The system suggested by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon gave a most excessive bounty, which would entail upon the country an expense of 200,000 l 944
 COLONEL THOMPSON  could very well comprehend that the Government, if they chose, might find means of doing without the 5,000 men in question. Agreeing, however, with his hon. Friends on this point, he did not pledge himself to all the details, and especially to what had been said about the African squadron. He believed that the spirit was still breathing which had led to the providing that squadron, and that a discussion of the question would end in demonstrating something very different from the African squadron being given up by everybody.
 COLONEL ANSON  said, it was his opinion that every practicable and wise economy had been adopted in these estimates; and if the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hume) considered it had not, it only remained for him to prove the truth of his allegation.
 The CHAIRMAN  then reported progress.
 ADMIRAL DUNDAS  said, that the troops were now sent out at a much cheaper rate than they could be by his hon. and gallant Friend's suggestion, because the vessels now employed brought a cargo home, whereas the men-of-war could not bring anything home.
 COLONEL ANSON  said, he would now, with the permission of the House, take certain votes on account for the Ordnance, a list of which he would place in the hands of the Chairman. The House must he aware that it was necessary to provide a certain amount of funds to meet the necessary expenditure of the Ordnance after the expiration of the present financial year. He could only assure the House that the estimates of this department had been prepared with a due regard alike to the exigencies of the public service and to every practical measure of economy; and he, therefore, trusted it would now consent to vote on account a portion of the sums required for the services under the heads which he now proposed to place in the hands of the Chairman.
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO  said, it was a well-known fact that more than two-thirds of our troops were employed in the colonies. Now, the system of transport was most injurious to the British service. The hon. Member for Montrose proposed a reduction of 5,000 men; and if they were to employ some of the officers now on half-pay to command ships which could be employed to convey troops, the soldiers would be made more comfortable, there would be less danger, and less expense to the Government if they employed Government vessels. We were about to send troops out to India, and, if matters should turn out unfortunate, a large body of troops would be sent out to India, and 7,000 tons of shipping would be required to be taken up in the river; but he defied the Government to find 7,000 tons of A 1 ships; they must charter ships of the class A 2,
 945 l
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  believed that the speech of the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark was calculated to convey a very incorrect impression of the real question that was before the House, and he wished, therefore to take that opportunity of correcting some of his misrepresentations. The hon. Baronet told them that there had been a profligate system of expenditure pursued in the system of building
 934 Nemesis vexata questio Terrible Terrible Terrible 935 Nelson l 936 Inconstant 937
 LORD J. RUSSELL : When the hon. Gentleman asked me, last year, whether the forces of Her Majesty should be employed only according to the law of nations, I certainly answered, without any hesitation, that that was the intention of Her Majesty's Government. But when the hon. Gentleman asks me that question at present, I certainly must be influenced in my answer by the construction that he puts upon the law of nations and the law of this country. Now, it appeared to me, with regard to the question on which the hon. Gentleman has spoken, and upon which I do not wish to enter into an argument at present—it appeared to me that Sir William Parker was fully justified, he having certainly no instructions to that effect, but having in command a fleet in the Mediterranean. Indeed, the circumstances of the case were such as to compel him, for the sake of humanity, to interfere in the contests going on between the forces of the King of the Two Sicilies and the forces of the Sicilians who were in arms against that authority. I thought that the circumstances of the case did justify Sir William Parker in that interference—and Sir William Parker obtained accordingly the approval of Her Majesty's Government, signified through my noble Friend the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, for the course which he then pursued. Now, the hon. Gentleman the Member for Stafford, I know, considers that that conduct was contrary to the law of nations; and that, instead of approving of Sir William Parker's conduct on that occasion, he ought to have been recalled. Now, such being the difference between us, it certainly would be somewhat imprudent in
 922
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that he was responsible for the course the promoters of the Bill had pursued. In the first instance, the resolution now under consideration had stood part of the Bill, but he had advised
 867
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he should be disposed to support the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose, but that he found him almost invariably supporting the party with whom he now found fault, and he remembered the old saying  Noscitur esociis bonâ fide
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  rose principally for the purpose of asking when that part of the discussion was likely to be touched upon which referred to the salaries of the officials of the Admiralty, because he did not hesitate to say that he should feel it to be his painful duty to call the attention of the House to that important subject. He would leave the hon. Member for Montrose himself to settle his Motion with Her Majesty's Government. With respect to that Motion, he would only observe that certain parties occasionally quarrelled with each other, and that out of those quarrels occasional good was derived by the public. He left the hon. Member to the First Lord of the Admiralty, the Secretary of the Admiralty, and his friends.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that a loan of upwards of 100,000 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said that what he stated was that he could not give an accurate account before the 5th of April.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : You do indeed.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained that he had not said anything upon the present occasion which referred to the possibility or practicability of war. He merely put the case as an illustration, without reference to the present or any other time, in order to show how impossible it would be, under certain circumstances, to arrive at any accurate conclusion as to the amount which might be required. He said it would be a sorry answer to those persons who might be injured by a want of proper protection, to tell them that the revenue was falling off, and that therefore they could have no protection. That was all he had intended to convey.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was aware that almost every discussion which preceded a Motion for going into Committee on the Estimates was of a very discursive character, and was not confined to the precise question before the House. He believed, however, that he would best consult the convenience of the House if he abstained from following either his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose or the hon. Member for Evesham into some of the extraneous topics to which they had referred. He should, therefore, confine his observations as much as possible to the proposal of his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose—that a general and accurate financial statement should be made to the House before it proceeded to vote the estimates. He said a general and accurate statement, because as regarded a probable estimate of the income and expenditure of the year, the House would remember that he had already given such an estimate. Now, that was not a new proposal of his hon. Friend, who had frequently before called on them to reverse the immemorial practice of the House of considering the Supplies before they considered the Ways and Means. But he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would confess that the more he became acquainted with the rules which regulated the conduct of business in that House, the more did he become convinced of the wisdom of those rules which had been sanctioned by the experience of ages. It appeared to him, that if their merchants were to require protection for their trade,
 878 l 879 880 "My opinion is, that a careful investigation of the expenditure is, in point of order, the first object of an inquiry such as we are now engaged in; because, I conceive that where the revenue of the country is wholly derived from taxation, the extent of it must be regulated entirely by the necessity of the expenditure which is to be provided for; the exigencies of the State, for the maintenance of its safety and honour, and the promotion of its essential interests, well understood, constitute the limits beyond which no contribution should be drawn from the people of this country. The revenue, upon this principle, ought to be adapted to the expenditure, not the expenditure to the revenue; and I should, therefore, consider that our first step should be to ascertain the narrowest limits within which the annual charges for the public service could be confined, and afterwards to examine how far the revenue which we now possess be or be not sufficient, or more than sufficient, for such an expenditure." 881 882
 MR. URQUHART  was quite willing to submit to the opinion of the law officers of the Crown with regard to the true construction of "the law of nations." As the noble Lord had declined to give him an answer, he intended to bring forward his promised Motion on our intervention in foreign disputes.
 MR. URQUHART  remarked that his question related to Lord Minto's visit to Naples.
 MR. URQUHART  begged to ask the Foreign Secretary whether the accuracy of statements made by him to the House had been impugned by the Government of the King of the Two Sicilies? Whether any communication on the subject had passed between the two Governments? Whether he would put the House in possession of such communications?
 MR. URQUHART  had listened with great attention to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Admiralty; and had it been a question of confidence in that right hon. Gentleman, he would have been ready to grant it. He did not agree, however, with the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down in his estimate of the Secretary for Foreign Affairs; and, having no confidence in that noble Lord, he thought the best thing he could do was to vote with the hon. Member for Montrose, so as to reduce the means of mischief which were placed at the disposal of the noble Lord. They had been told, the policy of the noble Lord in late transactions had been dictated by humanity; and similar language had been put into the mouth of Her Majesty in the Speech from
 921 Cries of"
 MR. WODEHOUSE  said, the hon. Member for Montrose had complained upon this, as upon all similar occasions, that the country Gentlemen did not support him. He (Mr. Wodehouse) believed the reason why they did not do so was, that, giving the hon. Member perfect credit for the sincerity of his patriotism, he never enforced his views of reduction with a due regard to the circumstances in which the country was placed. He would endeavour to show this by a retrospect of the hon. Member's conduct, and he would begin with the year 1820. It should be borne in mind, that that year was one of failure everywhere, and of internal disturbance; and then it was that the hon. Member began his outcry against establishments of every possible kind. The distress then prevailing was ignorantly and stupidly ascribed to the corn laws, though it had no connexion with them. In that year, upon the third reading of the Mutiny Bill, they were warned to pause before passing the Bill, on the plea of the dangers that would arise from military despotism. The hon. Member persisted, and persuaded the Earl of Liverpool to reduce the Army by 20,000 men. The shame of that reduction rested upon the head of the Earl of Liverpool, not upon his friends; for in weak deference to the irrational clamours of the hon. Member for Montrose, he reduced the Army in 1822, and was obliged to restore it to its former establishment in 1825. In 1826, the right hon. Baronet the President of the Board of Control said he was not prepared to go all the length of the hon. Member for Montrose, but would insist upon a course of reduction being followed; but only thirty-four Members voted with him. The noble Viscount the Foreign Secretary, who was then Secretary at War, most ably combated the danger arising from reforms of every kind; and if he wanted additional testimony, he might
 919
 MR. LABOUCHERE : I believe they have no right to interfere except on application. We have intimated that if this application is made we will interfere. Of course, in the event of any breach of the law being committed, the case can be dealt with by the magistrates.
 MR. LABOUCHERE , replied that the power vested in the Railway Commissioners with respect to matters of this description was as follows:—The Board had the power of interfering, so far as might be necessary for the protection of the public safety, on an application from either of the parties. One of these companies had sent a statement to the Railway Commissioners, but it was not such a statement as the Commissioners could act upon. The Commissioners had written to the company, stating that upon receiving such an application the Board would take such steps as were necessary for the protection of the public safety.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  thought it would clear away much of the difficulty which surrounded the matter if the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Hampshire would state his views of the Bill to the House.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  observed, that the resolution was only proposed in Committee as matter of form, merely to comply with the rules of the House.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  wished to know when the Bill to which the hon. Gentleman had referred would be introduced. He was anxious to know whether it would be introduced before Easter or not.
 MR. HENLEY  declared, that his objections to the whole proceeding had not in the slightest degree been removed by the explanations given. He considered it a public matter, which ought to be settled at the time of public business, and that in going into Committee of the whole House upon it they were laying down a dangerous precedent.
 MR. HENLEY  agreed with the hon. Member for Montrose, that it was most difficult to understand the measure. The proceeding seemed to be a most unusual one, for it was almost without precedent that the House should have gone into Committee of the whole House for what appeared to him to be a sort of private purpose.
 MR. HUME  thought that if the Bill were intended to affect all the railroads in the country, the measure ought to be a general one, and the benefits ought not to be confined to one company.
 MR. HUME  said, he did not understand the nature of this Bill, and that it was very desirable the House should be made acquainted with its provisions before they granted extraordinary powers to any party.
 MR. HUME  wished to know whether, in the course of the present year, they might expect any reduction in the large amount that was now appropriated for the support of the Poor Law Board.
 MR. HUME  said, that he would put his question on Monday next.
 MR. HUME  said, that as the new rules of the House precluded him from bringing forward the two Motions which stood on the Paper, he should abandon for the present that which called upon the House to adopt means to prevent the repeated explosions from fire damp in coal mines, and bring it forward on an early occasion, as he considered it of great importance. The other Motion, which bore more especially on the subject of the estimates, he would now proceed with. He had hoped that Her Majesty's Ministers would not have rendered such a Motion necessary, but
 871 l. 872 l l l l 873 
 
 £. £. 
 Funded Debt 27,778,000 
 Unfunded Debt 752,600 
 28,530,600 
 Consolidated Fund charges 2,750,000 
 Kafir war 1,100,000 
 Naval excess last year 245,000 
 1,345,000 
 Navy 7,726,610 
 Army 7,162,996 
 Ordnance 2,924,838 
 Miscellaneous 4,006,000 
 21,820,444 
 54,446,044 
 Militia 150,000 
 Total 54,596,044 874 l l "Whatever might be the precedents, and whatever might be the ordinary course as to financial statements, he felt he had no alternative but, at the earliest day, to submit to the House and the country the general views of Her Majesty's Government with respect to our financial position and our future commercial policy. Sir, it will be my duty to present to the House a general view of the present financial position of the country, to make an estimate of the probable revenue, and to discuss the great question, whether it be consistent with the public interest that the present amount of expenditure should be retained." "I will first give you an estimate of the financial
 875 l l l l l
 MR. HUME  remarked that the hon. Gentleman had only stated one side of the case.
 MR. HUME : I said that the papers laid upon the table of the House represented that the Navy was in an efficient
 MR. HUME  believed there was always hope of men who confessed themselves in fault, and he had never heard a more candid confession from a public officer proposing an estimate. No one who had heard the details entered into by the hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Admiralty showing how utterly without order, without system, the naval affairs of the country were conducted, could be surprised at the enormous expense that was incurred. The hon. Gentleman, no doubt, believed now what he said when he expressed his anxiety to effect a reduction; but he (Mr. Hume) could have but little confidence in such professions; for, during the thirty years he had sat in that House, he had never heard the Navy spoken of officially as in otherwise than a perfect state. He had never heard any admissions of error, but everything was always represented to be carried on with the greatest accuracy. But was it not a reproach to that House to have permitted such waste and profusion? His hon. Friend said that the country had began with a large fund, or capital, of ships in 1815. That might be very true; but would his hon. Friend do him the favour to look at the debates of 1817–1819–1820
 908 909 Hansard Nelson 910 l ad libitum 911 912 913 l l l l l l l l 914
 MR. HUME  said, that if the right hon. Baronet had read his resolution he would see that he did not ask for an accurate account. There was the instance of Lord Althorp in 1834, and subsequently, of Mr. Goulburn, for the course he proposed.
 MR. HUME  could not admit that the Ordnance Estimates had been prepared with a due regard to economy, and considered they required the application of the pruning knife just as much as the estimates for the Navy required reduction.
 MR. HUME  wished to observe, as the squadron on the coast of Africa had been alluded to, that the anti-slavery party in England did not approve of, but on the contrary were entirely opposed to, the maintenance of that squadron on the African coast.
 MR. BAINES  said, that if the hon. Gentleman would give notice of his intention to put the question on a certain day, he would give him an answer.
 MR. BAINES  said, that the measure would not be introduced before Easter.
 MR. BAINES  said, that the question of settlement had been fully discussed by the Committee that sat upon it some time time ago. His predecesssor had, moreover, instituted an inquiry of a very comprehensive nature in different districts, for the purpose of ascertaining the way in which the law of settlement operated, and also of seeing what remedy might best be supplied for the evils connected with it. But the results were not yet known in some cases, and in others not yet prepared; and, considering their complexity, and that no measure on the subject ought to be prepared without full consideration, he thought
 869
 MR. FORSTER  was of opinion that, so far from being injured, the public revenue would be benefited by the adoption of the resolution.
 MR. COBDEN  said that the answer given by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the proposal of his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, was not a very satisfactory one. The right hon. Gentleman said that his
 883
 MR. COBDEN  could not see how he misrepresented his right hon. Friend, for he surely put the possible case of an enemy ravaging the coast. That was the first argument used by him. It assumed that after 34 years of peace they were about to go to war. This constant tendency of considering war as the normal state of society was what he objected to. At all events, while they were at peace, let them have the advantage of peace. Let them have, at the beginning of the Session, the estimate of what the income and expenditure were likely to be. Although he admitted that the affairs of the nation were different from those of an individual, inasmuch as it might not be always in their power to confine the expenditure of a nation within its estimated income, yet, even in the affairs of a nation, the expenditure must in some measure be regulated by the income, because there was a limit to the income of a nation. When the nation at large was calling out for a reduction of expenditure, they ought to have the case placed plainly before them; and if they had the whole estimates before them, they would be the better able to judge, by reference to the sources of income, whether they could fairly and legitimately vote the
 884
 MR. COBDEN : But where was the necessity of voting the supplies before the 5th of April? Even if it were impossible to postpone them till after that period, they might at least have an approximate estimate of the expenditure and sources of income before the 5th of April. He wanted to have the whole estimate of expenditure and income before them, but they did not get that. They got the Army, Navy and Ordnance Estimates, but they had not got the Miscellaneous Estimates yet. The right hon. Gentleman made use of one argument which seemed to him to be very extraordinary—namely, that they probably might be in a state of war; that the enemy's fleet might be ravaging the coast—[The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: No. no!] Certainly the right hon. Gentleman made use of that argument.["No, no."] Surely he did not misrepresent the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. COBDEN : Sir, I think hon. Gentlemen opposite could not have avoided all allusions to the gross mismanagement—I think, the profligate mismanagement—of our naval department; for I know that every Member of the Committee of last year, of whom I was one, left it with the impression that there had been gross mismanagement in the dockyards. But I so far agree with some hon. Gentlemen opposite, that I do think, after all, that if you maintain the present system, you must make up your minds to a great amount of mismanagement. I mean by a great mismanagement, a waste of those ships in ordinary—those vessels which are to be ready to be used in case of war; you must make up your minds to that, if you maintain the present system. There is a great want of management in all Government establishments at present. It seems to me that the larger the establishment is, the greater the waste. You cannot, do what you will in Committees, get a Government, either in the matter of shipbuilding or anything else, to do things in the same way as private individuals. And I quite agree also that, if you are to keep ships of war, I would rather have them in ordinary than afloat. I would rather see them out of commission, idle and useless, than fighting; and when you talk of the evil of not launching ships already built, let me say that that is the smallest evil, both in the view of the humanity, and in the matter of actual expense. But, if you will effect any reasonable reduction in the cost of your Navy, it must be by making up your minds to change the system, and to content yourselves with a smaller establishment. And when I say a smaller establishment, I do not mean a less efficient one. There is a great deal of misconception on this subject. There is a confusion of ideas in saying that when we speak of a smaller, we are the advocates of a less efficient, establishment. That is a confounding of words; for I believe it to be quite possible that you may have a small establishment more efficient than a large one. Now, I will take the American navy. There was a ship of war, the frigate  St. Lawrence 938 939 l "American vessels of all sizes in commission, 47; only one line-of-battle ship on foreign service—three others employed as receiving ships; in ordinary, 21; on the stocks, 11: total, 79." 940 Constitutionnel "At 40 ships of the line, 24 afloat, and 16 on the stocks; 50 frigates, 40 afloat, and 10 on the stocks; 136 vessels of an inferior class afloat; 100 steam vessels, all afloat, and two floating batteries, with from forty to fifty guns: total, 328 ships. In November, 1846, the Navy Board, in order to complete the projected establishments, had to construct about 17 ships of the line, 27 frigates, 85 inferior vessels, 32 steam boats, and 2 floating batteries." l Constitutionnel l 941 l l 942 l l l l l 943
 MR. MITCHELL  said, the object of the hon. Member for Montrose was simply to reduce the naval force of the country, and not to inquire into any jobs or sinecures. On many points of financial economy he agreed with the hon. Member for Montrose; but he did not agree with him that, at the present moment, it was desirable to reduce the effective service of the Army, Navy, or Ordnance. He agreed with that hon. Gentleman that the money expended under the treaty for the suppression of the slave trade had been entirely thrown away. He also considered that our Navy was over-officered; and whenever the hon. Member for Montrose submitted a proposition to the House on either of those subjects, he should have his (Mr. Mitchell's) cordial support. He also considered that very great extravagance had been committed in our dockyards—that there had been a great deal of overbuilding; and not only that, but a great many failures, which to a certain extent might have been obviated by competition. He would vote for the estimates as submitted by the Secretary of the Admiralty, because he (Mr. Mitchell) placed implicit confidence in the present Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. And in expressing that opinion, he believed that he spoke the sentiments expressed by many Members of that House privately. He had not the pleasure of that nobleman's acquaintance, and he could not, therefore, in
 920
 MR. MACKINNON , seeing the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his place, wished to put to him a question relative to Antigua. A few years ago an earthquake took place in Antigua; and, in consequence.
 870 l
 MR. WARD  rose and said, that he had deferred making any allusion to the speech of the hon. Member for Evesham (Sir H. Willoughby) until he came to the general statement which it was his duty to make to the House, as he considered that would be the most convenient occasion for replying to the observations of the hon. Baronet. In many of his observations he (Mr. Ward) entirely concurred. He thought there was a great deal of truth in what he stated—that if votes for excesses were to recur perpetually from year to year, the Navy Estimates would cease to be regarded as a fair criterion of the national expenditure. He thought that whenever such excesses had occurred, the House was not only entitled to call for the fullest explanation of that excess, but also not to allow the votes to pass without such explanation. This was the third vote of this kind which it had been his lot to submit to the House since he became Secretary to the Admiralty; but it was the first one for which the present Board of Admiralty was entirely responsible. The first vote was for excess in the year 1845–6, amounting to 185,000 l l 887 l s d l s d l l l l s d l l 888 889 s l l l l l s l s d 890 891 892 l 
 
 Gross Estimate for 1848–49, unrevised, 19 votes £7,951,842 
 Decrease, on Votes 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 17, 18, 19, 1,703,302 l l 1,691,102 
 Deduct—Vote 18.—Home Department, 53,950 l l l 848,807 
 Actual saving on Naval Votes No. 1 to 17 842,295 893 
 
 Brought forward £842,295 
 PACKET VOTE.—Contract packets, 1848–9, 611,662 l l l l l l 96,561 
 Decrease on the two estimates 938,856 
 Deduct for saving by revised estimate of 1848–9 208,000 
 Actual saving upon estimates of 1849–50 730,856 
 
 Net estimate for 1848–49, credits in aid deducted—19 votes £7,726,610 
 Deduct for revision, under Votes 8, 10, 11, 13, 14, 19—(Page 2 of Estimate) 208,000 
 Actual vote of last Session 7,518,610 
 Vote proposed for 1849–50 6,260,740 
 Apparent saving £1,257,870 
 Deduct for Vote 18, Home Department, less credits in aid (now transferred to Miscellaneous Estimates), 43,602 l l l l 807,962 
 Saving on net revised Naval Votes (No. 1 to 17) £449,908 
 PACKET ESTIMATE.—Packet service (contract and Queen's vessels), 1848–49, 764,360 l l 66,064 
 Actual saving upon estimates of 1849–50 515,972 
 Add appropriations in aid (now paid into Exchequer), less that for Home Department 214,884 
 Reduction on estimates of 1849–50, as compared with net revised estimate of 1848–49 £730,856 894 l l l l s d l s l l l l l l 895 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 896 l l l l l l l l l l l l 897 l l 898 899 l l l l l 900 l 
 
 Ships of the line … … 99 
 Frigates … … 131 
 Sixth-rates, sloops … … 364 
 Troop ships … … 50 
 644 
 
 Flag-officers. 42 afloat out of a total of 204 
 Captains 282 798 
 Commanders 240 628 
 Lieutenants 1607 4915 
 2171 4915 901 
 
 Ships of the line … … 14 
 Frigates … … 24 
 Sixth-rates, &c. … … 76 
 Troop-ships … … 10 
 124 
 
 Flag-officers. 12 out of a total of 196 
 Captains 74 854 
 Commanders 49 829 
 Lieutenants 401 4012 
 536 5891 
 
 Captains … … 134 
 Commanders … … 360 
 Lieutenants … … 1312 
 
 Out of a Of whom are unfit total of for actual service. 
 Flag-officers 13 151 89 
 Captains 76 532 108 
 Commanders 101 864 461 
 Lieutenants 559 2310 1300 
 749 3857 1958 
 
 1814. 1817. 1849. 
 Retired rear admirals 29 27 45 
 Retired captains 37 31 132 
 Commanders with the rank of captain — — 60 
 Lieutenants with the rank of commander 80 100 100 
  Lieutenants (retired commander) with pay of lieutenants — — 216 
 146 158 543 
 Officers on the active list 4915 5891 3857 
 Total 5061 6049 4400 902 status l l 903 l l 904 905 Meeanee 906 Canopus l l Nelson Nelson 907 l
 MR. WARD  explained that it was impossible to frame the estimates in any other way on account of the appropriations in aid, which were brought for the first time into last year's estimates.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  seconded the Motion, and felt much pleasure in being able to adopt that course of proceeding. When the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose proposed to reduce so many millions of taxation, he (Sir H. Willoughby) was not able to see into what way that course would lead him, and consequently, must decline to vote with the hon. Gentleman; but when he made a Motion to effect an economical administration of the public finances, then he had great pleasure in following him. He thought the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose had settled the question of precedent; and, therefore, he should not refer to the course taken either by Sir Robert Peel,
 876 l l l l l l l l 877 l l l l
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  asked if there was any intention of altering the law respecting the settlement of the poor, parochial rating, or vagrancy?
 CAPTAIN M. BERKELEY  said, the question was, whether 5,000 men could be taken away from the Navy without impairing its efficiency? The question could be far better decided by naval officers than by hon. Members who had addressed the House. The hon. Member for Montrose had charged the Government with keeping up a war establishment in a time of peace. Now the House had been told by every speaker that the proposed number of 40,000 men was only one-fourth of the number which would be required to man our Navy in a time of war. If, then, they took this fourth part of practised seamen, and gave a proportion to each man of war, making up the other three-fourths with raw and inexperienced hands, he was of opinion they would find that the ships would not be too well manned to go into action. The hon. Member appeared to think they could put up sailors like ninepins. If they counted number instead of quality, they would find out their mistake when it was too late. The hon. Member for Montrose found fault because several ships were lying up in ordinary in harbour; and, in the same breath, he proposed to take down the number of men wanted to move those ships. But if these ships were brought forward as the hon. Member appeared to desire, they would each cost the country 10,000 l
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  complimented the hon. Secretary for the Admiralty on the ability displayed in his speech, and the frankness with which he had acknowledged the presence of abuses in his department from 1831 down to 1848. According to him a new era of economy and retrenchment had commenced in 1848; but he (Sir W. Molesworth) thought there was much reason to be thankful to the hon. Gentlemen the Members for Montrose and for the West Riding of Yorkshire, for the opposition which they had offered to the Navy Estimates of last year; for in consequence of that opposition there had been last year a reduction on those estimates to the amount of 208,000 l l 923 l l 924 l l l l 925 l l l l l "1.  Terrible l l Retribution Sidon Penelope Odin l l Avenger, ' Amphion Cyclops 926 Gorgon l l 927 l l l l l 928 l l l l l l 929 930 l l l 931 "Whatever cause may have led to the increase of force on any particular station, when once the force had been augmented, there was too frequently some unfortunate hindrance to its subsequent reduction." l 932 l 933
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  reminded the hon. Gentleman that the statements said to be impugned had not been clearly specified, and was understood to say that the Neapolitan Minister at this Court had pointed out to him that he had made an inaccurate statement as to a conversation which had passed between them on the subject of Lord Minto's visiting Naples.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that since he answered the question of the hon. Gentleman, put to him a few days ago, he had received information of the intention of the Danish Government, on and after the 27th instant, to impose a blockade on the ports of Schleswig and Holstein. The matter, however, was still under discussion, and he (Viscount Palmerston) was not without hopes that the intention to impose the blockade might be abandoned. He thought at all events it would be only nominal for some time after the date announced. He could only say that such a blockade would not be in entire accordance with the communications previously made to Prussia, announcing the end of the armistice.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  replied that, strictly speaking, he might say no contradiction had been given to the statements made in that House. But it was well known that General Filangieri, in a speech in the Neapolitan Parliament, did contradict statements which had been made by Her Majesty's Ministers with respect to the movement of the Neapolitan troops in Sicily. He had engaged to lay before Parliament the papers on which those statements were founded. He regretted that the great pressure of business had prevented him from doing so; but he hoped to be able to lay them on the table early next week.
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  supported the Bill, and said that the quota which Birmingham used to pay, before its own gaol and lunatic asylum were built, towards the county rate, was one-third of the entire rate, and as the expense of the new county gaol and lunatic asylum at Warwick was estimated at 150,000 l. l. l.
 SIR G. GREY  thought Birmingham had unquestionably an equitable claim now not to be called upon for the same amount of contribution for building a county gaol and lunatic asylum as might have been claimed from it before it had any gaol or lunatic asylum of its own. The Bill before the House proceeded on the assumption that, as the law at present stood, Birmingham could be called upon to contribute to the county rates; but he believed that in Lancashire and Leicestershire the law did not bear out that assumption as to the liability of boroughs so circumstanced as Birmingham was, to the county rate. There was a legal question as to the liability of such boroughs, upon which he
 955
 MR. SPOONER  said, that if the right hon. Baronet's advice were to be followed, the effect would be to involve the parties in litigation, and Birmingham would have to pay its quota of 50,000 l.
 MR. MUNTZ , in reply, said, the county magistrates had admitted the equity of the people of Birmingham's claim to be exempt from the county rate; all they objected to was—the Bill ought to be a general Bill instead of a private one. But his objection to a general Bill was, that all the mischief would be done before they obtained it. Birmingham would not get back its money, and, besides, it was desirable that a resort to litigation should be prevented. He must, therefore, persist in attempting to carry this measure.
 SIR G. GREY  explained that he did not admit that there was any great doubt as to the state of the law as it at present stood; but as to what the construction of the law was, he could not express any opinion. All he maintained was, that the House ought not to sanction a Bill to alter the law, until it was first shown by a decision of the courts that the claim upon Birmingham to contribute was well founded.
 MR. H. DRUMMOND  said, he thought, as there were no Ministers in the House—no doubt they were discussing those subjects over a cool bottle—they might as well have a little quiet conversation amongst themselves. The hon. Member for Montrose had complained loudly of the augmentation of our defensive forces that had taken place within the last twenty years, but he had said little as to the reasons which necessitated that augmentation. He (Mr. H. Drummond) must confess, that in his opinion, the more you increased in manufacturing population, the more you must increase your force of some kind; he did not care whether blue coats or red coats, but a force you must have. It was not the country magistrates, it was the mayors of the manufacturing towns, who called meetings on one hand, and applied for the military on the other; and just in proportion as those merchants and manufacturers who clamoured most loudly on this subject were cowards at one
 996 "Who drives fat oxen should himself be fat." 997 998
 MR. H. DRUMMOND  must deny in the strongest terms that he had said anything as to the probability of a French invasion, or that he had drawn any contrast
 1003
 MR. VERNON SMITH  thought the present Ministry honest, and that any honest Ministry would wish an ample discussion of the estimates in that House. At the present moment this question stood on a different footing from that which it had formerly occupied. The doctrines of free trade had made a very great difference in the treatment of our colonial relations. If free trade were to be adopted as our national policy, there was no subject upon which it ought sooner to be applied than to the intercourse with our colonies. We had given up the system of exclusive markets, and had no longer the interest we once had in extending our colonial interests. If, then, we had not the interest we once had, we had no longer any motive for extending to them further military protection, with certain exceptions. Military protection must be given where there might be a prospect of aggression, and, perhaps, of war, and in anticipation of such events, garrisons and fortresses might be preserved. The question next arose what colonies we were to maintain for other purposes. To this he would answer that we were bound to maintain those colonies where we had planted British subjects, and to protect them against the aboriginal inhabitants; but no longer than they were able to protect themselves. In the North American colonies we had given responsible government. The proper name for it, he thought, would be self-government. With the concession of self-government, there ceased the necessity for our protection; and he did not shrink from saying that whenever those colonies came into collision with us, either in interest or feeling, we must look forward to the question of separation. He did not mean separation of the character of our former colonies in North America, but a separation effected amicably, and not by force. He cautioned the House, on these grounds, against laying out money in military expenses, which could be of no avail when the day of separation came. Millions had been spent upon fortifications, to which, the moment danger came, if it came from the United States, troops could not be sent in time to defend them, especially if the attack was made in winter. It was, therefore, the part of a wise Colonial Minister to look forward to this question of separation; and if he were asked whether the people of
 1004 l. 1005 l.
 MR. RICE  agreed with much that had fallen from the hon. Member for Montrose upon the subject of economy; but, in this instance, he had put the cart before the horse. He believed it was the tendency of Her Majesty's Government to grant self-government to the colonies; but the House must decide that great question before calling upon them to reduce the number of men employed in the Army. At the present moment, and under existing circumstances, reduction, he considered, was impracticable. With regard to the proposed reductions in the Navy, it had been shown that they could only be effected by withdrawing the squadron from the coast
 1006
 SIR W. MOLES WORTH  wished to state briefly his reasons for the vote he was about to give. His hon. Friend the Member for Montrose proposed to make a reduction of 14,000 men in the force of the Army, exclusive of that in India, and to return to the establishment of 1835. Could this reduction be made without detriment to the interests of the empire? Was the number of soldiers excessive, either at home or abroad? At home the military force amounted to about 61,000 men, or about 11,500 men more than in 1835. Was this force too great? When he remembered the events of last year in Ireland—when he considered that reliefs and reinforcements must be provided for 28,000 British troops in India, and that the places of those bravo soldiers must be filled up who were led on to unnecessary slaughter by rash and incompetent generals—when he considered that reliefs were likewise to be provided for 32,000 British troops in the colonies; that the services of those troops were of the most arduous and disagreeable kind: for instance, bush-fighting and driving cattle at the Cape, guarding convicts in Australia, and combating with savages in New Zealand—when he considered that some of those troops were stationed amidst the snows of Canada, others broiling in the tropics—he acknowledged it would be cruel and unjust to compel them to pass the greater portion of their lives in such inglorious services. He therefore could not at present vote for any reduction in the force of the army at home which would lead to a prolongation of the period of military services in the colonies. He should, however, vote for a reduction of the military force in the colonies, on the grounds that if the colonies were properly governed, half the present military force in them would
 1008 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1009 1010 l. 1011
 An HON. MEMBER  (on the Ministerial side of the House) said that, as an officer of the line, he thought it right to say that he had never observed in that branch of the military service the slightest jealousy of the Guards. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 SIR F. T. BARING : The only promise given was, that no advantage should be taken. His hon. Friend the Secretary to the Admiralty had entered fully on the subject on going into supply, and the hon. Member had commented very strongly on this very vote on that occasion, and he certainly had understood that he had entirely done with the subject.
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Northampton had based most of his arguments for reduction upon the colonial part of the question. But did the actual state of our colonies admit of reduction? Could it be said that Ceylon could be kept without troops? Could the West Indies in their present discontented state be kept without troops? And if we were to believe the accounts of what were passing in Canada, how was it possible our colonists there could be safe without troops? He need not remind the House of what had recently occurred at the Capo of Good Hope. Whence had the necessity for the protection of troops arisen? From a system of mal-government in all our colonies. If the system was changed, he admitted a large body of troops might be withdrawn from some colonies; but there were others where it was necessary to maintain a large force constantly. Gibraltar was one. [Mr. HAWES: That is a military station.] But it was colonial duty. So was that at Malta and the Ionian Islands. Possession of those islands was given to us by the Greeks, upon the understanding that we were to render them military protection; to withdraw our forces thence would, consequently, be a broach of faith. Now, if the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montrose was carried, what would be the result? A scale was laid down for the employment of the troops upon colonial services; and it so happened that two-thirds of the infantry regiments were discharging colonial duty. A large body of troops was constantly employed in the East Indies. [Mr. HAWES: But we do not pay them.] He knew that; and he only referred to it as bearing upon the question of colonial duty, which pressed upon the troops in an unwarrantable degree. He knew a regiment that had been twenty-three years in the East Indies, afterwards thirteen years in the Cape and Mauritius,
 1007
 MR. MAULE  said, that for the other sums he proposed to take votes on account, as the items had been sent for the consideration of a Committee upstairs; he should, therefore, propose for the present to take half the sums on each debate. He proposed, therefore, that 1,800,000 l.
 MR. F. MAULE  said, if the hon. and gallant Member rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice, he (Mr. F. Maule) thought it would be much better to postpone it at that late hour, and to go on with the other business.
 MR. F. MAULE  understood that he would have the privilege of bringing it forward on any day of supply,
 MR. F. MAULE  remarked that what he complained of was, that they had stated that the colonels of regiments were instrumental in cheating the soldiers with respect to their clothing.
 MR. F. MAULE  said, that his Grace the Commander-in-Chief had determined to institute a test for the education of officers previous to their receiving commissions in the Army. That fact had been intimated to all persons who had applied to the Commander-in-Chief to have their names put down for commissions, in order that they might prepare themselves for the military service, by a preliminary course of study. It was also the intention of his Grace to have a second examination on the promotion of an officer from the rank of ensign to that of lieutenant; but that examination was to be entirely of a professional character, for the purpose of ascertaining that the parties examined had the necessary acquaintance with the duties of officers commanding battalions. Then there was to be a third and final examination of subalterns before they got companies, and that was to consist of a more enlarged examination with respect to matters of military skill and science. His Grace the Commander-in-Chief had entered into those arrangements in conformity with public opinion, which had for some time past tended in that direction; and the object of those arrangements was to improve the efficiency and  status
 MR. F. MAULE  said, he rose to propose the first vote in the Army Estimates, namely, the vote for the number of men who were to be maintained for the service of the Crown during the ensuing year; and he trusted he would receive on that occasion, as he had received on former occasions, the kind indulgence of the Committee while he entered into many details from which he would willingly abstain, were it not that on such occasions they had a right to expect every information which could possibly he communicated by the individual holding the situation he had then the honour to fill. The number of men whom it was proposed to maintain for the ensuing year was 103,254. In fixing upon that number, Her Majesty's Government had necessarily had to review the condition of the empire, and to look at it in its various interests, foreign, colonial, and domestic, before they could come to a con-elusion upon the subject. Looking at all those interests, and at the general aspect of the country, it had at first appeared to Her Majesty's Government that the country might be relieved from the burden of taxation necessary for the maintenance of 10,000 men, by which number they had proposed to reduce the Army enrolled last year. They had come to that determination after having considered the calls made on them for the protection and defence of our Indian territories. The number of men borne on the Army Estimates last year had been 113,847. But the intelligence which had some weeks since been received from India had called on the Government
 965 966 967 968 969 970 971 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 972 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 973 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 974 /. l. l. l. 975 seriatim, l l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 976 l. l. l. l. l. l. 977 978 979 980 981 982 983 l. 984 985 "It further appears that the wholesome cautions and checks by which the supply of clothing by the colonels has been accompanied, have invariably secured the comfort and satisfaction of the soldier, and the complete efficiency of this branch of the public service. The Committee are not, therefore, prepared to suggest any change in this long-established system, which, although at first it may appear anomalous, and to involve the objectionable principle of giving profit to the colonels out of monies ostensibly voted for another purpose, secures the responsibility of those officers for the just and punctual distribution of the clothing to the different regiments, dispersed as they are throughout various and distant colonies, and which at the same time protects the public from the losses to which they would be exposed by the accumulation of stores of this description supplied under the management of public boards from extensive establishments, superannuation allowances to those who conduct them, and from that multiplicity of accounts which a transfer of the charge of this supply from those in whom it is now vested into any other hands must inevitably produce." 986
 MR. F. MAULE  said, he did not feel it necessary to enter at that moment at any length into the questions which the hon. and gallant Officer had brought under their notice, as those questions would necessarily fall under the consideration of the Select Committee on the Army Estimates. He was glad to find that the hon. and gallant Officer had not said a word which could wound the feelings of the officers engaged in the household troops. He was quite sure that every one would be ready to bear testimony to the services of the Guards, and to admit that their conduct had everywhere been admirable. No one, however would deny that they were a privileged corps, although it should also be remembered that they laboured under certain disadvantages. But he strongly deprecated the discussion of those matters in that House. It would be difficult to meet at the moment the facts quoted by the gallant Officer, because no one had any notice what those facts might be. He believed that facts of an opposite character might also be adduced in reply to the statements of the hon. and gallant Officer. Indeed, he knew instances within his own knowledge, in which officers exchanging into the Guards from the line had not been promoted to the rank of lieutenant colonels quite so soon as the hon. and gallant Member seemed to suppose. But the whole matter would be fully inquired into by the Select Committee; and after that Committee should have produced its report, the House would be better prepared than it could be at present to consider the merits of the question.
 MR. F. MAULE  agreed with his hon. Friend upon that point; but the fact was that no officers were at present put on half-pay except officers who were on the sick list, or officers who had a claim to the privilege in consequence of their distinguished services.
 MR. F. MAULE  replied that he could not give the exact number. The number actually enrolled formed but a small part of the whole number of pensioners. Those who had been enrolled were chiefly pensioners about forty-five years of age, still fit for service, and capable of performing duty. He believed the number enrolled last year was 20,000.
 MR. F. MAULE  said, 5,000.
 MR. F. MAULE  said, a great number of pensioners found employment in private service. The great exertions made by these pensioners not to get enrolled, proved the value of the situations to which they had been appointed in the offices and warehouses of private merchants and traders. With reference to the general question of holding out to pensioners hopes of acquiring situations in the public office, he could say nothing conclusive, because the situations in question could only be in depart-
 1025 l. l. l. s. d.
 COLONEL LINDSAY  said, he thought the right hon Gentleman the Secretary at War had disposed of the subject in a perfectly satisfactory manner. fie had come down prepared to make some statements in reply to those of the hon. and gallant Member, and he believed he could show that the Guards did not interfere with promotion in the line so much as the hon. and gallant Member appeared to imagine; but after what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War he should not further discuss the subject on that occasion.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  wished to set himself right with respect to a statement he had made on the last day on which the Navy Estimates were under discussion. He had received a letter that day from Mr. Green—of the firm of Wig-ram and Green—in which he stated that he (Mr. Sidney Herbert) was wrong in attributing to any person the lines of his—Mr. Green's—vessels. He said he had not borrowed the lines of the  Inconstant,
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that last year, under the direction of his lamented Friend, Mr. C. Buller, the Poor Law Board and its establishments had been placed on as efficient and economical a footing as had been considered possible. The subject had since been under the consideration of the Committee on the Miscellaneous Estimates; and they had not, he believed, recommended any reduction in that branch of the public service. He did not expect that it would be practicable to make any reduction in the present year.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has referred to two points: the first, as to the force maintained in Canada; the second, as to that kept up in this country. With regard to the Canadian force, I admit that it may be now nearly twice as great as that maintained in that colony previous to the breaking out of the rebellion; but when that rebellion broke out, the smallness of the force there was a matter of much alarm and anxiety to the Government. It is true that that force acted with great intrepidity, and the rebels, not being well organised, did not make such a resistance as might have been expected, and by the skill of the commander and the bravery of the troops under him, the insurrection was happily put down; but I cannot think that we were not in some degree to blame for having so small a force there at the time; and I should be sorry, therefore, well-disposed as the province now is, to see any very great diminution of the force now maintained there. With regard to the colonies generally, no doubt in some of them reductions in the military force may be made from time to time, and in some the force is now less than than it was in 1835. But the next point on which the hon. Gentleman has touched, stands more in need of explanation. He has objected to the system of keeping up troops for the purpose of keeping down the people, and says that it is now for the first time avowed by my right hon. Friend the Secretary at War, that this is the object of maintaining a
 1016 1017
 MAJOR BLACKALL  objected to the measure, because it affected the power of transportation for an offence which had latterly been very much upon the increase.
 MR. HAWES : I can have no objection to lay any official paper on the table. Any official communication will be laid on the table.
 MR. HAWES  said it was perfectly true (and he was indebted to the courtesy of the United States Minister for the information) that the Supreme Court of the United States had decreed that all duties imposed upon emigrants by the State legislatures were absolutely void and of no effect. In consequence, these duties would expire at once; but what steps the Congress might take in the matter he was not prepared to say. In the absence of any official communication relating to it, either from Lord Elgin, or through other channels, no communication had been made to Canada on the subject.
 MR. HAWES  said, he must trouble the hon. Gentleman to put his question on a future day, as he could not undertake to say at that moment that such a despatch or communication had been received. He understood the hon. Gentleman to ask the other day if he were aware of any communication having been made to the Secretary of State with reference to sending convicts to the Cape of Good Hope; and, at that time, he was not aware that any such communication had been received, but since then despatches had been received.
 MR. HAWES  could not give the hon. Gentleman any other answer than he had already given him. If the hon. Gentleman would put his question on paper, he would give him a precise answer.
 MR. HAWES ; I think it would be better to answer at once the question of the hon. Gentleman. No despatch and no communication to the effect of the article in the  Morning Chronicle
 MR. HAWES : I have no knowledge of such a Bill being introduced from any official source whatever—nor have I, indeed, any knowledge of the fact at all.
 MR. ADDERLEY : Is there any objection to lay the papers on the table?
 MR. ADDERLEY  asked if the hon. Gentleman were not aware that, in the month of February, a communication was received from the Cape of Good Hope, intimating the very general resistance of that colony to the reception of convicts? Had the hon. Gentleman any objection to lay on the table any documents, official or non-official, received on the subject?
 MR. ADDERLEY  wished to ask the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies, whether he had not misapprehended a question which he had put to him on a former day, when he inquired if there was any objection to lay before the House any communication that had been received from the Governor of the Cape of Good Hope, intimating a resistance there to the reception of convicts from this country? He begged now to ask the hon. Gentleman whether, in the month of January or February, a communication had been addressed by the Governor of the Cape to Earl Grey, containing the remonstrance of a public meeting against the reception of convicts from this country, and a petition to Her Majesty on the subject?
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, the noble Lord had promised to inform the House when the Navy Estimates should come on for discussion. He called upon the House not to approach the consideration of so important a subject at twelve o'clock at night, but to defer it till another day, when they might attack it like giants refreshed.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he had heard a great deal on the subject of economy from the hon. Member for Montrose; but he confessed he should like to see him take a more direct part in the matter, and he should like also to see him backed by his Manchester friends. Where were the hon. Member's. Manchester friends on the present occasion? He wanted to know why the hon. Member, backed as he was by his Manchester friends, did not persevere in his declaration made the other night, that he would not vote any money until the Government had laid before the House a clear financial statement of ways and means?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  admitted that the quantity of coffee consumed in 1848 was less than in the previous year; and that the duty was about 35,000 l 962
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there was an old Act, the 43rd of George III., prohibiting the sale, by persons selling coffee, of any article used in its adulteration. About 1832, for the first time, the Treasury did not consider it wise to prohibit the sale of the article, provided it was not mixed with the coffee. In 1833, 1834, and 1835, duties were imposed upon foreign chicory until they were equivalent to the then existing duty upon colonial coffee; and having done
 959 Laughter, and 960 961
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, if the right hon. Member would give him another opportunity of bringing forward his Motion, he had no objection to postpone it now, but he understood that was impossible.
 COLONEL DUNNE  here rose, and was about to address the House, when
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he was afraid he would be forced to go on. The object to which he wished to call the attention of the House was, the privilege granted to the officers of the Foot Guards of holding rank in the Army superior to that of officers of corresponding regimental rank in regiments of the line, the lieutenant-colonels and majors in the Guards being colonels in the Army, and the captains, lieutenants, and ensigns lieutenant-colonels, captains, and lieutenants in the Army respectively. And further, to call the attention of the House to an inquiry whether there be anything so peculiarly onerous in the duties of the household troops as to justify the continuance of this privilege, which, by giving more rapid promotion to one branch of the service, insures, among other advantages, an undue proportion of general officers from these favoured corps, to the disadvantage of officers who serve in regiments of the line in every part of the world. This had been long complained of, and during the years he had the honour to serve in the Army, it had been productive of great injury. It was, perhaps, necessary to explain to some hon. Members that ensigns in the Guards held the same rank as lieutenants in the Navy. He meant lieutenants in the Army. This system had proved of great detriment to the officers of
 1021 1022
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  contended that the great military force in Canada and Ireland might be reduced, if the Government were conducted in accordance with the feelings and opinions of the people; they might then dispense with three-fourths of that stationed in Ireland.
 MR. HENLEY  had certainly understood, when the vote was taken on account, that a distinct pledge was given that a full opportunity would be afforded of discussing the vote, and he thought such a discussion at twelve o'clock at night was too late.
 MR. HENLEY  had not so understood it. The hon. Secretary had certainly gone at some length into the subject, but he
 1026
 MR. HUME  meant to place his protest on the Votes of the House against the system of votes in excess, and he hoped, therefore, these votes would not be brought forward at that time. He wanted to express his objection to the system, and to censure as strongly as possible what he conceived to be the misapplication of public money. It appeared to be of no avail to submit reduced estimates to the House if the system of excess votes were tolerated. In the very first vote—the arming the artisans of the dockyards—the vote was for 20,000 l. l. l.
 MR. HUME  wished to know the number in Ireland?
 MR. HUME  said, at present they were only voting part of the money; when the remaining portion came to be voted, then
 1024 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. HUME  wished to know the number of out-pensioners at this moment actually enrolled, because statements on the subject differed so materially?
 MR. HUME  thought that the system of putting officers on half-pay ought to be discontinued as far as possible.
 MR. HUME  was glad to hear from his
 988 989
 MR. HUME  observed that that was a great error, and was most unjust. He had moved for the appointment of a Committee in 1833 which investigated the question of clothing the Army, and many other matters connected with it. When that Committee was appointed, both Sir Henry Parnell and himself entertained strong opinions as to the evils of the existing system of clothing the Army; but the evidence of all the officers and other persons well able to form an opinion on the subject, was in favour
 990 991 l. l. 992 993 994 995
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government whether any reduction was to be made in the Poor Law Board and its establishments this year?
 MR. HUME  said, he would not oppose this Motion, as the practice had been introduced last year. He only wanted to observe this, that the vote they had just given involved the expenditure of seven
 1020
 MR. HUME  submitted that the noble Lord entirely misunderstood what had fallen from the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark. The object of his hon. Friend was to increase the greatness of the empire, by allowing the colonies to govern themselves, and not ruin the mother country by causing a constant drain upon her resources. Let the colonists he our friends,
 1018
 MR. COBDEN : Sir, I have been delighted to hear the tendency of the remarks which have been advanced to-night in this House. I have been quite gratified at the constant allusions which have been made by one speaker after another to our colonies, for that is the point on which the question of retrenchment turns. I concur fully in all that has been said by my Friend the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark, and by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Northampton. I shall not therefore repeat their arguments, for I could not hope to do so in equally forcible terms. But the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War has alluded to a remark I made on a former occasion as to the number of troops employed in Canada. What I said was, that the number of troops employed in that country previous to the breaking out of the rebellion was only 4,000 men; and that since the rebellion was suppressed, the force which had been added on that ground (as in all similar cases when the cause for the increase has ceased) has not been reduced, and now I find the force maintained there is double what it was previous to the rebellion. That is an additional argument to prove that in the cases when we augment our establishments from any cause, whether by sea or land, we never find that we afterwards go back again to what they were before the occasion for the increase arose. But we are told to-night that this amount of troops is required in reference to our domestic condition at home; and I have heard with great regret the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War, as to the necessity of keeping up troops in this country for the purpose of preserving internal order. The purpose for which we
 1013 1014 1015
 MR. ANSTEY  said, that the most important part of his inquiry had not been answered by the right hon. Gentleman. He had omitted to answer this question—did not the returns for the year 1848 disclose the fact, that in the consumption of coffee there was a deficiency of about 260,000 lbs. weight, while the same returns showed that the quantity of coffee imported from Ceylon had increased to the amount of 12,000,000 lbs. weight; and whether the revenue derived from coffee in 1848 was not less by 45,000 l.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  rose to refer to the question which he had last week addressed to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer with regard to the use of chicory instead of coffee by the poorer classes, in consequence of their inability to purchase coffee. Under an Act
 958 1. l.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the House had been told last year that it was impossible to spare a man from the military force; but his hon. Friend the Member for the West Riding had predicted that on further investigation many men could be spared; and the project of the Government proved that his hon. Friend's prediction was a right one. His hon. Friend went further, and said that there would be more reductions in the military and naval establishment. The hon. Gentleman who spoke last had told the House that persons in the naval and military service were the only persons competent to form an opinion as to the force of the country. If he wanted to know how a regiment was to be used when brought into the field, or
 999
 MR. EWART  said, he wished to ask the Secretary at War whether it was the intention of the Government to institute any examination, as an educational test of competency, on the admission of persons applying to enter as officers into the Army?
 MR. MACKENZIE  said, as this was a vote on account, it was clear that it was the hon. and gallant Member's right to go on.
 MR. F. MACKENZIE : Am I to understand the hon. Gentleman to say that he has no knowledge of such a Bill being introduced?
 MR. F. MACKENZIE  said, he had seen in one of the public journals that a Bill had been introduced in the Colonial Legislature of Canada, and was rapidly passing through it, to indemnify persons for the losses they had sustained during the rebellion of 1837 and 1838—those persons having been concerned in the rebellion—and one of the purposes being to indemnify certain convicts who were pardoned by the Queen for the inconvenience they had sustained in taking a voyage to Van Diemen's Land and back. It was also stated, that a person named Nelson was to be indemnified for the damage done to his house by the Queen's troops, that house being fortified. He, therefore, begged to give notice that he would on the following day ask Her Majesty's Government if such a Bill had been introduced into the Colonial Legislature of Canada, and whether the Government intended to lay on the table of the House a copy of such Bill? He would also make inquiry with respect to the course taken by the Governor General in regard to it.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  intended to vote for the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montrose because he believed that the maintenance of so large a force as 52,000 men in Great Britain and Ireland was inconsistent with a free constitution. If the people were justly governed, it would not be necessary to maintain such a standing army to keep them in subjection. It must be misgovernment and mismanagement which caused Ireland to be covered with troops to preserve the peace. He besought the hon. Member for Montrose, and those other hon. Members who were anxious for retrenchment in the public expenditure, to consider well, and to endeavour to remove, the causes that had led to that unhappy state of things in Ireland which required the presence of so many thousands
 1012
 MR. W. P. WOOD  said, that he felt that on this question he had a duty to perform to his constituents, who bad last year presented him with a petition, signed by 1,340 individuals, and printed by the Committee of Selection, praying for a specific relief appropriate to the matter now before the House. The first name attached to the petition was that of Mr. Caudwell, a gentleman who had had considerable experience on the subject of recruiting, and the prayer was, that the militia staff of this country, which was at present of no possible service, might be made available for the purpose of recruiting the Army. It further proposed that the recruits should be formed into special corps similar to the pensioners; that the general
 1000 1001 l. 1002 "So be there 'twixt your kingdoms such a spousal That never may ill office, or fell jealousy Thrust in between the paction of these kingdoms,  To make divorce of their incorporate league;  That English may as French, French Englishmen,  Receive each other! God speak this Amen!"
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the Bill only affected offences of simple larceny, with respect to which there had been no previous conviction. The measure was rendered necessary in consequence of the increased number of sentences of transportation in the year 1848, no less than 2,689 sentences having been passed.
 SIR H. VERNEY  said, that although the Guards enjoyed advantages, they were
 1023 l. l.
 SIR H. VERNEY  said, it could be proved that even within the last twelve months a superior class of men had enlisted in the Army. It would be well, therefore, to ascertain whether it was not possible to give employment to pensioners in the subordinate departments of our public offices, dockyards, &c., giving them appointments of messengers, doorkeepers, and where manual labour only was required. If a prospect were held out to young men that, after a certain number of years' service, they would have a chance of being appointed to these situations, such a prospect would afford a stronger inducement to men of a better class to enlist than anything which the present system could offer.
 MR. WARD  rose to move the Votes in Excess for 1847–8.
 MR. WARD  had certainly felt himself entitled, after the full discussion which had taken place, to move for the remainder of the vote.
 VISCOUNT DRUMLANRIG  said, that he had permission from the hon. Member for Montrose to say a few words in answer to the Secretary at War, before that hon. Gentleman rose to move his Amendment. He (Viscount Drumlanrig) thought that the House would agree with him that this mortality in Barbadoes was no light affair, when he stated that out of thirteen officers who had accompanied the 66th regiment, only two had escaped the fever; and out of these eleven, seven had died. The mortality in the 72nd regiment was quite as bad, and still continued. He was glad to hear that a new station was to be built for troops in that island, who might in future years be again visited by yellow fever; and the House would agree that it was high time something should be done, when they heard what sort of accommodation there was for soldiers in the barracks at St. Ann's. The barracks were built of stone, they were in the form of a square, which prevented any fresh current of air; and there was a graveyard right in the rear of the barrack yard. No officer, except the colonel, had more than one room to himself, and no less than eighty or ninety men were crammed into one apartment—this in such a climate as Barbadoes! He hoped the assistant surgeon's letter to Dr. Davy, the medical superintendent, would be produced, because he (Viscount Drumlanrig) was told on authority he could not doubt, that at least forty men died before orders were given to encamp the regiment, and that assistant-surgeon Simpson wrote this same letter, protesting against the way in which the men under his charge were sacrificed; and in order to remove all responsibility from off his shoulders, caused that letter to be entered on the minutes of the hospital journal at St. Ann's. The Secretary at War had said, that he did not know how the officers had been put to any expense. They were put to great expense in this way: as soon as the yellow fever broke out in the barracks, they were anxious to provide themselves with healthy quarters; but no orders being given that such quarters should be provided for them, they were obliged, at their own expense, to hire houses, for which houses they had to pay at the rate of seven or eight pounds a month—surely this was a hardship.
 MR. MILES  wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer a question relative to a statement made during the recent debate on the burdens of real property, with regard to the importation of foreign cattle. Had the right hon. Baronet made any inquiry on the subject of these returns, and were the returns such that the public could rely upon their accuracy?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that a report had been received on this subject, but it was only a preliminary report. Nevertheless, if the hon. Gentleman desired its production before it could be presented in connexion with the further reports that might follow it, there could be no possible objection to complying with this Motion.
 ALDERMAN THOMPSON , having been connected with the town of Sunderland, could not consent to give a silent vote on this occasion. He certainly was not prepared to see the noble Lord at the head of the Government acquiesce in the Motion of the hon. Member for Cockermouth; but he certainly had expected that the noble Lord would have announced that it was the intention of the Bishop of Durham to introduce a Bill for the purpose of dealing with the temporalities of the rectory of Bishop Wearmouth.
 ALDERMAN THOMPSON  had certainly hoped that it would have been in the noble Lord's power to make some definite statement on the subject. With regard to the Motion itself, it did not appear to him to afford in any way an inconvenient precedent in reference to the mode in which either bishops or others dispensed their patronage. It was a matter  per se; 1052 l l
 MR. J. A. SMITH  concurred in the object of the Motion, but would feel the greatest reluctance in voting for it, as he had known the right reverend Prelate, whose conduct was called in question, many years, and could bear testimony to the eminent services he had rendered to the Church. If the hon. Gentleman the Member for Cockermouth did not accede to the recommendation of the noble Lord the Member for Bath (Lord Ashley), there was another course which might be pursued. That course was moving the adjournment of the debate. He could not doubt but that the general expression of the feelings of that House would not be lost on the Bishop. His hon. Friend, therefore, could not suppose that his Motion would end without some result. The hon. Member concluded with moving the adjournment of the debate, but the Motion was not seconded.
 ALDERMAN THOMPSON  appealed to the hon. Member for Cockermouth not to go to a division after the expression of the feeling of the House.
 SIR F. T. BARING  stated, that he had waited to the last moment for the hon. Gentleman to withdraw his Motion, as he was satisfied that that was the best course that could be pursued. As, however, the hon. Gentleman felt it to be his duty to press his Motion, and as he (Sir F. Baring) felt the great inconvenience of coming to a decision one way or other on the subject, the course which he believed would be most convenient and satisfactory to the House, and which really expressed the opinion of the House in a manner which would not give pain to any one, was to move the previous question. This certainly would express the feelings of the majority of the House. The right hon. Gentleman then moved the previous question.
 MR. J. S. WORTLEY  could not go to a division with the hon. Member for Cockermouth; but, at the same time, he agreed with almost every Member who had spoken on the almost absolute necessity which existed for some legislative measure. He trusted that the House would hear from the law-officers of the Crown whether the agreement which had been referred to was such an one as would secure to the parishes of Bishop Wearmouth and Sunderland the arrangement which had met the views of the Bishop of Durham. He would take it for granted that the Bishop acted from the best motives, but at the same time, he wanted to know whether it was a valid agreement. If the living were sequestrated, it was manifest that the agreement could not stand in law; and though, in calling it a simoniacal agreement, he had not the least intention of imputing corruption either to the Bishop or the incumbent,
 1059
 LORD ASHLEY  was not disposed to offer any opposition to the introduction of some great remedial measure upon the subject. He much regretted that the Bishop of Durham was not advised to take a different course. He did not understand that his hon. Friend the Member for Cockermouth had made any objection to the appointment of the incumbent, nor did he seem to object to the distribution of these funds. His hon. Friend's objection was that there was no distribution at all; instead of the funds being distributed, and the parish being subdivided and a competent salary being assigned to the incumbent of each of the districts, it appeared that the Bishop thought proper to make an appropriation of the income, to put it into the hands of trustees, and to allow it to accumulate without any definite purpose, and for a period that was altogether indefinite. He should doubt very much whether this was a legal arrangement. These funds, which had been given by pious donors for spiritual purposes, instead of being so assigned were allowed to accumulate, and how long it was intended that this system should go on was not known to any one but the Bishop himself. This state of things, he thought, was most unsatisfactory to those districts—most un-
 1058
 LORD H. VANE  said, he also was of opinion that the best course would have been to introduce a Bill to secure a distribution of the revenues between the two parishes. At the same time he thought the manner in which the Motion had been brought forward was most unfair. So far from the patronage of the Bishop having been generally exercised as described, he must declare, from his knowledge of cases in which incumbencies had been granted, that nothing could be fairer than his disposal of patronage; while he had himself contributed liberally in the case of small livings, and had even employed curates at his own expense. He was himself ac-
 1053
 LORD J. RUSSELL  explained, that with regard to introducing a Bill, he had had no communications with the Bishop of Durham on the subject. He quite agreed with the hon. Gentleman, that it would be far better to have a Bill introduced on the subject.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said: The hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has stated that, on a former occasion, I laid down the doctrine of episcopal irresponsibility. I beg to state that I laid down no such doctrine, nor any doctrine resembling it. The hon. Gentleman has quoted various passages, unnecessary, as I think, because it could not be disputed, showing that all bishops, and persons in authority in the Church, have a responsibility cast upon them—a public trust reposed in them, and that they are bound to exercise any patronage, or any power which they have, with a due regard to the benefits of the Church, and the promotion of the religion of which they are appointed the ministers. Of this there can be no doubt whatever. It is, however, a very large step to go from that doctrine of episcopal responsibility, and to say that, in each particular place where a bishop has exercised the patronage vested in him, and bestowed a living upon a particular person, with certain duties and trusts annexed to it, that in such a case the House will be called upon to interfere and give its opinion as to whether such patronage has been rightly and properly exercised or not. While I quite agree in this general statement of responsibility as stated by the hon. Member for Cockermouth, I do not think it would be convenient that the House should enter into each case of episcopal patronage which may be brought before us by any hon. Member, sometimes, perhaps, by a member of the Church of England, and sometimes by an hon. Member who is not a member of the Church, being called upon to discuss these things with an imperfect knowledge of the whole transaction. With
 1046 1047 1048 "That the spiritual wants and present position of the town of Sunderland, including the two parishes, as well as the interests of the Established Church, require that the said surplus revenues should be immediately applied to the endowment of other churches and chapelries in the said town at large." 1049 l l l 1050 l l 1051
 LORD J. RUSSELL  then stated, that he had no hesitation, after the division which had taken place, to adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, and communicate with the Bishop of Durham with reference to the feeling of the House on the subject.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Cockermouth had charged him with something like a breach of good faith, and he hoped that the House would permit him to make a few observations in explanation. The hon. Gentleman had referred to the Motion which he (Mr. Horsman) had brought forward as to the episcopal and common funds of the Church, under the control of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners. He (Lord J. Russell) had promised on that occasion that he would speak to the Archbishop of Canterbury on the subject, who had then but lately been appointed to that see. Shortly afterwards he saw the Archbishop of Canterbury, and they conversed together on the subject, and they went over the various grounds as to the propriety of adopting the arrangement, and the result was, that the Archbishop agreed with him (Lord J. Russell) that there was no valid ground of ob-
 1063 1064
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Probably the Bishop may introduce such a Bill. All I say is, that I have had no intimation from him of any such intention.
 MR. DISRAELI  shared in the reluctance of the noble Lord who had just spoken to vote for any proposition of an invidious nature; but, without entering into any of the details which had been advanced either to advocate or to vindicate the Bishop of Durham, he wanted to know why the Bishop of Durham should be the person to introduce a Bill, which everybody said was the preferable course. It was quite in the power of Her Majesty's Government to introduce such a Bill; and as the noble Lord at the head of the Government had frankly expressed his opinion that such was the best course to pursue, if he would say that he was ready to bring in a Bill, he (Mr. Disraeli) would be released from a very painful position, and would be spared a vote which, under other circumstances, he should be obliged to give for the Motion. The circumstances of the case had been fairly placed before the House by the hon. Member for Westmoreland, who had shown that voting for the Motion would not establish a precedent of a perilous character. At the same time he thought that in a case of this kind, the House ought not to be called on to decide the question by a division, and therefore, as they had the authority of the First Minister of the Crown for saying that a Bill would be the course most desirable to adopt, if Her Majesty's Ministers would assure the House that an opportunity would be given to the Bishop of Durham to introduce such a measure, and that the Government would do so if he did not profit by the opportunity thus afforded him, some hon. Members would be spared the discharge of a very painful duty.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought that the hen. Gentleman, the Member for Buckinghamshire must see that this was not a matter in which the Government could interpose. The incumbent of Bishop Wearmouth had a clear right to the whole proceeds of that living; and if an Act were introduced by the Government, it would be an act of spoliation, and would take from him that to which he had at that moment a perfect and indefeasible right. With regard to the conduct of the Bishop of Durham, in the general administration of his diocese, nothing could be more liberal. His noble Friend the Member for South Durham had borne testimony to the munificence with which the right rev. Prelate had contributed towards the augmentation of the poorer livings in his diocese; and as one of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) thought it right to state a circumstance which had come to his own knowledge. It might be known to the House that a certain income was assigned to the Bishop of Durham when he was appointed to his diocese; but the sources of that income produced a larger revenue than was contemplated. Of course the Bishop had a perfect right to retain the whole revenue of the see, but feeling that it was larger than was originally designed, he signified his intention to pay to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners 2,000 l l 1055
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had made an inquiry on the subject of these returns, but his right hon. Friend the Chairman of the Board of Excise having been out of town for the last week, it was only that day that he had been able to see him, and therefore he was not yet prepared to give the hon. Member a positive answer, or explanation, with regard to these returns. He had no doubt, however, that the returns could be safely relied upon by the public.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was not the intention of the Government to introduce any measure for equalising the land tax. At the time the land tax was imposed, it was a commutation for military service due from the owners of land alone. It was commuted to a fixed sum, with the power of redemption, and it would be impossible, with any
 1031
 MR. WODEHOUSE  begged to give notice that he would bring this subject before the attention of the House on an early day after Easter.
 MR. WODEHOUSE  begged to ask the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer: "Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce any measure for the purpose of remedying the present inequality of the land tax, as adverted to in the report of the Select Committee of the House of Lords (Session 1846), on the burdens affecting real property, referring to the evidence given upon this subject by Mr. Wood, the Chairman of the Board of Excise, and also by Mr. Coode, the assistant secretary to the Poor Law Board, and ending by declaring 'that it appears that the quotas in the agricultural districts are higher, in proportion to the value of property, than they are in the mining and manufacturing districts of the country;' and whether Her Majesty's Government intends to adopt the suggestion contained in the report above mentioned, in which the Committee say that, 'considering the changes occasioned by the creation of real property, as well as those taking place in the relative value of the different descriptions of real property, it is scarcely necessary for them to point out the advantage as well as justice of periodical and uniform valuation.'"
 MR. HORSMAN , on rising to bring forward his Motion respecting the living of Bishop Wearmouth, said that the petitions he had just presented from the 6,000 parishioners of that place and Sunderland, were themselves illustrative of it. They said that, as members of the Established Church, and representing a population of no less than 50,000, they were desirous of being continued in the blessings of its teaching and its community. They complained that, notwithstanding the enormous revenues of the parishes to which they belonged, the religious teaching for which those revenues were destined was withheld, and they asked the interference of that House to enable them to derive the advantage which the law intended they should. Their prayer was so simple in its object, and so just in itself, that he could not conceive there could be any hesitation on the part of the House to accede to it. The noble Lord at the head of the Government much misunderstood the object of the question which he put to him on a former occasion respecting Bishop Wearmouth. His object then was not to impugn any act, nor to call upon the House to impugn any proceeding of the patron of that parish; his object was to get from authority a confirmation of what had been stated, namely, that the patron had declared that the income was much too large for the incumbent, that it ought to be reduced, and the surplus applied to general parochial purposes. Having got that statement from authority, he felt that he had acquired Parliamentary ground for his Motion, which would only be prospective and not retrospective in its operation. It was not antagonistic but auxiliary to the patron, who had declared that there ought to be a redistribution of revenues preceded by inquiry; but that redistribution could not be carried out without the interference of Parliament. The living of Bishop Wearmouth might be said to be very wealthy. It nearly approached, if it did not exceed,
 1033 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1034 l l l 1035 l l l 1036 "I have only fixed upon Mr. Eden, the incumbent of this place, of whose sound judgment, active but well-regulated zeal, and conciliatory manners, I have had much experience, at a great sacrifice of my own feelings, and in some degree of my own wishes." l l 1037 Ecclesiastical Statutes, "The cure of souls of every parish or parochial district belongs to, and all its emoluments are by the original founder and endower sot apart for the maintenance of the incumbent and his successors, and become vested in the existing incumbent by his institution and induction." 1038 1039 l v. "Few who know the hon. and right rev. Prelate, who have been witnesses to the munificence which he has displayed in repairing and beautifying the fabric of his church, of his castles, and his palaces, will suspect him of having intentionally wasted the possessions of the see of Durham. At the same time, it is by no means impossible that he, as well as many other Churchmen, may unwarily have slid into this heavy ecclesiastical offence, which all agree to be a cause of deprivation, and which may probably be found to be also an injury cognisable by some of the King's temporal courts." l l 1040 in jure collegii, pro bono publico, 1041 "Persons ecclesiastical are God's stewards, not only that he hath set them over his family as the ministers of ghostly food, but oven for this cause also—that they are to receive and dispose of his temporal revenues, the gifts and oblations which men bring him." "Touching such goods—the law civil, following mere light of nature, defineth them to be no man's, because no man nor community of men hath right of property in them." "For the better information of men which carry true, honest, and indifferent minds, these things we will endeavour to make clearly manifest—first, that in goods and livings of the Church none hath property but God himself; secondly, that the honour which the clergy therein hath is to be as it were God's receivers." 1042 1043 "Perhaps," he says, "this diocese differs from most others, if not in peculiar features of country, yet in the singular and most appalling frequency with which changes of population take place in it. There is no diocese in which so many thousands are found to lie so scattered as to be thrown at a most inconvenient distance from existing places of worship; nor is there, perhaps, any diocese in which such numerous instances occur of the inhabitants so rapidly increasing, or being so suddenly created. Where a barren moor lately presented the appearance of a desert, never inhabited, and but rarely visited by man, a railroad may perhaps be formed, or a coal-pit opened out; cottages are built, and men, women, and children appear diligently employed in gaining their daily bread, but seeking in vain for that bread which sustains the vital principle even to everlasting ages. Lastly, I fear there is no diocese which presents so many instances of redundant population and scanty endowment; for it should be remembered that, in large parishes, the care of one man, however zealous and active, will not suffice. The united exertions of two or more are probably required, while the income may not afford adequate remuneration even to the laborious and conscientious incumbent. Hence it appears that in many cases a necessity exists for the erection of chapels, and providing for the due discharge of sacred duties in them. In other cases it must be apparent that schools should be built, and diligent and well-qualified masters appointed to superintend over them. In some parishes, again, however urgent may be the want of assistance to the incumbent, his income is so limited, or his family so circumstanced, that it cannot provide him with that aid of which he is so deeply sensible his parishioners, as well as himself, stand in need. …. I am bound to say of my predecessors, that they seem to have held their almost princely revenues as good stewards of the manifold grace of God, and freely imparted to all as all had need. …. And I have only to express an earnest wish that, in any future arrangements which may be made, whether in revising such as have now received the force of law, or in any other contemplated changes, all the resources which are drawn from one part of the ecclesiastical fund of the diocese, may, as much as possible, be devoted to the assistance and improvement of the others." 1044 "Well, then, let us come to what we can conceive at any rate, and ask what would be our feelings, if this nation were visited with a season of great misery, with famine, and pestilence, and war. In this land, it is true, we know but little by our own experience of any of these things, for when pestilence did visit us a few years since, it was by no means in its most fearful form, and famine and war are strangers to us altogether; yet we well know that there are many living who have seen and suffered all these things. Now should it please God that we also should suffer them; that one or two more unfavourable seasons, added to a general depression of trade, should deepen difficulty into distress, and distress into actual starvation; that famine, as it is so apt to do, should breed pestilence; that our crowded population, so crowded for the narrow limits of our island, should increase all this misery by even worse misery of their own making; that discontent should become violence, and that tumults, and fires, and bloodshed, should rage from one end of the nation to the other, as they did a few years back in France—what account," he goes on ask—"could we give of the population committed to our care?" 1045 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be pleased to issue a Commission of Inquiry into the allegations contained in the petitions presented to this House from the parishioners of Bishop Wearmouth and Sunderland; and that the said Commissioners be directed to take into consideration the agreement stated in Parliament (on the authority of the patron of the Living of Bishop Wearmouth) to have been entered into between himself and the present Incumbent, whereby the surplus income of the Living, over and above the sum of 2,000 l
 MR. HORSMAN  assured the House that the kindness and attention which he had received had made a strong impression on his mind; but he wished very shortly to remind them of what had already taken place. His situation was very peculiar with regard to this question. Other hon. Members might entertain their individual feelings with regard to this subject; but it was not an isolated question with him, but part of the general question. When, therefore, he was asked by the noble Lord to withdraw the Motion, he could not forget how often such applications had been
 1060 1061 l 1062 l
 MR. WAWN  expressed a hope that the hon. Member for Cockermouth would not consent to withdraw his Motion, until he heard from the noble Lord the Member for the city of London whether there existed, on the part of the Government any sincere desire to divide the revenues of the rectorship of Bishop Wearmouth in the mode that equity pointed out. What security was there afforded to the parishioners that this division would be effected? The agreement that had been entered into with the rector was illegal unless it obtained the sanction of Parliament. If the hon. Member divided the House, he should vote with him.
 MR. SLANEY , in bringing forward his Motion for the appointment of a Standing Committee or unpaid commission, to consider and report from time to time on practical measures—unconnected with political changes—likely to improve the condition of the working classes, to encourage their industry, and increase their contentment, stated that he would not task the House to take his testimony as to the condition of the labouring population of the country, but he should refer them to the accumulated evidence on this subject, which was embodied in the successive reports which had been made to Parliament by accredited authorities, and also by several Committees of both Houses. The working classes were susceptible of two great divisions, namely, the agricultural or peasant classes, and the artisans or operatives who inhabited the large towns and manufacturing districts. The successive reports on the poor-laws and their administration, from, 1817 to 1834, gave a most deplorable account of the condition of the agricultural classes under the operation of the poor-laws as they existed up to the latter year. In the year 1835 a stern and severe poor-law was substituted for the former system, and his present object was to inquire whether
 1066
 MR. MANGLES  heartily wished he could get some admission from the noble Lord at the head of the Government as to the course they meant to adopt. He was extremely anxious that it should be stated that if the Bishop did not come to some arrangement the Government would take the matter into their own hands. He must be permitted to say he did not think that the noble Lord had done his hon. Friend
 1057
 MR. MANGLES  seconded the Motion.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he thought the House ought not to select a particular act, and by a censure of that act, imply a want of confidence in a right rev. Prelate, who was entitled to every possible respect. He would say, for himself, that, when First Minister of the Crown, and entitled, under the Act of 1844, to certain ecclesiastical patronage, such was the confidence which he reposed in the judgment and impartiality of the right rev. Prelate who presided over that see, that he placed that patronage, so far as the see of Durham was concerned, at his disposal; and the favourable opinion which he had formed of the manner in which patronage intrusted to such hands would be bestowed, had not, in any respect, been disappointed. The most deserving curates in the diocese had been sought out, and any benefice thus placed in the hands of the Bishop of Durham had been conferred without reference to any other consideration than that of professional merit. With respect to the question on which the House was now called upon to pronounce a decision, there would be less difficulty if a general proposition were before them. But if, according to the proposition of the hon. Member for Cockermouth, they were to deal with a single case, they would be gradually so involved, with respect to other cases, as to occasion no inconsiderable degree of embarrassment. If they agreed to the present Motion, it would not be long before some other great living would be found, requiring the House of Commons to adopt in its case some such special arrangement as that proposed by the hon. Member for Cockermouth. At the same time that he thought it right to make these observations with regard to the difficulty of intervention in individual cases; and while he objected to the particular Motion made by the hon. Gentleman, on the ground of its implying a want of confidence in a Prelate of the advanced age and the eminent attainments, both as a scholar and a divine, which distinguished the Bishop of Durham; he felt bound to express his concurrence in the main object which the Member for Cockermouth had in view. There were two questions in the present case; one of them arose out of the disproportioned revenue of two adjoining parishes. He thought it would be an excellent example if the Church were to require authority to
 1056
 SIR D. NORREYS  regretted that the Bill would not be allowed to go into Committee, as then many of the objections raised by the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin might have been removed. It was quite natural to suppose that gentlemen of his profession would be opposed to any measure which went to facilitate the administration of the law. The hon. and learned Member had objected to the magistrates having jurisdiction in cases of small debts; yet he himself had a Bill on the Paper giving them cognisance of contracts, than which nothing involved more nice legal questions.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he must express his sincere opinion of the great advantages which had been produced by the County Courts Act, which he
 1070
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the measure was a most important one, and he thought it was pressed with too great a degree of rapidity; in his opinion, more time should be given for considering it.
 MR. MOFFATT  said, that the Bill had been before the House for six weeks; it had been carefully criticised by a Committee
 1076
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  wished to be informed whether a Member who, through being engaged in a suit of law or equity, was called upon for the payment of costs, would, through the operation of the Bill, be deprived of his seat?
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the Bill would apply to costs as well as to everything else. If a person who had been ordered to pay costs did not pay them, the person entitled to receive them would proceed in exactly the same manner as he would if he had a judgment against any one for the payment of an ordinary debt. After a day had been fixed by the court for hearing, there would be six months' additional notice; and upon the declaration of insolvency, the seat would be vacated.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  saw no reason why there should be a different law for bankrupt and for insolvent Members. By the present law the bankrupt Member was allowed twelve months before he vacated his seat; they should either give the same period to the insolvent Member, or state the time during which a bankrupt might sit. Under any circumstance, the law should be uniform. He could not help feeling that this was a subject towards which the Government should direct its attention, with the view of considering whether the Members of both Houses of Parliament should not be placed on the same footing. It would not be a state of the law calculated to raise in public estimation the other House if they passed a Bill of this nature, by which they disgraced and deprived of protection insolvent Members of that House, and did nothing to prevent insolvent persons legislating in the other House. He might be told, that it would be easy for the other House to take the initiative in legislating for themselves; but it would be better for the Government, which had the power of initiating measures in both Houses, to bring in a general measure applicable to the Members of both Houses. At any rate, if this measure should pass, he trusted that a similar Bill would be introduced into the other House applicable to the Members of it.
 SIR W. CLAY  said, that he gave every credit for good motives to his hon. Friend who had introduced this measure; but he thought that they were proceeding altogether on a false principle. It was quite clear, from the explanation of his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General, that the mere circumstance of being indebted and having lost a suit at law, and being unable to pay heavy costs, would lead to the loss of his seat by any Member of the House so circumstanced. That appeared to be at variance with the principle of the constitution. Constituencies did not elect men to be Members of that House because they were rich, but for their political principles, their general attainments, or their local connexion with a place. A man was not elected a Member of that House because he was able to pay his debts. He thought they had no right to impose a limitation on the electors of the British empire as to whom they should elect, unless there had been something disgraceful on the part of a person so offering himself; but here you say a man shall not be elected, because he cannot pay a debt within a certain limited period. If the Bill had been in existence fifty years ago, neither Fox, nor Sheridan, nor even Pitt himself, could have had a seat in that House. He trusted that the House would not consent to pass this Bill without fully considering the subject, and without having a previous discussion on it, as it involved an important principle. He would only add, that if his hon. Friend had proposed to delay the Bill, or to get rid of it altogether, he would have voted with him. Giving every credit to his hon. Friend for having introduced this Bill, he (Sir W. Clay) must say, with all deference to him, that he considered it to be objectionable in its nature, and founded on a false principle.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  observed, that the effect of this Bill would be, that when a Member became insolvent he would have to vacate his seat; but there was nothing to prevent the electors of a place electing him again. It might be said, that if he was insolvent he would have no qualification; but it was a very common thing for Members to hold qualifications which could not be affected in the way supposed. He believed if the Bill had been in existence half a century ago it would not have had the effect of excluding Mr. Fox, Mr. Sheridan, or Mr. Pitt from seats in that House. It might, however, very probably,
 1078
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  said, it appeared to him, from the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman, that the Bill was "a mockery, a delusion, and a snare." The hon. and learned Gentleman propounded the principle, that a man might be insolvent and lose his seat, and yet that he might borrow a new qualification, and be
 1079
 MR. HUME  said, that this Bill had nothing to do with the Members of the other House, who held their tenure upon a different principle, and he would rather leave the decision of the point to their own honour than insert a clause in the Bill. If the Lords did not choose to put in such a clause, it would only damage their character, and place them in a position in which no honourable men would be seen. However, the declared opinions of the House of Commons had some influence in another place, and from what he had heard from several noble Lords, he believed there was a strong feeling among them that a measure of this kind should apply to them also. There ought to be some provision in the Bill against its being applied to cases where the difficulty had arisen from merely the costs in proceedings at law; for a man of 3,000 l.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, there was no provision of such a kind in the law relating to bankruptcy cases; but at the same time he thought that a man who was made insolvent only on account of costs, certainly stood in a different position from a man who had become insolvent by reason of his own misconduct. The case was, however, provided for in this Bill by the discretion given to the Judge, and that was the only way in which such a contingency could be dealt with. If hon. Members endeavoured in include all cases of particular hardship within the scope of such a Bill, they would find it impossible to deal with them, in detail, with any prospect of a satisfactory arrangement.
 MR. HUME  observed, that in legislation it was expedient to take away discretion from a Judge as far as possible, by making the law clear. To illustrate what
 1080
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  explained, that he was friendly to the principle of the Bill, but had been greatly surprised at the statement of his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General, that a person with insolvency in full force against him would be capable of taking his seat again in the House. He protested against such an inference as contrary to the spirit of the Bill. Was a bankrupt capable of taking his seat again while the fiat was in force? After an insolvent had obtained his discharge, it might, perhaps, be proper to put him in the same position as before; but he abjured a principle by which a man who might be a most fraudulent debtor would be eligible to resume his seat. He thought it was at least the duty of the Committee to insert a clause providing that no insolvent should be eligible to a seat until he had obtained his discharge. He would deal with the bankruptcy and insolvency cases in the same way, and he did not see why the period fixed by law should not be the same in both cases. He preferred the shorter period—six months—named in the present Bill. If they wished the other House to follow their example, they must refuse to allow an insolvent to be eligible to re-election until after he had obtained his discharge. As to the question that had arisen with respect to insolvency caused by costs only, the proper mode of meeting the case would be to introduce a clause providing that a debt solely arising from costs should not he a ground for bringing the Act into operation.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, that as the law stood, a judgment might be obtained against
 1081
 SIR W. CLAY  would state a case which might very often occur: a man possessed of considerable estate might be deprived of it by the decision of a court of justice, and be ruined by the costs and the loss of his estate at the same time; but if the decision happened to be in his favour, he might sit without any merit of his. When he previously addressed the House, he had mentioned the cases of Pitt and Fox, and the argument which he founded on them was answered by saying, that in such cases the law would be evaded; but he would rejoin by asking, why pass a law which it might be necessary or desirable to evade? It was his view of the subject, that, if any body of electors thought a poor man was also an honest politician, they ought to possess the right to elect him. He would put another case: suppose a man had suffered an adverse decision in a court of justice, and had appealed from it, ought he to be considered, pending that appeal, an insolvent debtor within the meaning of the Bill then before them? Surely he ought not to be so considered, for he might never have owed the debt. The hon. Baronet concluded by moving, that the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  denied that the Bill interfered with the constitutional right of the people to choose any person they thought proper to represent them. There was nothing to interfere with their choice, except what was contained in the existing law; and the Bill merely called upon the electors to say what was their wish with regard to the person who should represent them in the altered state of circumstances.
 MR. HENLEY  thought the further consideration of the Bill should be postponed, because there had not been sufficient time since it was printed, to examine its details. He did not see how, if an insolvent was re-elected, what was to prevent him from being again and again turned out.
 1082
 MR. H. BERKELEY  supported the Motion for the Chairman reporting progress; and said he should give the Bill his decided opposition upon the third reading. There appeared to be a great disposition on the part of that House to legislate against its own Members. At present, it was almost impossible for any Member to resist a petition against him. Nothing need be done but for some agent from the enemy's camp to act as a traitor, and give a sovereign to a voter, and no Committee dared refuse to turn the Member out. He would not himself yield up the present privileges of the House, unless the corresponding privileges of another place were also abandoned. It was, however, impossible to expect that.
 MR. STAFFORD  knew not whether the Committee would consent to add the new element of confusion suggested by the hon. Member who had just sat down; but there was sufficient confusion in the Bill already to induce him to support the Motion of the hon. Baronet the Member for the Tower Hamlets. When he heard the hon. and learned Solicitor General rise in his place and state that the Bill would not effect its professed object, he thought the variance between the title of the Bill and its clauses a sufficient reason why it should not be allowed to advance further. Some delicacy was naturally felt by hon. Members in speaking upon such a subject, from a fear of labouring under the imputation of personal motives. When he heard a Bill in which they had all so great an interest going through Committee clause after clause so rapidly, he was tempted to inquire how this came to pass. He had been told, he hoped it was not true, that the reason was because all the insolvent Members had gone to the levee. Passing that by, he might remind the hon. Member who conducted the Bill, that one right hon. Gentleman of great authority in that House, who was then absent, but whom, after what had been said, it would be invidious to name, protested most strenuously against it, and stated that he had a great
 1083
 MR. MACKINNON  said, the Bill had been misunderstood. It would be impossible for the House to go on under the slur of having Members who used their privileges for the purpose of cheating their creditors; and if they wished to raise themselves in public estimation, and secure respect for their deliberations, they must pass a Bill of this description. The difficulty was as to the re-election of Members, and this might be obviated by the addition of a clause making such reelection dependent on payment of debts. Reference had been made to the other House; but though they could not he expected to take the initiative, they might be induced to follow if the example were set by the House of Commons. If the hon. Baronet the Member for the Tower Hamlets was desirous of amending the Bill, why did he refuse to continue the discussion of its clauses? They had yet two hours and a half, and they could not have a better opportunity.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, there was such a thing as being too good. It might be exceedingly proper that the House should afford no shelter to men who would not pay their debts; but it was a very different thing for the House to undertake a work of supererogation with reference to men against whom proceedings were taken. There might be cases where such a proceeding would be attended with considerable danger, both in the outset and afterwards. There was hardly a Member who had not been wooed to put his name, either as chairman or director, to some company or other. The glorious uncertainty of the law which existed in the time of our ancestors, existed in our own; and Gentlemen might be a little uneasy if they were made debtors to associations of that kind. There was an instance of a club in London, in which some difficulty arose as to the claret that had been drank, and which certain hon. Gentlemen had been called upon to pay. It had terrified him out of the club. If a Member were not able to pay his debts, why should he not he entrusted to the care of the sheriff's officer
 1084
 MR. MOFFATT  regretted that he could not accede to the request of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets. The principle of the Bill was simply to prevent Members from evading payment of their debts. As to the objection, with reference to Members being directors of railway companies, it did not apply, because they were already liable as traders under the bankruptcy laws. The hon. Member for Northamptonshire North had complained of the Bill, on the ground that it introduced a new principle; but no new principle whatever was involved in it, as the object was merely to make general the liability to which Members connected with commercial houses were already subjected. As no ground whatever had been laid for a postponement, he should feel bound to resist the Motion.
 MR. BERNAL , in reply to his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume), and in reply also to observations which had fallen from another hon. Friend near him, begged to say that
 1086
 SIR F. LEWIS  approved of the Bill so far as it went, but thought that great advantage would be gained by placing such rates upon the landlords, and not upon the tenants.
 MR. BOUVERIE  rose to move, pursuant to notice, to refer the above Bill to a Select Committee, by which means it would be advanced more rapidly. While doing so he would take that opportunity of referring to a statement made in one of the
 1073 "That the object of proceedings taken against the Rev. Mr. Shore in the Arches Courts, was not the imprisonment of that gentleman, nor for the purpose of deposing him from his functions as a clergyman, but because having been cautioned against doing so, he still persisted in officiating in an unconsecrated house of worship without a license from the Bishop." "That that gentleman should be admonished to abstain from publicly administering the sacraments, preaching or performing Divine service in the said chapel; and that if he should refuse compliance with that admonition, he might be dealt with and punished in proportion to the nature of his offence, according to the provisions and extent of the law."
 MR. BOUVERIE  remarked, that in the course of the judgment, the learned Judge who presided said, that, as he understood, the prayer of the Bishop's counsel was to the same effect as the prayer of the articles.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, in that case the right hon. Gentleman ought to consent to the second reading, a distant day being fixed for the next stage.
 MR. STAFFORD  observed, that he had given notice on the Paper that this Bill should be referred to a Select Committee; but he was happy to find that he was anticipated in his intention by his hon. Friend the Member for Kilmarnock, who had charge of the Bill. He had received communications from various parts of the country respecting this measure, and from them it appeared that there was no objection to the principle of allowing clergymen to leave the Church; the only question was, as to the mode of doing so.
 MR. SPEAKER  observed, that a Motion to that effect could not be made until the Committee on the Bill was appointed.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  hoped that, at all events, the hon. Member would not proceed with the Bill on Wednesdays.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  did not know that he should oppose the Motion of the hon. Member for Berkshire, but from communications which he had received from several high authorities, land agents and others, he was satisfied that they told him the truth when they said that the Bill was not required at all, and that it was better to let landlord and tenant alone. Whatever amendments might be made in the Bill, he objected so strongly to its principle, that he should oppose it in every stage.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  expressed a hope that the hon. Member for Berkshire would allow ample time for the new Bill to be circulated through the country before he proceeded with it again.
 MR. HORSMAN  referred to the case of a clergyman who had left the Church, and had become a Roman Catholic layman. He had been appointed a Government inspector of schools, and had been gazetted to that office as an esquire. He wished to know whether that gentleman could not, under the provisions of this Bill, be elected a Member of that House?
 MR. SCULLY  would recommend the withdrawal of the Bill, provided the Government would promise to take the matter into their hands, and bring in a Bill having the same object.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  thought that the Bill was a valuable measure, and as it was applicable to the circumstances of Ireland, he hoped that the hon. Member for Berkshire
 1072
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  supported the recommendation that the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee, who might also direct their inquiries to a general assimilation of the civil law of both countries.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was glad that the hon. Member had determined to move that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee; and he hoped, if it went there, that a provision would be introduced into it by which a clergyman might be divested of his office by the same authority which had invested him with it. The Bill, as it at present stood, almost enabled a clergyman to divest himself of his office with as little trouble as it would take to blow his
 1074
 MR. HUME  said, that, lest he should be supposed to concur with the hon. Member for Henleyshire—[ Laughter
 MR. HUME  said, it had long been the complaint that the Legislature had not acted fairly towards Ireland; and as we had recently adopted an important measure in this country for facilitating the recovery of small debts, which had upon the whole succeeded well, it was desirable to extend the same principle to Ireland. With this view the principle of this Bill, at least, ought to be adopted; and if there were legal objections to the details, it was for the Government to get over those difficulties, by referring the Bill to a Select Committee. It was no answer to say that a party in Ireland was opposed to the change; why, every attorney in England had opposed the County Courts Bill.
 MR. NAPIER , admitting that the hon. Gentleman's intention was laudable, felt himself, nevertheless, compelled to oppose the second reading of the Bill, on the ground of the legal difficulties that stood in the way of applying the provisions of the English measure to the machinery now existing in Ireland. One great difference was, that England enjoyed all the facilities of direct and rapid railway communication, which was as yet very partially extended to Ireland; and this was an important consideration in regard to the attendance of witnesses. Under the law, as it stood, the debtor had great powers, and was entitled to no favour from the Legislature. When the creditor had recourse to vexatious proceedings in a superior court, the debtor had the power of staying proceedings on payment of the debt with a small amount of costs. One improvement in the existing law was very necessary—to give the judge the power of awarding expenses actually incurred. It was objectionable to convert the petty sessions courts of justice into a kind of civil tribunal; the effect would be to create a scene of turmoil from one end of Ireland to the other. He did not think any improvement could be made on the law as it stood without adopting the whole of the county-court machinery; and this he was not prepared to do.
 MR. PUSEY  observed that the changes in general were merely technical, and did not affect the provisions of the Bill in the slightest degree. There was nothing to diminish the opposition of the hon. and gallant Member, or to increase it.
 MR. PUSEY  said, that since the Second Reading of this Bill, he had endeavoured to meet the difficulties made by the hon. Member for Cirencester, and, acting under legal advice, he had made several amendments in the Bill, upon which he hoped that the House would now go into Committee  pro formâ.
 MR. PUSEY  believed that Wednesday was the proper day for the discussion of measures brought in by individual Members of Parliament. He remembered that when he brought the Bill in on a Friday, he was told that he was smuggling it in.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  did not wish to anticipate the result of the deliberations of the Select Committee; but he rose to make some observations upon what had fallen from his hon. Friend the Member for Kilmarnock. He could not help thinking that his hon. Friend had not perfectly understood the bearing of the form of the proceedings in the ecclesiastical court. He did not know in which of the morning journals the statement had appeared to which his hon. Friend had referred; but he understood the writer of the article to contend that the object of the proceeding by the Bishop against the Rev. Mr. Shore, was practically to depose him from the office of a minister of the Church of England. His hon. Friend did not seem to be aware that the Bishop could not pray for the Rev. Mr. Shore's deposition, on account of his preaching in an unlicensed chapel. All, therefore, that he could possibly do was to avail himself of the existing provisions of the law, and to go into the ecclesiastical court, and pray for such punishment as the law of the land directed. It did not appear to him, therefore, that any observation fairly arose out of the form of the proceeding upon the statement to which his hon. Friend had referred.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, that was a matter of course.
 MR. GLADSTONE  wished it to be clearly understood that he did not concur in the opinion expressed by the hon. Member for Montrose. He would submit it to the hon. Gentleman who had charge of the Bill, whether, instead of going into a discussion on the details of the Bill, it would not be better merely to consider the question as to sending it before a Select Committee?
 MR. W. FAGAN  said, he would withdraw the Bill, if the Government would pledge themselves to introduce a measure having the same object. If not, he should press the measure to a second reading, with the view to send it upstairs to a Select Committee.
 MR. W. FAGAN  rose to move the Second Reading of this Bill. The object of the Bill was to assimilate the law of Ireland for facilitating the recovery of small
 1067 l. l. s. l. s. d. l. s. 1068 s. l. s.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD , while supporting the principle of this Bill, was opposed to the clause giving magistrates jurisdiction. He should vote for the second reading, with a view to the Bill going before a Select Committee.
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  understood that the Motion of the hon. Member for Berkshire was only to go into Committee  pro formâ
 SIR W. CLAY  asked when the proper time would arrive for presenting a petition in favour of this Bill, which was agreed to at a public meeting at which upwards of 5,000 persons were present, and which he wished to have referred to the Select Committee on the Bill.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, the matter should have his best consideration, but he could not undertake to prepare and bring in a Bill himself.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE , while giving credit to the hon. Member for Cork for his good intentions, hoped the Bill would not
 1069
 LORD DUDLEY STUART*  rose, pursuant to notice, to move for copies or extracts of any correspondence between this Government and the Governments of Turkey and Russia, relating to the occupation by Russian troops of the provinces of Moldavia and Wallachia. The noble Lord said: I am quite aware how very little attention questions of foreign policy generally excite in this House, and I regret my own want of ability to invest my present subject with the interest which I conceive it deserves. I am, however, deeply impressed with the importance of the question, and trust the House will extend to me some indulgence while I endeavour, to the best of my power, and in as short a time as I can, to discharge what I believe to be my duty, by laying before it a statement on the subject of which I have given notice. Some hon. Gentlemen may think that time employed on discussions relating to foreign affairs is wasted. Such, however, has not been the opinion of our best and greatest statesmen. In support of that position, I might quote authorities from Lord Chatham down to the present day; but I shall confine myself to a reference to the opinions of one on whom I look with great respect, and which, I presume, will not be treated lightly by any one sitting on the Treasury bench, for they are the opinions of one who must be allowed to be, as well by his enemies as by his supporters, one of the ablest Ministers to whom the Foreign Department of this country has ever been entrusted. The authority to which I refer is that of the noble Lord the present Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. My noble Friend, some years ago, made use of the following language:—
 "I know that there are many persons in this House who look with great indifference, if not with actual repugnance, at discussions which turn upon our foreign relations; who think that they sufficiently perform their duties in this House, by devoting themselves sedulously to our domestic concerns; who are willing to leave our * 1129 foreign affairs to the unquestioned discretion of His Majesty's Ministers; or who, at least, believe those affairs to be matters of peculiar mystery and craft, upon which none but the fully initiated are capable of arriving at sound and satisfactory opinions. Why, as well might a man think that provided he looked carefully after his estate, and managed his household with economy and order, it was unimportant to him what might be his behaviour towards his neighbours. When we consider how much our purely domestic interests are concerned in our diplomatic relations with other countries—when we reflect what influence the foreign policy of so great a Power as England must necessarily have upon the transactions of the world, and how much it must affect the welfare and peace of nations—it is plain that both those who look only to our own selfish interests, and those whose views take a higher flight, ought equally to watch with jealous anxiety every step of the Government in these matters. But then, as to the difficulty of understanding these things. It may suit the purposes of some to endeavour, like the high priests of Egypt, to keep knowledge to themselves, by locking it up in mystical and unintelligible language; but the days are gone by when diplomacy was an occult science; the intercourse of nations must now be conducted upon the same principles as that of individuals. I say, then, that every English gentleman, who brings to the debates of this House an honest mind and a manly and generous spirit, will find it just as easy to judge of these matters, if he will only insist upon having proper information, as he would of anything else to which he may direct his attention. I, therefore, implore this House to rouse themselves from that apathy as to our foreign affairs which has prevailed so long; for they may be assured that never, upon a matter of high national concernment, was the salutary control of their interference more urgently required." 1130 1131 1132 primâ facie "The Porte consents, that according to the circumstances of the two principalities, the Ministers of the Imperial Court of Russia may speak in their favour; and promises to take into consideration such representations conformably to the amity and respect which it has for the Powers." 1133 "The principalities of Moldavia and Wallachia having by a capitulation placed themselves under the Suzerainté of the Sublime Porte, and Russia having guaranteed their prosperity." 1134 1135 1136 "I consider it of the greatest importance to this country, and to the balance of power in Europe, that the Turkish empire, such as it subsists, should be maintained in all its independence and integrity; and it was not without due consideration that this was pointed out in the Speech from the Throne as a matter deserving of the serious attention of Parliament." 1137 Manchester Guardian: "Few Englishmen—few English manufacturers even, are aware that the narrow passage of the Dardanelles is continually traversed by fleets freighted with the produce of English looms, of
 1138 ad valorem ad valorem 1139 l l l l l l l l l 1140 "Of course the greater the amount of labour and capital required to produce any manufactured article, the greater is its value, in proportion to the value of the raw material of which it is composed. Out of the price of plain and printed calicoes must be paid, not merely the expense of the labour and the interest of the capital employed in producing the yarn, but also the labour of weaving and printing, and the interest of the capital employed in those processes; and according to the best estimates which have been formed on this subject, whilst the value of cotton twist is about double the value of the raw material which has been worked up in making it, the average value of the plain and printed calicoes, of which our exports consist, is about five times greater than that of the raw material. Deducting, then, on this account one-half from our exports of cotton twist, and one-fifth from our exports of plain and printed calicoes, we shall find a residue of 1,424,548 l l in transitu 1141 1142 "we should know what have been the principles on which our Government has acted—what has been the spirit in which the influence of England has been exerted, what objects have been aimed at, and by what means we have sought to attain them."
 COLONEL THOMPSON  seconded the Motion. Hon. Gentlemen who were in the habit of looking round the political horizon must often have felt a suspicion that the influence of England, like all other sublunary things, must be, in all political respects, far from stationary, and that our naval supremacy ought not to be calculated upon as something which was always to be preserved. A vast republic was growing up on the other side of the Atlantic, which it was probable might not always be animated by the most friendly feelings towards this country. A writer of an American Guide-book could not pass the Horse Guards without indulging in the anticipation, that perhaps within the sight of living individuals, there might be an army of 50,000 Americans drawn up in line behind that building. And when the same writer saw the standard waving over Windsor Castle, he thought it probable that "the
 1143
 MR. J. A. SMITH  dissented very decidedly from the opinion expressed by the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, that there was no general feeling in and out of that House against the policy of Russia. His belief was, that there was a very strong and general feeling against it, and that the Emperor of Russia, perhaps from the policy of necessity, was the unscrupulous and determined enemy of the progress of constitutional liberty. The hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, in recommending confidence in the statements of the noble Lord the Foreign Secretary, seemed to have forgotten the plain, honest, and undisguised opinions which that noble Lord had expressed in his place in Parliament concerning the conduct of Russia. He (Mr. J. A. Smith) joined with those who advised his noble Friend the Member for Marylebone not to divide; but at the same time he thanked his noble Friend for bringing the subject under consideration. The moral influence of opinion would, on this as on other occasions, have its full force and effect. He had full confidence in the noble Viscount the Foreign Secretary, and he could not forget how justly he claimed that confidence, believing that it was to his policy that we owed those relations with France upon which mainly depended the peace of the world. He (Mr. J. A. Smith) concluded by saying that while he deprecated harsh language, he protested against the occupation of Wallachia and Moldavia as an oppression upon the rights of humanity.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  would appeal to his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Youghal on the ground of his knowledge of the practice of the profession, and confidently ask him to withdraw this Motion. He (the Attorney General) hoped to be able to dispose of this Motion without the necessity of adverting to the facts, because by it they were called upon either to lay down a very bad precedent, or were bound to resist the attempt now made to lay such a precedent down. Assuming that they had the papers brought there to refer them to a Select Committee, for the purpose of appealing against a decision of the constituted military authorities, they would actually be referring it to a Select Committee of unpractised non-professional Members of the House of Commons to determine the question of the legality or illegality of the constitution of a court-martial. If the House were about to supersede the authority of the Commander-in-Chief, this effect would certainly spring from it, that they would be letting the soldiers of the Army know that, whenever they thought they had reason to be dissatisfied, they would always find this House open and ready to listen to their appeals. What must be the effect of a course like that which the hon. and learned Gentleman had taken? The result would be that in every case they would have appeals from military tribunals. It would be a most dangerous precedent to set, and destructive of all
 1174
 MR. F. SCOTT  begged to put the following questions to the hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies:—"Whether any official information has been received by the last packet from any, and which, of the Australian colonies upon the subject of emigration?—What debt has been incurred in New South Wales on account of emigration since 1st January, 1847?—Whether any further loan has been recommended forestalling the annual revenue derived from the Land Fund in New South Wales?—Whether such proposal has been rejected by the colony?—Whether the funds applicable to emigration to that colony are not expended, and if not, how much remains?—How much of the colonial fund available at the meeting of Parliament has since been expended in Dorset and Wilts alone, to pay the whole passage money of emigrants from those counties only?—Whether it is known to the Government that shoemakers and other mechanics have been passed by the agents of the Government as "agricultural labourers eligible for free passages;" and whether those agents have received a commission of 15 s 1124
 MR. SCOTT , as to the seventh question, asked if he were to understand that the emigration agents had actually received the commission of 15 s
 MR. SCOTT : Will the hon. Gentleman receive evidence of the fact?—for I beg to assure him it is the fact.
 MR. ELLIOT  desired to explain the manner in which the discussion had originated about the order for the reduction of
 1170
 LORD DUDLEY STUART , in reply, said: I give full weight to the opinions of those hon. Members, whether agreeing in my views or not, who have recommended me to withdraw the Motion. I have heard with some surprise the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire say, that on this question, he advocates opposite interests to those espoused by me. I am endeavouring to defend the interests of the Turkish empire; and I think I recollect that, not very long ago, the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, in a most eloquent speech on the question of Servia, expressed as strong an opinion on the importance of maintaining the integrity of the Ottoman empire, as could possibly be imagined. I have, throughout my observations, endeavoured to express myself with temper and moderation, and I will not be seduced by the exaggerated language in which the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire has thought proper to support his views, or be led to resort to intemperate expressions by way of retort. This is the more easy for me, as I am at present in very good humour. I am very much pleased, and have reason to be so. The opinions of the hon. Gentleman appear to find no echo in the House—and I am sure they will find none in the country, which is much more likely to coincide with the feelings of the hon. and learned Member for Limerick. I confess I have heard the observations of that hon. and learned Member with pleasure. Such generous sentiments do honour to him who delivers them, and to the assembly which receives them with approbation. The hon. Member
 1160 1161
 MAJOR BLACKALL  defended the gentry of Ireland from the supposition that they would act unjustly.
 MR. DISRAELI  advised the noble Lord the Member for Marylebone not to call upon the House to divide. He would not, thereby, advance the interests he advocated. He (Mr. Disraeli) was opposed to those interests, and, therefore, the noble Lord would receive his advice with that qualification. The hon. Member for Montrose, as one of his reasons for recommending the noble Lord not to divide, said that he had sat in Parliament a long time, and that there had always been an unanimous feeling in the House against the policy of Russia—that that policy was never mentioned without being denounced; and he, therefore, proposed that the same course should be adopted which, he said, had been
 1155 1156 1157
 MR. HAWES  had said, that when the measure received the assent of the representative of the Queen in the colony, it would come into immediate operation.
 MR. HAWES  made no reply.
 MR. HAWES  said, in answer to the first question of the right hon. Gentleman, he had to state that no instructions whatsoever were given to the noble Lord at the head of the Canadian Government with reference to the introduction of this Bill, or in contemplation of any such measures. His noble Friend (Earl Grey) had entire confidence in the noble Lord the Governor General's judgment and discretion, and was not in the habit of giving him instructions of that kind. With regard to the second question of the right hon. Gentleman, who had himself filled the office of Secretary of State for the Colonies, he had to state that all colonial laws—he believed universally—having passed through their formal stages, and received the assent of the Crown, through Her Majesty's representative in the colony, come into immediate operation, unless they contain a suspending clause. This would apply, of course, to all Acts, whether they were for the appropriation of money or not; and, therefore, from the passing of such a Bill,
 1126
 MR. HAWES : No; I cannot admit the facts that there has been (to any extent) such impositions.
 MR. HAWES  said, with regard to the first question asked by the hon. Member, none but the ordinary information had been received, merely referring to the arrival of emigrant ships, &c., and none of that general character which the hon. Gentleman desired. To the second, third, and fourth questions, he could only answer generally, that a loan had been proposed for meeting the difficulty, but that loan had not yet been called into operation. With respect to the fifth question, the balance was small, but more than 5,000 l
 MR. HINDLEY  rose to give notice of his intention to ask the right hon. the President of the Board of Control, "Whether the statement in the public journals is correct, that the Governor General of India has decided that the property taken at Moultan is to go to the captors of the place as a prize?—Whether the Government have any information confirmatory of the statement in the  Bombay Times
 MR. URQUHART  felt that there was great truth in the objections urged. England could no longer stand by herself, or take her own part; but then they should not presume to discuss subjects on their merits. It was hardly necessary for him to give expression to his loathing as to the malignant influence of Russia on the foreign policy of other countries; but it was not against her, but her mean dupes and victims, that his indignation was aroused. He did not conceive that the thin attendance of Members that evening was a sufficient reason for abstaining from coming to a vote. On the contrary, he considered that to exhibit the thinness of the House on such questions, was the greatest service that could be rendered to England. He saw a number of Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House who had declared themselves in favour of international arbitration. They of course would not venture on a thought derogatory to their well-beloved Czar—under whom if they carried out their projects, they must place England and Europe to be arbitrated for as Poland, and pacified and set in order as Wallachia and Moldavia. He begged the House to recollect that the question before it was not a vote for papers, so as to enable them to obtain information; but whether or not, an aggression having been committed against an ally of the British Crown, we should stand by to approve by our silence. The noble Viscount the Foreign Secretary did not deny the aggression, but had showed his sympathy with the aggressors. He had pledged his word that this was merely a question of time; it had always been so between Turkey and Russia. The question of time was when Turkey should be relieved from the incubus of Russian domination, which for 150 years had pressed so heavily upon her. What further information did they desire—what further explanation could they receive? They knew this to be an aggression on a Power whose independence we had guaranteed by many solemn treaties. Her territories had been invaded by another ally of the British Crown, who was one of
 1153
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  repeated a question he had previously addressed to the Home Secretary as to the alleged ill-treatment of one of the Chartist prisoners now in Newgate—the complaint relating partly to the deprivation of knife and fork, and partly to the withholding of books sent by the prisoners' relatives.
 MR. ROBINSON  wished to know if the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies, when he made use of the expression, "when the measure receives the
 1128
 MR. AGLIONBY  supported the Motion. He thought it due to the characters of all those connected with the prosecution of the court-martial, as well as the character of the proceedings itself, that some further explanation should be given. The right hon. Baronet the President of the Board of Control intimated that he had the means of giving an explanation—that he had the papers in his possession—but he declined to do so. It would have been as well now, perhaps, after the lapse of so many years, that the subject had not been revived; but as it had been raised, it was absolutely necessary that the public mind should be satisfied, and that the matter should be set at rest. The hon. and learned Member for Limerick, quoting from the Articles of War, clearly showed that the court-martial itself was illegal—that injustice had been done, and that the law had been transgressed—yet, not one
 1171
 MR. AGLIONBY  rose to explain that he had never said, that if any Member of this House chose at any time to reintroduce a matter of this kind, which had long been allowed to slumber, the House was bound, however ill-advised it thought the step, to agree to an inquiry: he had never wished to lay down any principle of this kind. What he said was, that he might regret, that at such a distance of time, and with very little prospect of advantage either to the parties or the service, a question of this sort should now be brought forward; but. that after the Articles of War, as quoted that night, showed that a number of men had been condemned by an illegally constituted tribunal, and two of them executed, it was desirable, in behalf even of the authorities themselves, to mention no other consideration, that, seeing those Members of this House connected with the Government of India had given no answer or explanation on the subject, that an investigation to clear up the matter should take place.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  opposed the measure altogether, as being injurious to the poor man, and as depriving him of all means of redress against magistrates who acted unjustly. He therefore moved, that it be put off for six months.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  thought that no clearer evidence could be adduced of the weakness of the case which the Government had undertaken to vindicate, than that the right hon. Baronet the President of the Board of Control, with all his ingenuity and talent, could make out no better one than he had attempted to establish in excuse of these proceedings. It was idle to press upon the House the length of time which had elapsed before this grave complaint had pressed its way to the ear of Parliament. That delay was quite sufficiently accounted for by the general inattention or indifference which was paid in England to Indian affairs, and by the necessary lapse of time that would always intervene before such complaints, from such distant quarters, could reach their destination. But there was one important point in the case on which the right hon. Baronet's speech had not touched at all. The whole of these sentences were necessarily illegal, because they had been passed by a tribunal manifestly not constituted according to the Articles of War. Article 7 expressly required that no court-martial should be competent to pass sentence of death unless it was composed of thirteen officers, except within certain limits. This court was assembled at Arcot, and therefore not within the jurisdiction which alone could have made any lesser number of officers a competent tribunal to pronounce a capital sentence; and it consisted only of seven officers. But there was yet another informality. It was declared that the court should not consist of less than nine officers to give effect to its sentence. Now, how the sentence of seven could comply with this condition, he was yet to learn. The plea of inconvenience was one he had been surprised to hear urged by the right hon. Baronet against a case which involved questions so important to law and justice. He should support the Motion.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  seconded the Motion.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  congratulated the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire upon the cause and the client he had taken up. He (Mr J. O'Connell) agreed with the last speaker, except as regarded harsh language being applied to the conduct of the Emperor of Russia; for if there was any occasion when it was excusable to use strong language, it was when the proceedings of that monster were under consideration. What was he but the scourger of women, and the destroyer of men? Let the House remember the case of the unfortunate nuns of Minsk, who were brutally flogged and otherwise abused, and all with the full cognisance and express written approbation of the client of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire. Upon these poor women, devoted to religion, guilty of no crime or fault against man or God, a ruffian soldiery were left to commit the last violence, and
 1159
 MR. HUME  did not understand what the purport of the hon. Member's arguments were. He had raised the forces of Russia in his mind to an enormous extent beyond the reality, and in like manner he magnified the danger to be apprehended from that quarter. He (Mr. Hume) had always warned the House against the aggressions of Russia. One solitary voice had been raised in that House in favour of the Czar when he brought the question of Poland forward; but there was nearly the universal sense of the House expressed in his condemnation, and that decision was applauded by the whole nation. Was not that a check upon the despotism of the Russian Emperor, when the independent community of England censured his acts, and none of his allies approved of them? Was that no inducement for him to halt in his career of cruelty and tyranny? He, for one, believed that Russia was in as much danger as any State in Europe. The Emperor's counsellors were leading him into danger, and before long he might be as helpless as any of the despots whose kingdoms had been plunged into anarchy. The noble
 1154
 MR. HUME  expressed a similar intention. There were some points connected with these transactions which loudly called for explanation. What he wanted to know was, why were their several sentences suspended over the heads of these men for nine long months—most of the men in that interval, too, being allowed to do duty of a certain kind—if it was intended finally to punish them? No man was better aware than he was of the absolute necessity
 1169
 MR. HUME  had asked of the Government a distinct question, which he might also put to the right hon. Gentleman the
 1127 l
 MR. HUME  begged to ask whether the sum which the Government of Canada had agreed to advance was not proposed to be granted pursuant to the recommendation of a commission, which was appointed by Lord Metcalfe, for the purpose of considering the losses that had been sustained during the rebellion? Was not the advance for compensation recommended by a Committee appointed with the unanimous consent of the Legislative Assembly of that day to examine into and report upon the damage that had been sustained; and did not the report advise that 100,000 l
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  trusted that the hon. Member would not persist in his intention to divide the House on this subject, for it would do no good to obtain an expression of opinion in so thin a House; and it would give a very erroneous notion of the opinion entertained as to the importance of the subject. He trusted that the hon. Gentleman would allow himself for the present to be satisfied with the declaration of the noble Viscount the Foreign Secretary. He did not agree with the hon. Gentleman the Member for Youghal as to the propriety of going back so far as to discuss the policy of the treaties of Akerman and Adrianople. If this country had failed, as was stated by the hon. Gentleman, as a matter of humanity, in seeing these treaties carried out, it was not the fault of the noble Viscount the Foreign Secretary. If the expectations of the noble Viscount were not fulfilled, he trusted that the whole subject would be again brought forward. It was very well to speak as if the fiat of England must at once settle all these matters; and he saw no good in concealing from ourselves the truth that the relations between Turkey and Russia could not always be arranged just as we wished; but still we could do much by exercising a moral influence. It should be recollected, that these relations were the relations of conterminous countries, and there had been going on for a very long period a number of circumstances which excited causes of dispute and difference. We should be cautious not to do anything which was calculated to increase the disturbance of the relations between them. It would be most indiscreet for a Minister of the Crown of this country to use such language towards
 1151 1152
 MR. ANSTEY  said, that it appeared to him that his hon. and learned Friend who had just sat down had completely answered what had been said by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth. The right hon. Baronet said that he (Mr. Anstey) had not made out a sufficient case for the production of the papers, while his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General seemed to think he had gone too far, and if the papers were granted, the House must appoint a Committee to show whether or not the Marquess of Tweeddale had been guilty of murder. He was sure hon. Gentlemen would recollect that he had given notice of this Motion before the receipt of the late disastrous news from India. On the receipt of that news, he consulted some friends whether he should persevere with his Motion, and, under their advice, he did so. He considered that the main point in his case had been altogether overlooked, namely, that the case was not tried till after the men had returned to their duty, and they had on their removal to Arcot been punished for their offence. They had been told that night that there was not an opportunity of the parties being tried before, but their removal to Arcot disproved that. The Marquess of Tweed-dale, and all the officers, knew who the men were who had been guilty of the mutiny, and yet they had been employed about him prior to the trial. The moment the men refused to mount their horses, the mutiny was committed. The administration of the oath was only an aggravation; and the evidence relative to those oaths completely broke down. The fact was, the troops were punished for their mutiny by being removed to Arcot, and deprived of the honours of Gwalior; and, therefore they ought not to have been tried a second time nine months afterwards. It had been said that there was no precedent for his Motion; but if there were not with regard to courts-martial, there had been inquiries with regard to higher courts, to consider the conduct of corrupt judges, unjust jurors, and profligate Attorney Generals. But the House had even inquired into the decision of a court-martial with regard to Lord Brudenel (now Earl of Cardigan), and
 1175
 MR. ANSTEY  rose, pursuant to notice, and said, after the time occupied in the discussion of the Motion of the noble Lord
 1162 1163 "That there be laid before this House, Copies of the Proceedings in the Court of Inquiry and the Court Martial held at Arcot in the year 1844, in the case of the alleged mutineers of the 6th Regiment of Madras Light Cavalry, and of all Memorials and Correspondence relative thereto, or to the punishments or commutations of the punishments of any such mutineers; and also, of the Madras Pay Regulations, and the Native Mutiny Act."
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, matters had now assumed so serious an aspect in the east of Europe that if England was what she had formerly been, she would not then be discussing the present question in the House of Commons. He maintained that a fearful blow had been struck at British interests when the first Russian soldier had passed the boundary of those principalities. They had seen on the part of Russia perfidy after perfidy, and fraud after fraud, and yet the noble Viscount the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs told the House that he relied upon her honourable intentions, because she had signed the Treaty of June 1841. He contended that the English Government was bound to interfere, and to insist upon the immediate withdrawal of every Calmuck and Russian from that soil, which they polluted by their presence. These provinces were 30,000 square miles in extent, and no less than 20,000 of them were rich and fertile lands.
 1149 1150
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he would take this opportunity, in consequence of the intelligence
 1125
 MR. GLADSTONE  could hardly consider that the question of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose was addressed to him; but he held in his hand the votes and resolutions of the Legislative Assembly, and the resolutions as passed by the Legislative Assembly, together with the amendments that it was proposed to make, and which were rejected by that body. ["Order, order!"] He was in the hands of the House, and it was for the House to say whether he should read the resolutions or not.
 MR. GLADSTONE  must say this, that he thought the course he took in offering to read what was public and official, was not an unjust one. At any rate, he must say this, that the answer of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State to the question of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose was calculated, in his judgment, to convey an incorrect impression.
 SIR G. GREY  rose to order. He begged to remark that the right hon. Gentleman had received an answer to his question; if the resolutions were read there must necessarily be a debate. There had been a commission appointed to inquire into this question; and it appeared to be a disputed question in the Assembly in Canada, whether the present Bill was one to carry out that intention.
 SIR G. GREY  believed that there was a circumstance of that kind, but an answer to the inquiry of the hon. Gentleman might open a question for discussion as to whether the objects contemplated by that commission were the same objects that were contemplated by the persons who introduced this Bill; and, at present, they did not know whether the legislature would ultimately sanction this Bill, or the recommendation contained in the report of the commission; it was better, therefore, to postpone the question until official communications on the subject were received.
 SIR G. GREY  thought it was better to postpone a question of that kind until the Government were in possession of official information, which would be laid before the House. He was aware of the fact to which the hon. Gentleman had referred; but if an answer were given to the question, it might lead to a discussion, because it would be difficult to answer it by a single affirmative or negative. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose assumed that the Bill had passed; but it appeared, from a private letter addressed by the Earl of Elgin to his noble Friend at the head of the Colonial Department, that the Bill was not passed. It had yet to pass through Committee, and notice had been given of several amendments. That was the reason, no doubt, that the noble Earl had abstained from addressing any official communication to his noble Friend at the head of the Colonial Office on the subject.
 SIR G. GREY  said, it should be understood that the prisoner (Shaw) was subject to no special regulations with respect to his confinement in Newgate. A regulation was made at the last court depriving all prisoners of the use of knives and forks, but it would be reconsidered at the next meeting of the justices. Some of the hooks sent to Shaw by his friends were deemed by the chaplain of the prison improper books for his perusal, and were therefore rejected by him; but the fact was, that the chaplain had no jurisdiction over prisoners not members of the Church of England, and the prisoner, who, until then, had not intimated that he dissented from the Church, having then declared himself a Dissenter, the prohibition of the books on the part of the chaplain was withdrawn, and the matter referred to the visiting justices, who allowed some of the books but disallowed others, of which one appeared to partake of the character of a parody of the Holy Scriptures.
 SIR H. VERNEY  remarked, that if the Emperor of Russia was as forbearing and moderate as had been represented by the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, he might on recent occasions have exercised a very powerful and beneficial influence in promoting peace—and in illustration, he (Sir H. Verney) would refer the House to the case of Denmark and the contested claims upon the duchies of Schleswig and Holstein. Other Powers had expressed strong opinions upon that question, but Russia none. The subject before the
 1158
 SIR J. C. HOBHOUSE  said, that when he saw the notice which had been originally given, he was in hope that the hon. Gentleman would not bring forward this question. For the many years that he had been in Parliament he did not think that he recollected a single instance in which the proceedings of a court-martial either in England or in India had been the subject of an inquiry before a Committee. In this instance, the inquiry was in 1843 and the court-martial in 1844; and why was it that this transaction, if it was so monstrous, had hitherto slept? Why had not the indignation which was so universal in India reached this country? He thought he could explain to the House of Commons why it was that, after having slumbered and slept, it had been brought forward on the present occasion. Although the parties who gave the hon. Member for Youghal information might be most respectable gentlemen, yet the hon. Gentleman must permit him to remind him that the commencement of this attack on the Marquess of Tweeddale began with the presentation of a petition to the House of Commons, which being referred to the Committee that sits on petitions, the same petition was found to be so libellous that they refused to place it upon the table of the House. It was perfectly true that the hon. Gentleman had,
 1164 1165 1166 1167 1168
 SIR J. C. HOBHOUSE  said, he would answer those questions now. And first, with respect to the distribution of prize-money. The question had arisen, whether the commander-in-chief of the main army was entitled to a share of the Moultan prize-money, and had been referred by the Governor General of India to the home authorities, and would by them be decided in the usual way according to precedent. With regard to the other questions, he had only to say that he had that day gone through the whole of the despatches respecting the taking of Moultan, and particularly respecting those transactions which had been so much misrepresented; and he could assure the hon. Gentleman that unless facts occurred which did not appear and were not even hinted at in those despatches, the rumours he alluded to—and where he read them he (Sir J. C. Hobhouse) was at a loss to know—were totally unfounded.
 SIR J. C. HOBHOUSE  said, that after the long consideration which the Board of Control had given this important subject, they had thought it their duty to transmit to the Court of Directors a plan, with regard to which they had thought it likely the court might come to some terms with the different railroad companies. That plan had been laid before the Directors last Monday, and would receive their earliest consideration. He believed the court coincided in the views of the Board of Control on the subject; the plan only awaited the decision of the different railroad companies, and the moment that was obtained he should inform the House of the result.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that after the allusions that had been made to him in the course of this debate, he could not remain altogether silent whilst the discussion was proceeding. He had not expected this Motion to come on, or he would have made himself master of the facts of this case, so far as the Government with which he had been connected was concerned; and he was bound to say that he had not now such a recollection of those facts as would enable him to hear his testimony with reference to these transactions. He could not, however, agree with the hon. and learned Gentleman who spoke last, who thought it a great misfortune that this matter should now be brought forward after so long a time had elapsed; and yet, because one single Gentleman chose to bring it under discussion, considered that the Parliament must be fettered by the indignation of a single individual, and had no option but to proceed to an inquiry. [Mr. AGLIONBY: No, no!] He did not quarrel with the hon. Member for Youghal for bringing forward this Motion. He was doubtless actuated by his own sense of justice; but other persons might be less discreet and less prudent; and if any other Gentleman chose to bring forward a Motion for inquiry of a similar nature, and if the House were unanimously of opinion that it would be unwise and improper to discuss the question, and yet were to be told that the question having been started, they had no option but to vote for the inquiry, he must say he could not assent to such a doctrine without the utmost reluctance. In the first place, with regard to courts-martial, it would be very inconvenient if that House were to be made the court for the revision of the decisions of every military tribunal. Military men were frequently compelled to assume grave responsibility, and proper allowance ought to be made for the position of those who being intrusted with the management of military affairs, were called upon to meet particular emergencies. From all he had known or heard of the Marquess of Tweeddale, and from his long and distinguished career under the Duke of Wellington, he (Sir R.
 1172
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  briefly defended the Bill, and explained that it was intended by it to give the same protection to magistrates in Ireland as in England.
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the President of the Board of Control, whether any arrangement had been made between the Court of Directors and the Board of Control, with reference to railway communication in India? if so, whether that arrangement was likely to be satisfactory to parties desirous of investing capital in these undertakings?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  thought he should best perform his duty to the House by rising immediately after his hon. and gallant Friend who had seconded the Motion, in order to state the view which he took of the Motion of his noble Friend the Member for Marylebone. He fully retained the opinion which his noble Friend had quoted from a former speech of his, that it was desirable for the interest of this country, as well as creditable to the honour of that House, that the House of Commons should take a lively interest in the foreign relations of this country; and
 1144 1145 primâ facie 1146 "The same thing will happen this time also; and from the moment that, in Wallachia and Moldavia, legal order shall have been established, or that the Porte shall think that it has acquired a sufficient guarantee for the ulterior repose of those provinces, our troops shall be withdrawn from them, to go and reoccupy immediately that strictly defensive position which they occupied before." 1147 1148
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, that with reference to the papers moved for by the hon. Baronet a few days ago, he should that night present a memorandum on the subject, and the rest of the papers would be presented at the next sitting of the House. With respect to the second question put to him, he would inform the hon. Baronet, that after much consideration the Government proposed to offer a reward of 20,000 l
 MR. LABOUCHERE : Sir, in moving that you do now leave the chair, and that the House go into Committee on the Navigation Bill, I feel it right to take this opportunity of making a statement to the House with regard to an important alteration which I propose to make in this Bill. The House will recollect that, when I brought forward this measure, I stated to the House that there was one item in which the measure would differ from that which I submitted in the preceding Session. I stated that this difference turned on a modification, which I proposed, of the coasting regulations of this country. I stated that I proposed, not to throw open our coasting trade to foreign nations absolutely, but still, under certain modifications, to admit foreign nations to a share of that trade. I stated that, although I did not attach much practical importance to this alteration, nor did I believe that it could be possible for foreign nations to avail themselves, in any extensive degree, of this permission, yet, believing that it would facilitate that perfect equality on which I thought it important, as far as possible, that this trade should be placed with regard to the trade of the most important maritime nations of the world, and especially that of the United States of America, I thought it desirable, for the purpose of avoiding all possible cavil or dispute with regard to the value of any relaxation we might offer to the United States, to make the alteration which I proposed. I stated to the House that I thought it desirable, not because I believed the United States particularly could avail themselves of this modification, to throw open the coasting trade of the united kingdom to that extent—I stated that, having at that time consulted the authorities of the Board of Customs, I felt myself warranted in making this proposal to the House, and that I was able to say that I had no apprehension that the revenue would be endangered. Sir, I feel bound to say now that I am no longer able to repeat
 1197 1198
 MR. HUME : I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether, after the information he has given us, if the trade were opened entirely, the difficulty he has now stated with regard to the collection of the revenue would not be done away with? In that case, I conceive, foreign vessels would
 1199
 MR. LABOUCHERE : Undoubtedly, if foreign vessels were admitted into our coasting trade as English vessels now are—that is to say, not allowed to combine the coasting voyage with the foreign voyage—of course the difficulty to the revenue, at least of the kind which I have pointed out, would not arise. But the hon. Gentleman will at once see that, as far as regards America, for instance, such a permission would be totally illusory. To say to the owner of an American ship—"You may come here and carry coals in our coasting trade, but you must not combine that with your foreign voyage"—that of course would be perfectly illusory. To open our coasting trade in that manner would excite a great deal of unnecessary alarm amongst our shipping interest; but, as far as regards foreign countries, even those close at hand, it would have very little effect; while as regards distant countries, it would be seen at once to be entirely useless.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Having myself taken objection to these very clauses, with reference to the question of revenue, I do not rise to dispute the justice of the conclusion at which the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade has arrived; but I must make a few remarks on what he has said. I think he is more successful in justifying the conclusion which he has now announced to the House, than he was in showing grounds for the decision at which he originally arrived, when he introduced those clauses into the Bill. He says he now withdraws those clauses, because the Chairman of the Board of Customs tells him the difficulty of acting upon them would be extreme. The right hon. Gentleman fully owns that at the commencement of their communications on the subject, the Chairman of the Board of Customs felt the difficulty of acting upon them, and that the danger to the revenue would be considerable; and it would be impossible for any person to have listened to the right hon. Gentleman without seeing that the bearing of the mind of the Chairman of the Board of Customs was entirely against those clauses. I have no knowledge of his opinions from that right hon. Gentleman himself; and with reference to communications of this kind, I would say that I see considerable inconvenience in details of this kind being given by Ministers of the Crown—details of conferences
 1200 1201 "That the fatal consequences of the adoption of the repealing clause No. I in the Navigation Law Amendment Bill would not be removed by the Amendment of which notice has been given by the hon. Mr. Bouverie; and as they are con-
 1202 1203
 MR. HERRIES  said, he had been prepared to go at once into Committee on the Bill, as he had no intention of offering any merely obstructive opposition to the progress of the measure. But the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had greatly surprised him, and had led him to doubt whether they could then go into Committee with any prospect of a satisfactory result. It was a very extraordinary circumstance that on going into Committee on a Bill which had for its object such infinitely important changes—which had been under consideration the whole of last year—which had been reproduced this Session with the introduction into it of a very remarkable amendment—it was indeed most extraordinary that, upon the proposal now to go into Committee upon it. Her Majesty's Government should announce their intention of abandoning that great amendment, professedly upon the sole ground—discovered for the first time—that it would not work consistently with our revenue laws! The reason appeared to him to be a most unsatisfactory one; and he felt bound to say that it came upon us very unfortunately, to say the least of it, immediately after the communication from the American Government, long delayed and lately laid upon the table of the House, by which it appeared that they were not prepared to make mutual concessions on the subject of the coasting trade! The contents of that despatch, and the sudden change made by the Government, were too manifestly connected with each other, to leave much room for doubt upon their motives. There was another circumstance which made the alteration proposed by the right hon. Gentleman well worthy of the serious consideration of the House; it was this—that the very clause which they were
 1204 pro formâ, 1205
 MR. ROBINSON  said, he wished it to be understood that he did not in any way forego his opposition to the Bill by acceding to the Motion that the House should then go into Committee. He should offer to the measure every fair opposition in his power.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  proposed to fill up the blank for the date at which the Bill was to come into operation with "the 1st of January, 1850."—Agreed to.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that one of the Acts proposed to be repealed by this clause was the 5th of George IV., c. 1, indemnifying "all persons concerned in advising, issuing, or acting under a certain Order in Council for regulating the tonnage duties on certain foreign vessels," and amending "an Act of the last Session of Parliament for authorising His Majesty, under certain circumstances, to regulate the duties and drawbacks on goods imported and exported in any foreign vessels." Now, the course he would prefer taking with regard to retaliatory clauses would rather be, to leave in operation such power of that sort as the Crown possessed now; but the retaliatory clauses which the present Bill contained—the 19th and 20th Clauses of the Bill—gave the Crown much larger power than that now possessed by it, and which were of a qualified description, and related to tonnage and goods. He moved, therefore, to omit from this clause all the words to which he had already referred as defining the Act of 5th George IV., c. 1.
 MR. BOUVERIE  proposed, at the end of the clause, to add the following proviso:—
 "That the several restrictions and prohibitions in the aforesaid Acts contained, as to the voyages in which ships of any foreign country may engage, or as to the goods which they may import into, or export from, the United Kingdom, or any British Possession, or as to the goods and passengers they may carry either coastwise from one part of the United Kingdom to another part, or from any British Possession in any part of the world to any other British Possession (except such of the said restrictions and prohibitions as are hereby authorised to be removed or varied by the proper Legislative authorities of British Possessions), shall remain, and be in full force respectively, till it shall be made to appear to the satisfaction of Her Majesty in Her Privy Council, and it shall be declared by Her Majesty's Order in Council, that British ships are not subjected in such foreign country to the like several restrictions or prohibitions as to the voyages in which they may engage, or as to the goods which they may import into, or export from, such foreign country, or any possession thereof, or carry coastwise in any part of such foreign country. Provided further, with respect to the restrictions and prohibitions in the aforesaid Acts contained, as to the goods which the ships of any foreign country may import into, or export from, any British Possession, Her Majesty, by Her Order in Council, may direct that the whole, or any part, of such restrictions and prohibitions, shall cease to remain or be in full force as to the ships of any foreign country, although the like restrictions and prohibitions respectively, as to the goods which any British ship may import into, or export from, any possession of such foreign country, shall not in all respects have been removed." 1207 1208 pari passu 1209 1210
 MR. WILSON  felt bound to oppose the Amendment of the hon. Member for Kilmarnock. He was sure that the object of the hon. Member was not in any way adverse to the liberal or free-trade policy of the country. He thought he should be able to show the hon. Gentleman that if he had carefully examined the laws of various countries, he would find that it would be utterly impossible to carry his plan into operation. He believed the clause as it stood would secure to them great and extensive principles of reciprocity, while it would not subject them to a great number of those inconvenient and intricate difficulties which were likely to arise from the existing treaties with foreign Powers. The object of his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade was to enable the country to receive concessions from foreign countries by making concessions to them; but if they were to have the conditional legislation of the hon. Member for Kilmarnock, and if they were to hold in their hands the powers of retaliation, it would appear that whenever that equality was disturbed, it was to be restored by retaliating measures. Therefore the term reciprocity in the sense in which it was used by the hon. Gentleman, he (Mr. Wilson) held to be equivalent to the term retaliation; for he again said that there was no difference between the case of conceding to any country the privilege such country refused to us, and the refusal to impose restrictions upon a country because it imposed restrictions upon us. He thought,
 1211 1212 1213 1214 1215
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that the hon. Gentleman appeared to labour under a wrong impression with respect to his (Mr. Gladstone's) ideas upon the subject he had just alluded to.
 MR. WILSON  regretted that he had misunderstood the right hon. Gentleman, and he would not, therefore, proceed to argue upon the point referred to. But he must be allowed to say that, according to his view of the case, the principle of reciprocity proposed could never be carried
 1216
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that he had no intention of travelling into the various topics adverted to by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, nor to make any suggestions which might give rise to a debate upon the subject. After the manner in which his scheme had been withered by the unkind shadow thrown over it by his hon. Friend the Member for Kilmarnock, he would not now go into the matter, but content himself with saying that he should not vote for the hon. Gentleman's proposition, simply because he thought it ineffective for the object in view, and impracticable in itself. He had given expression to that opinion, inasmuch as he considered that the restrictions laid upon foreign shipping in this country were placed upon it with a view to commercial advantages, and that restrictions must be mutually withdrawn. Now that principle could not be carried out by the proposition of the hon. Gentleman. Foreign countries were, he believed, in the habit of adopting measures to meet their wants, and he thought that this country ought to do so likewise—but only upon the principle of reciprocity.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that of the three expedients before the Committee—reciprocity, conditional legislation, and retaliation—he disliked the plan of the Government the least, but, nevertheless, had strong objections to it. His object in voting for repeal of the navigation laws was to enable Englishmen to select freely the ships in which to transport their goods to the destined port. It was not a question about foreigners at all. The only question was between the British shipowners, on the one hand, and the British people on the other. The British people asserted the right to select as they pleased the ships in which to transport their merchandise; and the British shipowner said, "No; you shall use my ships or none." He did not seek to give anything to the foreigner; his object was to restore to Her Majesty's subjects that civil right of which they ought never to have been deprived—the right to send their goods in whatever ship they pleased, and at the cheapest possible rate; and, unless there could be shown some national disadvantage in the exercise
 1217 per se 1218
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  confessed that he was old-fashioned enough to look at the principle of this question in the
 1219 1220 1221
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that some Gentlemen seem to read the biography of distinguished men only that they may pick out some weakness whereon to found a justification of their own errors. The opinion of Adam Smith was entitled to the greatest respect; but neither the opinion of Adam Smith nor of any other Adam should be held to be an absolute rule in this country. They should take the arguments and facts brought before them, and their own experience, and decide according to the best of their judgment. Adam Smith most reluctantly tolerated navigation laws, not on the ground of protection to shipping, but for the purpose, as he thought, of maintaining that naval influence which this country had been so anxious—often, he (Mr. Bright), believed unwisely—to possess. If the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Plymouth had read the evidence before the Committee, and attended to many of the facts elicited during this discussion, he would have seen that the danger which Adam Smith apprehended might arise was one in regard to which he was mistaken, and was perhaps purely imaginary. Where was the rival to that supremacy? Surely America was the only country hon. Gentlemen had to fear. But America was willing to give all they proposed to give, and indeed had already given it, conditionally on the passing of this Bill. If, therefore, England injured her naval resources by free navigation, so would the United States in the same degree, and the
 1222
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he would not enter into the general principle, which nevertheless, there appeared some danger of the House discussing. There were many questions which it was most desirable should be considered; and he trusted the Committee would not diverge from them into the general question, which there would be full opportunity of debating on the third reading. As to the production of the foreign correspondence, the Government had thought it their duty to furnish to the House the fullest information on this subject which they could possibly procure. Upon a subject of such great national importance, the Government had thought it but due to the House to throw all the light in their power upon the views and intents of foreign Powers, and he was still of that opinion. The question of reciprocity had been so fully dealt with by his hon. Friend the Secretary to the Board of Control, that he would not enter upon it, further than to remark that the more that principle was examined, the more apparent its fallacy became. If any Gentleman would undertake to shape the principle into an Act of Parliament, he would at once perceive the great practical difficulties. His belief was, that the moment they gave way on the long voyage, it would become impossible to insist upon strict reciprocity in the general carrying trade. Although he
 1223
 MR. HERRIES  could not avoid expressing his surprise at the emphatic declaration of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade as to the necessity of communicating with foreign States on the provisions of this Bill, in order that this House should thereby be apprised of the disposition and opinions of other countries with respect to them. When he remembered that the Bill they were now discussing was under consideration in the month of June last year, and when he found, by looking at the dates of the correspondence, that the first application made to any foreign Government was dated on the 21st December following—six months after the introduction of the Bill—he was at a loss to understand that declaration. And it now appeared that satisfactory communications had been received from two quarters only—from Sweden, and from our excellent and respectable ally the King of Sardinia. This was not a proper occasion to enter into discussion upon the general question, and he would not do so. The opportunity would occur on the third reading of the Bill, or upon the report, or upon both these occasions if it should be considered desirable. He would confine the few remarks he had to make to the Amendment of the hon. Member for Kilmarnock. It had been proved in the course of the debate to his satisfaction that that Amendment, and the retaliatory clause in the Bill, and the proposition of the right hon. the Member for the University of Oxford, were all equally liable to objection. It was difficult to say which was the most objectionable. The favoured-nation clause, in his opinion, alike stood in the way of working all those propositions. With respect to America, it had been represented that by the law of that country as it now existed, the Act the House now proposed to pass would be immediately reciprocated. The Secretary to the Government of America referred to an Act of their Legislature, which he said
 1224 1225 "Whatever commercial privileges are granted by the United States to any foreign nation by act of Congress or by treaties, are founded upon equivalents. Holding out the principle of fair reciprocity to all nations, we neither ask, nor profess to bestow, commercial boons."
 MR. LABOUCHERE  wished to make one remark with regard to what had been said of Mr. Bancroft. In all the intercourse he had had with him, he must say that he thought it impossible for any man to conduct himself in a more honourable and straightforward manner. He could not take upon himself to say what construction an American court of law would put upon any act of the legislature; but it appeared to him that the American President had the right—without even consulting the Senate—of withdrawing the restrictions in
 1226
 MR. HERRIES  protested against the right hon. Gentleman supposing that he had intended to cast the slightest reflection on Mr. Bancroft.
 MR. ALDERMAN THOMPSON  said, that those who defended the navigation laws did so on the broad ground that they were essential to the safety of the country. He confessed that he had never heard what consideration America could give for the enormous advantages proposed to be granted to her by this measure. From the geographical position of America she had decided advantages in the colonial fishing trade, and in bringing to this country the productions of Cuba, Brazil, and Porto Rico. In 1826, when Mr. Huskisson entered into reciprocity treaties with the northern Powers, fears were expressed by the friends of the shipping interest of this country. They said that if foreign countries did not reciprocate, manufacturers and other interests would complain; and that Government would find themselves reduced to the alternative of commencing war if they attended to those complaints. The hon. Member for Westbury had, on a previous occasion, alluded to the fact of Mr. Brooke having brought a cargo of sugar from Java to Holland. Mr. Brooke could not find a British ship at Java, because the enormous tonnage duties levied on foreign ships excluded British ships from the ports of Java, and he had no alternative but to send his sugar home either in a Dutch or American ship. The hon. Gentleman had stated that the present measure would greatly increase the warehousing trade. Now, with all submission to the high authority of the hon. Gentleman, he must say that he could conceive no measure more calculated to injure that trade. At present the whole produce of the East Indies was brought to this country, and the Continent was supplied indirectly. But if the shipping of Holland, Belgium, Sweden, and other Powers were to participate in the East India trade, then London, Liverpool, and the other great ports of this country would cease to be exclusively the depôts of the produce of the East. It appeared to him that the intention of the Government was to throw open our ports to the shipping of any country, but to leave it to those nations to admit or reject the shipping of this country as they might think fit. It
 1227 
 
 British Ships. Foreign Ships. 
 Average in 1824 and 1825 4,363 7,476 
  Average in 1843 and 1844 3,969 12,164
 MR. WAWN  said, however hon. Gentlemen might talk of free trade, the present measure was a free-trade measure for every interest, except in so far as the shipping interest was concerned. He would ask them what they meant to do with all
 1228
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, as he did not see much encouragement to proceed to a division, he would allow his Motion to be negatived.
 MR. WAWN  said, he should require a division on the question.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, in consistency with the principle of the Bill, this clause ought to be struck out, for, in his opinion, it infringed on the integrity of the admission already made by the Government in respect to the coasting trade, when they allowed the previous clause to be struck out. It was true they were told by the highest authorities that no danger was to be apprehended from admitting foreign vessels on the coasting trade even upon the same footing as British ships; but yet he was not disposed to think the clause now before the House ought to be admitted into the Bill. Take the case of the north-east coast of Scotland, producing oats for the
 1230
 MR. LABOUCHERE  was not disposed to dissent from the right hon. Gentleman in the main, yet at the same time the coasting trade was the subject of restrictions in every country, and no country in the world had yet attempted to abolish these restrictions. He, therefore, thought that Government would hardly be justified in the meantime to proceed so far, considering the present state of opinion among certain classes in regard to the changes which were chiefly to be made by the Bill. Indeed, the right hon. Gentleman himself had said the Bill would be a great shock to the trade of the country; but he (Mr. Labouchere) thought that both the right hon. Gentleman, and also the shipowners, when they came to understand their interests, would find they had been happily mistaken. Yet, as he had no wish unnecessarily to disturb their minds, he would retain the clause.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the words of this clause might appear to some capable of admitting an extreme case, the case of two perfectly remote colonies agreeing to place their trade on the footing of a coasting trade, and so defeat the intentions of the Bill; and no doubt they might do so, but only with the consent of the Queen in Council, which was made necessary by the clause to the validity of such colonial legislation.
 MR. DISRAELI  begged the right hon. Gentleman would favour the House with some further explanation as to the limit put upon the operation of the clause.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  explained that all that was intended by the clause was to give to colonies which were geographically neighbours, power to make trade among themselves a coasting trade. For example, the West India Islands or the Australasian group, would come within the scope of the clause. He did not see that there would
 1231
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, the clause did not definitively state what were neighbouring colonies, and what were remote; and it did not specifically point out any authority which was to decide that question: that was the great objection to the clause.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  repeated that the consent of the Queen in Council was necessary to give authority to the colonial legislation, and therefore any improper acts were perfectly under control.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, the clause did not give authority to the Queen in Council to say what were neighbouring colonies and what were not. What the House wanted to know was, by what machinery the Government proposed to carry the clause into effect, and how they were to know whether colonial law was or was not contrary to British law.
 MR. HENLEY : Illustrate what you mean by "neighbouring." Give us an instance.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he had no difficulty in giving them illustrations—he might select the American colonies, for example, the Canadas, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward's Island, Newfoundland—these were neighbouring colonies, and the object of the clause was to give such colonies the power to throw open their coasting trade, if they pleased; or, if they pleased to unite themselves into a group, and retain their coasting trade, they should still be empowered to do so. There would be no practical difficulty in construing the Act in this way; and none in enabling the Queen in Council to judge what colonies were neighbouring.
 MR. DISRAELI  asked what was the reason of introducing the word "neighbouring," if it were left to the Queen in Council to judge of the expediency or inexpediency?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  replied, that it had been introduced to please the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stamford, who thought that without such a word the clause would be rather vague.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, the Queen in Council had no power to construe laws, and he desired to know, if a doubtful case arose, who was to decide what were neighbouring colonies?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHE-
 1232  proposed to insert words to the effect that the Queen in Council should absolutely declare what colonies were neighbouring. The clause might pass as it stood, and be thus amended upon the report.
 MR. SCOTT  suggested that the clause should be postponed altogether. What colonies could be considered as neighbouring to St. Helena and the Falkland Islands? He could assign no other definition to the word "neighbouring" in the clause, than that which was given to the parable of the good Samaritan.
 MR GLADSTONE  objected to the principle of the clause, not upon commercial but upon legislative grounds. The right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade appealed to ancient practice as regarded the coasting trade. He (Mr. Gladstone) appealed to uniform principle. Subordinate legislatures within a State were in the nature of great corporations; and they should not be allowed to legislate upon the affairs and the property of the subjects of foreign countries. However extended might be the principle of self-government, the Imperial Government must always control and stand between the colonial legislatures and foreign States, in order to be enabled to fulfil its treaty engagements. Very strong cause ought to be shown before this principle was departed from. If the strong cause was, that it was desirable to open the coasting trade of a particular colony, or the trade between two different colonies, the way now proposed was not the only one to attain that object. The best mode, as it appeared to him, would be to give the power to the Queen in Council upon an address from the colonial legislatures. The effect would then be a domestic law, the construction of which would remain in our own hands. But how stood the case now? The colonies passed their own laws without consulting the home authorities with respect either to the terms or the purport of those laws; and very grave difficulties might arise from their enacting laws relative to the property and subjects of foreign States. If such difficulties arose, who was to construe the laws? Was the construction to be decided in the colony, or in Downing-street? If in the colony, the colony would virtually be placed in diplo-
 1233
 MR. LABOUCHERE  repeated that the object was to give to the colonies the power of dealing with their own coasting trade in the manner they thought would best promote their interests. The ingenuity of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford, had rather acted as a trap for his judgment. It was undoubtedly a conceivable case that the colonies might pass exclusive laws which would involve us in foreign countries; but the right hon. Gentleman must recollect that the Queen had the power of refusing her assent to those laws. A similar difficulty might arise with regard to foreign goods. Some colony might pass a law admitting the produce of one country, but prohibiting that of another; and the preference might be in direct contradiction to treaties and stipulations between Great Britain and that country. The truth was, no colony would think of such a step, for it would not be their interest. But if they did, the Queen in Council would certainly exercise her power of disallowing all such acts.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said nothing could be more distinct in legislation than the difference between foreign ships and foreign goods. Foreign goods were the property of anybody; foreign ships, in their origin, belonged to the subjects of foreign States, and rights grew up as to the treatment of those ships.
 MR. SCOTT  could not conceive a more embarrassing state of things than would arise under this clause, if a foreign Power admitted by the act of a colony to the intercolonial coasting trade, happened to be also at war with this country. He wished to know how it was proposed to deal with such a case as that?
 MR. ROBINSON  objected to the clause, after all the explanations that had been, given of it, because it enabled the Queen in Council to dispense with the existing laws, and allow foreigners to carry on a coasting trade between two or more colonies.
 SIR R. PEEL  called the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, to the point suggested by the hon. Member for Berwickshire, and observed that the clause made no provision whatever for such a case.
 MR. LABOUCHERE , in reply, said, that any Power at war with this country would be excluded from every port in Her Majesty's dominions.
 SIR R. PEEL : But the colonies knew nothing whatever of the foreign relations of this country, or of the mother country being at war with any Power. Would it not be well, then, that the mother country should say with what foreign Powers there should be an intercolonial trade? First of all, we had a retaliatory power; the colonies had none. How was the retaliatory power to be carried into effect with regard to the colonial coasting trade, if not by us? Suppose a gross wrong committed towards this country by one of the Powers admitted to trade intercolonially, how was the retaliatory power to be applied? By the alteration just made in the clause, the Crown was to determine which were neighbouring colonies. The colonies, therefore, had not a full discretion to determine whether their coasting trade should be open. The Crown had the power of refusing its assent to the colonial acts, besides the retaliatory power. It would consequently be only consistent to give the mother country the further power of saying between what colonies the coasting trade should be open to foreigners.
 MR. DISRAELI  apprehended the objection of the right hon. Baronet, with regard to a foreign war, was not tenable. These were only municipal rights; and a declaration of war, by the law of nations, would instantaneously destroy all engagements, compacts, and conventions entered
 1235
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the East India Company had exactly the same powers which it was proposed to give to the colonies, with the single condition that they were not to be exercised contrary to treaties. They might regulate their coasting trade and their foreign trade in any way they chose, provided it was not inconsistent with treaties; but if this country was at war, that circumstance would over-ride all the powers of the Company. He apprehended that the power of withholding the Royal assent was a sufficient protection against the colonies involving this country with foreign Powers.
 SIR G. CLERK  opposed the clause, because it gave restraining, rather than relaxing powers. He could not see upon what grounds the colonial legislatures were entitled to place restrictions upon intercolonial trade.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he wished to leave them that which was not only strictly, but technically, their coasting trade. This was particularly desirable in the case of our North American colonies, which were within sight of the United States. To say that a vessel should not go from a port in Maine to New York, or from St. John's in New Brunswick to Halifax in Nova Scotia, would be nominally fair and equitable, but actually a great injustice. Although the countries might be foreign, yet for all purposes of navigation they were the same. As his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had observed, the same principle existed in the case of the East India Company, without any difficulty whatever resulting from it.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that from his connexion with the Board of Trade, he had reason to know that great practical difficulty had arisen from this power being in the hands of the East India Company. But even were it otherwise, the cases were not analogous. The Government of India was carried on in this country, being under the joint authority of the East India Company and the Board of Control, the head of which had a seat in that House; but a colony never consulted them about its laws at all. A new point had
 1236
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he would appeal to the House whether that was a fair way of putting the case. Though they were about giving the power to the colonies nominally of imposing restrictions, it was virtually nothing more than extending to the colonies the power which this country reserved to itself—of retaining the coasting trade. If the reservation were just in the case of the mother country, or of any particular colony, it was surely equally so in a case where two colonies formed actually but one country. To act otherwise would be similar to declaring that the trade between Great Britain and Ireland was not to be regarded as a coasting trade.
 MR. HERRIES  said, that the proposition of Her Majesty's Government was to enable the colonies to make an exception to the general rule laid down by that House. Until his right hon. Friend the Member for Dovor had pointed out the Inconsistency, the spirit of the Bill was supposed to be of an entirely opposite character.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that no colonial legislature could impose this restriction until the Queen in Council first declared two colonies to be neighbouring colonies; and the Queen would not declare colonies to be neighbouring for any purpose that would interfere with treaties, or that was inconsistent with the general statute. The object of the clause was merely to maintain the spirit of the Act with regard to the coasting trade in the colonies as well as in the mother country.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that according to the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Queen in Council had only to declare two colonies to be neighbouring in order to give them the power of imposing restrictions. If they really wanted the power to remain in the Queen in Council, they ought to adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, it was his intention to move an Amendment to the Clause, to leave out all the words after the word "that" in the first line, in order to insert words to the effect that it should be lawful for Her Majesty in Council, on an address, or joint address, as the case might be, from the Legislative Council or Assembly of any of Her Majesty's colonies, to effect the regulations required; but as he understood that he could not move such an Amendment, he should feel it his duty to negative the clause.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  opposed the Amendment. The clause as it stood required a British ship to be three-fourths British manned; and it was clear no practical benefit would accrue to the shipowner by altering the proportion of British seamen. The witnesses examined before the Committees of both Houses generally concurred in the opinion that this regulation imposed no appreciable burden upon the shipowner, and that the alteration of it would afford to him in fact no real relief; for he would be obliged to pay the foreign part of his crew the same rate of wages as he gave to the British seamen he retained in his service. The privilege of hoisting the British flag, and of enjoying the protection of our Navy, must continue great advantages to the British shipowner after the passing of this law; and if they were to strike out the part of the clause objected to by the hon. Gentleman, the effect would be, that any ship that was foreign-built, and had a foreign captain and a foreign crew—any ship, in fact, that had no other British characteristic but a British flag, and was British owned—would be allowed
 1240 bonâ fide
 MR. G. DUNCAN  saw no reason why the British shipowner should not be allowed to get his seamen from whatever quarter he liked.
 MR. BRIGHT  had been told a few days ago by the captain of a British ship, an intelligent and able man, who had commanded a vessel of 500 tons for fifteen years, and who, he believed, was also part owner, that the abolition of the navigation laws would be no disadvantage to him nor to his sailors; but he said that it would be necessary to alter that clause which compelled every British ship to be navigated by at least three-fourths British seamen. This gentleman further told him that English sailors were the most turbulent seamen on the face of the waters. Though they were in some respects more hardy and able than foreigners, they were generally much more difficult to manage, the reason being that they knew they must be employed, and that they had a monopoly of employment on board British ships; and though the abolition of the clause might not result in the manning of British ships by foreign sailors to any considerable extent, it would operate as a check on the English sailors, and induce them to pursue a more rational course of conduct; and perhaps become as reasonable, and as easy to manage as those of any other country. With regard also to the proviso at the end of the clause, this captain declared that its effect was most unfavourable. He said that English ships required in consequence more men in proportion to their tonnage than American ships. The American ships were manned on the average with 3½ men per 100 tons; while the English ships required five men per 100 tons to navigate them; and this difference arose in consequence of the opinion that prevailed that the regulations required one British sailor for every 20 tons, and which the seamen were under the impression the law enforced. If the Americans could navigate their ships with 3½ men per 100 tons, surely the English sailors could do the same. This captain, therefore, considered that it would be an advantage if this proviso were left out. He admitted that there was no law on the subject; but the marginal note in the old navigation law had led to a contrary impression, and had produced much inconvenience. If the hon. Member for Glasgow divided on his Amendment, he (Mr. Bright) should vote with him. He had no notion
 1241
 MR. ROBINSON  could not help remarking the glaring inconsistency of the conduct of the Government in declaring at the one time that our seamen and captains were the worst behaved and most unfit men in the world to command and man ships, and then the next moment compelling the British shipowner to employ these most unfit captains and misbehaved men in navigating their ships. This was certainly an extraordinary anomaly, and he should like to know how it was to be satisfactorily explained. If we intended to expose our shipowner to universal competition by law, he was certainly entitled in return to have every species of disability removed from him; and he (Mr. Robinson) believed that the proposed restrictions in manning would prove a great disadvantage to the British shipowner, exposing him to all the evils, and withholding from him all the advantages, of free trade. A more important consideration, however, than this, was the influence of these regulations upon the defence of the country.
 MR. MOFFATT  thought that these restrictions upon manning ought to be removed. At the same time, he did not think any very sensible effect would be felt from the competition of the maritime nations of the north, who navigated their ships at a cheaper rate than us. Norway, Sweden, and Denmark together had only 30,000 men, our coasting trade alone employing 50,000; and the only effect of the competition from these three northern nations would be, to diminish our seamen's wages a little, and increase the wages of their own to a considerable extent.
 MR. CLAY  supported the Amendment. If they were to take away all the shipowner's privileges, they ought not, in common fairness, to refuse, at the same time, to remove his peculiar disadvantages. Most of the interests of this country that had enjoyed protection, had also laboured under countervailing and peculiar burdens; and, indeed, the pretext used whenever these interests raised an outcry against the impositions of these peculiar burdens was—
 1242
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, the practical effect of this Amendment would be to throw the whole of the trade open to the most unqualified foreign competition. If this clause were rejected, the result would be that the naturalised foreigner might employ, even in our coasting trade, a foreign-built ship, with a foreign master, and entirely a foreign crew. Certainly some hon. Members on this side of the House might not object to going that length, but hon. Gentlemen opposite, who took the shipping interest entirely under their especial protection, would surely pause before they sanctioned an Amendment that would have such a result as he had pointed out.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that as the law at present stood, a naturalised foreigner might build a manufactory in this country of foreign wood and foreign bricks, and by the aid of foreign workmen. He might have a foreign superintendent, and employ foreign operatives to work up foreign materials, and then export every farthing's worth of the articles to a foreign country. The naturalised foreigner, if he chose, might do all this; and he apprehended we, in this country, would not be sorry for it, or think it any great misfortune, but, on the contrary, think he was contributing to the wealth and greatness of England. And so with regard to the case of shipping; if the naturalised foreigner thought proper to have his ship so built, and so manned, and so placed within our reach, as the right hon. Gentleman had suggested—a case which, by the by, was certainly very unlikely and very chimerical—why, even that might not be so very great an evil as some seemed to suppose; for if any great inducement were held out to parties to act in this manner—if a case so chimerical were to occur—if, indeed, it was not to be considered a chimerical but a real and likely case—if it happened at all, it would be because the shipowner found it to be to his advantage to embark his capital in this way. And when they were depriving the British shipowner of all his protection, and exposing him to open competition with all the world,
 1243
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  thought the Committee ought at all events to be at least consistent; let them not do that in their legislation which would make them the laughing-stock of all other nations; let them not give a protection to the coasting trade at one moment, and then the very next do away with that protection altogether. By the preceding clauses that they had already affirmed, they had laid it down that a certain trade—the coasting trade—should be exclusively confined to a certain class of vessels having the character of "British vessels;" and the effect of this Amendment would be to say, either that anything was a British ship, or that there was no such thing as a "British vessel" at all; for a foreign owner who had become a naturalised subject of this country by paying 10 s d
 MR. W. BROWN  said, the superiority of the American crews, to which reference had been so often made, arose undoubtedly from the liberty which the American shipowners enjoyed of taking their hands from whatever source they chose.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  expressed his opinion that the Amendment would, if adopted, produce the greatest practical evils. His hon. Friend the Member for Glasgow would not contend that American ships were manned by any but British seamen; and if it were true that fewer British seamen were able to navigate an American than were required to navigate a British ship, then the fact depended upon separate and distinct causes, which the House would do well afterwards to examine. He believed that the Amendment would excite great alarm and panic in the mercantile navy, and he hoped that the House would insist upon British ships being manned by a great proportion of British seamen.
 MR. ALDERMAN THOMPSON  supported the clause, although he feared that it might be, to a certain degree, productive of hard-
 1244
 MR. SCOTT  contended that the 18th Clause virtually repealed the one under discussion.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  explained that it was found necessary to reserve a certain power to the Queen in Council to relax some of the restrictions involved in the navigation laws.
 MR. MITCHELL  pointed out several advantages which would still arise from a vessel having a British register. Some of these advantages were well shown during the Schleswig-Holstein dispute. It was all moonshine to say that English owners would take foreigners in preference to English sailors. He would vote for the Amendment, to test the value of the "cry," and to remove a theoretical grievance. The effect of throwing open our ships to foreign seamen would be, to raise the general level of their wages to our own standard.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  thought that the proposal of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Glasgow would lead to embarrassment in case of war between this and any other country. In case two nations were at war, the proposal now under discussion would afford facilities to the merchant vessels of one of the two belligerents to assume the character of British ships. The difficulties which would arise when the protection of British ownership was claimed and disputed by the other belligerent, must also be considered; as also the political difficulties into which this country might be thrown, by reason of a ship being entered as a foreign ship, owned by foreigners, and manned by foreign seamen.
 MR. BOUVERIE  thought that the difficulty was created by the Bill. It was notorious that a foreign captain could be naturalised in this country for 10 s d
 SIR G. GREY  thought the hon. Member laboured under a misapprehension as to the facilities afforded for naturalisation in this country. It was necessary that the Secretary of State should obtain a certificate of the past residence of the party in this country, and an assurance of future residence. In the absence of these tests,
 1245
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  would add, that, if it were easy for the foreigner to evade the proposed law, it would be equally easy for us to evade the difficulty by the same process.
 The MARQUESS OF GRANBY  said, that great disadvantage would arise to the British shipowner from retaining the restriction; but if it was removed, and foreign sailors allowed to be taken, the naval supremacy of the country might be endangered; but whether foreigners were introduced or not, the only way that the British shipowner could compete with his foreign rival was, by lowering the condition of the British seaman. In the expressive language of Mr. Richmond, every British vessel must, in such a case, become a pinch-gut ship.
 MR. A. HASTIE  then proposed to omit from the clause the proviso allowing one British seaman for every twenty tons burden in certain specified cases.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that this proposition was in the nature of a relief to the stringent character of the other part of the clause. It did not render it compulsory that the master or owner of the ship should be compelled to have one seaman for every twenty tons burden, if he did not wish to do so.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that the first part of the clause stated that a ship must be manned with three-fourths of British crew. The present proposition was, that when the owner or master got as many men as he required, he might then take as many foreigners as he liked. The effect of this proviso had been to create an impression among the sailors, that they must have five men for every 100 tons. American ships were brought from New York to Liverpool with three or three and a half men to every 100 tons; but an English ship from Liverpool to New York would require to have five men to every 100 tons. The Government appeared desirous of following the injurious precedent of the old law, but he trusted that they would consent to omit this proviso from the clause.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  begged his hon. Friend the Member for Glasgow to withdraw the Amendment until bringing up the report. As the proviso was a relaxation of the existing law, he did not wish to consent to withdraw it until he had an opportunity of considering the subject.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that as it was well understood that it was impossible for them to conclude their labours in Committee that night, he should take the li-
 1248
 MR. LABOUCHERE  hoped the hon. Member would allow the two next clauses to go through Committee; they would then come to the retaliatory clauses, upon which possibly some discussion might take place.
 MR. DISRAELI  rose and said: Before we agree to that Motion, Sir, I wish to make an observation—a single observation—upon the remarkable circumstances which have attended the progress of this Bill to-night. I came down. Sir, in common with most Gentlemen present, expecting that the occasion would be taken by a very eminent Member of this House to develop one of the most important principles which can affect the trade and navigation of this country—the application of the principle of reciprocity to the Bill which is now under our consideration. I think I was justified in the anticipation in which I had indulged. It was no vague rumour—no transient idea floating for a moment through the atmosphere of Parliament. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford had upon every occasion that offered itself informed the House and the country that he would take occasion to express in detail the plan which he had already rather prodigally intimated to the House—that he would at this stage of the Bill give us an opportunity of deliberating upon a subject of great interest to the public out of doors. Under these circumstances the House, I am sure, sharing in the interest which influenced me, was greatly surprised by seeing instead of him another right hon. Gentleman, equally distinguished, rise at the opposite side of the table and make a communication almost as important, certainly as interesting, and much more startling. The right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, the moment we went into Committee—indeed, I believe even before the House was in Committee—suddenly addresses us and informs us that he is going to withdraw one of the most important portions of the new Bill, and, in fact, the only feature which distinguishes the Bill now before us from the measure of last year. When I remind the House that out of thirty-two clauses of which the present Bill consists, ten clauses by this sudden arrangement are to be
 1249 1250 1251 1252 holding up the Bill
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I scarcely know whether I am justified in endeavouring to take precedence of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of
 1253 bonâ fide 1254
 MR. LABOUCHERE : Sir, the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire began his address to the Committee by stating that the proceedings to-night were marked by unusual circumstances. I will engage to say that there has been no circumstance that occurred to-night one-half so novel, so extravagant, nay, so completely unprecedented, as the course which the hon. Gentleman himself has taken. At the close of a long debate in Committee, he rose to state that he thought the time had arrived when the House could no longer with advantage pursue the discussion. He takes advantage of the interval that has occurred to make a speech in which he introduces almost all possible topics, and attacks almost all possible persons, and in which he has referred to the debate before going into
 1255 1256
 The CHAIRMAN  reported progress, and obtained leave to sit again on Monday next.
 MR. F. MAULE : Sir, in moving the second reading of this Bill, I wish to give some explanation of what fell from me on the occasion of my introducing the Army Estimates. I have received communications informing me that two of the statements I made on that occasion are questioned by the parties with regard to whom those statements were originally made. The parties who question those statements are the Liverpool Financial Reform Association, through their secretary, and the statements which are questioned are these. First of all, that I complained that that association had in their tracts charged the
 1191 "It is also necessary to remark that the clothes provided by the colonel are only a part of what the soldier wears. All linen, flannels, hosiery, shoes, forage caps, stocks, brushes, combs, and small articles, besides at least one pair of cloth overalls for dragoons, and occasionally trousers for infantry, are provided by the quartermaster, or his chief, the clothing colonel, and paid for out of the soldier's pay, by daily stoppages. The profits accruing from these regimental clothes shops afford an inducement to the heads of departments to be continually devising changes in the style of dress, of under-clothing, of boots, of shoes, and the other necessaries, so that the men are obliged to purchase new articles, and submit to stoppages in payment of them, while the articles set aside and declared to be unregimental, are yet in good condition—in many cases not half worn." 1192
 MR. F. MAULE : Sir, I differ from the opinion expressed by the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down.
 MR. F. MAULE  said: I am now in order in stating that I differ from the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, as to the course which it was right that I should take on an occasion like the present. When I make any statement in this House, which is either contradicted or impugned, or called in question by any party, I think it is the most manly course to explain that statement, so as to leave no doubt on the mind of any one what that statement was.
 MR. STAFFORD  wished that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War had followed the example set by the right hon. Member for Tamworth when he was in office. When did the right hon. Member for Tamworth, or any of his Colleagues in the Government, ever call the attention of the House to the tracts issued by the Anti-Corn-Law League? To have referred to this matter when the Army Estimates were under consideration, might, perhaps, be excusable; but to reopen the whole subject gratuitously was a different thing; and the Government could not fail to perceive, from the extent to which this conversation had already been carried, that the course pursued by the right hon. Member for Tamworth, when in office, was better calculated to expedite public business than that which had been taken by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War. At all events, such a proceeding was not likely to expedite the business of the House, or the respect due to it.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, they were not likely to expedite the business of the House when they found not only a Member of Parliament, but a Minister of State, no less, indeed, than the Secretary at War, entering into combat with a Financial Reform Society. As this was the first time such an occurrence had taken place, so he trusted it would be the last—for he must protest against the interruption of public business by such discussions. Possibly they would have the tracts of the Anti-Corn-Law League, the tracts of the Protectionists, or they might have the tractarians of Oxford, answered in the House if such proceedings were tolerated. He had not given that thorough study to the tracts in question which the right hon. Gentleman informed the country he had done. He congratulated the right hon. Gentleman upon the result he had aimed
 1193
 MR. SPEAKER  called the right hon. Gentleman to order, and put the question, that the Bill be read a second time.
 MR. SPEAKER  having put the question that the Bill be committed on Monday,
 MR. HERRIES  begged to ask a question of Her Majesty's Government, arising
 1190
 MR. HUME : On the occasion when the right hon. Gentleman made the statement to which he has now referred, I ventured to say that there had been some misunderstanding on his part as to the objects of the Liverpool Association. If he will read the whole of their tracts, he will find that the system is attacked, and that the officers are mentioned undoubtedly, but only as being implicated in that system. If he will refer to the report of the Committee of 1837, appointed on my Motion, he will find the very same words used in reference to this system; the Committee say that such is the anomaly that parties who are not acquainted with the checks and controls which exist, might believe that the officers were benefited thereby. No one ever paid more attention to the inquiry than did that Committee, and yet nothing was elicited against the commanding officers; on the contrary, it appeared that they had nothing to do with the matter. But it was proved that if the clothing is made up cheap, the colonels get more money than if it is dear; therefore, to a certain degree, their profits depend on the price and quality of the article. I do not blame the colonels—it is the system that is in fault—and I hope the time is come when we shall see the necessity of abolishing such a system.
 MR. COBDEN : I think the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War, in noticing this charge of the Liverpool Reform Association, has alleged rather more against them than the extract itself warrants. As I understand it, they state that the system at present adopted holds out the inducement to certain things. That is their language. But the right hon. Gentleman charged them the other night with having actually alleged that the officers did do these things. The extract he has read merely says that the inducement is held out. And, whatever may be thought by many Gentlemen in this House, I believe it is the opinion of the country generally that the system is a bad one. I believe that the system of clothing the regiments, by giving an indirect bounty to the officer, is a bad one; and I have heard the colonels say so themselves. Sure I am, that if I were a colonel—a clothing colonel, that is the proper term—of a re-
 1194 l l Hansard
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I think we may safely draw this inference from what has passed—that the whole of this discussion has arisen from an ill-considered charge having been brought against a respectable association. ["Oh, oh!"] A charge has been brought in this House against an association. That charge, in the first instance, was made hastily; and that brought on the necessity, on the part of the Minister who made the charge, of explaining voluntarily to the House the grounds on which he made that imputation. I think he took the course, and the only course, which a Gentleman in his position could take, when a charge has been hastily made without sufficient consideration. The hon. and gallant General the Member for Westminster has fallen into precisely the same error as the right hon. Secretary at War: he has made a hasty and ill-considered charge against a respectable association. For I challenge the hon. and gallant General to produce instances of these great inaccuracies which he says the Liverpool Association has been guilty of. I understand that the fact as regards the clothing by the colonels is not denied. I understand that a committee of general officers have themselves deemed that the system might lead to the inferences which have been drawn; and all that the Association, if I understand the matter right, has said is this—that it is a bad system, that it may lead to improper inferences, and that it does afford inducements to officers to do certain things which I am not aware
 1196
 SIR D. L. EVANS  said, the question was not whether the system pursued in the Army was a good one or a bad one, but whether the Association had addressed itself to the subject in a spirit hostile and detrimental to the honour and interests of the Army. These gentlemen at Liverpool assumed that they were thoroughly acquainted with this subject, and put forth a variety of details, one-half of which were well known to be inaccurate, and this too at the very moment when hon. Gentlemen in that House were about to investigate this very subject, in reference to which his wish, as well as that of every one connected with the service, was for a full and fair investigation. But he did not like to see a number of tracts sent forth in a spirit which was anything but creditable to their candour; and he thought the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War had done no more than his duty on this occasion.
 SIR G. GREY  regretted to say that his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies was prevented by indisposition from being in his place in the House, so that he (Sir G. Grey) could not, perhaps, speak on the subject with the accurate information he would desire; but he was certain of this fact, that no official communication had been addressed to the Colonial Office by the Earl of Elgin on the subject, and the only information they had was derived from the newspapers, which, in common with the rest of the world, they had received. A private letter had been received by his noble Friend at the head of the Colonial Office, but no official information had as yet reached him. He supposed that such information would be postponed until the usual period of making such communications; that was, when the measure had ultimately received the sanction of the colonial legislature.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that on looking at the melancholy results that had lately occurred in connexion with party processions in Ireland, he was inclined to think it might be expedient to propose some measure to prevent party processions of all kinds. The matter was under consideration, but at present he could only express an opinion that it might be expedient to adopt such a measure.
 SIR T. D. ACLAND  said, that, seeing the First Lord of the Admiralty in his place, he wished to ask him whether cer-
 1189
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether it was the intention of the Government to propose any measure with regard to the holding of party processions in Ireland; or whether it had any intention to revive the Act of 1845 on this subject?
 The CHAIRMAN  intimated, that this being in substance the proposition of a perfectly new clause, it could not be brought forward until the report was received.
 MR. RICARDO  expressed himself in opposition to the principle of reciprocity involved in the clause, simply because he believed that it would have the effect (if any at all) of obstructing the principle of the Bill. The clause, however, was likely to be practically inoperative, and he thought that the omission of it would be of advantage.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that undoubtedly the impression on the public mind of the omission of those words would be that Her Majesty would be required by the Act to do certain things.
 MR. STUART  suggested the withdrawal of the Amendment.
 MR. RICARDO  asked why dock dues were not included among the dues remitted?
 MR. RICARDO : But dock dues are already remitted in the case of the vessels of some foreign Powers.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL : The words of the clause as they stand include everything now paid by the Government.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL : The words of the present clause were borrowed from those of the Act of the 59th of George III., and the words "other dues," in that Act were held to include dock dues, which were paid by the Government in certain cases under that Act. The effect of the present clause would be that the remission of dues, which at present must be done by treaty with foreign States, might be done without, by an Order of the Queen in Council.
 The CHAIRMAN (Mr. Bernal)  having already had his attention drawn to this point confessed he had doubts, and was not prepared to say that the Committee could proceed at present without such preliminary consent having been given in Committee of the whole House.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he felt he was incurring a serious responsibility in resisting the further progress of the Bill—a responsibility much increased by the announcement made by the noble Lord of his intention to call for a vote of 100,000 l 1309 1310 1311 1312 l l 1313 1314 d d d 1315 1316 s s 
 
 COMPARISON OF ENGLAND AND WALES WITH IRELAND, IN PROPORTION OF POPULATION AND VALUATION. 
 For every 100 Persons. 
 England and Wales— 
 Population, 1841 15,906,829 393 l 
 Valuation for poor-rate £62,540,030 
 Ireland— 
 Population, 1841 8,174,268 161 l 
 Valuation £13,187,421 
 England and Wales— 
 Estimated population,1847 17,076,000 394 l 
 Valuation £67,320,578 
 Cornwall— 
 Population, 1841 341,269 266 l 
 Valuation £909,479 
 Mayo— 
 Population, 1841 388,887 77 l 
 Valuation £299,851 
 Wilts— 
 Population 260,007 452 l 
 Valuation £1,175,616 
 Lancashire— 
 Population 1,667,064 315 l 
 Valuation £5,266,606 
 Westmoreland— 
 Population 56,469 470 l 
 Valuation £266,335 
 Leinster Province— 
 Population 2,066,036 230 l 
 Valuation £4,624,542 
 Ulster Province— 
 Population 2,362,132 140 l 
 Valuation £3,320,133 
 Erris— 
 Population 22,773 47 l 
 Valuation £10,822 
 Clifden Union— 
 Population 33,465 59 l 
 Valuation £19,986 
 Louth— 
 Population 111,979 172 l 
 Valuation £192,502 
 Meath— 
 Population 183,828 288 l 
 Valuation £529,750 
 Down— 
 Population 361,446 126 l 
 Valuation £455,713 
 Armagh— 
 Population 232,393 104 l 
 Valuation £241,912 1317 1318 1319 "Resolved: That inasmuch as great misapprehensions and difference of opinion prevail in reference to the fiscal relations between Great Britain and Ireland, and as statements have been made frequently both in Parliament and elsewhere, that Ireland is not at present bearing her just share of imperial taxation, which statement we believe to be unfounded, having reference to the abilities of the two countries, and the Articles of Union, it would be most desirable that means should be taken to have this important matter properly investigated and adjusted, involving, as it does, questions of considerable delicacy and jealousy.—Resolved: That for this purpose, an Address be prepared and presented to Her Majesty, praying that Her Majesty will be graciously pleased to appoint a Commission of honourable men to inquire into and report upon this subject; and a petition to the same effect be presented to the Commons.—Resolved: That while we implore the Legislature not to press forward and pass into a law so unjust and impolitic a measure as a rate in aid, on the more industrious districts of Ireland, to relieve the distressed portions of the west and south, the amount of which we feel confident would be quite inadequate to meet their wants, we declare there is no indisposition on our parts to bear our fair share of imperial taxation; but, on the contrary, it is our anxious desire, both as a matter of justice and sound policy, that a thorough union, founded as well upon fiscal as political and social equity, and constituting to all intents and purposes the united kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland one realm, should be established and maintained."
 MR. CORRY  seconded the Amendment upon the principle that the Bill was as objectionable for two years as it would be for twenty. He observed, that this Bill
 1320 1321
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  observed, that his hon. Friend who had moved the Amendment said, that he felt for the distress endured by the people in the south of Ireland; and his right hon. and gallant Friend who had just sat down had proposed to give them no aid whatever. His right hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Tyrone had declared it to be a hard thing that the industrious people in the north and east of Ireland should have to take care not only of their own poor, but also be called upon to contribute from their small incomes to the distressed persons in Connaught; but, in saying this, he looked in vain for any indication from him as to what was the quarter from which the funds were to come for those who were distressed. His right hon. and gallant Friend had, indeed, said that if Ireland were not taxed in accordance to her means, the question as to her paying the due proportion to the taxation of the empire might be submitted to a Committee; and in the event of that Committee reporting in a particular manner, then he would submit to an additional
 1322 Cries of from Irish Members on the Ministerial benches 1323 1324
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  said, that, in rising to support the Amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Dublin, he was anxious to state the grounds upon which he had come to the conclusion to give his vote against the measure of the Government, He would, however, at once distinctly state that he was not one of those who were opposed to that fair and just increase of taxation which the British Parliament might feel itself
 1325 1326 s s s s. 1327 1328
 MR. FRENCH  denied the right of the Secretary for Ireland to taunt those who, on principle, objected to the second reading of the Bill then before the House—with standing between the Irish people and relief. Was the Bill of the importance he sought to attach to it, or was the necessity for it of the urgent nature he described, why had it been hung up for the last fortnight, and postponed for the consideration of the navigation laws? Why, if the measure was for the country a desirable one, was it necessary to threaten Irish Members with the alternative of an income tax if they declined? They very properly refused to countenance legislation which professed to relieve the country by an accumulation of public burdens, without a single measure to enable them to be borne, and the Government, in place of meeting their reasonable objections, announced an income tax in reserve. He was prepared
 1329 l. l. 1330 l 1331 s d s d s d s d s s d s d s d l s d 1332 1333 Spectator "The workhouse, I believe, is six years old, and has all that peculiar appearance of misery that belongs to a building partially dilapidated, and yet not quite finished; the windows are broken and unglazed, the fire places imperfect, and the walls unplastered. The yards dirty, and littered with straw, were surrounded with slight wooden sheds for the reception of the sick; the house was designed to contain 1,000 inmates. I was told at the time of my visit that the number of inmates on the books, including those in the auxiliary house, was 3,272; but I doubt much whether any one knew the exact total within 200
 1334 s d s s d s s d s d s "That there are great irregularities in the dietary of the infirm wards, that the hospital dietary books contain the names of discharged patients; a vigilant supervision might have prevented the considerable apparent addition to the sick list of the hospital, and the consequent falsification of dates which may hereafter be used for statistical purposes." 1335 s d. l s d. l s "The supervision of the supply of food is very defective, leaving opportunities for considerable waste; there is no fixed dietary nor dietary book; bread, milk, &c., are taken in without entries being made of the quantities given out to the nurses, who give no vouchers in return; the medical officers give mere verbal directions to the nurses with reference to diet, while the nurses give, with the sanction of the medical officer, such food as they (the nurses) deem to be fit. Some patients are ordered thirty ounces of wine and twelve ounces of whisky daily, and so on." s d l 1336 l
 MR. W. FAGAN  said, that in a former debate he had merely given utterance to his own feelings and opinions in supporting the Government measure; but since then he had received letters from some of his most influential constituents, all approving of the course he had taken, and stating that the general feeling of the people of Cork was in favour of the rate in aid. It was true that there had been no public meetings; but people seldom met to petition in favour of a new tax. However there had been no meeting against the rate; and if one had been convened, he felt convinced that the result would have been somewhat similar to what had taken place in Carlow. His constituents were opposed to an income tax, and for this reason, that they had no income on which it could be levied. His constituents also held the opinion, which he was happy to find entertained by hon. Gentlemen opposite, that imperial resources ought to be applied to the relief of Irish distress. The noble Viscount the Member for Lynn Regis had propounded the doctrine of self-reliance as the only true remedy for the evils of Ireland; but he (Mr. Fagan) maintained that this was not the time, when the people were dying of starvation, to talk to them of the virtues of self-reliance. In the noble language of that admirable man the ex-Poor Law Commissioner, Mr. Twisleton, whose services he regretted Ireland had now lost, the lives of the people who were dying of starvation ought to be maintained at all hazards. It was to effect that humane end that he (Mr. Fagan) now gave his support to this proposition of Her Majesty's Ministers. He supported this rate in aid, because he believed it would preserve the lives of 200,000 or 300,000 of his fellow-country-
 1337 1338 l
 MR. H. HERBERT  had listened with great attention to the arguments of hon. Members who supported this measure, but he had not heard one single argument advanced by them in support of the justice of this measure. Nobody could deny the existence of the alarming destitution in Ireland, and those who in that country opposed this measure for the relief of that distress did not pretend to say that it ought not to be relieved; what they complained of was, the mode of relief proposed by Her Majesty's Ministers. They complained that the Government, although they were aware long ago of the crisis that had befallen Ireland, now at length came forward with, not a just and permanent, but an unjust and a temporary measure. In reply to his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Dublin, the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland had said, that in the speeches of the opponents of this measure,
 1339 1340 1341 fraudere, rapere, falsis nominibus
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, he would not follow the hon. Gentleman the Member for Roscommon and other hon. Members who had preceded him in the debate, through their attacks upon the Irish poor-law; but he was unwilling, from the deep interest he had always felt on every matter affecting the condition of the Irish people, and the study he had devoted for many years to such subjects, to allow the present discussion to pass without submitting a few remarks on the Motion before the House. In speaking to that matter, hon. Gentlemen had argued as if the new poor-law had been the cause of all the existing misery of Ireland. But what was her condition prior to 1847? You were going upon a system of outdoor relief, the recipients of which were a colossal army of 40,000 labourers and their families. After 1847 you continued outdoor relief to a vast extent, but you charged upon the property of Ireland the sums expended for that poor relief which had been previously defrayed out of the imperial revenues. He had heard this poor-law deprecated as an attack upon and spoliation of all property in Ireland; and one which was driving all its best tenantry out of the country. Why, how stood the case of the tenants? Previously to 1847 they had been compelled always to pay the greater part of their rents, whatever might be their money amount, in potatoes. When the potato crop had failed, they were still called upon to pay the same scale of rents which they had paid previously; a scale founded on the culture and the average crop of the potato. The same landlords, in many in-
 1342 s d s s d 1343 1344 1345 Dublin Evening Mail "That if once the rate in aid was collected, the Mayo and Galway squires would let the northerns pay their poor-rates for them, and lay out their lands in grass farms." l 1346
 SIR J. WALSH  said, it did not appear that the hon. Member who had just sat down paid much attention to the advice of the hon. Member for Manchester, namely, that with a view to curtailing the length of the debates, they should refrain from repeating their own arguments. He (Sir J. Walsh) would not, therefore, follow the hon. Gentleman through that peculiar theory upon which he had so often expatiated—a theory which he thought was a very great mistake, namely, that of the Government becoming the great employer of labour in the destitute districts. Nothing appeared to him more fallacious or more inconsistent than the argument which had been urged, that the present system of outdoor relief was only a substitute for that which was adopted in 1847. That was a temporary remedy for a great evil, and was unfortunately attended with the most disastrous results; it was the  fons et origo mali 1348
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that by a proviso in the Bill, a certain portion of the fund would be applicable for that purpose.
 SIR J. WALSH  was glad it had not been overlooked. He much distrusted the plan that had been sketched out by the right hon. the Member for Tamworth; he had no faith in what were called "great and comprehensive measures;" in many cases, as the Reform Bill, and the repeal of the corn laws, they had turned out failures; and the right hon. Baronet would better have consulted his reputation if he had adhered to the principle he acted on on a former occasion, of not giving his advice until he was regularly called in. If the plantation project of the right hon. Baronet were in part a plan for buying and partly cultivating the lands to which he referred, it would be attended with as complete a failure as similar attempts had met in Williamstown, and elsewhere. If also it contemplated a system of forced sales, it would be a serious infraction of the rights of property. The great objection to the plan of the right hon. Baronet was, that it did not get rid of the difficulty that existed in Ireland, which was to find purchasers for estates. It was a prevalent mistake to suppose that the state of the distressed districts of Ireland was caused by the bankrupt and insolvent condition of the landed proprietors of Ireland. But if they could transfer the landed property to persons with capital, who were entirely unencumbered and free from debt, they could not discharge their duties if the existing mass of pauperism remained, because they must not only provide proprietors who possessed capital, but proprietors who were willing to employ their capital without the hope of any productive return. A far more pressing evil than the insolvent condition of the landlords was the bankrupt state of the occupiers of the country, and the paralysis which the present state of things had induced in the industrial energy of the people. The noble Lord at the head of the Govern-had had announced that it was his intention, when they got into Committee, to move for an advance of 100,000 l 1349
 SIR G. GREY  said, that as he had fully expressed the opinions he entertained on this subject on a former occasion, it would be necessary for him to say but a very few words in the present instance. He was anxious, however, shortly to advert to one or two of the objections against this measure which had been advanced that evening by the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin, in moving the Amendment of which he had given notice. He believed that, when this question was last before the House, there were two points which were then admitted to have been established: the one being that there was distress in some parts of Ireland, for the relief of which extraneous assistance was required; the other, that that extraneous assistance must come, not from the imperial resources, but from Ireland herself. Now, as to the first proposition, no one in the course of the present debate had attempted to dispute it. One hon. Gentleman, indeed, said that the rate in aid would be wholly inadequate to the distress to be relieved, and that this distress was so urgent as to require immediate relief, and so extensive that it was incapable of being removed by any resources which it was the object of the present Bill to provide. One of the hon. representatives of Tyrone had told the House that if extraneous assistance were not given, thousands would die of starvation. He might then safely assume that the distress required extraneous assistance; but the second proposition, that this assistance ought to come from Ireland herself, had not been so generally admitted to-night as on the last occasion. The question had on the previous debate been fairly raised between the income tax and the rate in aid but to-night they had not heard
 1350 l 1351 d s d l l d s 1352 1353 l l l 1354 l l
 MR. STAFFORD  observed that the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary had certainly said everything that could be urged, not in favour of the proposition before the House, but against the speech of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the University of Dublin. He must remind the House, however, that something more was required on the present occasion than a criticism, however ingenious, of any speech, or any two or three speeches, and therefore it was with very great disappointment that he had listened to the right hon. Gentleman. When the right hon. Gentleman rose, the Government were in
 1355 A laugh
 SIR G. GREY  said he smiled because the hon. Gentleman considered it the duty of the Government to express an opinion on every plan which might be proposed by an hon. Member of that House. He should
 1356
 MR. STAFFORD  said, it had come from a Gentleman of his experience. He maintained that gratitude was due to the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth for suggesting such a scheme, amid the utter barrenness of the Government; and it was not becoming in the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department to laugh at him. Whether they were or were not disposed to act on the plan, the Government were bound at all events, considering the disturbed state of Ireland, to set all unreasonable hopes at rest; and without reference to that plan they should state before the discussion closed whether during the present Session they meant to enter on the subject of the sale of lands. He appealed to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland whether such a subject should be passed by? The right hon. Gentleman, in his acute attack upon his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the University of Dublin, had forgotten the main question before the House. He (Mr. Stafford) wanted to know, from the propounders of this rate in aid, what amount of destitution, in the first place, they expected to be called on to relieve; and, next, what amount of money would be raised by a sixpenny rate. He apprehended that hon. Members opposite would not feel satisfied that the Government had made out their case unless they answered these two questions. He wanted to know why the sum of 100,000 l l. l l 1357 l 1358 l 1359 l 1360
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  hoped the House would allow him to occupy a few minutes of their time at that early period of the debate. He said this because he knew that many other hon. Gentlemen wished to offer some observations on that most important question. He feared that Her Majesty's Government had, in the general opposition raised to this plan, overlooked the different nature of the suggestions made. The objections might be divided into two very distinct classes. The first class had been most ably put by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, who had pointed out the grievous injustice of laying a burden on those who were so heavily taxed already. On that principle he (Mr. M. J. O'Connell) had, on a previous occasion, voted for the Amendment of the hon. and gallant Member for Longford. There was another objection, in the justice of which he did not concur. This objection had been made at several meetings in the north of Ireland by a number of speakers, who complained that one part of Ireland should be called upon to contribute to the maintenance of the destitute in another part of Ireland, when the Imperial Exchequer was not called upon to afford aid. But, feeling what was the state of distress in the part of the country where destitution had so extensively prevailed, he had voted, in the latter division, in favour of the Motion, as no other proposition had been made to the House. With every sense of the partial and oppressive nature of this measure, he was willing to vote for it rather than lose all chance of relief for the destitute unions. He would venture to suggest to Her Majesty's Government that it was not too late to do something to relieve some portions of Connaught and Munster. The hon. Member for Northamptonshire, who was a Munster man, had not alluded to the distress in the latter province; but he could assure the House that it prevailed to an alarming extent in that part of the country. It appeared to him (Mr. M. J. O'Connell) that some of the sug-
 1361 l 1362
 SIR G. GREY  did not rise to oppose the adjournment, because he understood there were several Gentlemen still anxious to address the House; but he thought it right again to protest against the unfair construction which the hon. Member for Northamptonshire had put upon a gesture which escaped him while the hon. Gentleman was speaking. He (Sir G. Grey) should endeavour to be more careful in future, and to avoid smiling at anything the hon. Gentleman might say. He would not have noticed the matter again, had not the hon. Gentleman repeated the unfair construction after he had disclaimed it. He assured the House that nothing could be further from his intention than to ridicule or treat with the slightest degree of levity the distress in Ireland, which he deeply deplored, and to the alleviation of which he should be glad in any way to contribute. And, with regard to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Tam-worth, he admitted at once that any proposition coming from him was entitled to respect and attention; but he could not help smiling at the proposition of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Northampton, that it was the imperative duty of the Go-
 1363
 MR. STAFFORD  observed that he had never said, and had never meant to say, that the right hon. Gentleman had laughed at the calamities and woes of Ireland, for he knew, from the public and private conduct of the right hon. Gentleman, that he was the last man to do so. He had said that he was surprised that it should be a matter of laughter, when he had asked the Government whether they intended to adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth. When that and other suggestions of a similar kind had occupied the public mind in Ireland, it was desirable for Her Majesty's Government to say whether they had any measures of their own in contemplation, or whether they were going to act upon any of these suggestions.
 COLONEL ANSON  said, that in asking the House for a vote for the excess of expenditure in the Ordnance Department since the year 1846, he wished to make a short explanation of the circumstances under which the vote was applied for. Previously to 1846, the ordnance accounts were not made up every year, but the balance in hand was carried to the credit of the department, and appropriated to the payment of services previously estimated but not brought into charge. Under this system no balance-sheet was presented to Parliament, but there was constantly a running account. A great change had been made by the alteration of the system adopted in 1846, by which Parliament obtained the supervision of the financial affairs of the department—a change beneficial in every respect—at the same time it became necessary to make up the accounts, in consequence of the change of system, and the result showed an excess to the amount of the vote which he had to put into the Chairman's hands—namely, 97,984 l s d l l s d 1364
 MR. RICARDO  said, it would be a great boon to the shipowners if the clause were got rid of altogether.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  would do so in the course of a few days, and he would endeavour to fix upon a day which he thought would be most convenient to the House.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I believe we shall require a vote on account with reference to the Ordnance. That is absolutely necessary.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I will take the second reading of the Bill before the vote in Committee; but I will put it for Friday at present.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I do not propose to bring on the Rate in Aid Bill later than ten o'clock. If the Committee on the Navigation Bill be concluded before that hour, I propose to bring it on. I may, perhaps, take this opportunity also to state, that I propose to take the Navigation Bill this evening, and to go through Committee. I propose that the report should be considered on Monday next, and that the third reading should be taken after Easter. With respect to the Rate in Aid Bill, I beg to state that, if it is not proceeded with to-night, I propose to proceed with it on Wednesday, and to go on with it on Friday till the Bill has been read a second time. I should propose, on Friday, that the House go into Committee of the whole House, for the purpose of moving that a sum not exceeding 100,000 l
 MR. STAFFORD : Does the noble Lord mean to propose the vote of 100,000 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : When the Queen made a treaty She was enabled to charge the Consolidated Fund with the payment of these dues.
 MR. F. FRENCH  asked whether the Rate in Aid Bill would be proceeded with that evening, and what was the latest hour at which it would be taken?
 SIR F. THESIGER  was of opinion that the words "it shall be lawful for Her Majesty," if they stood alone, would not imply that she was bound to carry out the restrictions referred to in this clause. It was merely discretionary.
 MR. ROBINSON  said, that he would like to know from the Attorney General what would be the effect of the omission of the words he had proposed?
 MR. ROBINSON  wished to suggest an Amendment in the clause, which would have the effect of taking away from the Privy Council the option of restricting the privileges of foreign ships in the event of foreign countries not reciprocating with us. That object, could, he understood, be effected by omitting the words "if she think fit." He should be glad to know whether the omission of those words would make it imperative on the Privy Council to act in such cases?
 MR. G. SANDARS  rose, and said: Sir, as I find by the forms of the House it is not in my power to introduce the clause I have given notice of, at this stage of the proceedings, I shall content myself at present with stating its objects, and shall bring it up when the other clauses have been disposed of. Sir, the clause now under discussion (the 19th) is that which professes to give to Her Majesty in Council the power of retaliation against those countries which do not grant the like privileges to us which we give to them; but this clause is so worded as to convey an impression that it is not the intention of Her Majesty's Ministers to put it in force. In fact, the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, in introducing the Bill, admitted, that it was a passive rather than an active power. Now, Sir, the object of my clause is, to make it obligatory on Her Majesty in Council, when cause is shown, to enforce these retaliatory clauses. If they are to remain in the Bill, let it be understood by this House, and the country, and by foreign countries, that it is intended they should, at the proper time, be acted upon. Then I believe that before the expiration of the three years proposed, foreign countries (studying their own interest), will be but too happy to place themselves in a condition to be able to continue the advantages this measure will confer on them. Blind, indeed, would they be to their own interest, if it were not so; for, what equivalent has any other country to offer to us for the throwing open to it of our colonial trade, unless America will throw open to us as an equivalent her coasting trade? and I do say, if she acts with perfect fairness towards us she will do so. Sir, three plans have already been submitted to the House, viz., that of the
 1297 1298 
 
 1823 2,460,500 
 1846 3,952,524 
 TONNAGE ON BRITISH SHIPS INWARDS AND OUTWARDS. 
 1823 3,454,853 
 1846 8,900,000 
 SEAMEN. 
 1823 165,474 
 1846 252,000 s s s d d. 1299 "I wish the Ministers to consider the policy of giving a temporary duration to the Act, so that at a certain period the privileges conferred by Act of Parliament would terminate without the Crown being called upon to fulfil the painful duty of reimposing restrictions. Suppose the trade were to be opened for a period of five years; at the end of that period the privileges given would necessarily expire, and every country would have notice that they had the means of averting the reestablishment of restrictions by entering into some arrangement with this country." "Whereas it is expedient that inducements be
 1300
 MR. G. SANDARS  said, with reference to the clause of which he had given notice, respecting inducements to be held out to foreign States to place British vessels on the same footing as their own, he did not think it then expedient to press it to a division.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  thought there was no great practical difference between the right hon. Gentleman and himself on the subject; but still he preferred the course pursued by the Government, which was likely to be more acceptable to the colonies. He did not preclude himself, how-over, from giving the Amendments of the right hon. Gentleman further consideration.
 MR. LABOUCHERE : The clause had no necessary connexion with the Bill before the House, and he would withdraw it for the present. If he found that he could bring it forward afterwards he would do so.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that a vessel, in order to acquire the character of a British ship, must be British owned. He thought there was no practical inconvenience in leaving the law as it stood, though he should be ready to consider any amendment which might be proposed specifying the proportion of foreign shares which might be held in a British ship. He knew that any law which was passed might be evaded to some extent; but that was no reason why they should make evasion more easy. He certainly did not wish to see ships which were
 1307
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, in reply, that he should do so shortly. He wished further to state, that he had recently conversed with some shipowners respecting the proviso which was to regulate the proportion between the number of British and foreign seamen to be employed in the vessels regarding which they intended to legislate by means of the present measure. In one respect it was proposed that, without reference to tonnage, the numbers of British and foreign seamen should bear a certain proportion to each other; in another it was proposed that where the number of British seamen bore a certain relation to the tonnage of the vessel, the number of foreigners on board need not be inquired into. As he saw no great advan-
 1308
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that in his opinion, the omission of the words would make it imperative to restrict the privilege of foreign ships, in cases where the countries to which they belonged did not reciprocate with this country. If this Amendment, however, were carried, it would only revive the old spirit of retaliation, and make it the duty of the Government to retaliate every little restriction that might be imposed by other countries, to the great inconvenience of the trade of this country. He hoped, therefore, that the Amendment would not be pressed.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that this question was one which had been fully inquired into and answered during the discussions on this subject last Session, and he thought, therefore, that it was quite unnecessary for him to enter into it. He entirely disagreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Stoke-upon-Trent in the belief that this was merely a formal part of the Bill; on the contrary, he believed it to be a most essential part. It vested the power in this country of retaliating at any time upon foreign States should they seek to take an undue advantage of our libe-
 1296
 MR. LABOUCHERE : That was a large question—which it would not be advisable to discuss at present. Dock dues stood on a different footing from light and harbour dues, inasmuch as docks were the property of private corporations, and those dues did not appear to stand on the same broad and national foundation as the other dues he had mentioned.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the object of the clause was very simple. Her Majesty was at present enabled, when a commercial treaty had been entered into with any Power, and that Power had reduced the light-dues, harbour dues, and other charges of that kind upon our vessels, so as to place them in that respect upon the same footing as their own, to make a corresponding reduction in the charges upon foreign vessels. But to enable Her Majesty in Council to do this, there must be a treaty between this country and the foreign Power in question; and the Brazils and Spain were unwilling to conclude a treaty for that purpose, though they were quite willing to remit these duties. It was most desirable that our shipping should have the same relief in
 1304
 MR. HERRIES  said, this clause, taken in conjunction with the first, abolishing existing Acts, formed, in fact, the Bill, that is, contained its very essence; and while he still retained his objection to the whole principle of this measure, he thought he might here observe that nothing could show more the necessity for an important modification of the measure than the number of proposals which had been made on this very subject of reciprocity. First, there was the hon. Member for Kilmarnock, who made an effort to introduce a clause to that effect; then there was the present provision for the same purpose; and, lastly, his right hon. Friend the Member for the university of Oxford, had suggested, though he had not pressed, some conditional clauses. He regretted at the time that the right hon. Gentleman had not brought forward his plan, and he did so the more, now that he understood under what erroneous impressions it was that he had declined to do so. It appeared that he had mainly abstained from proposing his plan, because he thought there were some persons, or some party in the House, who would be disposed to make a tool of his proposition, by placing him in a dilemma in a subsequent stage upon the merits of the Bill. If the right hon. Gentleman supposed that there was the least stratagem intended upon his part, or on the part of those hon. Members with whom he was acting, he had been most grievously mistaken. It had never entered into his mind, and he knew not the person who had for a moment indulged such a thought. He and those who were acting with him would adopt a plain, manly, and straightforward course in giving their opposition to what they believed to be a most pernicious and calamitous measure to the country. He had never lent himself to any plan, nor in-
 1301 "Whatever commercial privileges are granted by the United States to any foreign nation are founded upon equivalents; holding out the principle of fair reciprocity, we neither ask nor afford commercial boons."
 MR. HERRIES  had understood from the noble Lord at the head of the Government that he did not, under any circumstances, intend to propose the third reading of this Bill until after Easter. He did not Irish to offer any lengthened opposition to it in its next stage; but he certainly should oppose the third reading of it. He wished the noble Lord would name the day after Easter when he proposed to take the third reading.
 MR. MACGREGOR  considered this clause as necessary to the present Bill, although he confessed he would much rather that it had not been introduced at all. If there was one reason more than another which had induced him to form that opinion, it was a desire on his part to
 1302
 MR. WAWN : The Hull Dock Company had received a grant of land belonging to the Crown for the construction of a new dock, in order to provide accommodation for the shipping of that port, and had yet received 10,000 l
 MR. HENLEY : The whole question of this remission of dues and payment out of the Consolidated Fund required consideration and revision. Some hundreds of thousands had been paid out of the Consolidated Fund in consequence of doing away with these differential dues. It might be a question whether corporations and private individuals ought not to forego these dues, payable by foreign vessels, instead of calling upon the Government to pay them.
 MR. HENLEY  suggested the postponement of the clause.
 MR. HENLEY : These charges might
 1305
 MR. HUME  considered this case as an exception to the general rule. He hoped that this way of voting money would not be drawn into a precedent of bringing forward money votes after Twelve o'clock; but he would not oppose the grant.
 MR. ANSTEY : Will the noble Lord state whether he means to take any vote in supply to-night?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  agreed in the principle of the objection urged by the right hon. Gentleman; but it was of very little practical importance, as the law was sure to be evaded. People were obliged to live outside the law sometimes. The ships of the General Steam Navigation Company had been held to be entitled to the privileges of British registry, though it was notorious that the greater number of the shareholders were foreigners. It was a most anomalous thing that they might compose nearly the whole proprietary body of a largo and powerful corporation, and yet not be entitled to own the one-hundreth part of a single sloop.
 MR. GLADSTONE , on the subject of the ownership of vessels, thought it a questionable provision by which no foreigner could, either directly or indirectly, hold any ownership or part ownership in a British ship. Several vessels were owned partly by foreigners and partly by British subjects; and if other foreign Powers adopted the same rule as ourselves, it would follow that those ships could not be registered in any country whatever. He did not see why they should make the rule so stringent. A vessel, to be entitled to the privileges of a British vessel, ought to be principally British; but it would surely be enough if the majority of the shares in such ships were owned by British shipowners.
 MR. GLADSTONE  hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would apprise him when he had finally made up his mind, as it might be necessary to take the opinion of the House on the matter.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that before the Bill was reported to the House, he should wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, with reference to the powers proposed to be conferred on the colonial legislatures, whether he had had an opportunity of considering the Amendments which he had placed on the Votes in the form of clauses to be inserted on the report? He would leave the form of the clauses to the right hon. Gentleman, if he could consistently adopt their substance.
 MR. GLADSTONE  differed with the right hon. Gentleman as to the construction of the words of this clause. He did not think that a clause stating that "it shall be lawful for Her Majesty to do so and so," would at all bear the construction that she was bound to do it. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stamford had alluded to the course which he (Mr. Gladstone) had taken with respect to the Amendment which he had intended to have proposed to the House. When he said, on a former occasion, that the right hon. Gentleman, or any one acting with him, intended to use his Amendment as an instrument or tool, for the purpose of defeating the Bill, he did not in the slightest de-
 1303
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he presumed that, in point of fact, the extension of the public burdens contemplated by this clause was not considerable; because the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had referred to Spain and the Brazils, who had not a great deal of shipping. He wished, however, to refer to a matter of some importance, arising out of this clause, though it related to a point of form, namely, whether the clause was sufficient to enable Her Majesty to lay charges on the Consolidated Fund. The Attorney General had referred the Committee to the Act 59 Geo. III.; but though there was a clause like this in that Act, there was also another clause which enjoined the payment of the money out of the Consolidated Fund, and therefore he presumed that the latter clause had been the subject of a preliminary resolution in the Committee of the whole House. There had been no preliminary resolution in the present instance that the money should be paid out of the Consolidated Fund, and he should be glad to hear the opinion of the Chairman, now that his attention had been called to the subject.
 MR. HUTT  believed that shares to a considerable extent in British vessels were held by foreigners in the name of other persons. He agreed with his right hon. Friend, that the law would be extensively evaded; but, inasmuch as the clause would,  pro tanto
 MR. REYOLDS  did not altogether approve of the course proposed by the Government. He denied that the Council of the Chamber of Commerce represented any portion of the citizens; they were elected by a large body of merchants, but not by the ratepayers, and they were therefore little better than a self-elected body. Nevertheless, they seemed to consider themselves the beginning, middle, and end of all municipal respectability. This body, however, did not approve the Bill promoted by his hon. Colleague. They charged the corporation with not representing the citizens of Dublin; but this he (Mr. Reynolds) denied. At the same time, they proposed to give to the remodelled corporation all the powers possessed by the present municipal body, except that of collecting taxes, which was to be placed in the hands of the Executive. In England the municipal qualification was lower than in Ireland; the consequence was, that instead of there being 20,000 burgesses in Dublin, there were only 2,900, although there were 21,000 occupations assessed to the poor-rate at 800,000 l l
 The EARL of LINCOLN  did not think it would be giving the Government Bill a fair
 1370
 The EARL of ARUNDEL  and SURREY said, that the oaths about which the hon. Gentleman had been speaking, from the keeping of which Roman Catholics were absolved, were only those which it would be unlawful to keep—such, for instance, as if a man were to swear to kill another man, he would be absolved from the oath, and forbidden absolutely to keep it. Roman Catholics were forbidden to take oaths to do anything which was unlawful; but if they happened to take them, they were forbidden to keep them. However, the question was one which had
 1427
 Sir J. Y. BULLER  suggested that all these Dublin Bills should be withdrawn, and that the matter should be taken up by Government.
 MR. SCOTT  explained. What he said was, that they should pay their passage out of their earnings while employed on the Government works, as they were now employed at Bermuda and Gibraltar.
 MR. SCOTT  thought that the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary had misunderstood the object with which the Motion had been brought forward. His hon. Friend the Member for North Staffordshire contended that it was not fair, just, or politic to send the crime of the mother country to an unpolluted colony, and that although the Government might have the right to do so, it was not wise or right to
 1398
 MR. S. HERBERT  thought the only chance of getting a good Bill was for the Government to take the matter into their own hands. At the same time, he hoped that the three Bills now before the House
 1369
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that he should not have taken part in the debate had not the meaning of his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary been apparently misunderstood by the hon. Member for Cocker-mouth, although it had been very clearly put before the House. The hon. Gentleman seemed to suppose that the purport of the Motion was to declare that no convicts were to be sent to the colonies without the consent of the colonists, and that his right hon. Friend agreed in that construction of the Motion. What his right hon. Friend said was very different; and he objected to the Motion, in the first place, because, from the use of the terms pollution and disgrace, in respect of transportation to any colonies, it might be inferred that transportation was for ever to be abolished. That was a just inference on the part of his right hon. Friend; but what he said in relation to the immediate subject of discussion, on the case of the transportation of a certain number of convicts to the Cape of Good Hope was, that, supposing there was a general and universal feeling against transportation taking place in that colony, and that sentiment were persisted in, it would not be advisable or right to continue it.
 1399
 LORD J. RUSSELL : And to return here. But the course that was advisable with respect to Gibraltar and Bermuda would not be so as regarded New South Wales, for example. On the contrary, that being a colony where labour was in con-
 1400
 MAJOR BLACKALL  agreed with much that had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had brought the subject under the attention of the House, as to the want of classification; and this had particularly come under his own observation in Ireland; but he did not believe, if the resolution was adopted, any great advantage would result. He knew in Ireland there was an entire want of classification of the prisoners sentenced to transportation, and, above all, when the gaols were full, where young and old were placed together, without any regard to the nature of the crimes of which they had been found guilty. As to the colonies saying they would rather not have these convicts—if that plea was in every instance to be admitted, there would be no place to which they could send them. The state of the convicts proposed to be sent to the Cape of Good Hope had been alluded to by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department; and it appeared that they were not persons of general bad habits, but had, generally speaking, only been guilty of one crime, and he was satisfied, if they were sent to the Cape of Good Hope, so far from doing mischief, they would produce good. They had recently extended the boundaries of that colony, and before they could expect to colonise these districts, they must carry on several Government works, such as the formation of roads and the erection of forts to prevent the incursions of the Kafirs. All this might be advantageously
 1396
 MR. DISRAELI : I do not think, after what has fallen from the noble Lord and from the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, that my hon. Friend would be justified in pressing this Motion to a division. The hon. Member has made a most able statement, and has called the attention of the House to a subject which I am sure will receive the consideration its importance deserves. My hon. Friend has said, that it is not his intention to open up a discussion on the general principle of secondary punishment. I think it would be very inadvisable that any such debate should take place on the present occasion. If the subject of secondary punishment is not to be made a matter of debate to-night, every thing that my hon. Friend wishes has been conceded by the Government in a fair and frank manner. There is, however, one observation I wish to make, and that is, to express a hope that if this great question is really to be considered and decided on, the Government will not come to any determination respecting it on particular grounds, such as particular expenditure, as in the case of the Kafir war, or any thing of that kind. I trust they will take a general view of the question, and
 1401
 MR. HAWES  said, the documents in question did not reach the Colonial Office before the 14th of March, and therefore it was impossible before then to lay on the table of the House documents which, up to that time, had not been sent officially to the Government.
 MR. HAWES  said, the only Bill intend ed to be brought in by the Government was a Bill about to be introduced into the House of Lords by the noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Office, the object of which was to establish courts of judicature in Vancouver's Island. At present, the law required that persons should be sent for trial to the courts in Canada; but as it would be impossible to carry out that Act if Vancouver's Island was colonised, it was deemed necessary to introduce a Bill for the purpose of establishing courts of judicature in that island. The Bill for this purpose would be introduced before Easter.
 MR. ADDERLEY , after presenting a petition, signed by a large number of the colonists of New Zealand, praying that these colonies, which had been hitherto untainted by convict labour, might be still preserved from its contagion, proceeded to call the attention of the House to the Motion of which he had given notice, on the subject of the intention of the Government to establish penal settlements in South Africa. He could not but regret deeply that in moving that an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying Her to relieve one of Her colonies from an infliction which they deeply felt, and strongly resented, anything he could have to say on the subject should in the slightest degree bear the character of a personal attack. Nothing was further from his mind in bringing forward a national grievance than the mere implication of any individual in the blame attached to that grievance. For his part, he simply looked on the Members of the colonial part of the Exe-
 1372 1373 1374 1375 1376 Castigatque, Auditque. 1377 "That from the vast extent of this colony, the sparseness of its population, and the impossibility of maintaining an efficient police, except in very limited localities, the introduction of men from Great Britain and Ireland capable of committing crimes so heinous as to justify the high penalty of transportation, would be inexpressibly dangerous to life and property." " to the determination expressed in 1842, in a petition to the Queen, that they will not consent to the admission of convicts on any terms or conditions whatever; and they pledge themselves now, as then, should any such be sent, not to employ or receive them into their establishments; and they trust that such a proposal will never again be submitted to the people of this colony by the British Government." "That the meeting has further learned, with pain and dissatisfaction, that Her Majesty's Government have resolved, without consulting the sentiments of the colonists, to transport to the Cape of Good Hope, as a place of detention and punishment, a certain class of criminals convicted of treason and felony in Ireland; and that a memorial be presented to his Excellency the Governor, praying that, should any of those convicts arrive before Her Majesty's pleasure can be known, he will cause them to be removed from on board the transport directly to Robben Island, and there detained without communication with the colony, as the convicts were in former times, until Her Majesty's Government order their removal to such other place as they see fit." "That the colony of the Cape of Good Hope, has never, at any time from its first settlement, received from Europe or elsewhere, any portion of its population out of prisons or penal establishments; but that, on the contrary, certain forms and provisions, as evidences of good character and securities for good behaviour, were required of all strangers permitted to enter or reside in it. That while thus endeavouring to protect the labouring classes of this community from so great an injury, your memorialists desire also to express to Your Majesty their regret that the noble Earl the Secretary of State for the Colonies should have thus dealt with the most vital domestic and personal interests of the colonists, without communicating his designs to the Executive Council of Government, or to the Legislative Council of the Cape of Good Hope, and in direct opposition to the official report and written opinion of his Excellency the Governor. Your Majesty's memorialists therefore humbly pray that this colony of the Cape of Good Hope and its dependencies may not be made a depôt penitentiary or place of confinement, or of punishment, or of refuge, for criminals of any description,
 1378 l Sic placuit. 1379 1380 "Si qua fata aspera rumpas, Tu Marcellus eris." 1381 monstrum horrendum, "Mutato nomine, de te Fabula narratur." 1382 ad infinitum. "It was a contest to be lamented, a great expenditure of public money, a wide destruction of private property, an interruption of the peaceful pursuits of the colonists, leaving an abiding sense of insecurity, and all the more lamentable disasters incident to war with a barbarous enemy." 1383 "Segnius irritant animos demissa per aures. Quam quæ sunt oculis subjecta fidelibus."
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, the papers to which he had alluded were in the  Morning Chronicle
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he meant the memorials.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that Earl Grey was reported in  Hansard *
 MR. ADDERLEY , in reply, disclaimed all intention of making a personal attack upon Earl Grey. He was not actuated by any personal motives, for he had not the honour of the noble Earl's acquaintance; but had brought forward this Motion purely on behalf of the colonists, whose remonstrances had boon disregarded. It appeared to him that the whole of the argument of the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary had been addressed rather to the interests of this country than having any reference to those of the colonies. But as he (Mr. Adderley) now distinctly understood from the right hon. Baronet opposite, that the sending of these 250 convicts to the Cape was upon a great emergency, and if he had not actually given a pledge that no more convicts would be sent to the Cape, he had at least said that any remonstrance from the colonists against the sending of convicts would be duly considered by the Government: having obtained that point, he was satisfied without pressing his Motion to a division.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  agreed with the hon. Member for Stockport in thinking
 1424 "I do swear that I will defend to the utmost of my power the settlement of property within this realm as established by law; and I do hereby disclaim, disavow, and solemnly abjure any intention to subvert the present Church Establishment as settled by law within this realm; and I do solemnly swear that I never will exercise any privilege to which I am or may become entitled, to disturb or weaken the Protestant religion or Protestant Government in the United Kingdom; and I do solemnly, in the presence of God, profess, testify, and declare, that I do make this declaration, and every part thereof, in the plain ordinary sense of the words of the oath, without any evasion, equivocation, or mental reservation whatsoever. So help me God." 1425 Canon Law, "That the Kingly power is subject to the Pontificial—that the Pope has a right to depose Sovereigns, to dispose of their kingdoms and absolve subjects from their allegiance—that all oaths to the prejudice of the Church of Rome are null and void—and that Romish ecclesiastics may resist their Sovereigns for the good of their Church, and even for their own private advantage." "'The apostolic authority altogether cancels illicit oaths.…as the Lord says by the prophet (Isaiah lviii. 6).'The Roman Pontiff absolves from the oath of allegiance, when he deposes any from their authority.'—Gregory IX., Decret. 11, pars. C. xv. 2 vi. p. 647." "The Pontificial authority absolves from the oath of allegiance." "The Roman Pontiff, Zachariah, deposed the King of the Franks, not so much for his evil deeds, as because he was not serviceable to his own power, and raised to the throne, in his place, Pepin, the father of Charlemagne, and absolved all the Franks from the oath of allegiance which they had taken." "The same is done frequently ( auctoritate frequenti "No one owes allegiance to any excommunicate persons before they are reconciled to the Holy See." "'No oaths are to be kept if they are against the interest of the Church of Rome." Oaths which are against the interest of the Church are not to be called oaths, but perjuries.' Decret. Greg. IX., lib. 11. tit. xxiv. cap. 27 (vol. ii. p. 358)." "Ecclesiastics not having temporalities from laics are not bound to take oaths of allegiance to them. Certain laics contrive to usurp too much on the Divine right, when they compel ecclesias-
 1426 that you "The Third Lateran Council is one of the General Councils of the Roman Catholic Church."
 MR. CALLAGHAN  was one of the Members of the Committee which sat upon this subject, and must remind the House that every one of the clergymen of the Established Church who were examined before it spoke against the tax. This odious impost was chiefly levied in those districts where the Catholic vastly preponderated over the Protestant population, which made its collection the more grievous and hateful to the former. The Catholics did not pay it willingly, and they never would pay it willingly. The hon. Member for Meath had given some ludicrous instances of the state in which Irish parishes were. At the risk of causing the House to laugh, he would mention another. He was once asked by two of his friends, clergymen,
 1423
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  could assure the House it was not his intention, at that late hour, to occupy their time for more than a few minutes; and he rose merely for the purpose of setting the House right with regard to some most extraordinary statements of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. The hon. Gentleman had stated that the income of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners was 120,000 l l 1438 l l l l l
 MR. AGLIONBY  felt that if the Motion was carried or not, the result would be beneficial, He regretted that a greater number of Members did not seem disposed to take part in the debate, as colonial matters had been too long neglected in that House. He did not wish to bring any acrimonious charges against one Cabinet Minister or another, but it was most desirable that the Members of that House should take an active part in controlling matters connected with the colonies; and in this feeling he was satisfied that the public deeply shared. He thought that if the Motion of the hon. Member for North Staffordshire was carried in that House as the adoption of a permanent principle, much good would be effected, for the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary admitted it, as he understood him, to be a good one. [Sir G. GREY: NO, no!] The hon. Member read the Motion and said, he could not find a word in it to which the Government could object. He further understood the right hon. Baronet to say, that it was the intention of the Government not to send out convicts in any shape whatever, either on punishment or on tickets of leave, unless they had previously received the consent of the colony to which they were to be sent; and yet it appeared as if the right hon. Baronet could not have meant that, because such a course would have put an end to transportation altogether, for he could not conceive any colony so much debased as to express a wish that convicts should be sent among their population. It might be possible, indeed, that a number of colonists whose only care was to make money might petition for convicts; but how was it to be ascertained that the really moral and respectable inhabitants of that colony desired them to be sent? He would not now go into the general question of transportation, for it was of infinitely too great importance to be discussed; but the subject was one which the Government and the Legislature must take into serious consideration, and form some decided plan which should not be subject to fluctuation as this or that Minister held office, but one that should be settled, and in which the public would have confidence. The right hon. Baronet had asked what was to be done with these convicts—were
 1397
 MR. GRATTAN  had been born a Protestant, bred a Protestant, and very likely would die a Protestant. But he protested against the arguments of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin as wretched abortions. A worse defence of a bad system he had never heard, either from a lawyer or a Member of Parliament. The real question was, whether an injustice was to continue to be perpetrated on a body of un-offending men? Here was an impost not levied on the north, and demanded from the south of Ireland. He contended, that there was no service whatever done for this money. It had been stated in evidence, that in 1833 there were in Ireland fifty churches in which for the previous three years no service had been performed. What a mockery was it to attempt to uphold such a system! The question was, whether 6,000,000 of men were to be called upon to pay for a mock Establishment? In one parish with which be was acquainted, in his own county, there was a Protestant church with grass growing in the doorway, its windows broken, and mould strewed over its floor—it was, in fact, in a state of complete dilapidation. And why? Because there were no Protestants to attend it. In another parish there was but one Protes-
 1420 l 1421
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, that there was one colony which was desirous of obtaining convict labour, and that was the Mosquito territory. When he was in Jamaica two months ago, he met there Mr. Christie, the Consul of Mosquitia, who was on a visit to Sir Charles Grey, to endeavour to obtain convict labour for the completion of the public works at Grey town, the seaport of the Mosquito district. A meeting of several governors of the West India Islands had also been held lately to discuss the proper colony to which they should send their convicts. He appealed to hon. Members who were acquainted with courts of justice, in favour of the maintenance of transportation, which was a punishment regarded in a far more serious light by criminals than imprisonment. He considered that arrangements might be made by Government with colonies for the employment of convicts in public works.
 MR. KERSHAW  also protested against the tax as unjust and oppressive, and at the same time expressed his regret that the subject had been treated with so much levity by the House. He agreed with those who thought the Protestant Established Church in Ireland a nuisance in that country. ["Oh! oh!"] Hon. Gentlemen might say "Oh !" but he averred that that Protestant Church in Ireland had not fulfilled its mission. He thought the application of the voluntary principle would be much better for the Irish Protestant Church, and for religion generally. As long as he had a scat in that House, he would protest against the crying injustice of the majority of the people of Ireland being obliged to pay for the Church of the minority. The voluntary principle had been tried in England, and tried with success, even amongst members of the Church of England, for he was happy to say that in many instances churches in connexion with the Established Church were conducted upon the voluntary principle, and that those churches were the most prosperous in the country. If that were the case, the sooner the contention for mere pelf was abandoned the better. For his own part he desired nothing more than that religion should be excluded from the debates in that House, and thought the adoption of the voluntary principle generally would tend to the promotion of religion, and the restoration of tranquillity.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  seconded the Motion.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, the hon. Member for North Warwickshire had brought forward the most offensive topic possible to the Catholics, for the charge was involved in his words of tampering with the oaths taken by the Catholic Members. The hon. Member for Middlesex's proposition was a fair subject for discussion—the other was not. They could not pretend to say that the present question had reference to the Protestant Establishment. The fairest way was to speak out at once, and to say that a Protestant Establishment among a Catholic people was a nuisance. Now, with respect to the oath. On the last occasion, when this
 1439 1440
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, this was placing the inhabitants of Dublin in an awkward position. The corporation of Dublin, returned by the free election of the burgesses, had been for ten years keenly opposed by some, who considered themselves the most respectable of the inhabitants, but who, however, had not been able to bring any charge of neglect of duty against the corporation. One of these Bills was promoted by the corporation, another by the Chamber of Commerce, and the third by an individual. If these Bills were withdrawn, and if the Government Bill was not approved, the promoters of these Bills would be placed in a very disadvantageous situation.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that there were two things perfectly clear in the speech delivered by the hon. and learned Member who had just addressed the House: first, that he was a sincere defender of the Protestant Church as by law established; and,
 1433 l l l l 1434 Cries of l l s 1435 l l l l l l l l l 1436 l l l 1437
 MR. W. PATTEN  hoped that all the three Bills would be dealt with in the same way.
 SIR J. YOUNG  observed, that the hon. Gentleman who last spoke had expressed a desire to place the truth before the House; but in doing so he seemed to have forgotten what Miss Edgeworth had said: that he who exaggerated truth or painted it in false colours, was a traitor to the cause of truth. The right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary had quoted the recommendation of the Committee; but the House should be aware that that report was carried by a majority of five against a minority of four. Therefore, whatever weight was due to that report—and he admitted that it was considerable—the opinion of the minority should not wholly be thrown aside. The great difficulty was to find a substitute for the tax they proposed to abolish. That it was a grievance to the Protestant clergyman to receive his stipend in this way, especially when the claim was resisted and had to be enforced, as well as it was to the Catholic to pay it, was admitted; but no other source out of which such stipend could be provided had been found. The second report of the Committee stated that ministers' money was not a charge on the person, but on the property, and formed part of the property of the Established Church; and it did not appear to them that any reason had been shown for relieving the owners who had come into possession of their property subject to this impost from the charge. If it were to be given up, it would, like the 25 per cent which had
 1422 avant courier
 MR. HUME  said, the simple question was, would Government insist upon sending convicts to our colonies against the express desire of those colonies? The hon. Member for North Staffordshire, who raised this important point, had carefully endeavoured to keep the question of transportation separate from the question before the House; but the hon. Member had felt it necessary to introduce that question, with reference to the difficulties created by the overcrowded state of our gaols. He (Mr. Hume) had for many years past endeavoured to impress this particular subject upon the successive Governments of the country. Let him now repeat emphatically that the grand question of all in relation to this subject was how to lessen the amount of crime in this country. He should support the Motion before the House, because he was satisfied that, if carried, it would force the Government to apply itself to the most effective moans of reducing the amount of crime, and, as one of the most effective means, to the extension of education to all classes—to each individual of the community. He did not condemn transportation as a principle, but he certainly considered that the House should exact from the Government a distinct assurance that convicts should not be forced upon colonies against the will of these colonies. He had no hesitation in expressing the belief that, under a proper system the transmission of convicts to consenting colonies might be rendered most beneficial at once to the convicts and to the colonies; but at present there was no Minister here—no Department whose business it was to make a proper classification of the prisoners previous to their departure. The whole thing was rank confusion. What was eminently needed was, a Minister of Justice, one of whose leading duties
 1395
 MR. HUME  disapproved altogether of the expressions about this being an attack upon the Church. If, to endeavour to remove an abuse and to destroy an injustice, were to make an attack upon the Church, then indeed the Motion under consideration was an attack, and he had often made such attacks. But it was surprising how the opinions of hon. Gentlemen changed upon the question. It was a gross and grievous injustice that a tax for the support of the Protestant clergy should be levied upon the Roman Catholics in those eight corporate towns in the south of Ireland. It was most unwarrantable. But he begged the House to observe the changes in opinion that had taken place regarding it. On the 3rd of July, 1844, a precisely similar Motion was brought forward in the House, and it was supported by the hon. Member for Louth (Mr. Bellew) a Gentleman who was certainly not one likely to pull down the Church. Upon the same occasion, Lord Stanley, who was then a Member of the Government, stated that the question was one which had seriously occupied the attention of the Government; and although they had not as yet determined upon the nature of the measure they would adopt, yet he hoped shortly to be enabled to submit one that would be satis-
 1428 l l
 MR. HUME  was in favour of postponing the Bills, for if they were rejected altogether, perhaps nothing more might be done this Session. He suggested that the second reading might be postponed for three weeks, with the view of giving the Government time to prepare their Bill.
 MR. NAPIER : Sir, the hon. Member for Montrose has told the House that there would be no peace for Ireland until the Protestant Church was levelled; and yet that hon. Member was loud in his demand for religious liberty. But on what principle of religious liberty did the hon. Member deny to them—the Protestants of Ireland—that which he claimed for himself? He (Mr. Napier) was ready to admit that if the religious rights of any man were unfairly interfered with, the party had a right to complain; and it was in exact conformity with that principle that he demanded for the Church to which he himself belonged the privilege of retaining the property which was justly her own. In arguing the question of property, he found that a general fallacy prevailed. The plea generally was, that the property of the individual was taxed; that, in fact, a personal charge was made, to support the Established Church. The hon. Member for
 1429 1430 1431 1432 l l l l
 MR. B. OSBORNE  thought that this was a question which deserved consideration wholly irrespective of blue books or documents. It was a question which it became not only Irish but English Members to consider, and therefore he trusted it would be taken up in the broad spirit of religious liberty, not argued in the pettifogging spirit of an attorney's clerk. When the hon. and learned Member for the city of Dublin had read the blue book—and he believed the hon. and learned Member had read it nearly through—he should not have omitted one fact which it contained, and that was, that while eight Roman Catholic towns in the south of Ireland paid ministers' money, the Protestant north was wholly exempt from its operation. Why? Because when the Act was revised in the reign of Queen Anne, it was known that the Protestant Dissenters would not submit to the impost; but the Catholics of the south having been completely ground down, and their very natures demoralised, this chain was hung round their necks as an additional means of attaching them to the Established Church. He was surprised that the Irish Catholics condescended to come to that House to ask for a removal of the tax. Had he been in their place he would have agitated elsewhere, and in such a voice as would compel the Ministry and the people of England to consent to its removal. It was no answer to say, that the amount in dispute was only 100,000 l 1416
 MR. T. O'BRIEN  consented to do so, on condition of both the Bills being postponed.
 MR. GLADSTONE  wished to know from the hon. Gentleman opposite, the Under Secretary for the Colonies, whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce during the present Session any Bill for the purpose of adding to, or altering, any of the provisions of existing statutes having reference to the territories of the Hudson's Bay Company in America, with a view of giving facilities to the proceedings of the Company, or of any settlement formed under it in Vancouver's Island? and if so, whether such Bill would certainly be introduced at an early period?
 MR. W. FAGAN , in rising to submit to the House the Motion of which he had given notice, said, that he regretted much that after the report of the Select Committee, appointed last Session, so important a Motion was left to a private Member of this House, and that the Government was not prepared to take it up. The result of the inquiry last Session had induced the people of Ireland to look on the tax called ministers' money as virtually abolished, and their unwillingness to pay was tenfold increased. [The hon. Member then proceeded to read three letters he had received since the commencement of this Session, two from the Rev. J. Elmes, the Protestant incumbent of St. John's, in the city of Limerick, and one from a Roman Catholic clergyman, all bearing on the subject in question, and complaining of the difficulties connected with the collection of the tax.] With such strong pressure on the part of a Protestant incumbent deriving his income from the obnoxious tax, independently of still stronger pressure on the part of the Catholics of Ireland, he could not without dereliction of duty refuse to submit his Motion to the House after the Government had declined to take it up. Last year when he brought forward a similar Motion, he ventured to suggest that the substitute for ministers' money would be found in the revenue of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, and he endeavoured to show that if the annual sales of perpetuities were reckoned an income, as they ought to be, there would be ample surplus to provide 15,000 l 1404 "Why is the collection so deficient on the now valuation?—Simply for this reason, that I am reluctant to oppress the poor people who owe me the money according to law, and that I could not venture to destrain them, even if I were inclined. I am not inclined to do it, because they are mostly very poor and distressed people. If I were to venture to distrain them, there would be resistance; the law probably would be violated, and disturbance would ensue. " "Is it your opinion this tax is exceedingly ob-
 1405 "In considering what substitute you would apply for ministers' money, do you think the Roman Catholic population should be entirely relieved from it?—They should be entirely relieved from it; so far as my own opinion is concerned, and not only the occupying tenant but also the landlord, because the occupying tenant in many instances is merely a person striving to obtain a livelihood for himself and his family; and differing in creed from us as they do in 99 instances out of 100, I consider we are not authorised by anything contained in the sacred Scriptures to levy a tax upon them for the support of our Church." "Does not the same objection apply to the whole Church establishment?—No. I think the tithes differ materially. Tithes are part and parcel of the rating of the land; if the land is free from tithe, the landlord is so much benefited by it, but that is not the case with regard to ministers' money levied on houses." "Do you not imagine that houses would set higher if they were relieved from the charge of ministers' money?—I am sure they would not. It may look very well in theory, but it is not true in practice. A tenant takes a house, and he does not consider anything of the poundage leviable on that house." "Do you conceive ministers' money a very obnoxious impost?—To the great mass of the people I do." "When you speak of the great mass of the people, do you refer to the Protestant and to the Catholic population, or exclusively to the Catholic population?—I think I may say in answer to that question, that to the generality of Roman Catholics it is objectionable; and I think I may add, that a great number of Protestants, even those that pay it, feel that a different mode of collection would be very desirable." "Do you mean to say that the Catholics object to the tax itself, and the Protestants to the mode of collecting it?—I do, and I myself think that the present mode of collection is most objectionable; I have not language strong enough to express my objection to it." "From your knowledge of the city of Dublin,
 1406 "Do you think that the finding of a substitute would be beneficial to the Church itself?—Indeed I do. "By the substitution of rent-charge for tithes and the creation of an ecclesiastical revenue of which you are one of the Commissioners in lieu of vestry cess, the clergy of the Established Church are no longer brought into immediate collision with the mass of the population?—Certainly not, and it is a very happy circumstance for the country. "But ministers' money I believe is the only portion of the income of the establishment which creates this unfortunate collision?—I believe so, I am quite satisfied of it. "And in that view would it not be most desirable for the sake of the clergy themselves, to abolish the tax?—Yes, they are as anxious for a change as the persons who pay it, and perhaps more so: it would be more satisfactory to them." "The Committee did not understand you to state your own objections to the ministers' money tax, but to state what you believe to be the objections of others, will you state what is your objection?—My own objection is very strong against paying a Protestant clergyman. Being a Roman Catholic, I object that a Protestant clergyman should have the power by law to come in and seize my property without giving me any value for it, or my giving him any trouble in the service he is bound to perform. I have a very strong impression upon that; but my opinion is, that it would be unjust to the present incumbents, to withdraw from them their income, and to abolish the tax, without giving them something as a substitute. "Have you any other objection?—I generally object to paying clergymen at all by any process of law; my own opinion is, that if I wish to give a clergyman anything, that is all I should be called on to do, and not to be compelled to do it. If a Catholic clergyman was empowered by law to come in and seize my property, I would equally object to it. "Your objection is to any clergyman of whatever religion he may be, being authorised to demand money from you by law?—It is. "Would its conversion, as you state, into something similar to a like rent-charge, remove the objection to this tax on the part of the Catholic
 1407 "The hostility to the tax on the part of the Catholic population of Ireland would still exist?—The Roman Catholics feel generally, that they should not be called upon to pay anything towards the support of the Protestant Church." l. l l l l s d l l l l s l 1408 "Your Committee think it incumbent on them to state that an augmentation of the funds of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners may be rendered available as a substitute for ministers' money, and recommend that with that view an amendment of the Church Temporalities Act may be made. Your Committee are aware that the adoption of this income will involve the interposition of a now trust, and the postponement or relinquishment of some of the ulterior objects contemplated by the Church Temporalities Act; but any objection founded on the displacement of the original objects of the Church Temporalities Act, will be more than countervailed by the great advantages which, in a moral, social, and religious view, will arise from the removal of an obstacle to those feelings of unity and good will which it will be essentially conducive to the general interests of the country to encourage between the working Protestant clergy and the great body of the community amongst whom in cities and towns in Ireland their duties are usefully and honourably performed." 1409 l l l l l 1410 bonâ fide 1411 l l l l l l 
 
 From suppressed bishoprics £50,267 
 —Suspended bonefices 15,574 
 —Tax on benefices 8,784 
 —Bishop of Derry 4,162 
 —Interest on mortgages 2,618 
 —Mines 402 
 £81,807 
 To which add the annual sales of perpetuities, which may be set down at 15,000 
 Receipts £96,807 1412 
 
 Expenditure in Church requisites £34,792 
 Mr. Quin estimates annual repairs, church fences, and painting, at 28,366 l l 22,183 
 Rebuilding of churches 6,634 
 Bishop of Kildare 100 
 Interest on building his palace 688 
 Stipends paid to Dublin curates 1,902 
 Ditto to Vicar Choral 3,689 
 Augmentation of small livings 962 
 Diocesan schoolmasters 132 
 Salaries 6,516 
 Incidentals 2,975 
 Other expenses 268 
 Amount of expenditure £80,841 l l l
 MR. GROGAN , in opposing the Motion,
 1413 l. 1414 l l 1415
 MR. GROGAN  was willing to suspend, but not to withdraw, his Bill.
 MR. GROGAN  rejoiced to hear the determination come to by the Government. Owing to the strong party spirit prevailing in Dublin, it was almost impossible to introduce any measure which should give general satisfaction. His only object was to get a good Bill; and with the view of securing that, he would suggest that any further proceeding on the three Bills now before the House should be postponed till the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland had introduced his measure.
 SIR G. GREY  could assure the hon. Gentleman that he was much mistaken if he anticipated anything like a sneer from him, either at the terms in which the Motion was expressed, or at the subject to which it related. He fully admitted the importance of the subject, and he agreed with the hon. Gentleman in many of the
 1384 bonâ fide 1385 1386
 SIB G. GREY  said, the hon. Gentleman must be aware that his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies could not produce extracts from newspapers. He could only produce what had been received officially from the Governor of the colony. He admitted that his noble Friend had endeavoured to find other outlets for convicts besides Van Diemen's Land, and he consulted the colonies for that purpose. He sent a circular letter to ask them whether they were willing to receive convicts, being desirous not to take any final steps before the wishes of the colonists had been consulted. The hon. Gentleman the Member for North Staffordshire went on to say that Earl Grey not only did not consult the colonists, but that he persisted in sending out convicts, notwithstanding their remonstrances. Now, the fact was, that his noble Friend, having sent this circular letter, without waiting for an answer from the Governor of the Cape of Good Hope, directed a ship to proceed with convicts from Bermuda to the Cape, but he did not persevere in sending them out after remonstrances had been received; and he (Sir G. Grey) was not prepared to say that his noble Friend would persist in sending them after a decided expression of opinion on the part of the colo-
 1387 1388 "I avail myself of this occasion to solicit the compassionate. attention of Her Majesty's Government, as soon as any favourable conjunction should present itself, to the case of many other Irish prisoners recently arrived here. It will be remarked with anxiety, on examining the list of 704 prisoners sent from Ireland in the  Medway Bangalore, "That, regard being had to the nature of the offences of which the convicts specially referred to by the Governor were convicted, and to the circumstances under which their offences were committed, and to the favourable report of their subsequent conduct, the inquiry suggested by the Government might be properly instituted with the view to the selection for removal with tickets of leave to Van Diemen's Land of such of those prisoners as, upon the result of the inquiry, may be considered fit objects for such an indulgence. The selection, however, was not to comprise prisoners who had been convicted of personal violence or outrage." "Poor and scanty food and the hard things of their infancy have for the most part left these lads with a lower stature and more childish ap-
 1389 1390 "Sir—I thank you most sincerely for your prompt attention to my recommendation of those few men whom I wished to be added to your number of convicts for the Cape of Good Hope, on terms of conditional pardon. I have every reason to suppose they will there he good and faithful subjects of Her Majesty, and useful members of society. The prisoners sent here within the last two years came under no ordinary circumstances; many, very many, for thefts, to which they were driven by dire distress and famine; and many also for political offences committed under fear and at times of excitement. They were mere creatures of others, entirely ignorant of what they themselves were about. I would further suggest to your Excellency the usefulness, as well as the charity, in persevering in the wise and humane course taken by you with respect to those convicts who are about being sent hence. You are aware that there are many others here of the same class of persons offering to our observation as fair a prospect for the future, and who, if sent, will hereafter be as favourably impressed. I entreat the same merciful consideration towards such others as may be deemed by those in charge of them as deserving of mercy." 1391 "The Deputy Superintendent will cause the lists of the prisoners, who came out in the  Medway Bangalore "They should include lads who had not been convicted more than twice of robbery, unattended with violence to the person." 1392 1393 1394
 SIR G. GREY  could only say that they were all received by his noble Friend on the 14th of March. Did the hon. Gentleman mean to say that the despatches of the Governor were in Earl Grey's possession at the time which he had mentioned?
 SIR G. GREY  regretted very much that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Middlesex had addressed the House in a spirit very different from that which pervaded the speech of the hon. Member for the city of Cork, and in a very different spirit from that in which the Committee, whose
 1417 avant courier, "Your Committee think it right to add, that in the event of any substitute being provided for ministers' money, they do not coincide in one of the views taken by the Dean of Limerick regarding the reduction of the incomes of the clergy in the cities and towns corporate of Ireland; for they do not consider their incomes in general to be more than commensurate with their functions—where no pretence for the imputation of sine-curism can be found; and your Committee think that they cannot conclude this report more appropriately than by a citation from the evidence of the Rev. Mr. O'Sullivan—who has officiated as Roman Catholic curate for upwards of sixteen years in Cork—and who in answer to the question whether it was the wish of the Roman Catholic inhabitants of Cork that the clergy of the Established Church in that city should be fully paid for the duties which they performed—answered 'No doubt; 'and added that from his experience for the last several years as secretary to the Relief Committee of Cork, he could state that there had been such a cordial feeling between the clergy of both churches—they had acted so well and so zealously together—that if this cause of irritation were removed, a very beneficial change would take place." "The inhabitants of Cork, I presume, would think that the clergy of the Established Church, who have duties to perform, should not be deprived of their livelihood?—On the contrary, I think that the general impression among the respectable classes of Roman Catholics in Cork, and, indeed, generally, is, that any arrangement which would take from the present incumbents their full amount of subsistence, becoming their rank as clergymen and gentlemen, would be unjust. "And you say that it is the wish of the Roman Catholic inhabitants that the clergy of the Established Church in Cork should be paid fully for the duties they perform?—No doubt; and as I know
 1418 "This source of livelihood is an object of dislike to the clergy, by whom it is most painfully collected from the reluctant and the poor; several clergymen have been examined in the course of this inquiry, all of whom concur in the expression of a strong desire on their own part, and on the part of the clergy, that some substitute for ministers' money may be provided." 1419
 SIR G. GREY  wished it to be clearly understood that his noble Friend the Secretary for the Colonies, having thought it advisable to consult the colonies with respect to the introduction of convicts into them, and having intimated his intention not to send convicts to colonies not now receiving them until he had ascertained their opinion, did not intend to disregard the wishes of the colonists. The hon. Gentleman the Member for North Staffordshire was right in saying, that any
 1403
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the particular documents which had been alluded to by the hon. Gentleman had not been received at that time; but he was not aware whether or not there had been a previous despatch sent, stating that dissatisfaction had been excited on the subject.
 *
 SIR J. TYRELL  said, that hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House were going the wrong way to settle these differences by bandying charges of bigotry and intolerance against those who did not agree with them in religious belief. Members in that House attached to the Protestant religion were charged with quoting the opinions of bigoted authorities in support of their views. But he would refer to the opinions held by an authority to whom he presumed hon. Gentlemen opposite would not presume to object—he meant Mr. Macaulay, lately one of the most eloquent and able Members of the Whig Cabinet. The hon. Baronet proceeded to road an extract, in which Mr. Macaulay stated that there was amongst the English a strong conviction that a Roman Catholic, where the interests of his religion were concerned, considered himself freed from all the ordinary rules of morality; and that, in order to avert scandal or injury to his Church, he was justified in violating those rules of morality. He also quoted from Mr. Whiteside's book on Italy, from which it appeared that whilst the learned gentleman was in Italy, he ascertained that Pope Pius IX. would not permit any persons happening to reside in Italy or Rome to make allusion to a future state on the tombstones, but confined them to a mere reference to the virtues of the deceased. He gave these extracts, he said, for the benefit of those hon. Gentlemen who would destroy the Protestant Church in Ireland. ["No, no!"] Hon. Gentlemen might pretend that they only intended the abolition of the temporalities of that Church, but he believed their designs went much farther. At all events, the way to bring about a little more harmony on these matters was not by making charges of bigotry against those who sat on his (Sir J. Tyrell's) side of the House. He deprecated such discussions, as they only tended to raise dissensions. If any substitute could be found for the impost, he would be happy to support any measure that would render
 1441
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, he had made his offer in the most sincere and  bonâ fide
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, the Bills had been a long time before the House, and had led to great difference of opinion.
 1368
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that under this Bill the same notice should
 1445
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that in this country every magistrate of the city of London had the power which was objected to.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  rose for the purpose of moving an instruction to the Committee that the provisions of the Bill should be extended to Ireland. It might be urged, perhaps, that those provisions were not suited to all the complicated relations between Irish landlords and tenants, and he might also be told that the right hon. Secretary for Ireland had declared it to be the intention of the Government to bring forward a measure on this subject with reference to that country; but he must remind the House of the numerous and abortive attempts which had been made to legislate on this complicated subject. He did not mean to assert that this Bill was to prevent the necessity of future legislation; but he hoped the House would support it as a step in the right direction, for he knew they would be anxious to promote any measure which would contribute, however slightly, to encourage the investment of capital in Ireland. It had not been in his power, of course, to consult all the Irish Members; but he had spoken to a great many, and the result was that he did not apprehend that any attempt would be made to alter the Bill.
 MR. PUSEY  had felt some reluctance to extend the scope of the Bill; but as so many Irish Members desired its extension to Ireland, he felt that he should not be justified in offering any opposition to a wish so generally expressed, particularly as he saw nothing in the Bill which could render it inapplicable to Ireland.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  regarded this
 1447
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  did not wish to interfere with Ireland, and he recommended Irish Members to follow his example with respect to his country. He did not think this Bill necessary for England; and although he did not mean to oppose the Speaker leaving the chair, he would certainly oppose the Bill on the report, and all future stages.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, his head was turned at the time when the Motion of the hon. Member was carried, but he had no objection to include Ireland within the scope of the measure.
 SIR J. YOUNG  rejoiced in the prospect of applying so well-digested a measure to Ireland, in lieu of the plan proposed last year; and wished to know if this Bill was to be regarded as a substitute for a Government measure?
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  could give no pledge on the subject.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  urged the Government to take advantage of the unanimity of Irish Members with reference to this Bill.
 MR. DRUMMOND  protested against converting this into an Irish discussion, when the subject before the Committee was an English Bill.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD , in conceding the application of the Bill to Ireland, did not accept it as a substitute for the more extensive measure promised by the Government.
 MR. AGLIONBY  feared that the extension of the Bill to Ireland would render it impossible to get through the Committee that day, or even that day week. He strongly recommended the Committee to make the Bill a good and complete measure as regarded England first, and then to extend its provisions, if they should think fit, to Ireland. If they began by extending it to that country, every one would be getting up to propound his favourite nostrum. ["No, no!"] He rejoiced to hear it—
 1448
 MR. STAFFORD  said, the anti-imperial speech of the hon. Member for Cockermouth had filled him with grim despair. It certainly was a most unfortunate circumstance that the head of the right hon. Secretary for Ireland was turned when the question was put, for the thing was already settled when he rose, and perhaps under the circumstances it might have been better if the head of the right hon. Gentleman had continued to be turned. No proposal to alter the Bill had come from any of the Irish Members, who had shown themselves men of business by taking what they could get, knowing that half a loaf was better than no bread.
 MR. PUSEY  proposed to limit the meaning of the word "notice," by inserting the words "notice served upon such tenant."
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  said this clause provided that it might be lawful for a landlord and tenant to enter into an agreement. He would ask if it was not universally understood that every landlord and tenant had at the present moment that very power? So far as his knowledge went, they had that power at the present time. If that were so, he thought the clause would only have the effect of leading to litigation between landlord and tenant.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that as it seemed generally agreed that the words proposed should be inserted, he had no objection to their being so.
 MR. AGLIONBY  thought that the effect of this Amendment would be to prevent the tenant claiming compensation from his landlord in cases where notice had been given by the tenant.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  asked the hon. Member for Berkshire whether he meant to give unlimited power to the tenant for life, and the tenant in occupation to saddle the remainder man with whatever liabilities his fancy might determine?
 MR. PUSEY  said, that if the hon. and gallant Member would allow them to proceed with the Bill, he would soon see how the contingencies which he appeared to apprehend would be amply provided against.
 MR. E. DENISON  stated his opinion to be in favour of the clause as it originally stood, as, by the Amendment proposed, they would most probably deprive the measure
 1449
 MR. P. SCROPE  was in favour of the clause.
 MR. SOTHERON  was also in favour of the clause as it stood, as it would be very easy for the tenant, if he were so inclined, to act in such a way as to force his landlord to give him notice.
 SIR R. PEEL  was of opinion that if they introduced the Amendment proposed, they would render the Bill almost altogether inoperative. The proposal was—that in the event of the tenant making permanent improvements in the farm, he should not be entitled to recover the appropriated value of such improvements in case he gave notice to the landlord of the termination of his tenancy. Suppose a tenant at will, having confidence in his landlord, and contemplating a probable tenure of the property, expends a good deal of money and labour in permanent improvements—if, then, they said to such a person, "We invite you to make these improvements, the effects of which would endure for—say twelve years "—if they then said to him, "but in the event, however, of your giving notice in the second year, of the expiration of your tenancy, you may lose the benefit which, under other circumstances, I admit may endure for ten years longer:" surely no man, under the circumstances, would be induced to invest his capital in these improvements. Several contingencies might arise to render it advantageous to the laud-lord as well as the tenant to determine the tenancy—such as unexpected misfortunes, bad health, &c. Now, by the Amendment proposed, they said to the tenant, "If you terminate the tenancy by your own act, the profits to which you would otherwise have a legal claim will go to the landlord." If the landlord objects to enter into the agreement, there would be no obligation on him; but, on the other hand, if they deprived the tenant of that just compensation to which he was entitled, because he happened to have given the notice, they would most likely prevent the Bill from coming into any useful operation.
 MR. HENLEY  instanced the case of a clergyman entering upon a living on the death of an incumbent between whom and the tenant an agreement had been entered into in respect to certain improvements upon the farm. The tenant turns round upon the new incumbent and tells him that if he does not reduce his rent 30 per cent, he will give up the farm, and require the
 1450
 MR. PUSEY  was induced to propose the additional words to meet the objections of the hon. Member for Oxfordshire, although they were not quite in accordance with his own views. After, however, what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, he would withdraw the Amendment.
 MR. HENLEY  wished to ask the hon. Member for Berkshire what meaning he intended to convey by the word "lessor," which occurred in the 1st Clause?
 MR. PUSEY  proposed to strike out the word "lessor," and to substitute for it the word "owner."
 SIR R. PEEL  asked, were there not intermediate persons? Could there not be a lessor without being an owner?
 MR. PUSEY  said, that the word "owner" in this Bill, was defined at great length in Clause 11.
 MR. SHEIL  suggested that the agreement referred to in the clause should be stated to be in writing.
 MR. PUSEY  said that he would do so in the report.
 SIR J. Y. BULLER  proposed to omit the words "by the purchase of food for cattle or sheep." He thought it most unjust that the tenant should have the power of claiming compensation for the purchase of food for his cattle in the temporary improvement of his farm; for he would suppose the case of a tenant occupying a farm near London, or some one of those fashionable watering places where he could carry his hay and straw and sell them for a good price. Having done so, it was quite natural to suppose that he would purchase oilcake, Indian meal, and articles of that sort, for which he would have the power, by the clause as it stood, of recovering compensation; whereas he had already disposed of all the food that might be fairly raised from the estate.
 MR. PUSEY  observed, that there were two classes of improvements—temporary improvements and durable improvements. Temporary improvements generally fell on the tenant; durable improvements, drainage and so forth, ordinarily belonged to
 1451
 SIR J. TYRELL  said, that of all the classes of compensation, the most difficult was that which had reference to the improvement of the soil by the use of oil cake and artificial manures. That was the point on which there was a great difficulty in legislating; there was no difficulty in the case of permanent improvements.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that it must not be taken for granted, that because certain arrangements had worked well in one county, they would work well in new districts which were not accustomed to them. It might be very true, that in Lincolnshire the arrangement was so satisfactory that even the landlord might hardly be aware of it; but it did not follow that when you introduced it into Devonshire it would work equally well there. Was it to be said, that if he fed his sheep with turnips grown on his own farm, he had no claim for compensation; but if he purchased the turnips he had a claim for compensation? In that case he would sell all his turnips, and would purchase the turnips of his neighbour. He would even go further, and make an agreement with his neighbour, and say, "I will sell my turnips to you, and you shall buy your turnips of me, and then we shall have a claim upon the landlord for temporary improvements."
 MR. PUSEY  said, that if these words were struck out altogether, it would be the greatest possible discouragement to the farmer. It had been found, by the report of the Committee, that by law no landlord could give this compensation unless he was supported by the custom of the country. As to the word "sheep," he must admit, that, according to some of the evidence, there was not the same risk in feeding sheep as in feeding cattle. The words might be altered to "by the purchase of food other than of any kind grown on the farm." If they wished to encourage high farming, they must give this power.
 SIR R. PEEL  suggested that the words should be, "by the purchase of such descriptions of food for cattle or sheep as shall be specifically mentioned in this agreement."
 SIR J. TYRELL  observed, that on the banks of the Thames, in many parts where mangel wurzel was grown, nothing was so common as for the farmer to send his mangel wurzel to town, and then with the proceeds to buy artificial manure. Much of the artificial manure was wholly absurd and useless; it was fabricated to impose on the young farmer, who had not the experience of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth and the hon. Member for Berkshire.
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  objected to the words proposed to be struck out by his hon. Friend the Member for South Devonshire, as incapable of general application. In the county with which he was connected, the rights of the tenant were already so extensive as to render the proposed concession a matter of no interest.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that the Bill had already been before a Select Committee; but there seemed to be so much difference of opinion about the subject, he thought that the best way would be send it to another Select Committee. He objected to important public business being-obstructed by a long discussion as to whether sheep or cattle should have linseed cake. He should oppose striking out the word "sheep," because he thought if they were fed upon artificial produce it would increase the value of the land.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, that the Bill was looked upon with great anxiety by the tenant farmers of the country, who at the present moment were catching at straws. And he was of opinion that they were looking to a measure which would turn out to be a gross delusion, and from which the great majority of them would receive no benefit whatever.
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  objected to the increased power proposed to be given by the Bill to the valuers. The great difficulty at present seemed to be to define what animals were cattle and what were not. He knew that the hon. Member for Berkshire was a great feeder of pigs. Now, pigs were important animals, and he wanted to know why they were not mentioned in the Bill? And he put the question to the House, Are pigs cattle, or are they not? He asked that question for the purpose of
 1453
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  thought the Bill was one of the most dangerous character. So far from conciliating landlord and tenant, it would breed only dissension. So far as his information went, it was approved of by neither landlord nor tenant; and he suggested that the best thing the House could do would be to reject the Bill altogether, and at once.
 MR. HENLEY  suggested, that as the House was in total ignorance of what they were to divide about, it would be better that the Chairman should report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 MR. PUSEY  was anxious only that the House should decide upon the principle of the clause, and then he would be happy to adopt the words suggested by the right hon. Member for Tamworth.
 SIR J. Y. BULLER  supported the proposition to postpone the decision upon the clause; time would afford the hon. Member for Berks an opportunity of adopting words which would carry out his meaning in a manner satisfactory to all.
 MR. PUSEY  bowed to the wishes of the House, and in the meantime he would endeavour to construct the clause according to what he believed to be the sense of the House.
 The CHAIRMAN  then reported progress.
 SIR W. CLAY  thought the Bill one most important in its nature, and the House had really not yet had any discussion upon the very important principles which it contained. He felt bound to enter his protest against the hon. Member taking any further stage of the Bill at that hour (half-past Five), when it was impossible the House could enter upon any discussion of a useful nature. A large constitutional question was involved, and unless he received a pledge that an opportunity would be given for an ample discussion of the principle, he would feel it
 1454
 MR. OSBORNE  concurred in the objection, but he found the Bill as it now stood totally different, not only in its provisions, but in its title, from what it was as originally introduced. The title of the Bill now was, "a Bill to facilitate the Recovery of Debts from Persons possessing the Privileges of Parliament, and to exclude Insolvent Members from Parliament." Was it intended to convert that House into a court of law, now the Palace Court was to be done away with? Who were to practise in it—who were to be the attorneys and counsel? But there was a rumour in the town that the measure was brought in to point at a particular Member of Parliament. That was not, however, the ground of his opposition to the Bill; but if it was brought in for such a purpose it ought to be known, and the House ought not to submit to be made the tool of any hon. Gentleman who might desire to exclude certain other Members from the House.
 MR. MOFFATT  could have hoped that the quiet and independent course which he had pursued as a Member of that House would have saved him from such a charge as that now brought against him by the hon. Member for Middlesex. It had been insinuated, if not broadly asserted, that in introducing this Bill he had been actuated by interested motives. It had boon insinuated that he was actuated by a feeling of spite or malevolence against individuals. ["No, no!"] That charge he emphatically denied. The Bill had been introduced on public grounds, and with no other feeling. The measure was simply directed against those who would make that House a sanctuary for insolvency. Such was the feeling, and the only feeling, with which he had brought in the Bill.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  thought that the hon. Baronet the Member for the Tower Hamlets had misunderstood the object of the hon. Member for Dartmouth, in proposing the committal of the Bill  pro formâ
 MR. HENLEY  thought that the House had been rather hardly used by the hon. Member for Dartmouth. He (Mr. Henley) had taken the liberty, a week ago, of entreating the hon. Member not to press the Bill on, for he felt that the House at large had not had sufficient time to consider it.
 1455
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he would not now express any opinion on the principle of this Bill, but they must all be agreed that the measure was a very important one, affecting as it did the privileges of the constituencies of the country. The Bill was now greatly altered, and yet the House had never had a proper opportunity for discussing it. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had not given his opinion upon it; and indeed he (Mr. Vernon Smith) did not know in whose charge the Bill now was—whether it was in the hands of the hon. Member for Dartmouth, or in those of the hon. and learned Solicitor General; but the latter now seemed to be its adopted father. The House was not now prepared to take any stage of the Bill, and he hoped that at all events its committal  pro formâ
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the Bill was not his Bill at all, although he had been ready to lend the hon. Member for Dartmouth the benefit of his assistance with regard to it. It was now proposed to commit the Bill  pro formâ
 MR. S. WORTLEY  said, the course originally proposed by the hon. Member for Dartmouth, namely, to introduce these Amendments, and then call upon the House to proceed with the Committee without further consideration, was exceedingly objectionable. But if, as he understood the suggestion of his hon. and learned Friend (the Solicitor General), it was now to be committed  pro formâ 1456
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, this Bill was a very important one, and called for by the present state of public feeling in the constituencies. The first petition which he had had the honour to present from the important constituency which he represented (Plymouth), was against allowing Members of this House to evade the payment of their creditors in a manner which was open to no other class of the community; and he believed the hon. Member for Liverpool had presented a similar petition from that port. It had been alleged that this Bill was directed against an individual Member of this House; but it was most unwarrantable to insinuate that any of those who had supported this measure had been influenced by any personal motive of the kind.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, his right hon. Friend the Member for Northampton had wished him to state his opinion on this Bill. He could only state that he thought its object a very good object, and one that he believed the House would wish to see effected. But it appeared to him that there were very great difficulties in the way of doing so; and it would be a dangerous thing if a Bill went up to the House of Lords in a shape which would not meet their Lordships' support, and which they would not have the power to amend. It was his opinion that unless a Bill went up there in such a shape as to have some chance of passing, it had better not go up at all. But with regard to the present measure, his opinion of it would depend upon the shape into which the Bill should ultimately be put; and if it did not meet with his approbation, he would state his opinion on the third reading.
 MR. ANSTEY  said, the petition alluded to by the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth, prayed the House to take steps to enforce the payment of their creditors by Members of Parliament—an object about which not one word was said in the Bill now before the House. He (Mr. Anstey) had himself heard the rumour alluded to, that this Bill was pointed at a particular Member of this House, and had heard it, not from the enemies of this Bill, but from its supporters; and the rumour was one that had gained a considerable degree of credence. The hon. Member for Dartmouth had, however, contradicted
 1457 pro formâ;
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, the Bill contained two important measures rolled into one. It professed to make Members of Parliament pay their debts; and,  secundo
 MR. SPEAKER  recommended the hon. Member for Dartmouth to withdraw his Bill, and introduce an entirely new one, with all the amendments which he wished to make incorporated with it, as the present Bill had undergone so much alteration, and encountered so much opposition.
 MR. MOFFATT  said, that, with the greatest deference to the suggestion of Mr. Speaker, he felt himself somewhat at
 1458
 MR. ANSTEY  felt bound to oppose the Motion.
 SIR G. GREY  said, it was usual, in courtesy, to allow a Member to bring in a Bill. There was some business on the Paper which it was important should be disposed of, and the hour was getting late. Probably the hon. and learned Member would wave further opposition upon that occasion.
 MR. ANSTEY : His only object in opposing the Motion was to save time; for, in the then temper of the House, he felt certain leave to reintroduce the Bill would be refused. If he gave way, he would certainly divide upon the first reading.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that it would be an advantage in cases of high treason to have the depositions taken down before a magistrate. In fact, there was no alteration of the existing law except the introduction of the words, "where the person is ill."
 MAJOR BLACKALL  said, the clause was calculated to supply a want in the administration of justice in Ireland.
 MR. HAWES  said, he could confidently state that all the papers relating to the proceedings taken under martial law in Ceylon had been already printed and laid before the House. No other documents were in possession of the Colonial Office.
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  said, that if the laws of Ireland generally were assimilated to those of England, he would not say a word against the present clause. He hoped time would be given to consider the clause.
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  said, that the Bill did not assimilate the law of Ireland to that of England in cases of high treason.
 MR. FRENCH  saw no cause for postponing the clause, which was a good one.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he should oppose the clause.
 SIR W. BARRON  said, that the trial should not be proceeded with till it was known whether the person that was ill would recover or not.
 MR. GRATTAN  said, that his hon. Friend the Member for Rochdale was mistaken. The sanctity of an oath was as much respected in Ireland as in any country in the world.
 MR. HUME  said, that he was desirous of asking a question on the subject of the late proceedings in Ceylon. From the papers laid upon the table of the House, explanatory of the transactions in that island, it appeared, in a despatch of Lord Torrington, dated the 14th of October, that the courts-martial which had been sitting in four different places in Ceylon, had terminated their sittings, that twenty persons had been sentenced to transportation, and eighteen had been condemned to death,
 1443
 MR. HAYTER  said, that no copies of the proceedings of any of the courts-martial which had been held under the proclamation of martial law in Ceylon had been received at the office of the Judge-Advocate General. He apprehended that copies of such proceedings would not be transmitted to that department, inasmuch as the proceedings of the courts-martial would have reference to persons who were subjects of Her Majesty not subject to the Mutiny Act or the Articles of War. If any such proceedings were sent to his office, it would be his duty to transmit them to the office of the noble Lord the Secretary for the Colonies. He was not aware that copies of any such proceedings had been received at the Colonial Office.
 MR. W. T. M'CULLAGH  said, that the alteration proposed to be made by this clause was an important one. It was the introduction of a now principle. He did not think it had been enough considered; he hoped, therefore, it would be postponed till the Judges in Ireland were consulted with regard to it. Those who were conversant with the proceedings in courts of law in Ireland must be aware that it was on cross-examination of the witness that truth was frequently elicited.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  would not object to the clause, if the law of Ireland generally were assimilated to the law of England. He thought that in Ireland, where the sanctity of an oath was not always ob-served, the power of cross-examination of the witness should not be given up.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  said, he alluded to those persons who came forward as informers.
 MR. W. P. WOOD , in moving that the House should go into Committee on this Bill, said he should not trouble the House with any statement unless the Motion was opposed. "And be it enacted, That it shall be lawful for the Governor of any of Her Majesty's foreign dominions, plantations, or colonies, by writing under his hand, to appoint one or more competent officer or officers to receive and file such certificates as are by this Act directed to be filed by the clerk of the peace or sheriff's clerk; and upon any such appointments being made, all the provisions of this Act shall be in force in that
 1444
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  bore testimony to the utility of the alteration in the law made in the last Session of Parliament.
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  said, he could not allow the clause to pass unless cases of high treason were excepted. He should, therefore, move the insertion of these words, "except in cases of high treason."
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  said, he should object to the clause, because it gave a new power, and also because it enabled a metropolitan or a stipendiary magistrate to do what could only he done by two of the ordinary magistrates of the country.
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  thought the cases of treason should be excepted from the Bill. By this clause he apprehended that the notice at present required in cases of high treason would be done away with.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that the object of this Bill was to assimilate the law in Ireland to the law which had been passed last Session for England, and which had been found to work extremely well. By this Bill those laws which were now scattered in different Acts of Parliament would be consolidated in one Act.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that no new principle was introduced; it was merely the application of a law which had been found to work well in this country to Ireland.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that if the clause were agreed to, he would give an opportunity for again considering it on bringing up the report. In the meantime he would consult the judicial authorities in Ireland on the subject.
 MR. COWAN  regarded this as one of the most important national questions that could come before Parliament, involving as it did matters intimately connected with the welfare of a very large portion of the working classes, and he much regretted that it should be discussed in so thin a House. He certainly did not think that the Exchequer could be made liable for the defalcations of parties connected with savings banks, any more than the Postmaster General was liable for losses caused by robberies in his department; but he agreed with the hon. Member for the city of Dublin in thinking that if it was the desire of the House to encourage confidence
 46 l s l l s
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  agreed with the hon. Member for the city of Cork, that the object to he desired was the payment of the depositors, but did not see that the appointment of a Committee had much to do with that which was really the wish of the hon. Gentleman. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) thought he could show good reason against the appointment of a Committee, and that it would entail a very heavy expense without the least ultimate advantage. He certainly was surprised at some of the statements, both as regarded the facts and the law of the case, which had been made by some hon. Friends of his, who had sat on the Committee of last year. He did not, however, mean to say anything to-night upon that important and serious question, whether the Government should or should not take upon itself the liability to the demands of the depositors in these savings banks. These banks had been universally originated by a number of benevolent persons in their respective neighbourhoods, who had taken upon themselves to institute them for the benefit of their poorer neighbours, managing the hanks themselves, and appointing their own officers. The first transaction in which any public officers were concerned, was when the sums deposited in the banks were sent up to the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt, and were placed by them in the public funds of the country. But nobody connected with the Government had anything to do with the management of these hanks, or with the appointment of any of the officers of them. In the cases of the Tralee and the Killarney banks, where the depositors had been defrauded, the proceedings of the secretary who had embezzled the money ought to have been chocked by the trustees; or, at all events, they alone had the power of checking his proceedings, which it appeared they had not done. The Government had no control whatever. The state of the savings banks was very different now, when there were 28,000,000 l 39 l 40
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : If the court did not compel them to produce their books, they might get rid of their liabilities; but, on the other hand, if they were obliged to produce them it might be decided as a case of debt. Then another question of law arose. The courts
 41 l l l l l l l 42 "We are of opinion that the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt have no power to adopt any proceedings whatever to close the bank in question.
 The CHANCELLOR OF the EXCHEQUER  said, he was not aware who the judge was before whom the case had been tried.
 MR. MORRIS  was understood to say that in the case of a failure of a savings hank in that part of the country whence he came, the Lord Lieutenant of the county of Carmarthen had made up all the losses of depositors under 5 l
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  called attention to the presence of strangers, who were instantly ordered to withdraw, the debate being carried on for some time with closed doors. A division was ultimately taken on the Motion.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that as the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman had been principally addressed to the conduct of the Government in 1844, when he was Chancellor of the Exchequer, he trusted the House would indulge him while he stated what was the course then pursued by the Government, and what were the motives by which the Government were actuated, and he trusted that when the House had heard the facts correctly stated, they would not come to the conclusion that there was anything in the conduct of the Government at that time which rendered them liable to the demands now made. It was natural that the hon. Member for the city of Dublin should speak warmly on the subject of the distress of those who had suffered by the failure of this bank; but the House was not to be carried away by accounts of distress, exaggerated no doubt, which prevailed on account of the failure of the bank, to take on itself the responsibility which was never intended to be cast on the Government, and which could not be cast, to the extent which was desired.
 50 51 s d s d Gazette
 MR. GOULBURN  did not concur with the hon. and learned Member in his reading of the Act. Unless it had been intended to destroy the bank altogether, it would not have been justifiable to give such a notice. So much for the conduct of the Government in 1844. He had felt that he could not act, and the trustees refused to adopt his recommendation, although repeatedly warned as to the consequences of refusal. The hon. Member for Edinburgh wished for a Committee to inquire into the subject of savings banks generally; but that would hardly serve the case of hardship which had been brought under the notice of the House; and, on the other hand, to appoint a Committee to inquire into every case on which an award had been made by Mr. Tidd Pratt, would be preposterous and unnecessary, seeing that the Committee of last year had had full time to investigate. As the question was before a court of law, he concurred with the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer in thinking it better to postpone Parliamentary inquiry until that tribunal had given its decision. The hon. and learned Member for Athlone alleged that such proceedings should be no bar. He (Mr. Goulburn) thought otherwise; Parliamentary inquiry could only serve the trustees, who might be glad to have the claims of depositors sifted before a Parliamentary Committee before they came to be argued in a court of law. Legal liability was nowhere contended for, but the House should pause before it adopted a course which might give a tinge of moral liability, as they might depend upon it such a course would exercise great influence over many parties. It would be a bad precedent to make what Government had in the first instance done, from motives of benevolence, a permanent principle of compulsory action. He thought the Committee had better be postponed, and that when appointed its inquiry should be confined to such cases as had not been previously made subjects of investigation.
 MR. GOULBURN : I referred to the other Act.
 MR. GRATTAN  said, that living among the poor people who had been depositors in the bank, he could testify as to the amount of misery they were suffering. If the Government should be successful in resisting this Motion, they might expect its speedy reintroduction in another form.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  rose to move
 30 l l l l "And be it enacted. That no trustee or manager of any savings hank shall he liable to make good any deficiency which may hereafter arise in the funds of any savings bank, unless such persons shall have respectively declared by writing under their hands and deposited with the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt that they are willing so to be answerable; and it shall he lawful for each of such persons, or for such persons collectively, to limit his or their responsibility to such sum as shall be specified in any such instrument." 31 l l l s d l l l l s d l l l l l l s d l l l l l s d l l l l s d 32 l l l l s d l l l s d l s d l l l s d ? s d l s d "I do award, adjudge, and determine that the said trustees and managers do, on the 31st day of July next, at the court-house at Tralee, between the hours of ten and two o'clock, pay to the said Michael Goodwin the sum of 97 l s l s d l l s l l 33 l s l l Times Times Morning Chronicle 34 "When the staff officer observes that any pensioner is in receipt of wages sufficient for his support, he will point out the propriety of putting aside a portion of his pension into a savings bank, to meet the contingencies of sickness and want of employment, when they may happen to occur; and in order to afford the pensioner every information which may induce him to do so, the staff officer will place in some prominent part of his office the rules of the savings banks, and explain to every pensioner in full employment, that for whatever sums he may lodge there, Government security will be afforded him for repayment, with interest. If the pensioner consents that a certain portion per month, or per quarter, of his pension be so deposited, the officer will facilitate the arrangement by every means in his power." Augsburg Gazette 35 "County Kerry Gaol, October 16, 1848. "Sir—Having seen by a report made by Mr. Tidd Pratt on the subject of the Tralee savings bank, that gentleman states 'several pauper debtors, confined in the gaol of Tralee, appeared before him, in custody of the gaoler, for the purpose of establishing their claims to monies de posited by them in the Tralee savings bank,' I beg to inform you no such circumstance ever occurred. No person whomsoever confined in the county of Kerry gaol appeared, either in my custody or in the custody of any other officer of the prison, before Mr. Tidd Pratt, nor could any prisoner be taken before Mr. Tidd Pratt for any such purpose without an order from some competent authority; and no such order was ever received.—I have the honour to be, Sir, your obedient servant, JAMES MORPHT, "GOV. of County of Kerry Gaol. "Henry A. Herbert, Esq., M.P."
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he had no means of information on this matter not possessed by Members generally. He apprehended there was no law of trade in this country to prevent works of art coming into the country, however obtained. The possession of those works of art was another question; and custom-house officers could not he expected to distinguish as to how those articles had been obtained.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  called attention to the notice placed by him on the Paper for the purpose of bringing the condition of Ireland under the consideration of the House. He had put the notice on the Paper, not so much for the purpose of stating his own opinions, as with the view of drawing from influential parties in that House their impressions with regard to the condition of Ireland. There seemed to be a general acknowledgment that hitherto a mistaken and disastrous policy had been pursued towards Ireland, and it was time that some largo and comprehensive measures for her relief should be introduced. He particularly wished to bring fully out, if possible, the plan, of which an outline had been given on a former occasion by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Tamworth. That was a plan which had attracted a great deal of attention in Ireland, though it had merely come before the public in an imperfect state. There was this much about it—it appeared to be "a large and comprehensive plan" in the real and not in the ridiculous sense of the phrase. He expected also to hear from the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire what great promises he was prepared to hold out to Ireland. When that hon. Gentleman brought forward his Motion with respect to agricultural distress, he said he intended much good for Ireland, if he had but an opportunity of explaining it; and he (Mr. J. O'Connell) wished to give him an opportunity of stating what his views were. He hoped that Her Majesty's Ministers might he stimulated by what had fallen from the two hon. Gentlemen of whom he had spoken to state also their plans. He trusted they would hear something statesmanlike from them, instead of the miserable expedients to which hitherto they had recourse—expedients mistrusted even by
 22
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  complained, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had endeavoured to enlist the prejudices of English Members by speaking as he had of an Irish court of justice. He seemed to wonder what they would not do; there was one thing an Irish jury would not do—they would not allow poor people who depended upon the faith of the Government to be defrauded of their hard earnings. [ A laugh 44
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  gave notice, that on Friday or Monday he would put a question to the Government as to whether they would permit the importation, free of duty, of works of art purchased from the Provisional Government of Rome.
 MR. REYNOLDS , in moving for a Select Committee to inquire into, and report upon, the circumstances connected with the failure of the St. Peter's Parish Savings Bank, in Cuffe-street, Dublin, said, that late in the last Session a Select Committee was appointed to inquire and report on the savings banks of Ireland, and that after sitting for eight days they reported that, owing to the late period of the Session they had found themselves unable to come to a satisfactory conclusion, and were of opinion that further inquiry should take place, but that they thought it expedient even in that Session that an Act should be passed regulating the liabilities of trustees, and for the audit of the accounts of savings banks. In accordance with that recommendation a Bill was introduced and had passed into a law. Now, the bank which was the immediate subject of his present Motion was established in 1818, with a duo complement of trustees, managers, and actuary. They opened an account with the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt; they received deposits, and exhibited all the exteriors of prosperity within. He found that upon one occasion the deposits exceeded 300,000 l l 23 l l s d l l l l l pro ratâ l s d l l s d l s d l s d l s d l s d l s d l s d l s d l s d l s d l s d l s d l s d l s l s d 24 l l l l l 25 l l l l l 26 l 27 l l l l l
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that the hon. and learned Member for Athlone had so effectually disposed of the speeches of the two right hon. Gentlemen the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the ex-Chancellor of the Exchequer, the one in answer and the other by anticipation, that it was unnecessary for him to trouble the House with a single observation.
 MR. NAPIER  seconded the Motion, and thought that, after the able speech of the hon. Member for the city of Dublin, there could be no doubt of the necessity for a full and searching inquiry into this case by a Committee of that House. Having been retained by the trustees in the suit before the Court of Queen's Bench, he was able to assure the House from them, that so far was it from their wish to throw any difficulties in the way of a searching
 28 mandamus mandamus 29 s d
 MR. NAPIER  was understood to say that the court had decided that Mr. Tidd Pratt had no jurisdiction to enter upon the question of liability.
 MR. W. FAGAN , in seconding the Amendment, deeply regretted that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Kerry had limited his application to a mere Committee of Inquiry, as he did not anticipate any great results from inquiries before such a tribunal. If the Government were not legally liable to meet the demands of these depositors, it was clear that they were morally bound to do so, when it could be proved that there had been  laches 36 l l laches l l l laches l l l l 37 l l l laches Gazette; laches 38 s
 MR. KEOGH  said, that he should not have risen but for some observations that had fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The right hon. Gentleman had left the House under the impression that there was no instance of any loss sustained
 47 l l l l
 MR. KEOGH : I referred to the last Act—the 3rd Will. IV.; the one referred to by the right hon. Gentleman was the 9th Geo. IV. The 30th clause 3rd Will. IV., directed, that if the annual statement was not prepared and transmitted to the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt within the time limited by the Act, it should be lawful for the said Commissioners, or the comptroller or assistant comptroller, and they were severally required forthwith to publish in the  London Gazette
 MR. KEOGH  should be sorry if the House thought that he had misrepresented the Act of Parliament. He had referred to the 30th section, 3 Will. IV., to which the right hon. Gentleman had not alluded. To set himself right, he (Mr. Keogh) should read the clause.
 MR. KEOGH  explained that what he had said was, that if the bank had not furnished its accounts as directed by the
 52 Gazette
 MR. KEOGH  said, the case had been heard before Judge Ball. The question was, whether the trustees had been guilty of wilful default. Not a particle of evidence of any such charge was offered, but, on the contrary, Mr. Tidd Pratt, who was examined in support of the plaintiff's case, admitted that the defendants had done everything to keep the bank correct, and had given him every facility during his investigation; and, under such circumstances, no judge and jury, either English or Irish, could come to any other conclusion than that which had been arrived at. Having said so much on the insinuations thrown out by the right hon. Gentleman, he next
 48 49 Gazette Gazette
 MR. GROGAN  could not agree with the closing remarks of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Had Her Majesty's Government exercised the powers which they had not—had they closed the bank in Cuffe-street, Dublin—a great amount of misery would have been avoided. In 1831, the Cuffe-street bank was known to be insolvent. Mr. Tidd Pratt went over and examined the accounts. The Government, with a perfect knowledge of the deficiency from 1831 to 1847, failed to exercise the power of closing the hank. In his opinion, every depositor had a moral right to be paid by the Government. And what was the remedy offered by the Chancellor of the Exchequer? The right hon. Gentleman advised the House to refuse the Committee, because the Motion did not ask for a grant of money. It was well known that no such Motion could be made without the previous consent of the Crown. By the same Acts of Parliament which defined the liability of the trustees, the Commissioners had a right to demand the annual transmission of accounts. Had the Commissioners done so they could have prevented the losses which had fallen upon all the depositors subsequent to 1831. He did not wish to doubt the literal accuracy of the opinion read by the right hon. Baronet, but he must express his astonishment. Every legal opinion depended mainly on the case. He altogether differed from the right hon. Gentleman with regard to the power of the Government to close these banks. The right hon. Gentleman denied that they had such power; but he (Mr. Grogan) contended that the Act was clear upon the point. He found that the 46th section of the 9th George IV., c. 92, enacted—
 "That in case the trustees of any savings bank neglected to render an annual statement of their
 45 l
 MR. HUTT  asked whether there existed
 21
 MR. HOPE  wished to put a question to the hon. Gentleman the Member for Lancaster with reference to an opinion which prevailed, that the stone of which the new Houses of Parliament are built is already showing signs of decomposition and decay. It would be satisfactory to the House to know that there was no foundation for that report, and he, therefore, felt justified in asking the question.
 MR. GREENE  did not think there was anything like a general decomposition or decay of the stone in the Houses of Parliament, though there might be some degree of decomposition in a few stones. Those were, he thought, entirely matters of exception, and he believed the stone, generally, to be of as pure a description as any at present used. The selection of the stone was originally left to a commission,
 60
 MR. GREENE  had heard of no report of that kind, and there was not the least foundation for it.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  begged to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer the question of which he had given notice—namely, "whether the works now in course of construction off Cheesman Head were undertaken with a view of forming a harbour of refuge at Dovor; and if so, whether there was any objection to the plan and estimate on the table?" Two most distinguished and competent officers (Sir H. Douglas and Sir W. Symonds) had expressed their opinion that the holding ground was decidedly bad, and that it would not be expedient to select it as a harbour of refuge. It was with a view to ascertain the facts of the case that he had put the question.
 SIR F. BARING  said, he believed that no important difference in point of principle prevailed between him and his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose on that matter. He was quite ready to admit that great care should be taken by the members of every public department not to exceed the estimates; and in saying that he was expressing, not only his own opinion, but the opinion also of his colleagues. The Lords of the Treasury had expressed their disapproval of the proceeding in question in language so perfectly satisfactory that his hon. Friend had actually taken their words as his text; and in the opinion they had expressed, he (Sir F. Baring) entirely concurred. The only question, therefore, then at issue was, whether the circumstance was one which called for a special vote of the House as proposed by his hon. Friend. His hon. Friend had said that he did not mean to cast any censure upon any individual; and that was one reason why he (Sir F. Baring) thought it was not desirable
 65
 SIR W. MOLES WORTH  said, that his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose merely asked the House to disapprove of a certain system. He did not desire to inflict pain on any individual. This case was not an isolated case, because, for a series of years Parliament had been regularly and systematically misinformed with regard to the naval establishment of the country. The number of men borne was always greater than the number of men voted, and there was, therefore, an excess of expenditure in the two first items voted—wages and victuals. They were also misinformed with respect to the expense of works in progress. There were certain works in 1844–45 which they were told would cost 700,000 l l
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  said, he totally disapproved of the whole expenditure incurred on this item, as to the embodying the dockyard artisans, and thought it had proved extremely impolitic.
 SIR. R. PEEL : As, in the course of the very able and temperate speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman (a speech on which I will pass this eulogium, that it was worthy of his own high character for ability and moderation), he has frequently done me the honour of referring to opinions expressed by me, and as I wish to take the opportunity of making some observations, rather with reference to the general social condition of Ireland, than to the particular enactments of the measure now under consideration—I cannot, perhaps, rise at a more opportune time than the present to address the House. I gave my vote for the proposal of the rate in aid, rather for the purpose of expressing an opinion that we had a fair claim to call upon Ireland for separate and independent exertion, than of pronouncing a decision in favour of the
 88 l l l 89 l 90 "The assizes for one division only of the county of Tipperary, and that the most quiet one (the
 91 92 s s "We regret, however, to be obliged to add, in most parts of Ireland there seems to be by no means a corresponding advance in the condition and comforts of the labouring classes. A reference to the evidence of most of the witnesses will show that the agricultural labourer of Ireland continues to suffer the greatest privations and hardships; that he continues to depend upon casual and precarious employment for subsistence; that he is badly housed, badly fed, badly clothed, and badly paid for his labour." 93 l l l l l 94 l l l l l and a laugh l l l l l l l 95 l l l l "Clustered in villages, a plot of ground attach-ed to their cabins, and a portion of a field hired by conacre for potatoes, as their means of living, in the best of times their existence was but a wretched one; and when the famine came, and the only root they had been accustomed to cultivate for food became a mass of rottenness, with no employment, no manufactures to fall back upon, they were left without subsistence and without resources, fit objects for the aid provided by the bounty of the empire, the charity of the benevolent, and the law now in force for the relief of the poor. Such form a numerous class of the recipients of relief." "Another class consists of those who had a small holding of land, two, three, or more acres, or who, with several others, had a small farm in joint tenancy (the rundale system), the allotments being checkered, a patch here and a patch there without a fence, a slight difference in level being made to distinguish the plots. Holding in common, so all their operations were in common; none tilled his land before his neighbour, and on certain fixed days the work of the seasons began. The tillage was of the rudest description; green crops were unknown; a crop of potatoes, then of oats, potatoes again, oats, perhaps barley, and often two or three grain crops in succession, was the course pursued, except near the towns. A cow or two and some pigs formed the stock; the potato produce fed the family, the grain paid the rent; the former was swept away by the blight, but aid
 96 "Some of the potatoes which did not decay were hoarded for seed, and planted; the next failure was partial, the potatoes would grow again. Courage was acquired at the thought; and, in 1848, the most extraordinary efforts were made to put down a crop. Potato seed was sought for with avidity, and high prices paid for it. It was a last effort. In some cases the cow and every available article were sold to put a crop in the ground. Many staked their all on this cherished root, and lost—the blight came, and more withering ruin than before." l l l 97 l l "Successive years of famine have told fearfully on the circumstances of all classes. Amongst the highest rated immediate lessors are the names of no less than nine proprietors whose estates are under the supervision of the Court of Chancery, and managed by receivers. The encumbrances and improvidence, perhaps, of former years, accumulating upon the difficulties of the last three seasons, appear to have rendered extrication hopeless in these cases." l l l l "The grand jury should not conceal from the Government their solemn conviction that the county is not able to pay this money; that this inability is attested by the fact that there are in this county thousands of acres of land thrown out of cultivation, and wholly waste at this moment; that two of their baronial rate collectors threw up their appointments at last assizes, and that one barony, containing 89,986 acres, is without a collector from that time to the present, it being impossible to get any one to undertake the collection,
 98 l l 99 s d 100 101 imperium in imperio 102 l l 103 l l "Before the emigrant has been a week at sea, he is an altered man. How can it be otherwise? Hundreds of poor people, men, women, and children, of all ages, from the drivelling idiot of 90 to the babe just born, huddled together without light, without air, wallowing in filth, and breathing a fetid atmosphere, sick in body, dispirited in heart, the fevered patients lying between the sound, in sleeping places so narrow as almost to deny them the power of indulging, by a change of position, the natural restlessness of the disease; by their agonised ravings disturbing those around, and predisposing them, through the effects of the imagination, to imbibe the contagion; living without food or medicine, except as administered by
 104 105 l l 106 "He had taken on perpetuity a lease on the west coast of Ireland. He had planted four of his sons there. To encourage habits of industry, one is buying all the stockings brought to him to send to England; another has purchased a hooker of 25 tons, and is endeavouring to encourage fishing on the coast; another was employing upwards of 100 labourers daily last year, but on account of being heavily taxed for his improvements, turned
 107 "The more I see, the more am I convinced that this country has the best prospects of any place I know of. There is every desideratum for the enjoyment of a contented and prosperous life." "I see no reason why persons should not support themselves entirely upon the produce of their land here. Of beef, mutton, pork, an almost inexhaustible supply can always be had. Flour, oatmeal, &c., should all come from off the farm. A chandler's bill should never be known, for we have already manufactured more than a winter month's supply from the slender means we had. In fact, I think that rent, groceries, with some extras for clothing, &c., should be the only expenditure of a person in this country, when once properly settled. For the yearly sum of 5 l l l l 108 109 "An Act for annexing certain forfeited estates to the Crown in, inalienably, and for making satisfaction to the lawful creditors thereupon, and to establish a method of managing the same, and applying the rents and profits thereof to the better civilising and improving the Highlands of Scotland, and preventing disorders there for the future." 110 "Unfortunately for Ireland, the landed property there, to a large extent, was in a situation not only detrimental to those who had an Interest in the land, but also most injurious to the community at large. A very large portion of it was heavily encumbered by mortgages, charges, and other interests; so that the ostensible owner could hardly be said to have any estate in the land at all. When a man was really the owner of an estate, he had both the means and the motive for improving it; but it was impossible for a landlord whose income arising from his landed estate was intercepted by mortgages and other charges, to discharge those duties which a landlord should discharge. This was a most infamous state of things." "Titles in Ireland were in a most deplorable condition. In Ireland the registers were exceedingly bad; and instead of clearing up titles, and making them more certain, often involved them in inextricable confusion," "The interference in such a case as the present is of the same sort and character as all the other legislative interferences with private property for public purposes; and because this interference is intended to secure the payment of debts, or the performance of private obligation, which
 111 "I entertain considerable doubt whether the cautious provisions provided by the Commons to prevent sales for less than their value, are not only move than are necessary to effect their object, but so stringent as to impair the efficiency of the additional process which the amendments are intended to provide. Considering the caveats, the notices (sometimes difficult, if not impossible, to serve), the valuations, the five years to elapse before a perfect and unimpeachable title can be obtained, the liabilities as for breaches of trust, and the powers given to redeem, it is manifest that the obstacles to sales under these provisions are very great. Perhaps they may, in their application, be found so great—in many cases where there is considerable complication—as to make the additional process impracticable, and to leave to him who desires to have the benefit of the Act that particular mode of obtaining it which was at first provided by your Lordships." "He had been himself familiar with the practice of the Court of Chancery for many years past, and he well knew the great benefits which
 112 113 114 115 "The third consequence is the great safety that is likely to grow to your Majesty's estate in general by this Act; a discomfiting all hostile attempts of foreigners—which the weakness of that kingdom hath heretofore invited." 116 "And in the natural body of man, if there be any weak or affected part, it is enough to draw rheums or malign humours into it, to the interruption of the health of the whole body." 117
 MR. SHAFTO ADAIR  confessed that he never approached the consideration of any question beset with greater doubts and difficulties than was the present. But before he undertook to comment on the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Dublin University (Mr. Napier), he would beg to offer his tribute of admiration to the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, for the bold, comprehensive and statesmanlike views he had propounded; and, if in the course of his own address, he went still further than that right hon. Gentleman in his views, he trusted he would give him the benefit of his suggestions, and great practical experience. He rose to address the House, as one representing an English constituency—as one who was intimately connected with both countries, and who would not designate himself, as an English, or as an Irish, but as a British subject. As one, moreover, intimately connected with that portion of Ireland, in which an active opposition was evinced towards the rate in aid, he should implore the House to consider that they were now approaching one of the
 118 l 119 120 121 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 122 123 l l Edinburgh Review 124 l l l l 125 l l 126
 MR. P. WOOD  said, that this Bill had been hitherto unopposed; but he now understood that at this late stage the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Goulburn) was desirous of discussing its principle, although
 133
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, his only objection, as he had already stated, to placing the resolution on the journals, was a feeling with regard to the memory of the Earl of Auckland, who had conducted the Admiralty to the general satisfaction of the country. He left the matter in the hands of the House, and as all such imputations had been universally disavowed, he had no objection to the resolution as enforcing the necessity of a constitutional check on expenditure.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, with respect to the merits of the question there appeared to be no difference of opinion. The Motion contained the very words used by the Lords of the Treasury in expressing their opinion on this transaction; and he (Lord J. Russell), therefore, did not differ on this point from the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. With regard to the number of men borne and voted, he thought it right to say—having been in constant communication with the late First Lord of the Admiralty—that he had entertained hopes of being able to bring the number of men borne nearer the number voted. This being the case—there being this general agreement as to the merits of the question, he really put it to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stamford, whether it was desirable to have a division, when the two parties, going out on different sides, would, in reality, entertain no difference of opinion? The right hon. Gentleman could not but feel, that placing this Motion on the journals of the House, would be a reflection on the character of the late First Lord of the Admiralty, there being, at the same time, no disposition to impugn his conduct.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  was not aware that there was any law that would enable the Government to prevent the importation into this country of works of art of the description and for the purposes to which the hon. and learned Gentleman referred. It would be necessary to propose an alteration in the law for the purpose; and that alteration the Government were not inclined to propose. The hon. and learned Gentleman had asked if the Government would give any sanction to the sale of those works of art; he could tell him that no sanction had been given.
 MR. SPEAKER  then inquired whether there were any amendments or additional clauses; and having been answered by Mr. P. Wood in the negative, said, that in that case, according to the new rules, the report must be received.
 The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Gentleman would find, on referring to the evidence given by him last year, that he had stated what was expended up to that time, and what would be required.
 The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER  said, probably the best answer which he could give to that question would be to repeat the answer which he had given to the Committee which had sat last year on the Navy Estimates. If the hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite would refer to the evidence he had then given, a complete answer would be found to his question. It was true that the commissioners appointed to examine into the state of harbours had reported as the hon. and gallant Gentleman had said; but although a variety of opinions had existed with respect to the site of a harbour of refuge, all alleged that it would be of great service to extend the pier alluded to. That the Government had done, and had undertaken that portion of the work in such a manner that it might be stopped at its conclusion, or if a larger plan were to be adopted, that which was completed might form part of the work. The right hon. Gentleman then said, that whether the smaller plan, which involved the expenditure of 2,000,000 l l 61
 MR. GOULBURN  explained the reasons that had prevented him from being present at the previous stages of the Bill, and thought it hard that, now that he was enabled, at last, to be present, he should be told that, not having been present before, he ought to wait till the Bill arrived at its last stage before he discussed its principle. The Bill involved considerations of very great importance, which the House ought well to discuss; and as hon. Members appeared to be too much exhausted by the previous debate for the House now to enter at that late hour (past twelve o'clock) into the subject, he hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would not object to postpone the present stage to some future day, that a clear statement might be placed before the House of what the Bill's contents really were, which he believed was not the case at present.
 MR. GRATTAN  said, that the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth was one which deserved the serious attention of the House. There was scarcely an Irish Member who would not express a degree of gratitude to the right hon. Baronet, not, however, unmixed with surprise at the late period at which he had announced his plans, seeing the many opportunities which had previously been afforded to him for bringing them forward. The right hon. Baronet had paid a compliment to the Irish people, for which he, on their behalf, thanked him. There was no person, perhaps, who, during
 131 l l 132 l l
 MR. BRIGHT  said, as it appeared to be the wish of the House not to continue the debate any further that night, he would now move its adjournment.
 MR. HERRIES  begged most distinctly to disavow any desire to make the imputation which had been suggested, and no such inference, he trusted, would be drawn from anything which had fallen from him. He thought the course suggested by the hon. Member for Berkshire would reconcile all opinions.
 MR. HERRIES  never remembered, during all his long acquaintance with the Parliamentary career of the hon. Member for Montrose, to have heard him so complimentary or forbearing. He could not see, however, that the circumstances of the case altogether warranted so much forbearance. There were two points to be kept in view, as it appeared to him, in looking at this question. There was, besides the excess itself, which perhaps was somewhat inevitable, the fact that no timely notice of that excess had been given to the superior department. The Admiralty ought to have reported in due time to the Lords of the Treasury, and have received their approbation or disapprobation of their proceedings. He had on many occasions maintained that doctrine, and experience only served to convince him that no department ought to incur expenditure not sanctioned by Parliament without reference to the department which had the control of the public purse. In this respect the Admiralty bad signally failed, for it had incurred an expenditure considerably beyond that anticipated in the estimates. There might have been sufficient reasons for it; but none had been given, to his mind, such as to justify the Admiralty in not having recourse to that department which might have sanctioned it on its own responsibility, and thus have relieved the Admiralty from blame. His right hon. Friend the. Member for Dover, who had great experience in this department, and to whose labours there the
 67
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  begged to ask if Her Majesty's Government would permit the importation into this country (for the purpose of sale or delivery to customers) of works of art sold or about to be sold by the Provisional Government at Rome? The Government of Rome was not recognised by any European Power—and would Her Majesty's Government allow or sanction the sale in this country of those works of art, which, by the decree of the Government of Rome, were directed to be sold, and which had been already offered for sale to, and honourably refused by, the British Museum?
 MR. HENLEY  thought the question certainly ought to go to a division, unless the noble Lord at the head of the Government would consent to place the Motion on the Journals of the House; for having been raised, it could not be allowed to drop. The reason assigned for going no further
 68
 MR. HUME  had no objection to the arrangement if the noble Lord at the head of the Government would consent to allow the resolution to be placed on the Votes; and he trusted the House would acquit him of having any wish to press it forward in a vexatious manner.
 MR. HUME  hoped the Government would send a copy of his resolution to every department of the public service.
 MR. HUME  rose to move, pursuant to notice—
 "That it appears by the report of the Board of Audit, that the Expenditure for Naval Services
 62 l "That the sum voted by Parliament for the formation of the Dock Yard Battalions, in the year 1847–48, was 20,000 l l s d l s d "That this House concurs in the opinion expressed by the Lords of Her Majesty's Treasury," That with regard to this large excess (for the Dock Yard Battalions) the Expenditure was entirely within the control of the Board of Admiralty; 'and, that the proper course would have been to have postponed the enrolment of men beyond the numbers provided for by Parliament:' "That when a certain amount of Expenditure for a particular service has been determined upon by Parliament, it is the bounden duty of the department which has that Service under its charge and control, to take care that the Expenditure does not exceed the amount placed at its disposal for that purpose." l l l
 MR. HUME  hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would lay before the House a report of the progress made in the works, and what was to be done; the amount expended, and the amount that would be required.
 MR. NAPIER , in rising to oppose the second reading of this Bill, said, a more important question had not, for a long time, been submitted to the consideration of Parliament, whether in regard to the principle involved, or the feeling excited by the Bill among the most intelligent portion of the Irish people. He wished, in the first place, to consider it as a question of principle, and it was his intention to divide the argument into two branches; and, first, to consider the question as a question of rating; and, secondly, as a question of taxation—two entirely separate questions. With regard to the question of rating, the principle involved in the Bill appeared to him precisely this—whether a rate should be imposed on the rateable property of one union in aid of the rates of any other union, however distinct or however disconnected. He warned English Members that this was a principle which, if carried with reference to Ireland, might soon be established against the people of England. The Bill conflicted with every system of poor-laws as yet introduced into Ireland. If he rightly understood the argument, the Government attempted to establish their case by making out an analogy between this Bill and the statute of Elizabeth; and he was quite willing to be bound by the principle of that statute. They maintained that the Act of Elizabeth had provided a rate in aid, which was to be levied on the vicinage. This argument, however, required examination, in order to see where the vicinage ended, and whether its limits were circumscribed by some capricious, arbitrary boundary, or whether it was determined upon some fixed principle. If he had read the statute aright, a clear and rational principle was laid down; following which in the present case, all cases of rating would be excluded beyond the limits of the poor-law union, unless they were prepared to go to the extent of converting all Ireland into one poor-law union. The right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department had referred particularly to the statute of Elizabeth, and he begged, therefore, to call the attention of
 70 71 d l ex-officio 72 73 à fortiori "Still the advantage of the smaller union was not so sensibly felt as it now is, until the Act of 1847 extended relief to paupers out of the house; because the number of infirm or helpless persons in a given community is tolerably constant, and, as a test of destitution, the workhouse is less essential; nor is so rigid a personal and local scrutiny by the guardians so indispensable. As soon, however, as it became necessary for the guardians to control the administration of outdoor relief, and more especially when the necessity for such relief was increased beyond all permanent conditions, by the pressure of severe, and, yet more, of successive years, of famine; following also the immense extent of gratuitous relief administered under the Act of 10 Vict., c. 7, the better state of the northern and eastern unions became very apparent." 74 "Such a fund applied to purposes opposed to the letter, and still more to the spirit, of the law, is destructive to the morals of the most numerous class, and to the welfare of all That the great source of abuse was the outdoor relief afforded to the able bodied, on their account, or on that of their families, given either in kind of in money." 75 l "The strict limitation of relief to the workhouse may possibly be objected to, on the ground that extreme want is found occasionally to assail large portions of the population of Ireland, who are then reduced to a state bordering oft starvation, and ought, therefore, it may be asserted, to be relieved at the public charge, without being subjected to the discipline of a workhouse. This, however, is an extreme case; and it would not, I think, be wise to adapt the regulations of poor-law administration to the possible occurrence of such a contingency.  * * * * 76 77 l 78 "I am very anxious that the results of experience in this, the Ballinasloe poor-law union—one of the largest and most populous in Connaught—should not be altogether overlooked by your committee. For seven years up to September, 1817, the poor-law of 1838 was here in beneficial operation, with regard both to the interests of the poor and the social improvement of the district. The destitute always found relief, and none others applied for it. Idleness, except under the Temporary Relief Acts, found no encouragemant; and agriculture steadily improved under
 79 80 81 82 l "Si possis, recte; si non, quocunque modo rem;" "What you are now called oh to decide is this, whether Great Britain, being subject to the pay-ment of a tax upon income derived from land, or income derived from office, or profits of trade, and an income derived from all occupations to which salary is attached, you will determine that in Ireland, land—and land alone—shall be liable to this tax. So that the Lord Lieutenant would be ex-jempt, whilst land alone is to bear the burden. I cannot see the justice or the equality of the principle.
 83 "You may no doubt increase the revenue by imposing this tax on Ireland; but in my opinion it would be extremely disadvantageous and impolitic to impose it. If you will give to Ireland as much relief from taxes as possible—if you follow out the principle of exonerating her from many taxes which now press and formerly pressed on this country—if you will do what you can to sail forth the resources of that country, and to
 84 85 86 87 "Quare videte, num dubitendum vobis studio studio ad id opus incumbere, in quo gloria nominis nostri, salus sociorum, vectigalia maxima, fortunæ plurimorum eivium una cum republicâ defondantur."
 MR. OSBORNE  would ask the hon. Member another question, viz., whether there was any foundation for the report that hon. Members were to hold their deliberations in the new House of Commons soon after Easter?
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  said, as there appeared to be no difference of opinion as to the merits of the question, and as he understood the hon. Member for Montrose not to object to the vote, but to be desirous only to record his opinion, he begged to suggest whether he might not attain his object by withdrawing his Amendment, and bringing forward his resolution as a distinct proposition.
 MR. BATESON  said, that, representing a county which had always been justly celebrated for its loyalty, and which had ever stood the firm friend of British connexion, he should fail in his duty if he did not come forward and protest against so unjust, impolitic, and unconstitutional a measure. He would remind those hon. Members who had sneered at the "sixpenny loyalty" of Ulster, that there had been such a thing as a "farthing a week, penny a month, and shilling a year" disloyalty. Would those hon. Members give him an account of the sums collected from the miserable dupes for whom they now proposed to tax Ulster? Could they tell him how much was spent in guns, pikes, and the munitions of war, which were afterwards used at Widow Cormac's house, or on the hill of Slievenamon? Lot him ask whether there was not, at that moment, a rate struck, even in the bankrupt unions, in aid of his Holiness the Pope; and were not those payers of Peter's pence the very men for whose benefit they were now levying this rate in aid? Few had had the hardihood to defend the principle of that Bill, and almost every Member who had expressed his intention of supporting it, had admitted it to he bad and unjust. Nobody but a disciple of Louis Blanc could defend the communist doctrine, that industry must support indolence—that the industrious, peaceable, and hardworking portion of Ireland was to pay for the idle, the improvident, and the turbulent. The author of the  Organisation of Labour 127 s 128 l 129 130
 SIR E. BUXTON  said, it was very unusual to have a discussion on the bringing up of the report, and he trusted the right hon. Gentleman who had last spoken would consent to defer any discussion which he thought necessary until the third reading.
 SIR G. CLERK  said, he believed the House was unanimously of opinion that an excess of expenditure in any department over the amount voted by the House was a great irregularity. He had the fullest confidence in the right hon. Gentleman the present First Lord of the Admiralty, and after what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, he was not disposed to enter into the merits of the hon. Gentleman's (Mr. Hume's) resolutions. It certainly was extremely irregular that the expenditure of one great department should exceed the vote. He wished he could be equally confident that the vote they were about to pass would be the last occasion on which the House would be called on to make good a deficiency of last year. He was afraid it would be found that the expenditure of the current financial year, now approaching its close, would considerably exceed the estimates voted by Parliament. He believed that the deficiency arose from an error in the principle of calculating the wages of the men. Having, however, confidence in the financial management of the present First Lord of the Admiralty, he should not feel disposed to press the resolutions against the wish of Her Majesty's Government.
 MR. WARD  said, he had distinctly stated the other night that there would be an excess in the Navy expenditure for the current year, as compared with the estimate, as there was a larger charge than had been anticipated in Vote No. 1 for the wages of men, and also in Vote No. 17 for the freight service of the Army and Ordnance, for which the Board of Admiralty were not responsible, as they had merely been the agents for other departments.
 MR. WARD  said, that his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose had on this occasion discharged a public duty with good feeling and good taste, for whilst he censured the system, he said all that was desirable to say respecting the noble Lord who was at the head of the Admiralty when this excess took place. In most of the observations of his hon. Friend he was disposed to incur. He admitted the justice of the rule he laid down, and that it could
 63 l
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, the question was important in point of principle, for it involved this—whether there existed in this country any effective control over the expenditure? And he had come to the conclusion that there did not, because it could be shown that this excess of expenditure took place in direct defiance of the vote of that House, and without the knowledge of the superior department of the Lords of the Treasury. He put it to the noble Lord the First Lord of the Treasury,
 64 l
 MR. UBQHART  begged to repeat the question which he had on more than one occasion put to the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs on the subject of the capture of certain vessels at Monte Video.
 VISCOUNT PAMERSTON : Of course, it must be evident that any change in the territorial limits of Europe would be a subject requiring very grave consideration. He had no reason to suppose, from anything which he had heard, that any intention or desire, or disposition whatever, existed on the part of the Austrian Government to require from Piedmont as a condition of peace any cession of territory.
 MR. GREENE  assured the hon. Member for Montrose that there was a strong desire on the part of the Commissioners to forward the progress of the building as rapidly as
 157 l l l l l l l
 MR. GREENE  said, that he did not state that the 8,000 l
 MR. GREENE  replied, that, with regard to all matters of expenditure, the Commissioners were bound to report to the Treasury, and they could not order any expenditure without the sanction of that department.
 MR. GREENE  observed, that he apprehended that the return which would in the course of a few days be laid on the table would give all the information which the gallant Officer required; but if this should prove not to be the case, he would take care that a further return should be prepared.
 MR. GREENE  observed, that the ventilation of the committee rooms was originally intrusted to Dr. Reid; but some time ago they were placed under the control of Mr. Barry, Mr. Barry since then had not had time to complete the ventilation of these rooms; but, no doubt, within a very short time he would be able to complete the ventilation, and thus improve the air as well as the warming of these rooms.
 MR. GREENE  believed, that this was a matter in which the Commissioners could not interfere. He had been informed that they would be able to prevent the reverberation of sound by placing floss paper on the walls of those rooms.
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY : I think, with the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, that this rate in aid is a great delusion, and that Her Majesty's Government have neglected their duty by not bringing forward some great and comprehensive scheme. I also agree with the hon. Gentleman that Ireland must look rather to the Opposition side of the House for any great remedial measure, than to the Ministerial benches. Early in the Session, Sir, when a grant of 50,000 l 181 182 d l l l l l s 183 l l s l s l l l l l s s l l l l l 184 185 186 l l 187 Times "The accounts of the progress of destitution throughout certain portions of Connaught continue to be of a most deplorable description. The county of Mayo, as usual, takes the lead in the history of horrors. A gentleman named Hilles, writing from Newport, enumerates a fearful catalogue of deaths by starvation; and the names of the unhappy people and all the circumstances connected with the tragic scene are duly set forth, there is no reason to suppose that the writer has been guilty of exaggeration. Mr. Hilles concludes his letter by stating, on the authority of a person officially connected with the district, that fully 1,000 lives must be lost within the coming month, as many of those who are on the relief list were getting only a few ounces of yellow meal daily. Equally miserable is the condition of Connemara, where, according to the testimony of a Roman Catholic priest, 'the country appears as if it was after being ravaged by some powerful enemy. Despair is visible in every countenance; industry of every kind is paralysed; the fields be waste, and every eye is turned to America. A few only are living, and fewer still are making any preparation for tillage.' What will the opponents of the Peel panacea say of these sketches of Connaught in the nineteenth century?" s 188 189
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO  stated that he, with some other Members, formed the Committee on a private Bill which had excited considerable interest in the City, and they were sitting in one of the new committee rooms. During the last three weeks the smoke in it had been so annoying to them that they had been obliged to open the windows, and the Members had to sit in their great coats; and, as regarded himself, he had caught a severe cold. The ventilation of the room was bad in the extreme, and must be most injurious to the Members of the Committee, as well as to the other persons present, and the room was generally full. If any one retired from the room, and returned in five minutes, he would find the smell to be intolerable, and he could only compare it to that of bilge-water in an open sewer. He wished to know whether this was the last vote for the New Houses to be taken in the present year?
 MR. J. S. WORTLEY  said, if the noble Lord had no objection, he should propose to go on with that measure on the 3rd of May.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  replied, that he should not stand in his way.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  hoped they would be sufficient, but circumstances might arise at an advanced period of the Session
 151
 LORD J. RUSSELL,  on rising to bring forward his Motion, respecting Orders of the Day having precedence of Notices of Motions, wished, in the first place, to say that he thought there had been in the course of the present Session the greatest disposition evinced on the part of the House to bring the business under its consideration, whatever it might be, to a conclusion. He had, therefore, no doubt of the readiness of the House to adopt any rule which would tend to the despatch of business. It appeared to him, however, that for several years past the Government having been charged with the duty of bringing forward measures—and many of them difficult measures—relating to subjects of vast importance, had not a sufficient opportunity—there being only two days a week allotted to the Government during a considerable part of the Session—of proceeding with their business. The consequence had been, that hon. Members had asked for Bills to be proceeded with which it was utterly impossible to proceed with, owing to there being so little time allowed; and another consequence had been, that many Bills of very great importance had been brought in at a very late period of the Session, when there was no great attendance in that House, and
 149 150
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that what the hon. Gentleman proposed would leave the inconvenience of former years unremoved.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  assented.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he had been in communication with the Bishop of Durham and the rector of Bishop Wearmouth—and they both stated that it had always been in their contemplation that an Act of Parliament would be necessary to carry out the arrangements which they had in view with respect to the rectory; but the rector said he thought it would not be possible to prepare a Bill for that purpose until the amount of the income had been more correctly ascertained than it is at present. As he was in communication with the Bishop of Durham, he would be able to state, after Easter, when it was intended to bring in a Bill.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  replied, that the Government had not received any accounts from Governor Barkly since he left this country. There were no written instructions given to him with regard to the civil list; but Mr. Barkly, the new Governor, perfectly well understood, he believed, that if there were an address to the Crown on the subject of a civil list, there was every disposition on the part of Her Majesty's Government to consider the charges of the civil list, with a view to their reduction. That list, however, having been settled for a certain period of time, of course Mr. Barkly must be aware that no alteration could be made in it without the consent of the Crown.
 LORD J. RUSSELL,  in moving the Order of the Day, observed, that they only intended to ask for a few votes on account, for civil services and for civil contingencies; and he did not intend to propose that they should go that night into the Navy Estimates. He, therefore, put it to those hon. Gentlemen who had notices of Motion on the Paper previous to going into Committee of Supply, to postpone them for the present.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  remarked, that all that he asked was that they should go into Committee of Supply to obtain a few votes on account. He hoped that the hon. Gentleman would allow them to do so for that purpose, as postponing it would interfere with the public business.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  thought it was rather too early to say what changes should be made in our consular establishments, in consequence of what had occurred on the Continent.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, I should have been anxious to confine myself as closely as possible to the Bill which forms the subject of our deliberations; but the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, who has just sat down, to whom I have listened most attentively during the whole of his speech, has himself enlarged the field of discussion, and made it necessary for me to enter into questions extending far beyond the mere vote of the evening. Before I enter on those larger questions, I think it is necessary, for a short time, to detain the House with some vindication of the project which is now before us. It is not, as the hon. Gentleman endeavoured to represent it, the "comprehensive scheme" of Government for the relief of the evils of Ireland, and designed to form a permanent foundation for the prosperity of that country. It is a temporary measure, to cure an acute evil under which Ireland is at present suffering, but which does not pretend to give any ultimate or comprehensive remedy. The hon. Gentleman, following others in this respect, avowed his objections to the measure, and stated that the proposition of a rate in aid was unjust. Now, I cannot think that any one could have said it was unjust, if we had proposed, in any year, that the taxation of Ireland should be assimilated to that of England. When Ireland was not allowed to have resort to our colonies; when she was not permitted to trade with the West Indies or North America; when even her trade with this country was fettered like a foreign trade; then, indeed, it might be right, and it was right, that the superior amount of taxation should be borne by England, as she had exclusive privileges, and claimed the exclusive possession of certain rights for herself. But since every restriction of that kind has been done away, it appears to me that, so far as justice is concerned, there would be
 212 l l l l l 213 214 laissez faire 215 Laissez faire, et laissez passer 216 217 l l 218 219 220 221 l l l 222 223 s d 224 225 226 227
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he could only consent to the hon. and learned Gentleman's proposition on the understanding that the debate was to proceed on the morrow evening uninterrupted by any of the Motions standing on the Paper.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the Member for Manchester, in a speech which, although I agree as little with the hon. Gentleman as any Member in this House, I listened
 191 l 192 l l l 193 l l 194 l l 195 196 laissez faire 197 198 199 200 201 l ex officio 202 Laughter 203 204 s s 205 Times 206 "A Lancashire gentleman, son to Mr. Eastwood, of Brindle Lodge, near Preston, who has got a lease for ever from me of a large improvable tract, and who in the two years he has resided here has expended between 4,000 l l l "The result is, Mr. Eastwood has dismissed all his labourers except twelve, and until a change in the law takes place has completely ceased all his improvements and employment, by which so many families were supported who are now thrown upon the union as recipients of outdoor relief." "Another gentleman, Mr. Prior, who has a similar lease from me, and obtained from Government 800 l l l 207 "Owing to the principles of the present poor-law, the boon granted by the Legislature to benefit the country, by facilitating improvement and employment, is completely nullified; and until the law with respect to improvements on land, being subject to increased rate for a certain extended period, is altered, and until each property or town-land is directly liable to support the destitution existing on it, by employment or otherwise, the hands of every man, whether improving landlord or industrious farmer, are completely tied, and the position of this country must go from bad to worse, the laying out of capital on land being completely put a stop to." Times 208 209 210 l 211
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  believed that the squabble was still going on, and he felt no disposition to interfere in the matter. He was rather surprised at the desire expressed by his hon. Friend the Member for Middlesex, calling upon him at once to complete the new
 159
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that this was only a vote on account.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the expense of collecting the whole excise revenue of the country was 900,000 l l l l l l l
 MR. C. S. FORTESCUE  was the more anxious to give his reasons for opposing the measure of the Government, because he usually agreed with their political views. But he should vote against the proposal for the rate in aid, because he wished to see another species of tax imposed upon Ireland. He wished to see an Irish income tax raised for Irish purposes; and he wished to correct some of the terms that had been used in the debate. When Her Majesty's Government and those hon. Gentlemen who supported their proposition spoke about the necessity of thereby compelling Ireland to make an effort for herself, they really meant, not Ireland, but one class of Irishmen—the ratepayers. If the country were to make a national effort, the basis of the measure should be extended. But whilst differing from the Government, he should also express his dissent from the very erroneous principle that had been caught up by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin and his party, who assigned, amongst their reasons for opposing the pro-sent plan, that the two countries should be considered perfectly identical, and should be subjected to precisely the same forms of legislation. He begged hon. Gentlemen to consider what that principle, if fully carried out, would lead to. They should have perfect similarity of taxation. The poor-laws should be identical. They should have the same system of national education and the same ecclesiastical system. The more they examined what the natural and inevitable consequences of such identity would be, the more objectionable they would find it. He could not help regarding Ireland as a separate personality and a separate nationality. He was opposed to a repeal of the legislative Union; but he thought the principle of perfect identity, if attempted to be carried out, would excite an opposition so strong as to lead to repeal of the Union. The vote that he would give upon the present occasion would be, not as between Englishmen and Irishmen, but as between one class of Irishmen and another. The reason assigned for the introduction of the measure was, that an emergency had arisen which called for the exertion of the whole power of the nation. They should lay aside in such a case all
 190
 MR. URQUHART  said, he had alluded to the past engagements of the two Governments. The Minister for Foreign Affairs in France had declared the determination of his Government to maintain the integrity of Piedmont, and he wished to know whether that declaration was made in consequence of any understanding between the two Governments.
 MR. URQUHART  wished to know whether the declaration made by the French Minister for Foreign Affairs with respect to the north of Italy was the result of a concurrent action with this Government?
 MR. HORSMAN  wished to learn from the noble Lord at the head of the Government whether or not it was probable that there would be any legislation in the course of the present Session with respect to the rectory of Bishop Wearmouth?
 MR. HORSMAN  regretted that he was
 154 l l l l l l A cry of 155
 MR. BAILLIE  wished to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government relative to the colony of British Guiana. It appeared that letters had been conceived, stating that Governor Barkly had just arrived there, but that he had stated to the Court of Policy that he had no arrangements to propose with reference
 146
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that the noble Lord the Member for London, by his answer to the hon. Member for Montrose, had appeared to indicate that he did not intend to ask for the other Thursdays during the remainder of the Session. He could understand the noble Lord's not being willing to enter into a pledge, as there might be an absolute necessity for an additional day; but, under ordinary circumstances, the noble Lord would not, he understood, consider it necessary to take more than the alternate Thursday—nor was his object to avoid subjects which might be unpalatable to the Government.
 MR. BRIGHT  said: I ventured to move the adjournment of the debate on Friday night, because I was anxious to have the opportunity of expressing the opinions which I entertain on this most important subject. I am one of the Committee appointed by this House to inquire into the working of the Irish poor-law, and on that Committee I was one of the majority—the large majority—by which the resolution for a rate in aid was affirmed. In the division which took place on the same proposition in the House, I also voted in the majority. But I am not by any means disposed to say that there are no reasons against the course which I take, or against the proposition which has been submitted to the House by the Government. On the whole, however, I am prepared to-night to justify that proposition, and the vote which I have given for it. As to the project of raising money for the purpose of these distressed unions, I think there can be no doubt in the mind of any Member of the House, that money must come from some quarter. It appears to me a question of life or money. All the witnesses who were examined before the Committee, and the concurrent testimony of all parties in Ireland—of all the public papers—of all the speeches which have been delivered in the course of this debate, go to prove that unless additional funds be provided, tens of thousands of our unfortunate fellow-countrymen in Ireland must perish of famine in the course of the present year. If this be true, it is evident that a great necessity is upon us—a grave
 162 l l l 163 l l l l d d d s d l l 164 l l l d l l 165 166 "Civil power may snore at ease, While soldiers fire—to keep the peace." 167 s d l l l l l 168 169 "The proposals extend to a strict settlement by the gentleman upon the first and other sons of the marriage. It will appear from the preceding observations, that where the relative circumstances are such as in the present case, a strict settlement ef the gentleman's estate does not ordinarily enter into the arrangement, which begins and ends with his taking the lady's fortune, and imposing an equivalent pecuniary charge upon his estate (for her personal benefit). The proposals seldom go further, unless there is hereditary rank or title to be supported, or it is in contemplation to found a family. The former of those circumstances do not exist in this case, and the latter would require the settlement of the bulk of the estates. The policy of such settlements is extremely questionable. It is difficult to refer them, in the absence of both the motives already indicated, to any rational principle. The present possessor has absolute dominion; his character is known, his right unquestionable. He is asked to reduce himself to a mere tenant for life in favour of an unborn son, of whose character nothing can be predicated, and who, if he can be said to have any right, cannot possibly have a preferable right. At no very distant period the absolute dominion must
 170 post obit 171 172 l l l s s s l s l 173 174 175 d 176 "In conclusion, we beg to offer our matured opinion that the resources of the union would, if made available, be amply sufficient for the independent support of its population." "There is no over-population, if those unions, according to their capabilities, were cultivated as the average of English counties, with the same skill and capital." "I did not speak of a redundant population in
 177 178 179 180
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. HUME  said, that he would take that opportunity of calling upon Her Majesty's Government to consider the strange state of Europe. It was the custom, he believed, that when a Minister was sent to the Court of this country, a Minister of corresponding rank and allowance was sent to the Court from whence he came; but he now understood that at present half the Ministers representing Courts abroad were only of the second or third ranks, while those sent from this country were of superior rank. He did not rise to go into the subject then, but he believed a reduction of one-half this charge might be made with advantage. He threw out this as a suggestion by which the Government might reduce the public expenditure.
 MR. HUME  thought that they had arrived at a period when they should come to some final decision on the subject of these new buildings. Last year, in consequence of the system pursued by the architect, a Commission had been appointed to control the expenditure; and they should have had before this some report from the Commissioners, as to what had been done, and as to what was to he done; for he understood that they allowed the architect to do just what he pleased, and to build up one day and pull down the next. They should at once have a report, specifically stating what had been done, and what remained to be done. He did not think that they were justified in acceding to this vote of 50,000 l
 MR. HUME  said, he was perfectly aware that a Minister must be guided by circumstances. He would, therefore, withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. HUME  said, that after the experience of last Session he doubted very much whether the proposed encroachment on the privileges of independent Members was calculated to produce a beneficial effect. It would, he thought, be much better for the noble Lord to try the experiment of allowing hon. Members to get through all the leading Motions as speedily as possible. That would, he believed, afford a much better chance of getting satisfactorily through the business. He put it to the noble Lord whether he had not better content himself with the alternate Thursdays after the middle of June. The noble Lord should remember that the independent Members had deprived themselves of a second opportunity of proposing amendments to the Supply, which was a ground for refusing to allow any further entrenching on the privileges of the House. The hon. Member proposed then, as an Amendment, to substitute for "the 19th day of April," "the 31st day of May," adding, that he should not object to the noble Lord's having every Thursday after May for Government business.
 MR. HUME  wished to know whether, if he withdrew his Amendment, the noble Lord would be contented with every second Thursday at the latest period of the Session?
 MR. OSBORNE  said, the House had then before them the Motion of the noble Lord at the head of the Government. He would be the last person in the House to stand in the way of any good arrangement for the Government business; but it must be recollected that those Members who were called independent had been surrendering their privileges one by one. The person who was most guilty in that respect was his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose. Previous to last Session, any hon. Member had a right to call attention to any grievance on the Orders of the Day; and his hon. Friend, in order to cut off that privilege, brought forward a Motion, the success of which he probably now regretted. The noble Lord had formerly deprecated the idea that the Executive Government were to be the initiators of every measure. That formed an additional argument to assist the Motion. He regarded the Motion as an assault on the privileges of independent Members; and he believed it would be found that when an hon. Gentleman had a notice on the Paper for the open night, if he were not connected with the Government party, or some other great party, he would be treated with the dismal expedient of a count out.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  wished to draw the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as well as that of the hon. Member for Montrose, to this vote for the new Houses of Parliament. They were now regularly called upon, year after year, to vote increased sums for these buildings. If the Financial Reform Association at Liverpool, instead of troubling themselves so much about soldiers' coats, would take up the question as to the expenditure on
 156 l l l
 MR. B. OSBORNE  had been informed that the miserable squabble between Mr. Barry and Dr. Reid was not over, and as long as that was the case they would never get into the new House of Commons. He would prophesy that this would be the case unless the Chancellor of the Exchequer determined to put an end to it. He had heard that the hearing in the new House of Commons would be so defective that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not be able to make himself heard, unless by those on the benches quite close to him.
 MR. SPOONER  quite agreed in the observations which had been made by the hon. Member for Montrose and the hon. Member for Middlesex. He strongly objected to such largo sums of money being laid out on temporary buildings, which they were obliged to occupy in consequence of the New Houses being so slowly proceeded with. Surely the Chancellor of the Exchequer could raise a sufficient sum of money for the completion of the buildings by Exchequer-bills, which would be much more economical than their present system. At present they were always going from some new work to another, and leaving a great portion unfinished. With respect to one remark that had fallen from his hon. Friend the Member for Lancaster, he felt bound to say, that he did not believe that any contractor, unless he made a most exorbitant profit, would allow 8,000 l 158
 MR. ANSTEY  said, that as the feeling of the House appeared to he in favour of postponing the subject, he would not persist.
 MR. ANSTEY  said, that he had so often postponed a Motion which he had on the Paper, respecting Van Diemen's Land, that he could not consent to do so on that occasion; it would not, however, take up much time in the discussion.
 MR. ANSTEY  wished to give notice that he should to-morrow ask the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether he had received intelligence, official or private, of any demand which had been addressed to the Sublime Porte by the Russian Government, for the admission of a Russian squadron into the Bosphorus, and whether any means had been used to obtain such admission, and whether Her Majesty's Government were prepared to resist such an infraction of treaty I
 MR. EWART  asked if the noble Lord had any reason to believe, from any recent information from South America, that British commerce was likely to he relieved by the settlement of the question on the River Plate?
 MR. EWART  observed, that one argument in favour of the Amendment was, that at a late period of the Session independent Members had a difficulty in making a House,
 MR. EWART  stated, that he had lately served on the Committee to which the Insolvent Members Bill bad been referred, and they had sat in one of the new committee rooms; but the reverberation was so great that in point of fact they could not hear each other speak across the table.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  wished to know what would be the cost of the useful, and what the cost of the ornamental, parts of the building. There was a strong feeling abroad that the greater portion of the expenditure was absorbed in the ornamental part of the works. He thought that the House should have some information on this point.
 SIR E. BUXTON  wished to know from the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether he could lay before the House an account of the expense of collecting the malt duty, and of the net amount received from it in each of the years ending Jan. 5, 1847, 1848, and 1849? He believed that a very erroneous impression prevailed with respect to the expense of collecting the malt duty. He had seen it stated in one publication that the expense was l,500,000 l
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  wished the House distinctly to be informed as to what would be the probable expense of these buildings. He also wished to know whether the Commissioners possessed the power of contracting the expenditure? More than a million of money had already been spent on the buildings, and he understood that the Commissioners last year stated that it would require three years to complete them.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he had observed that a notice of Motion had been given for the following day, in reference to the affairs of the Punjaub. To him it appeared that as the President of the Board of Control had received no fresh papers, and as intelligence had been received that day, which would probably be presented in a more perfect state in the course of two or three days, any discussion of the affairs of the Punjaub would be premature and inconvenient.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  said, he had received a statement from Mr. Davidson, agent for the Bishop and chapter and other clergy in the county of Durham, and also the agent during the time of Dr. Wellesley, which seriously impugned the facts stated by the hon. Member for Cockermouth, on the occasion of his bringing the state of the rectory under the consideration of the House; and as it was of importance not only to individuals concerned,
 153 "I have duly received your favour of yesterday's date; and in reply beg to inform you that I have seen the exaggerated statement made by Mr. Horsman in the House of Commons on the 20th instant, respecting the income, &c. of the rectory of Bishop Wearmouth. The late Hon. and Rev. Dr. Wellesley was collated to the rectory in March 1827—and the gross yearly income arising from land, tithes, wayleaves, and coal, from that time up to June 30, 1848, as received by me, on his behalf was as follows— l s d s d "You will observe that, 18 years ago (1831), the gross income was only 3,153 l s d l l s d l s d l s d l s d.; l l s d l l l s d l l l l l l s d l s d l s d l s d l s d l s d l
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  believed that the question which the hon. Member had put to him was, by virtue of what adjudication the vessels referred to had been detained? Now, in the first place, no adjudication took place on the capture of vessels of war. If, therefore, the flotilla to which the hon. Member referred had been captured, no adjudication would have taken place, but it would have been a prize of war. But the fact was that the flotilla was not captured at all. The vessels in question were on their return from the blockade of Monte Video to Buenos Ayres, when the English and French admirals required that every English and French subject on board should be landed. The Buenos Ayres admiral declined to comply with that request, and endeavoured to proceed, but was interrupted by the English and French admirals, and compelled to return, and he then abandoned his vessels, which were not captured, but taken charge of, and some of them were lent to Monte Video; some were employed by the French admiral, and one by the English admiral; but Lord Aberdeen, in a despatch to Mr. Ouseley, treated them as liable to be returned whenever a pacification should take place.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  had no precise information on the subject; but from the general aspect of affairs he thought a fair prospect presented itself that matters would be arranged. At present British commerce suffered no obstruction at Buenos Ayres, where, by the last accounts, a perfect hunger and thirst existed for our goods, and British cargoes were purchased up with avidity. At Monte Video, however, he believed there was still some difficulty.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, perhaps the hon. Gentleman would alter the shape of his question, and state what declaration he alluded to. It must be obvious that it would not be the most fitting course for a Member of Her Majesty's Government, in the present state of affairs in the north of Italy and in France, to make any declaration on the part of the French Government. If the hon. Member asked him a question with regard to any declaration made by Her Majesty's Government, of course it would be his duty to answer.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  could answer the hon. and learned Member's question at once. He could assure the hon. and learned Gentleman that Her Majesty's Government had the best reason to believe that no such demand as that which he mentioned had been made by the Russian Government. The Russian Government had not demanded permission for the Russian squadron to pass from the Black Sea to the Bosphorus.
 SIR D. J. NORREYS  said, that the hon. Member who had just sat down had thrown a great deal of virtuous indignation against the constitutional principles involved in this Bill. The hon. Member said that for forty years the men of Ulster had lived in a half-and-half state of loyalty, half English and half Irish; he (Sir I). Norreys) did not doubt it, the men of Ulster were amphibious. They did not wish to be taxed for the benefit of their brethren in the south. That was the whole truth of the matter, and the hon. Member for Rochdale had spoken like an Ulster man. According to the evidence of Mr. Twisleton, the farmers were giving up their lands and were emigrating, the labourers in all parts of the country were in a most wretched condition, no work and no money—nothing even to pawn; the pawnbrokers were doing nothing, as the unfortunate people had not even clothes to pawn. They had been called upon to help themselves. Well, they did so; they assented to a tax—a poor-law rate, which it was averaged should only amount to 600,000 l l l 253 l d s d d 254 l s d l s d s d l s d l s s d s d s s s 255 256
 MR. DRUMMOND  would only occupy the attention of the House whilst he offered for their consideration two or three practical suggestions. He saw by the Votes that this measure was to provide for a rate in aid. A rate in aid, of what? in aid of Irish pauperism. Was it meant that it was to add to Irish pauperism, or diminish the number of paupers in Ireland? He naturally referred to Her Majesty's Government for an explanation of what this rate in aid meant. In one of the blue books to which he referred for information, he found it stated with respect to the condition of the small occupiers of land, that unless some change to stimulate and foster their hopes was made, a number of the small ratepayers, which it was fearful to contemplate, would become paupers, and add to the already overwhelming difficulties under which Ireland was suffering. Here there was no attempt to deny that the small ratepayers, if they were not immediately relieved, would add to the number of paupers. Now, as he before stated, there were three points which he wished to suggest, and which, if they were acted upon, would, in his opinion, tend to relieve Ireland from the difficulty in which she was placed, and also save this country a great deal of trouble, anxiety, and expense. In the first place, he would make the unions
 278
 MR. DUNCAN  bore testimony to the strong feeling which prevailed in Scotland against the Bill, but thought that if its provisions were known, there might be less objection to it.
 MR. E. ELLICE  was opposed to the Bill, not because he disliked Sunday travelling, but because he thought the inconvenience would be gradually rectified. He might mention, for instance, that the railway company on whose line the noble lady had been refused, whose case had been alluded to, had since rescinded the resolution against Sunday travelling.
 Mr. DRUMMOND  said, that one train was at present allowed to travel on Sundays for the conveyance of the mails; it seemed as if the point of conscience with Scotchmen lay between one carriage and two.
 MR. LAWLESS  observed, that the Irish people knew from bitter experience that they had but little chance of obtaining any efficient relief from the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and Her Majesty's present advisers. They had not forgotten that three years ago, when the famine was at its worst, the Government had refused to adopt those measures which were pressed upon them as best calculated to meet the evil. They were entreated to stop distillation from grain—a process by which the food of a starving people was destroyed, but they refused; and, though repeatedly urged to open the ports, they long delayed, and consented only when such a measure was too late to be of effectual service. Why was it left to the Americans to freight their vessels of war and merchant ships with food for the famishing people of Ireland? He considered that every ship in Her Majesty's Navy should have been employed upon that service until adequate relief had been afforded. The measure now proposed by the noble Lord had been condemned by the emissaries of the Government in Ireland who had been brought forward to give their testimony in its favour. An hon. Gentleman had stated that he would support this Bill, in order to remove from Ireland the reproach of national mendicancy. He (Mr. Lawless) did not think the measures would have that effect; and, for his own part, he preferred national mendicancy to national robbery. He considered that this Bill was founded on the rankest injustice. If it were just, so also was the calling of the pickpocket—for he only levied a "rate in aid." He contended that the Government were bound to advance money to the very last farthing in the Exchequer, in order to save the lives of the people; and, if they levied a tax, let it be equally imposed upon every species of Irish property, and let them call upon absentees for a double proportion. The noble Lord at the head of the Government sat as quietly while the people of Ireland were starving, as if everything in that country was going on most prosperously.
 236
 MR. S. WORTLEY  would oppose the introduction of the Bill, and should certainly vote against the second reading, because he considered it a direct infringement of the rights of private property.
 LORD C. HAMILTON  said, the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) had stated in his able speech, that this was a question between life and money; but if he (Lord C. Hamilton) entertained that opinion, he would not have offered his opposition to the proposal of the Government. But that was not a just description of the case. His constituents objected to this Bill, not on account of the pecuniary burden it would impose upon them, but on account of the principle upon which the rate in aid was based. They considered that such a rate ought to apply equally to every species of Irish property, and that it ought not to he thrown exclusively upon the agricultural interest, which was already on the verge of ruin. He must be excused if he adverted more fully to the speech of that hon. Member, as it appeared to him to be the only one that had as yet contained one cogent argument in favour of the rate in aid, and that argument was of such a nature that he hoped it would ensure the rejection of the proposition by the House. The hon. Member had said that he would be satisfied to vote in favour of this Bill if it would produce the single result of making Ulster a portion of Ireland. He did not exactly know what the hon. Gentleman meant by that expression; but considerable misunderstanding seemed to exist with reference to the state of Leister as compared with the rest of Ireland. There was a general impression that Ulster was highly favoured in respect of wealth, climate, and soil; and that that province possessed natural advantages which were denied to other parts of Ireland. This was a total mistake. He found that, taking the proportion between the population and valuation, Ulster stood below the provinces of Munster and Leinster. The proportions, according to the poor-rate valuation, were—in Leinster, 2 l s l s l s 237 238 239 240 l 241 242 "Do I understand you to say that the poor-law valuation throughout Ireland has been estimated upon data varying throughout Ireland, and is an unequal valuation?—I think that is the fact. "Is it your opinion that any general rate levied upon Ireland with reference to that poor-law valuation would be an unequal rate?—I think it would. "You would reject, therefore, with reference to a general rate throughout Ireland, the basis of that poor-law valuation absolutely?—I would." "Do not you think one of the principal elements in the poor-law valuation is equality as between each district in the union? Equal valuation is of the utmost importance. "If it is so in each union, if you had a general rate over the kingdom, would it not be of equal importance that each portion of the kingdom should be equally valued also?—Certainly. "Then any valuation which exists at present is imperfect for that purpose?—Certainly." 243 "Hope springs eternal in the human breast, Man never is, but always to be blest." 244 l s d l s d s 245 l l l l 246 d
 LORD J. RUSSELL  had not attached great interest to the bringing in of this Bill; but as the hon. Gentleman had raised the question, and thought it necessary to oppose the measure in the first instance, he (Lord J. Russell), would state that he was quite opposed to the principle of the Bill; and if the House came to a division upon it he must vote in opposition to it.
 MAJOR BLACKALL  said, he had been alluded to by the hon. Member for Dublin as having prepared an Amendment to substitute an income tax upon all species of property in Ireland for the proposed rate in aid. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had said, that if the Irish Members would prefer an income tax, they should by all means have one, only they must remember that if one were once imposed, they must make up their minds to put up with its continuing much longer than they perhaps now expected. Now, that was not a fair way of putting the case, because his Amendment proposed to limit the income tax to only two years. But if the noble Lord thought the Irish Members could be deluded into the belief that his rate in aid would be totally removed at the end of the two years, he was certainly very much mistaken, for the Irish Members well knew that it would be easier for them, United with the English Members of that House, to rid themselves of the income tax after the lapse of two years, than it would be for them to throw off this rate in aid at the end of the same period. If it were put to him, whether he would have this rate in aid, to be levied from land alone, or an income tax, he did not hesitate to say that for his part he would choose the income tax. His Amendment proposed, that the funds to be raised should not be applied to the ordinary purposes of the
 276
 MAJOR BLACKALL  could not understand how any Irish Gentleman could refuse leave to bring in the Bill. The Bill, as he understood it, was of a temporary nature, adapted to meet a temporary exigency, and it would be an extremely hard case not to permit the Bill to be introduced. He trusted the hon. Member would not withdraw the Bill.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that he thought a very dangerous precedent was about to be established, viz., that any hon. Member might get leave to bring in a Bill, provided he concealed the nature and objects of it. The noble Lord at the head of the Government having said to-night that he would vote against the Bill brought in by the hon. Member for Stroud, in a few minutes afterwards, by a singular tergiversation, changed his mind and voted for it. The right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down entirely protested against the principle of the Bill, and, therefore, voted for its being read a first time. The hon. Member for Dundee voted for the introduction of the Bill, in order to gratify his curiosity by seeing it. Hon. Gentlemen opposite, who always advocated economy, although they disapproved of the principle of a Bill, were yet quite willing to go to the expense of printing it. The occupants of the benches opposite were continually declaiming in favour of two principles—perfect freedom of trade, and perfect freedom of religious opinions—and yet they wore now about to coerce and restrict both.
 MR. STAFFORD  opposed the Motion. A Bill upon a subject so important, ought to be introduced with the authority of the Government; and he wished to know whether the people of Ireland were to understand by the Government sanctioning the introduction of this Bill, they admitted the principle of a labour-rate?
 MR. COWAN  was very unwilling to act in any way uncourteous to the hon. Member who brought in the Bill; but he felt that he ought not to have introduced the measure, which was contrary to the recommendation of the Sabbath Observance Committee of 1832. He hoped his hon. Friend, taking into account the state of public feeling in Scotland, would not press it. He would not now oppose the customary allowance of bringing in the Bill, but would oppose it in all its subsequent stages.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that he derived one comfort from this discussion, namely, that a question affecting Ireland had been raised something beyond a mere Irish do-bate; although he felt that in some respects the occasion had not been done justice to. If his objections to this rate in aid were less cogent than he confessed them to be, he could not let this proposal pass upon the grounds put forward by some hon. Gentlemen around him. Those hon. Gentlemen acknowledged the measure to be impolitic, unjust, and oppressive; but they stated their willingness to accept it, as they had nothing better before them. Now, he thought that Parliament had arrived at a period in Irish legislation too grave and too critical to permit of the responsibility being got rid of on such a plea as this. There were few Members who, like himself, had for the last thirteen years given a close attendance in that House on Irish subjects, who had not to reproach themselves for many hasty and inconsiderate votes; and so strongly did he feel this, that he could never again make up his mind to vote on any Irish question without investigating for himself both its principles and its details, and without acertaining, as far as he was able, its bearing upon the national interest of England and Ireland. When the question of affording relief to Irish destitution last came before the House, he had voted with the majority for voting the 50,000 l 262 263 s d 264 s s 265 266 267
 MR. FRENCH  wished to explain, after what had fallen from the hon. Member for the city of Dublin, that the project for the improvements in the river Shannon was brought forward by the Government, and had been declared by a Committee of the House to be a national object, that ought to be accomplished from national resources.
 MR. FRENCH  said, that he perfectly agreed with the right hon. Baronet thinking it extremely desirable that they should have an opportunity of seeing the measure proposed to be introduced.
 COLONEL DUNNE , although he differed very widely from the hon. Member for
 283
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, it was well
 284
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, at an earlier period of the Session the hon. Gentleman who brought in this Bill asked him whether the Government intended to introduce a measure in order to compel railway companies in Scotland to carry passengers on the Sabbath under certain limitations and restrictions. The reply he made to the hon. Gentleman, was that, speaking from his own personal convictions, he thought it was quite consistent with the sanctity of the Sabbath to allow, under particular regulations, trains to run on a Sunday. But, seeing the opinion that prevailed in Scotland, he was not prepared to bring in a Bill to compel railway companies to adopt a course in opposition to the opinions and the strongly entertained feelings of a large class of the community of that country. In consistency with the opinion he then expressed, he must now say that he did entertain great doubts whether it was expedient or right for that House to sanction any measure which compelled the Scotch railways to take such a course.
 286
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, he would not delay the House with many observations on the particular question on which
 230 231 232 l l 233 l 234 235
 MR. REYNOLDS  regretted that the hon. Baronet who had just resumed his seat, had thought proper to draw a contrast between the civilisation of Ulster and Connaught. He was sorry also to hear him say of a very eminent Roman Catholic archbishop, that he was an enemy of education. He denied, entirely, however, the accuracy of the hon. Baronet's figures with reference to the schools in Ulster and Connaught. If there were 1,500 national schools in Ulster—[Sir A. BROOKE: Not national schools.] He had misapprehended, then, the hon. Baronet, and he was glad of it, as it was said that the clergy of Ulster were opposed to the system of national schools. It was true—and he regretted it—that Dr. M'Hale was opposed to the system also, but he had provided a substitute. Taking it for granted, however, that Ulster was perfectly loyal, perfectly moral, and perfectly civilised, he was not disposed to place all that to the credit of Protestantism. He found, according to returns made in 1831, that the Catholics of Ulster were a majority of the population of the province—[Sir A. BROOKE: I never said Protestants. I did not exclude my Catholic fellow-countrymen.] He did not impute that statement to the hon. Baronet, but it had been made on his side of the House. He believed that the hon. Baronet presented a most honourable contrast to some of the Irish landlords. It had been said, that this rate in aid was impolitic, unjust, and inadequate. It was declared to be unjust to tax Ulster for Connaught. Now, he had the misfortune to
 270 Cheers Cries of l l "Small by degrees, and beautifully less." 271 "By an Order of the Day the House was resolved into a Committee, to consider the state of the nation, and it being proposed that the best way of settling this kingdom in lasting happiness was to find out the cause of its misery, the Committee voted that the two following causes should be assigned for it—first, the great countenance given to the Irish Papists in the reign of King Charles 11, and their being employed by the late King James; secondly, the obstruction of the course of justice by the illegal protections granted since the defeat at the Boyne." 272 273 d l d 274 d l l l 275 l
 MR. LOCKE  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to secure to the public on Sundays a limited and reasonable use of all railways which convey passengers on the other days of the week. There was nothing in this Bill inimical to the feelings of those who were opposed to the desecration of the Sabbath; but all he asked the House was not to let the recess pass over
 285
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  was disposed to give full credit to the very high character of the noble Lord at the head of the Government; but he was surprised that he should persist in this plan, after the evidence which had been taken before the Committee of that House, and after the decisive resolution of the other House—after the warning given to him by the Members of Ireland on both sides—and, above all, after the unexceptionable expression of feeling against it, not only from
 279
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to promote the employment of labour in Ireland.
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  said, the principle of the Bill had been discussed on both sides of the House before he uttered one word respecting it. He did not know where the hon. Member for Northamptonshire obtained his information respecting the Bill, for he certainly had not obtained it from him. He had merely asked the House to extend to him the same indulgence which it scarcely ever refused to any Member—namely, to have his Bill read a first time without discussion, so that the object of the Bill might be known. He wished it, however to be remembered that he was prevented by the hon. Member for Northamptonshire from laying before the House a distinct proposal for meeting one of the most difficult questions in the social state of Ireland. He was prevented from doing this by an hon. Member who was remarkable for the urgent and pertinacious manner in which he was ever recommending his own particular panaceas for the cure of Ireland.
 MR. SCROPE  said, he was quite willing to yield to the wishes of the House—[ Loud cries of
 MR. B. OSBORNE  considered it much better to excite hopes than despair. Differing as he did from the hon. Gentleman the Member for Stroud in many things, he nevertheless thanked him very much for bringing forward anything which would excite or raise a hope in Ireland. It would have a very had appearance that hon. Gentlemen, who monopolised all the loyalty of the House, should refuse to give leave for the introduction of a Bill. The motives of the hon. Member for Stroud were pure and good, and however he might be mistaken in his views, he had devoted very great energy and considerable talent to a consideration of the Irish question. As to the argument of the Secretary of State for the Home Department, all he could say was that they knew nothing of the majority of the Bills which were introduced into that House. In the absence of any other plan, he looked upon the proposition of the hon. Gentleman with satisfaction.
 MR. TENNENT  observed, that the hon. Gentlemen who had stated their intention to vote for the second reading of the Bill, had given it a very damaging support. The hon. Gentleman the Member for the city of Dublin had even declared that he would gladly escape from voting if he could. In giving a decided and conscientious opposition to the proposal under discussion, he begged to state, that he would do so altogether apart from any feeling that Ulster ought not to contribute to the relief of the other portions of Ireland, or from the feeling that sectarian differences ought to divide the provinces. He had no such feeling—and he deprecated any language which tended to draw an invidious contrast between the loyalty of certain districts. The present was not a question of party or religion, but one which concerned the constitutional rights of the industrial classes at large. He believed there existed in Ireland a far deeper feeling of hostility to this Bill than had been produced by any contemplated legislation for many years. Although the noble Lord had spoken with disdain of the disproportionate resistance which had been made to the measure, he begged to remind him that history afforded instances
 277
 MR. MANGLES  sincerely trusted the hon. Member for Stroud would not withdraw his Bill. He, for one, desired most earnestly to see his proposition; and he must add that it was a rather ungracious proceeding upon the part of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire to refuse to the hon. Member for Stroud the usual courtesy extended to all Members.
 MR. MANGLES  thought the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had not quite recovered from the mortification he must have experienced at the late division. The inconvenience which this Bill was intended to remedy, was illustrated not very long ago in the case of a noble lady, who was prevented from attending the deathbed of her parent by those absurd regulations. Turnpike roads were now altogether disused. Railway companies had a perfect monopoly, and surely something ought to be conceded to public convenience.
 MR. W. BROWN , in reference to the observation of Mr. J. O'Connell, as to his calculations on a former evening, respecting the amount really due from Ireland to this country, said, the hon. and learned Member for Limerick had not impugned the accuracy of the calculations, but alleged that he did not say that England was Ireland's debtor for 60,000,000 l l 247 248 l l l 249
 MR. FORBES  opposed the introduction of the Bill, and thought that the petitioners against it laboured under no misconception whatever. The object of the measure was to force railway directors, against their conscientious convictions, to carry passengers, and to oblige workmen to labour on the Lord's day who entertained a religious feeling against it. He asked the Government if they would give their sanction to such an interference with the religious liberties of a people? He would move that the Bill he read a second time that day six months.
 MR. MONSELL  thought the hon. Baronet's conclusion at variance with the case he had made out at the commencement of his speech. He admitted the necessity for a great and independent exertion on the part of Ireland; and that necessity was also admitted by his constituents, who, however, expressed their opinion—an opinion in which he concurred—of the injustice of the manner in which Government proposed that that exertion
 257 l l "The poor-laws are intended for the habitual relief of ordinary distress—their machinery is not such as to afford support for a whole population in seasons of extraordinary distress. It might be as well objected that the poor-laws did not make rain fall or the sun shine, as that they do not protect us from years of scarcity and famine." 258 l 259 260 261 s s
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  intended to oppose the proposition of the Government. He felt doubly bound to do so; he stood there as an Irishman claiming justice for Ireland, and also as an English Member to guard England against unjust legislation. This Bill was based on injustice, because the Commissioners whose duty it would be to carry out its provisions would be constituted the sole judges of the necessity of levying the rate, and to them would be confided an uncontrolled distribution of the rate. He was very much inclined to believe that the hon. Member for Manchester had not read the Bill when he said that he would give his vote in support of it. He would do the hon. Gentleman the justice of saying that every other portion of his speech showed the inefficiency of the measure, the principle of which was completely adverse to all the constitutional principles of the empire. He objected to establishing any separate system of taxation for Ireland as long as the two countries were united. He objected to a system of separate taxation without a separate system of legislation. It had been often asserted that Ireland did not pay her fair proportion of taxation. That was a question of Ministerial policy; and in order to come to a conclusion upon it, they should examine the Articles of Union, and see what she was bound to, and what she did perform. In the Articles of Union, she was bound to pay as 2 to 15, this agreement to be open to reconsideration; but it was stipulated that the readjustment should be based upon an estimate of the comparative value of the imports and exports of the two countries. These articles of agreement were never adhered to, and Ireland was taxed in the proportion of I to II. There was an impression that Ireland had been a drain and an incumbrance upon England. She
 250 l 251 252
 SIR A. B. BROOKE  congratulated the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down on having delivered one of the most manly English speeches he had heard that Session. He opposed that measure because he considered that it was unjust and impolitic, and that it was calculated to disturb the peace of Ireland. He did not doubt the continuance of the loyalty of Ulster; but although that loyalty could not be doubted, it ought not to be abused. It had been said that the people of the better-circumstanced districts of Ireland wished to repudiate their engagements. But he could state, that in the district in which he resided they had paid the whole of their rates, and a portion of the expense of erecting the union workhouse, and that they were fully prepared to meet all their liabilities. He knew that a great diversity of opinion prevailed with respect to the scheme propounded by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Taraworth; but, for his own part, he entirely approved of it, and most heartily wished to see it carried out. He knew no man in Europe so capable of carrying it into execution as the right hon. Baronet; and the Government ought at once to appoint a Commission and request the right hon. Baronet to place himself at its head. He was now at his leisure and free from official cares; and he should at once proceed to Ireland, and not return till it had been fully brought into operation. He entertained various objections to the proposed measure; and one of his principal objections was, that it taxed the poor as well as the rich classes, and compelled destitution to provide for destitution—a
 268 l l l s s l 269
 Sir F. BUXTON  objected to the Bill on the ground that it was an interference with the sincere and conscientious religious feeling of a considerable portion of the Scotch people.
 MR. GROGAN  was anxious to have an opportunity of judging of the scheme of the hon. Member; he therefore trusted that he would adopt the suggestions of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth.
 SIR G. GREY  said, they knew nothing of the nature of the Bill. He trusted, therefore that the hon. Gentleman would adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth. If it came to a division, he would be forced to oppose the Bill.
 SIR G. GREY  must protest against the last observation of the hon. and learned Gentleman, lest it might be supposed that that House had abdicated any of its un doubted authority to control railway companies, upon the regulations of which the convenience of the public so much depended. It was not a question now as to the running of trains on Sundays in Scotland. All the companies in Scotland were compellable to run the mail trains on Sundays; but, undoubtedly, there was a strong feeling among the Scotch people against the carriage of passengers, and he was not prepared to legislate against that feeling. He would however support the introduction of the Bill, although, according to his present convictions, he should feel bound to oppose it in its subsequent stages.
 SIR R. PEEL  observed, that there were some Bills so objectionable in principle, or so unworthy of consideration, that it was right to refuse leave to bring them in. But in the present state of Ireland, considering the demand there was that some remedy should be applied to that condition, and considering the great attention which the hon. Member for Stroud had paid to subjects connected with the interests of the poor and destitute in Ireland, and the obloquy to which he had exposed himself on that account, he thought that hon. Gentleman ought to have the opportunity of bringing in his measure. It might perhaps be better if the hon. Gentleman would withdraw his Motion for that night, and appoint it again for a time when he would have the opportunity of explaining the principle of his measure. That hon. Gentleman had, however, brought it forward at so late an hour, because he would not offer any obstruction to another Motion of great interest to Ireland; and if he thought it right to press his Motion to-night, he (Sir R. Peel) would most cordially support him.
 MR. BERNAL  did not mean to oppose the adjournment; but, though he was not prepared to say that our 43 colonies were discontented, nor that our Colonial Secretary was responsible for the heartburnings which prevailed, yet he could not disguise from the House that those colonies to which his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose had adverted were in a state upon which it was painful to reflect. He would take Jamaica, with the state of which he was best acquainted, and, without travelling into reasons or entering into details, he could assure the House, that with respect to its financial arrangements and its statistical condition, that colony was in a most deplorable state. He was the last man to advise that any breach of faith should be committed, but he knew that the salaries of the Government officers, and of the ecclesiastical ministers in that island, were in a state of abeyance; and that in many places the ministers of the Established Church would remain unpaid altogether, were it not for the exertions of particular congregations. Without putting his finger on any sore place, he earnestly recommended to the Government temper, moderation, and discretion in their communications, for the
 296
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  had no intention of opposing the second reading of the Bill, for he highly approved of its principle; but in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman the Member for Athlone, he thought it necessary to guard against any understanding that the Government would consent to the compensation of the marshal out of the Consolidated Fund. It would be well to consider the propriety of pausing on every measure of improvement in the law, on the ground of there always being some vested interest to pay for. There had been many cases in which most exorbitant claims made upon the public had been conceded, rather than that a useful measure of reform should be abandoned. He admitted the propriety of some compensation being made to this officer, but doubted whether the course proposed by the hon. Gentleman opposite, of continuing the fee under the new Bill, should it pass, would be the proper course, inasmuch as it would impose a tax upon the poor suitor to the amount of some 6 s s
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that he highly approved of the object of the measure; but there were one or two points which required much consideration. It would appear by the terms of the 3rd
 304 l l
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that in the observations which he had previously made he did not intend to allude to the "Odd Fellows," which were not legal societies; though he believed them,
 305
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  was quite disposed to concur in the opinion that it was desirable that all these societies should be brought under the operation of the law; the difficulty was with respect to the mode of carrying that object into effect. It might be desirable to arm the law with a summary power to inflict penalties upon those societies professing to act, but which in reality did not act, under the sanction of the law.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  thought that the House generally would agree that the hon. Gentleman who had introduced the Bill was entitled to their thanks for the trouble he had taken. There seemed to be no objection to the second reading. But the details of the Bill were such, and some of the observations and suggestions of the hon. Members for Plymouth and Kerry were so important, that the better course would probably be to read the Bill a second time, and refer it to a Committee upstairs.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  explained that he had no intention of imposing upon the hon. Gentleman a general revision of the law relating to friendly societies. But inasmuch as several suggestions had been offered, he thought they would be better considered by a Select Committee than by the House.
 MR. CORNEWALLLEWIS  agreed with the hon. Member for Montrose that much advantage would be derived from the consideration of this question as a whole, with a view to some general supervision; and if the Bill he had introduced yesterday was sent to a Select Committee, an opportunity of considering the subject would thereby be afforded. From the recent changes that had taken place, it was necessary that an
 311
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, that all sides of the House admitted the utility and importance of the Odd Fellows' societies. Was it not, then, extraordinary that they should be still allowed to be illegal? He trusted the hon. Gentleman opposite would, if possible, introduce a clause in his Bill to include them.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The hon. Gentleman has certainly taken a new occasion of giving us his opinion on the subject of the colonies; but the theme on which he has expatiated is an old one, and the language which he has employed is that which he has usually adopted. I must beg the House to bear in mind that we have forty-
 291 292 293 294 295
 LORD J. RUSSELL  moved that the House at its rising should adjourn to Monday, the 16th of April.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Does the hon. Member move any Amendment?
 MAJOR BLACKALL  was favourable to referring the Bill to a Select Committee, and protested against there being any difference in the dietary of English, Scotch, or Irish emigrants. He thought it would be a cruel disappointment to many of the Irish people, who had been saving money during the winter with the object of emigrating to America, to require them to provide a dietary for the voyage which was entirely beyond their means.
 MR. HAWES  said, he was very glad that there existed no objection to the principle of the Bill, and that it, therefore, might now be read a second time without any one being dissentient. In the course of the present conversation various details had been mentioned, and he was happy to observe it universally admitted that the Bill of last year had effected a beneficial change. He could confirm the statements of hon. Members upon this point by saying that the last accounts from Canada, from Australia, and from the United States, were all in favour of the working of that Bill. The present measure, however, could hardly be called a new Bill, for it was a general consolidation Bill; it, therefore, necessarily comprehended many details contained in former Acts; and, in bringing the whole of the law into one general Bill, the House would find that it contained many provisions which were already in force. As to the dietary, he was bound to say, that the evidence which came under their notice decidedly showed that the dietary ought to be improved, not only in order that the emigrant should be more comfortable during his voyage, but that on his landing he should be in better health, more vigorous, more capable of labour, and, therefore, better able to obtain work and food. The dietary which the Bill of last year enjoined had been a great improvement upon the preceding practice; and that being admitted, some people said, why not be content? but when they went into Committee, he could bring conclusive evidence to show the necessity for a still better dietary. He might, however, at present, make this observation, that heretofore the emigrants were in the habit of taking with them some food themselves, but that if in future there were a full dietary it would be found, on the whole, not to produce any material increase of cost to the emigrants. In his opinion, these matters ought not to be left to the emigration agents alone; but the law on the subject should be clear and unequivocal, and should be fully known to landed proprietors and others who might he disposed to promote emigration. With respect to the suggestion about providing a different dietary for vessels, according to the part of the united
 302
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that the difficulty of legislating for the Odd Fellows' societies arose from their own objections to the proposal made to them to bring them within the sanction of the law. There appeared to him to be only one objection to the bringing them within the provisions of a Bill, and that was their secret signs. The objection as to their being corresponding societies, he thought could be got over, for by the 9th and 10th Vict. that difficulty was provided against if these societies were enrolled. In respect to friendly societies, he thought that the best way to avoid the evils that might arise from them, was to have a constant and rigid examination of
 306
 MR. E. DENISON  thought that the class of persons who were interested in these societies were greatly deserving of the attention and consideration of the House. Many of these societies offered higher premiums in the country than legal societies did. They came before the public with very much the show of solidity, and ignorant people were generally captivated by the promise of a high rate of interest, and thus induced to intrust their hard-earned savings to them. He trusted that this Bill would be made to embrace a much wider field than was now proposed, and that all those societies would be brought within its scope.
 MR. E. DENISON  thought that the whole system of local taxation and expenditure was far from being in a satisfactory state, and that it required careful consideration with a view to its revision. The provisions of the Bill under consideration would operate unequally with regard to
 310
 MR. E. DENISON  was quite ready to accept the suggestion now made by his hon. Friend, that the Bill should not be pressed through the remaining stages till after the Select Committee had reported. If, however, after the lapse of a certain time the
 312
 MR. E. DENISON  thought it somewhat strange that they should be asked to pass a Bill through Committee which did not contain the views of the hon. Gentleman who promoted it. The hon. Gentleman thought the whole charge should be placed upon the owners, but the Bill divided it between the owners and the tenant. Now, that difficulty might be got over if he allowed the Bill to go before a Select Committee.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that the Bill would introduce great improvements, especially as regarded the dietary. Perhaps it was fixed on too high a scale for the poor people of Ireland.
 MR. H. HERBERT  observed, that the temporary measure of last year had worked very well; and he thought that evidence of that ought to be laid before a Committee of the House.
 MR. H. HERBERT  observed, that as the law at present stood, there was no responsibility, and consequently no security, felt in these friendly societies. He trusted that the House would now legislate in such a manner as to impart a feeling of security in the public mind with respect to these institutions.
 MR. KER SEYMER  hoped the hon. Gentleman would proceed with his Bill. If he adopted the suggestions of the hon. Member for Montrose, and sent the Bill before a Select Committee, he might rest assured it would not pass this Session.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, that if the hon. Baronet would look at Clause 4, he would find that it entirely prevented the introduction of any such regulations as he had properly suggested. He was sure that if the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies could only see the way in which steamers leaving Ireland were crowded, he would at once acknowledge the necessity of making some provisions against such abuses; he doubted, however, whether it could be effected in the present Bill, and, if it could not, he was quite of opinion that a short Bill ought to be brought in and without delay passed for that special purpose.
 MR. REYNOLDS  was happy to find that the two hon. Members approved of the principle of the Bill, as it appeared that their only objection to it was that it did not provide compensation for a particular officer of the court. Although he was extremely anxious to carry this Bill, he would not be a party to inflict any injustice on any officer fairly entitled to com-
 297 l. l l l 298 Freeman's Journal
 MR. SADLEIR  was glad that the hon. Member for Athlone was proceeding with this Bill; for he was rejoiced to see some chance of a creditor being able to proceed against an absent debtor. In the present state of the law, a landed proprietor in Ireland might owe many thousands, to tradespeople and others, and yet manage, by living abroad, to enjoy the whole income arising from his estates, leaving his creditors all the while unpaid.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  thought it would be scarcely fair to send this Bill before a Select Committee, where new matter might be introduced which would endanger its passing through the House.
 MR. BROTHERTON  thought it was most important that something should be done in respect to these societies of Odd Fellows, as there was at present no security whatever against frauds committed on them. In respect to the present Bill, he was of opinion that it was a most dangerous experiment to authorise the payment of fees, as it would have a tendency to discourage persons from joining these friendly societies, which should rather be fostered and encouraged as much as possible. He knew, however, that many of them had been formed upon erroneous principles; but a proper measure of legislation would have the effect of correcting these evils in some degree by giving a good security to those who subscribed to them. It was also most desirable to discourage the system of holding their meetings in public-houses, where a great portion of the money which might be dedicated to useful purposes was expended for liquor.
 MR. HUME  did not know anything more important than to encourage these societies, for he always thought that they afforded the best means of cultivating prudence and thriftiness amongst the working classes. He thought it most desirable to enable all such societies to obtain legal advice without much expense; indeed, he would support a proposition to pay a professional man at the public expense, for he thought that the public money could not be better bestowed than by encouraging habits of prudence amongst the people, and enabling them to provide against sickness or other contingencies to which the most provident and best-disposed people were liable. He wished to ask the hon. and learned Attorney General whether he was disposed to concur in the opinion that all societies should be brought within that protection of the law which, he said, was not now given them?
 MR. HUME  had always been opposed to legislating in detail upon such subjects as this. It was well known that many letters came from Canada to this country, and from other places also, complaining of the inadequate manner in which the trade in emigration was carried on, and complaining very strongly of the state of the vessels in which emigrants were carried out. There was every reason to believe that the officers in charge of those vessels neglected their duty. He thought that Government ought to require certificates from the emigration agents at the different
 301
 MR. HUME : No, I have no Amendment to propose.
 MR. HUME , before the House adjourned, thought that it should consider the state of the colonial governments at the present period. There was a sort of con-
 289 290
 MR. HUME  was of opinion that the whole subject should be dealt with at once, instead of piecemeal. He quite agreed that the best way of settling the question would be to refer the Bill to a Select Committee.
 MR. HUME  explained that the object of his Bill was to equalise the assessment of the county rates, and to provide for the better management of the expenditure.
 MR. P. SCROPE , whilst he concurred in the objects of the Bill, doubted whether it would be found effectual in curing the evils which existed with respect to those societies. Some years ago he had introduced a Bill for placing these societies on a sounder footing, but the measure failed in its object. These societies, which were sometimes called "friendly," sometimes "benefit societies," were in fact mutual assurance societies, in which the parties mutually insured each other against certain contingencies that might arise. Now, it was of the greatest importance so to secure the solvency of these societies, that a party, after having subscribed for years in anticipation of a particular benefit at the expiration of a certain period, should feel that he was protected against the sudden breaking up, or bankruptcy, of the concern. But the whole subject was one upon which the Government itself could best legislate.
 MR. SPOONER  agreed with the hon. Member who spoke last that the county expenditure was in a most unsatisfactory state, and that the present system required alteration. He agreed with the principle of the measure of the hon. Member for North Wilts; but bethought that it should provide for the total relief of the rack-rent tenants from the expense in question, instead of half of it; and upon bringing up the report, he should divide the House upon the point. If the principle of relief was good in one case, it was good in the other. There were many evils connected with local taxation and expenditure; and, believing that this Bill would tend to rectify some of them, he thought that the details of it could best be considered by a Committee upstairs.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to authorise, in certain cases, the partition or sale of chattels personal held in joint tenancy or tenancy in common. The hon. and learned Gentleman briefly explained that the object of his Bill was to afford a more effectual remedy than the law at present allowed to a minority of the part owners of a ship, when a disagreement arose between them and the majority as to the employment of that ship. The law, as it at present stood, empowered a majority of the part owners of a ship to employ that ship against the will of the minority; and the minority had no remedy except going to the Admiralty Court and there calling upon the majority to give security, not for any portion of the profits of the voyage, but against any loss that might arise from the particular mode of employing the ship. But even that inadequate remedy could not be obtained by the minority, except under a renunciation of all share in the profits that might accrue from the voyage. If the minority did not avail themselves of the course thus open to them, they would be liable to share in the risk of the loss of the ship, and of the expenses incurred in sending her out, although it was done contrary to their own wishes. He had consulted with several parties connected with the shipping interest at Liverpool, and with many commercial persons in London, as to the remedy to be applied to this case, and he had obtained their approval of the simple remedy which he now wished to embody in the Bill he was desirous of introducing. What he proposed was, to enable the parties who were in the situation he had described to apply to the Court of Chancery in a summary manner by petition for a sale of the joint interest in the ship about the use of which they could not agree, and he proposed to extend that power generally to all chattels personal held in joint tenancy or tenancy in common.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  thought that there were other societies in which a great many poor and industrious persons had placed their savings, which were not under the protection of the law, and which demanded their immediate attention—he referred to the "Odd Fellows'" societies. There were no possible remedies as yet adopted against the grossest frauds that might be committed in those societies. When it was considered that there were many thousands of those societies, and that the number of members belonging to them was immense, it was, he thought, the duty of Parliament to devise some means by which the protection of the law would be afforded to them. In Manchester alone, where the chief society of Odd Fellows was established, there were no less than 264,000 members belonging to it. The annual amount raised from them was 396,000 l
 MR. SOTHERON , in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said, that the object of it was to remedy certain defects in the Friendly Societies Bill passed two years ago. It required that a competent authority should be appointed who should certify not only that the rates and contributions which had accumulated in these different friendly societies were sufficient to meet their liabilities, but that he should also affix his signature of approval to the rules as well as the tables of such society. The recent Act provided that every five years there should be a valuation made of the assets and liabilities,
 303 l
 MR. SOTHERON  begged pardon of the House, if, in his ignorance of the proper form, he had left to that moment the explanation he felt bound to give in consequence of the number of suggestions that had been made to him upon the subject of this measure. He had been urged by all those hon. Gentlemen who had supported the second reading of the Bill, to go still further, and, instead of putting one-half only of the rates upon the owner of the property, to put the whole amount. Several other additions had been urged upon him, but he did not adopt them; because, in the first place, he did not think that he could carry them; and, in the next, he feared that he might lose his Bill altogether, if he attempted to introduce them. He would, however, throw out some suggestions for the consideration of the Government. The county rates were divisible under three heads. The first of these heads, concerning works of a national character, as the maintenance of prisoners, the transport of them, the cost of prosecution, and all matters connected with the criminal jurisdiction of the country, ought to be supplied at the expense of the Government: the second, which was of a permanent character, such as the cost of all buildings in the county for public purposes, ought to be defrayed by the owners of property; and the third to be borne by the occupiers, would be the cost for such smaller items as they received, and perceived the advantage of. Whether the Government would accede to the first part of his proposition, he did not know; but it was notorious that there was hardly a county in the country between which and the Government there
 309
 MR. SOTHERON  had no objection to the Bill being referred to the Select Committee, provided it were not materially extended in its principles and operations. His fear was, that the numerous suggestions likely to be made in Committee would so alter the Bill from the comparatively small one which he meant it to be, that it would be in fact lost. There were 34,000 of those societies in England, with a capital of 6,000,000 l 308
 MR. SOTHERON  thought the proposal to send the Bill before a Select Committee would have the effect of indefinitely postponing it; and all that could reasonably be asked of him was, that he should not press the Bill to a third reading till the Select Committee to be proposed by the hon. Member for Montrose had reported. He did not think that this Bill would at all interfere with the one brought forward by the hon. Member for Montrose, which no doubt related to the settlement of a great national question.
 MR. KEOGH  said, he had no objection to the principle of the Bill, but thought injustice would be done to the marshal of the Recorder's Court, who derived certain fees from the process of attachment, which the hon. Member for the city of Dublin proposed to abolish by this Bill, without giving the officer in question any compensation. He might take a pull at the Consolidated Fund, to use the phrase of the hon. Member, but objections were entertained to such a course; and he would, therefore, suggest as a preferable course that whatever might be substituted for that of attachment, the same fees should be paid on that process during the life of the officer, but to cease after his death.
 MR. MONSELL  was sure that the justice of the appeal made by the hon. Baronet behind him would be felt by the House. It had been found, and he was happy to say so, that the Bill of last year had worked well; he rather regretted to find that some of its provisions were altered by the present measure; and he hoped that the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies would see the advantage of referring to last year's Bill before that which was now before them went into Committee. The subject was one of great and growing importance. As many as 250,000 of our fellow-subjects became every year interested parties in these Passengers' Bills; and he, therefore, thought the time of the House by no means mispent in at-
 300
 MR. GROGAN  had no intention of opposing the second reading, but wished rather to see a measure which excited so much interest so dealt with as to secure the general concurrence of all; and he would, therefore, suggest to his hon. Colleague not to move the second reading now, but to let it stand over till after Easter.
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  said, the principle of the Bill was, that one half of the rates for lunatic asylums should be paid by the landlord, and the other half by the tenant; but this proposal was not approved by the House; the Bill therefore required to be rectified, and he thought the proposal of the hon. Member for Montrose a very reasonable one.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  objected to the charges being laid upon real property only, seeing that the objects for which they were made were for the benefit of all classes of the community.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, he toot it for granted that the words "mercantile vessel" would be construed to mean any description of sea-going vessel; therefore, upon that point, he did not think it necessary to trouble the House with any observations; hut he rose to say that he thought the regulations which this measure imposed ought to be made applicable to vessels proceeding from one part of the united kingdom to another. A striking instance had recently occurred, that of the  Londonderry
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  thought that much more ought to be done to improve the system of county rating and expenditure than was contemplated by this Bill. He approved, however, of the principle of the measure, and he hoped that it would be passed into a law. If it was just that the rack-rent tenants should be relieved from half of the expenses of the lunatic asylums, upon the same principle it was just that they should be relieved from the whole of them; and he, as a landlord, was quite ready to bear his share.
 MR. DUNCAN  said, if the hon. Under Secretary were really anxious to give an explanation, it was quite open to him to have seconded the resolution. Why did not the hon. Gentleman adopt that course, which would have enabled him to make a reply to the charges brought against the Governor of Van Diemen's Land? As the
 382
 MR. SCOTT  then rose to reply. He observed, that no one who had heard the debate just about to close could entertain the least doubt that there was much difficulty in the government of our colonies, and he wished to have the causes of that difficulty investigated. It had been stated by an hon. Member opposite, that in the colonies which possessed legislative assemblies, those bodies possessed full control over the public purse. Now, that was part of the matter at issue, for one of the most important grounds of complaint was, that those assemblies did not possess the degree of control which ought to belong to them, and, in some cases, no control whatever. The mode of inquiry he had suggested had been objected to; but if a Parliamentary inquiry were not the proper medium in such a case, he was at a loss to conceive what was. He was fully sensible of the difficulty and complexity which surrounded the subject; but it was because he recog-
 376
 MR. SCOTT : That might be the case; but the evil was not the less. The fact was, they could not blame the Colonial Minister. It was impossible that he could be responsible for all that was going on.
 324 "all the facility and certainty in the acquisition of land existed which might be expected from the provisions of the Land Act in the Australian colonies." 325 l l "Nothing contributed more to the stability of our social and constitutional system than did our habits of self-government. Self-government was an advantage for which we could hardly pay too
 326 "We should ever bear in mind the propriety of uniting together by a general law settlements which are parts of the same empire, and which are deriving their white population, their language, and their commercial capital from Great Britain." 327 l l l l l 328 l l l l l l l l l l s l l l 329 l l 330 l 331 332 333 propugnacula imperii l l l 334 l l l 335 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the political and financial relations between Great Britain and her Dependencies, with a view to reduce the charges on the British Treasury, and to enlarge the functions of the Colonial Legislatures."
 MR. SCOTT : The subject which he ventured to bring under the consideration of the House, namely, the condition of the Colonies, had unfortunately not been deemed worthy of any place in the Speech from the Throne at the commencement of the Session, which contained reference to foreign affairs and all other topics, but not one word upon colonial matters. When he considered the vast and growing importance of the colonial possessions of the British empire, spread as they were over the whole world; and when he reflected upon the critical and disastrous position of many of those colonies, he felt that the subject was one which well deserved the consideration and attention of Parliament. He wished
 314 l l l l l s s s 315 "The expenses of our civil establishments in North America, before the commencement of the late disturbances, were 64,700 l l l l 316 l "The duties of government required in an infant settlement might be discharged by the cololonists themselves, who had a stake in its welfare, either gratuitously, for the honour such functions conferred, or at all events for a small remuneration. He hoped they would revert to the ancient and wise policy of their ancestors, and allow the colonists to govern themselves. No doubt they would commit some mistakes, perhaps serious ones; but all experience was in favour of self-government. When he looked at what their ancestors accomplished two centuries ago under this system, and contrasted it with the results of attempting to govern from Downing-street a settlement at the antipodes, he must say experience was decidedly in favour of allowing a colony to govern itself." Tempora mutantur et nos mutamur in illis l l l l l 317 l 318 "That there could be no doubt that the two motives which led to the existing contest between England and North America, were, first, the attempt to levy taxes against the consent of the colonies; and, secondly, to alter their constitutions without their concurrence." "The charters ought not to be altered at all, but at the desire of the greater part of the people who live under them." "It appears to be the fashion in Parliament, as well by those in office as by the Opposition, to talk about the expediency of allowing the distant dependencies of the empire to manage their own concerns. Almost every act of the Administration belies such an intention. Everything in the Colonial Office appears to be done in a spirit of supercilious despotism, not with a desire to conciliate, but to alienate, the best and most loyal feelings of the colonists. " 319 320 "In this proposal I have not suggested a mere innovation, but rather a return, as nearly as possible, to the mode of action contemplated on the original appointment of the Board of Plantations." "If it be really true that the withholding the grounds of his decisions is either the privilege or the duty of any judge in any part of Her Majesty's dominions, it is impossible that such a principle of law could be abolished too soon or too completely. The absolute dominion of the law, as enforced by its judicial interpreter, would be
 321 "Annuit, et totum nutu tremefecit Olympum." cul de sac 322 l l 323 s s d s "Sie volo, sic jubeo, stet pro ratione voluntas,"
 MR. SCOTT : I did not say either overlooked or neglected; I said mismanaged.
 MR. SCOTT  asked if that amount had been obtained by the sale of land?
 MR. SCOTT : Then the money has not been raised by the sale of land at all.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that some of those changes were made by Act of Parliament.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the hon. Gentleman had altered the Motion which he had put upon the Paper; and, as far as he could collect the import of the precise Motion just read by the Speaker, it would appear that the hon. Gentleman asked the House to determine the question that Smithfield market should be moved, and another site found for it. Now certainly,
 377
 LORD J. RUSSELL  submitted to the hon. Gentleman, whether he had not better postpone to another day his Motion for a Committee, that the regular notice might be given of the altered terms in which it had been brought forward.
 MAJOR BLACKALL  thought it had been agreed in the course of the debate, that the best thing which could be done for the colonies was to give them representative government, or, in the words of the hon. Member for Montrose, to leave them to themselves; but the hon. Baronet who had just sat down, had told the House, that last year, in what might be called the model province of Canada, a new conten-
 374 375
 MR. HAWES  said, that the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Youghall had come to a most unexpected conclusion, and one which he certainly had not anticipated. He could assure the House that he was prepared with a most complete answer to the allegations of the hon. and learned Gentleman, and if it would not be infringing the rules of the House, he should really like to give a short explanation. [ Cries of
 MR. HAWES  said that 100,000 l l l 351 352
 MR. HAWES  said that it included the whole revenue derived from land, and of course the land held under leases would be part of the security under which the 100,000 l
 MR. HAWES : Not less in the entire than 300,000 l
 MR. HAWES : I am still more surprised than before, after the hon. Gentleman's explanation, and I will state the grounds. In the year 1846, there was hardly any emigration going on to New South Wales. In 1846, there were not more than 200 persons sent as emigrants to New South Wales, 2,154 were sent to South Australia. In 1847, there were four ships sent to New South Wales, with 800 emigrants, and to South Australia twelve ships, with upwards of 2,000; in 1848, fifty ships to New South Wales, with 12,200 emigrants, and to South Australia twenty-three ships, with 5,900 emigrants. Now, I will say, that, trying it by any test, a more successful emigration never has been carried on than that to which I have just alluded, and which has been conducted under the Emigration Commissioners. The mortality has been next to nothing; the emigrants have gone out in health, and arrived in health. By the arrangements made on the spot, they have almost immediately found employment; and I have no reason to doubt that the whole of the emigration which commenced in 1847, and is increasing in 1848 and 1849, will be most beneficial to England, and most advantageous to the colonies. How stands the fact with regard to the land fund? Since, I think, the year 1837, the total amount received by the sale of land is 919,669 l 350 l l l
 MR. HAWES : You exclude New Zealand. Well, twenty-two have representative institutions at this moment, more or less perfect. In this number I include British Guiana, and New South Wales, and the Ionian Islands, together with the West Indian colonies I have referred to. To the Capo, and to the remaining colonies in Australia, namely, South Australia, Van Die-men's Land, New Zealand, and Western Australia, conditionally as regards the latter, the principle is conceded—making twenty-seven colonies possessing, or about to possess, the privileges of representative government. In the case of New Zealand, provision is already made by Act of Parliament for the establishment of representative government. It has been suspended, I think, for good and sufficient reasons. New South Wales, as I have stated already, enjoys the full practical benefits of this form of government. An alteration was certainly at one time contemplated, and Earl Grey having candidly communicated to them what he considered a good constitution, and the Legislative Council preferring to retain their present constitution, Lord Grey immediately acceded to their wishes, and the new constitution of New South Wales forms the basis of the Bill which I shall soon submit to the House. Van Diemen's Land will also have the same form of government; and Western Australia, as soon as it can take upon itself to conduct its own government without aid from Parliament. British Guiana is, in point of fact, a colony having a representative government, very imperfect—very defective, I fully admit, and I should hope that out of its present troubles may come a better and a more liberal constitution. With regard to the Ionian Islands, there they have a representative government. It is, however, very complicated, founded upon the Treaty of Vienna. Still it is a representative constitution, and the present Governor has suggested improvements, to which no objection in principle has been made. Sixteen colonies, then, remain, not possessing representative constitutions. I take, first, Trinidad; and I think it would be difficult for any one satisfactorily to settle a form of constitution in
 342 "Now it was not for me to presume to defend all the errors and defects which might in past times have characterised the colonial system; but this I do say, that the colonial policy, taken as a whole, is the most successful and beneficial ever witnessed." 343 344 345 s d s s 346 l l 347 348 and 349
 MR. HAWES : The House, I am sorry to see, does not appear to take that interest in this important question which I, for one, should desire—[ At this time there were scarcely forty Members present 336 337 338 339 340 341
 MR. HAWES : Will you take New Zealand for one?
 MR. MASTERMAN  said, his hon. Friend the Member for Lymington had alluded to him as having suggested that it would be better that the terms of the Motion should be the same as those used last year. The corporation of the city of London would not shrink from any inquiry respecting the removal of the market; at the same time they would deprecate anything in the Motion that would tend to prejudice the question.
 MR. HUME  thought the House was placed in a singular position when they were told by the hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies, and the right hon. the late Secretary for the Colonies, that no good could come of inquiry. He would rest his advocacy of the Motion on what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken. That hon. Gentleman had praised those to whose lot it had fallen to administer
 365 366 367
 MR. HUME  seconded the Motion.
 MR. MANGLES  said, his was well known, but it had never been personally directed against those who administered the affairs of its government. He knew that the highest
 362 363 mutatis mutandis 364
 MR. C. ANSTEY  protested against the system of the free-trade school, as enunciated by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose, and thought the colonies
 368 l 369 370 371
 MR. ANSTEY  moved—
 "An humble address to Her Majesty on the subject of certain illegal ordinances or acts of Council for the taxation of the people of Van Die-men's Land—the attempts of Lieutenant Governor Sir W. Denison to intimidate the judges of the supreme courts of that island into declaring such ordinances or acts to he legal, and the grievances complained of by the colonists of that island in their petition presented last year to Her Majesty, and printed by order of this House; and that Her Majesty may be pleased to direct the local authorities in future to respect the independence of the judicial functions of that court, and also to signify Her disallowance of any ordinance or act subsequently passed by the said Lieutenant Governor in Council, for giving to such illegal ordinances or acts the force of law." 379 380 l 381
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  did not stand there to represent the corporation of the city of London; but he could express their sentiments by saying, he was sure they would not object to any inquiry into the state of Smithfield market. If the market was now complained of as a nuisance, it had only become so in the course of time; and it should be remembered, that when first established, it formed part of the suburbs of London, and now the metropolis encircled that part. Much had been said in the newspapers condemnatory of the attachment of the citizens to this so-called nuisance; but he thought it would be found that, with the exception of the
 378
 MR. GLADSTONE  said: I have great pleasure in agreeing with the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies, as to the course which he proposes the Government should take with respect to the Motion of my hon. Friend the Member for Berwickshire. I agree with him that no good would arise from granting a Committee to inquire into a subject so extensive and so complicated; on the contrary, I believe that granting the Motion of the hon. Gentleman would tend to serve any corrupt interest which the Government might have in evading the discussion of colonial questions, because such a Committee would find its hands so overloaded with the extent and number of perplexing subjects which would come before it, that it would be difficult to arrive at a satisfactory result in the case of any one of them. I will not say that the aid of a Parliamentary Committee may not be usefully invoked in the case of a particular question relating to a particular colony; if, for instance, my hon. Friend
 353 354 355 356 357 358 359 360 361
 MR. GLADSTONE : No.
 MR. GLADSTONE : How many are there in which they actually exist?
 MR. GLADSTONE  inquired what was the actual sum that had been raised?
 MR. MACKINNON  said, as the alteration suggested by the hon. Member for the city of London had not met the approbation of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, he saw no reason why he should not go on with his Motion in its original shape, as it stood on the Paper.
 MR. MACKINNON  said, his hon. Friend the Member for the city of London had wished him to alter his Motion in the terms he had done, as being the terms of the Motion upon which the original Committee was formed.
 MR. MACKINNON  said, he rose to move for a Select Committee to consider the propriety of the removal of Smithfield market, as being a public nuisance, to a more convenient site. He would not detain the House more than a moment, whilst he merely made his Motion. A Committee had formerly been appointed to consider how far it was expedient to remove Smithfield market, and the Chairman had merely reported that the subject required further consideration, and that it was desirable that the Committee should again be formed. No Committee had been formed last year; and this year the Chairman of the former Committee, who was himself unable from bad health to attend to his duties, had requested one of three individuals to move for the reappointment of the Select Committee. Lord Ashley had been applied to to bring forward the Motion, but had declined; Mr. Sidney Herbert had also declined, on account of ill health; and it had therefore devolved upon him (Mr. Mackinnon) to comply with the request of the late Chairman, and move for this Committee, which he proposed should consist of Lord Robert Grosvenor, Viscount Mahon, Mr. Bramston, Mr. Alderman Cope-land, Mr. Masterman, Mr. William Miles, Mr. Yorke, Mr. Stafford, Mr. Pugh, Mr. Mackinnon, Sir Edmund Filmer, Mr. Cornewall Lewis, Sir Charles Douglas, Mr. Childers, and Mr. Christopher. He would also give notice, that he would move the addition of two more names—the Earl of March and Mr. Ormsby Gore.
 SIR E. FILMER  had belonged to the former Committee, which had not come to the conclusion that the market was a nuisance; they had not found sufficient evidence for deciding either the one way or the other; and, therefore, they had only suggested that the Committee should be revived.
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  would not trespass at any length on the indulgence of the House by discussing the general principles of colonial administration, because he quite agreed in the view taken with respect to them by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford. He would confine himself to the questions actually involved in the Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Berwickshire. These questions were—first, whether there should be an inquiry into the colonial policy of Great Britain; and, secondly, if there ought to be such an inquiry, by whom it ought to be conducted. Now, was there a case for inquiry? The hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies said there was no case for inquiry. He maintained that the colonial policy of the British empire was perfect; that nothing could be bettor than the conduct of the Colonial Office; and nothing more admirable than the appointments made by it. Such might be the opinions of hon. Gentlemen connected with the Colonial Office; but there was a growing conviction, in the House and the country, that there were grave errors and defects in the colonial policy of the British empire—there was a growing distrust of the Colonial Office, and a growing feeling that not over much reliance was to be placed in its statements. Now, which of these two sets of opinions was correct? Rightly to answer the question it appeared to him to be sufficient to count over the most important events which had happened in our most important colonics within the last ten or fifteen years. It was fair to judge of a system by its fruits—and what had
 372 l 373
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  presumed, that the object of the hon. Gentleman in making his present Motion, was to obtain an opportunity of delivering the speech which he had just addressed to the House, rather than of seriously asking for the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the various subjects embraced in that speech. The legal experience of the hon. Gentleman undoubtedly entitled any observations which might fall from him on those subjects to the respectful attention of the House. But it was to be observed that on the present occasion the hon. Gentleman had entered upon a very wide field, and had gone into all sorts and descriptions of matters which were scarcely within the scope of his Motion; and were he (the Solicitor General) to follow the hon. Gentleman in detail through all the points he had thought proper to urge, he should extend his observations far beyond the usual limits of debate; for the hon. Gentleman had not confined his remarks to those matters which affected the transfer of landed property in Ireland, but bad touched upon everything that in the remotest degree affected the existing judicial system in Ireland as regarded real property. It certainly was not his present intention to
 398 399 400 401 402 403
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  was glad to hear that it was the intention of Government to bring in a meaaure to remedy the evils connected with the system of landed property in Ireland. He should be very sorry to draw an omen of the efficiency of these measures or their possible success from the phrases which the hon. Gentleman had used in alluding to them.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  seconded the Motion.
 MR. SADLEIR  was happy to hear it. It was the condition of the tenant tenures in Ireland which greatly contributed to embarrass and obstruct industry. In no other country could so absurd a system be found. He had himself looked into the system of tenant tenures in many countries, and he found that of Ireland to be among the worst. In England the land was cultivated by a class of tenantry who had the protection of a simple and intelligible tenure. In nine cases out of ten it was a lease for a fixed term, or a tenancy from year to year, maintained and supported by local usage, by a spirit of confidence on the part of the landlord, and fidelity on the part of the tenant. These were the moral buttresses which gave a tenant all the encouragement which his industry required. How different was the case in Ireland! There, there were leases for lives renewable for ever in every possible variety, calculated to create litigation, heartburnings, and neglect, to repress industry, and to keep asunder the tenant occupier and his natural landlord. There, there were leases which not only discouraged industry, but administered to the worst passions of the people. Many of these leases were renewable, not upon payment of a pecuniary fine, or the delivery of a peppercorn, but upon conditions which must lead to solemn reflections as to the morality of the system, though some of them might excite momentary mirth. Hon. Gentlemen were under the impression that all leases for lives in Ireland were renewable for ever, as in England, upon payment of a fine generally equal to half a year's rent, the delivery of a pair of roast fowls, or a peppercorn; but he had one in his possession renewable for ever
 394 395 396 397 "The manufactures and the agriculture of Europe have arisen from the fall of the feudal system, and from the establishment of Governments which have afforded to industry the only encouragement it requires—a tolerable security that it may be allowed to enjoy the fruits of its own enterprise and labour."
 MR. SADLEIR  rose to call the attention of the House to the legal circumstances which unduly impede the sale of landed property in Ireland, and to those facilities which may be safely afforded for its free transfer. When he looked at the present condition of Ireland, the widespread destitution, and the sufferings of her population, and the resignation and patience with which they had borne the ravages of poverty and pestilence extending over two-thirds of the country; when he saw the difficulties into which her gentry had fallen, the insolvent circumstances of her traders, her hierarchy reduced to a degrading poverty, her clergy and medical men cut off in the performance of their duties, by a direful pestilence; when he observed the diminution in the financial circulation of the country, and saw the cruelties perpetrated in the name of charity under the operation of a vicious poor-law; when he saw the cultivator of the soil going out by moonlight to till the land, and in the morning yielding to the poor-law collector, who would take no excuse, his farm horses and implements of husbandry, to satisfy the cravings of a system which paralysed industry and wasted the best resources of the country; when he looked at the sessional policy of Her Majesty's Ministers, and the spirit in which
 383 384 385 l 386 387 "I am aware that the system of conveyancing imposes great difficulty, great expense, great delay, and great uncertainty upon the transfer of land. There is scarcely a title marketable in the legal sense of the term, meaning a title without a flaw; scarcely any title that is not subject to some legal doubt. A man who has agreed to sell a field for 300 l l l v. 388 l l Times. l 389 l l l l l l l l 390 v 391 392 393
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, the Bill had already been introduced into the House of Lords.
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  said, he would not enter into the question raised by his hon. Friend the Member for Berkshire, but at once consider the main subject of the Bill.
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  rose to move an Amendment that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. In the measure before the House it was proposed in the first place to reduce, and ultimately to pay off, the mortgage debts of all the turnpike trusts in the kingdom; and in the
 410 l 411 l l l 412 l
 MR. RICE  was very desirous that the Bill should pass, after undergoing such amendments in Committee as, in his opinion, would render it a more efficient measure in carrying out the objects which it had in view. He confessed he had been one of those that had endeavoured to press this subject upon the attention of the Go-
 413
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, that before he answered the various objections which had been raised both to the principle and the details of the Bill, he should state what were the views of the Government in attempting to deal with the present question. When he introduced his first Bill to the House, he stated that he did not consider that the Government, as a Government, had any peculiar vocation to prepare or introduce a measure upon public roads; but that, as it was a subject of great extent, importance, and difficulty, and one as to which, by common consent, it was important that some attempt at improvement should be made, there appeared to he reasons why the Government, having a greater amount of official information than private Members could be possessed of, should prepare a measure and submit it to the House. He did not, in introducing that measure, by any means understand that it was a Government measure in the sense of one connected with the immediate executive duties of the Government. That was the statement which he then made, and that was, he believed, the meaning of his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department in the few remarks which he had that day addressed to the House. He would now refer, in answer to the question of the hon. Member
 418 419 420 421 l l l l l 422 423 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 424 l l d. d. ex officio 425 426 427 l l 428 429 uno flatu 430
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS , in explanation, promised to confine himself to an answer to the question proposed by the right hon. Baronet who had just resumed his seat. The House would remember that he (Mr. Lewis) had undertaken merely to answer the objections made in the course of the debate; and that he had not undertaken to reply to all the objections which he had received, for he had received a very large number. He certainly had heard from many quarters the objection which the right hon. Baronet had stated with great fairness; but he did not before think himself called upon to give a succinct answer to it. He would now, however, do so. It was quite true that the Bill before the House would throw all the turnpike trusts of a
 434 l
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  admitted that he was taking an unusual step in opposing the Bill at this stage; but the extraordinary course pursued by the Government compelled him to do so. The Bill had reached the third reading without any opinion being expressed by them on the measure; and although the Attorney General was present when the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge and the Member for Oxfordshire, both men of great weight in the House, had expressed an opinion that it would defeat the ends of justice, not a word had he said in answer, but the Members of the Government voted in a body for the Bill. He (Captain Harris) had a strong objection to the measure. A case occurred at Southampton last week: a rogue attempted to swindle his brother's widow out of some property, and employed counsel; upon the oath being administered his conscience pricked him, and he evaded kissing the book by touching his thumb with his lips, upon which his counsel threw up the brief.
 MR. DISRAELI : Then what did the right hon. Gentleman say? Everybody on his (Mr. Disraeli's) side of the House understood the right hon. Gentleman to say the measure had been forced upon the Government, and that this Bill was not a Government measure, The Government, he said, were not virtually responsible. That was the dogma laid down by the right hon. Baronet. The other night the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies, with regard to another very important subject, laid it down, that where the Government were compelled, by the feeling of the House, to bring in a measure, and not from their own impulse, they were not responsible for it.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, it seemed to him that that was very much in harmony with his understanding of it. He protested, however, against the principle which the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary had asserted. It was not to be tolerated that any difference as to responsibility was to be made between measures brought forward by Government, upon account of the original idea having been started by some independent Member, and those which they introduced upon their own impulse. Each were Government measures, and the Government must be held responsible for them.
 MR. DISRAELI  rose to notice a very extraordinary dogma of the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary, that the Government were not to be held responsible for the measures they introduced, because there was a pressure upon them in the House.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, here was a measure of great public importance, and the names at the back of the Bill were those of the Under Secretary of State for the Home Department, and the Secretary of State for the Home Department; yet the right hon. Baronet told the House that the Government were not responsible for it.
 MR. HAWES  denied having asserted the principle alleged by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire. What he said was, that the Colonial Office had to carry out a certain Act of Parliament, for which the House was responsible, and not the Colonial Office.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it was not competent for the hon. Member to make that objection. He might have moved an Amendment upon the Order of the Day being read; but the hon. Member had not moved any Amendment by way of postponement; therefore, the question still before the House was, that the Bill be read a second time.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Member must reserve his objections until the first Order of the Day had been read.
 MR. BANKES  entirely agreed with the hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich, that the chief point the House had at present to consider was, whether the management of turnpike roads and other highways should be dealt with by a single measure; and he must confess he had heard nothing stated as yet which was favourable to the proposed combination. He thought that the House should now have an answer from Her Majesty's Government to the question why it was that, having consented to the appointment of a Committee on the subject, and obtained a report from that Committee, they had departed from the recommendation in the report, and adopted the principles of amalgamation? What could be the use of sending the matter to be considered by a Select Committee, if the Government acted in direct opposition to the course recommended by that Committee? He therefore called on the Government, at this stage of the proceedings, to give their reasons for the course they had pursued in combining in one measure the management of turnpike roads and other highways. For, unless they made out a good case, he
 417
 MR. MUNTZ  also expressed a hope that the Amendment would be withdrawn, as it was of the greatest importance that the question with respect to this Bill should be settled one way or other, as parties had come up from all parts of the country respecting it.
 MR. AGLIONBY  trusted that the Government, in deference to the objections which had been urged to the measure in its present shape, both in the House and out of it, would see the propriety of withdrawing it. Parties in Cumberland, and in other of the northern counties, declared that they would not have this Bill on any consideration. They objected to it because it mixed up turnpike roads with highways; but their main objection to it was, that it would throw an additional burden on the county rates. But there was still a very strong feeling abroad that the present law required alteration.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to this Bill, which the hon. and learned Gentleman had moved should be read a third time. The Bill was extremely plausible in its title, and professed to pay attention to the religious scruples of certain individuals. It was promoted for the relief of gentlemen for whom he entertained the greatest respect, and who, therefore, were entitled to his respectful consideration; but neither of these circumstances would justify him in omitting to call the attention of the House to the dangerous principle which the Bill
 442 443 444
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, there could be no doubt there had been a general understanding that Government measures should not be brought on upon Wednesdays. At the same time, there were many reasons for proceeding with this Bill. In the first place, a great number of private Turnpike Bills were waiting until it was disposed of; and, in the next, many parties had come up to London expressly in relation to it, who, if it were put off, would have to come again, some from the most distant parts of the kingdom. Altogether there were sufficient circumstances in the case, he hoped, to induce his hon. Friend the Member for Berkshire not to press his opposition to the Bill being proceeded with.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that whatever doubt he might previously have entertained upon this Bill, it had been much removed by the hon. and learned Member for Oxford; because that hon. and learned Gentleman had not answered one of the objections which had been urged against it. The cases which he had brought forward in support of the Bill, would go as far as anything could, in his mind, to show that it ought not to pass. On what ground had he rested his measure? Not upon the conscience of the individual refusing to take the oath; but mainly upon the ground that the ends of justice might occasionally be defeated from the want of some person's evidence, whose refusal to be sworn got him imprisonment, whilst the party accused was in consequence discharged. How did the hon. and learned Gentleman deal with the main question? He went into an historical account of the reasons for effecting the alterations already made; and what did it amount to? Why, that heretofore the Legislature had dealt only with religious classes or sects. But this appeared to be a security that the scruple to take an oath was not one of a light or frivolous nature. The hon. and learned Gentleman did not seem to deal quite fairly with this subject, however; for after stating the number of Separatist congregations in England, Scotland, and Ireland, in the year 1833, he said that each congregation was composed of three persons, and that those congregations multiplied by three gave the whole number of individuals belonging to that sect in whose favour they had legislated. Now, did the hon. and learned Gentleman mean to give the House to understand that those congregations did really consist of no more than three persons each? He thought the hon. and learned Gentleman would hardly venture to say that; but from what he had stated, it was plain that he wished to lead the House to think so. No one who had had experience in taking the testimony from witnesses could for a moment doubt that a good many persons would make statements more loosely—he would not say falsely; but more loosely and highly coloured, when they made them as unattested statements, than when they made them upon oath. If it were necessary for the ends of justice that testimony should not
 449
 MR. HENLEY  was not aware that it was necessary to make the declaration in such terms. He would go as far as any man in relieving the religious scruples of persons; but upon balancing the convenience and the inconvenience which would be attendant upon the present measure, he thought that to take each man's individual assertion, without anything to make it certain that his scruples were conscientious and religious, was a step which would be fraught with great injustice. If they took such a step as that, they must do away with oaths altogether.
 MR. HENLEY  thought it would be wise to withdraw the Bill, as there did not appear to be anything left of it to send to a Select Committee. The hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Home Department had said, that by sending the Bill before a Select Committee, the House would be considered as pledging itself on four points: he said that three of those points would be dependent on the fourth, and that those three points must be con-
 437 l l
 MR. HUME  was glad to see the interest excited in the House in respect to roads, for he had long considered that the system of highways in this country was attended with great waste; it had subjected the agricultural interest to heavy taxation. Fourteen years ago he had unsuccessfully endeavoured to introduce a measure to rectify the evil of having, as they still had, so many separate trusts. He approved of consolidation, but not consolidation in the manner now proposed. He was aware of an instance, which occurred in the year 1826, in which no fewer than eighteen turnpike trusts had been consolidated, and the greatest accommodation to the public interest bad resulted; and he saw no reason why the same process might not be effectually carried out in every other county in England. He objected to the plan proposed by the present Bill, of throwing the whole expense attending the consolidation upon the Consolidated Fund. According to Clauses 8 and 18, that expense might amount to 70,000 l l 435
 MR. HUME  said, the measure was one of immense importance, and that it ought to be disposed of at once, one way or the other.
 MR. PUSEY  said, he would accede to the proposal of the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary, if he would undertake to facilitate his proceeding with the Landlord and Tenant Bill.
 MR. PUSEY  objected to the order for the second reading of this Bill being placed before that for the Committee upon the Landlord and Tenant Bill, of which, as an independent Member, he had the charge, and which stood No. 4 on the Paper. It was twenty years since he had the honour of first becoming a Member of that House, and so long as he could remember, Wednesday evenings had been given up to in
 405
 MR. PUSEY  said, the Amendment he intended to propose was, to negative the reading of the Order of the Day.
 MR. PUSEY  objected, and wished another order to be substituted.
 MR. PUSEY  trusted that he had not unduly persisted in an endeavour to carry the measure which he had introduced. He believed that he had now established the principle that private Members should have precedence on Wednesdays. He would not, therefore, press his Amendment, but he trusted that the House would give him an early day to proceed with this Bill.
 MR. PUSEY  said, he would then move that the Order of the Day for the second reading be postponed till after the other orders.
 MR. PUSEY  said, he objected to the reading of the Order of the Day.
 MR. SPOONER  said, that concurring in every word which had fallen from the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth on this subject, very little was left for him to address to the House. From every quarter in the part of the country with which he was connected—from Birmingham, Wolverhampton, Dudley, and other places—communications poured in upon him from turnpike trusts complaining that after, by great care and management of their roads, they had acquired a surplus, which they intended to apply to the reduction of their debt, the Government stepped in, and by their measure proposed a blending of insolvent with solvent trusts, to the obvious injury of the latter. But the mortgagees had also reason to complain. They had advanced their money for the formation of roads, partly for profit, and partly to benefit the localities, and they had done so in the full belief that their advances would be repaid to them within a given time, and in integral sums. But the present Bill proposed to merge the particular securities upon which the money had been advanced into one general and mixed security, over which, of course, the mortgagees could not have such direct control; and it was proposed that, instead of the sums being repaid as a whole, they should
 436
 MR. MANGLES  said, he had been the first to mention the case of the clerks in that House; and he could not see why the same principle of compensation which had been recognised in the Municipal Bill and the Health of Towns Bill, should not be
 438
 MR. SOTHERON  suggested that the Bill should be read the second time  pro formâ
 MR. W. P. WOOD  having moved the Third Reading of this Bill,
 MR. WOOD : But he must declare "upon the true faith of a Christian."
 MR. W. P. WOOD  regretted extremely that the right hon. Gentleman had taken this course of opposing the Bill on the third reading, and had not stated his objections at an earlier period. He believed the greater portion of his objection had reference to matters of detail which they might have disussed, and the measure might have been modified in Committee. He did not understand that the objections of the right hon. Gentleman applied to the whole of the Bill, and he thought he would be very bold if he said that he objected entirely to the principle of this measure. He thought few persons would be disposed to say that the law should remain as it was with respect to this subject. He begged to call attention to the state of the law in the reign of Charles II., and to a measure passed in the reign of William III., for the
 445 v qui tarn 446 447 v l 448
 SIR C. DOUGLAS  felt that it was most desirable that they should, with as little delay as possible, come to some decision on the principle of this measure. He hoped that the hon. Gentleman would allow the House to proceed with it.
 SIR G. GREY  observed, that he had already stated that he was prepared to yield to the feeling of the House on the subject. He would remind his hon. Friend that several hon. Members had expressed their opinion in favour of proceeding with this Bill.
 SIR G. GREY  said, the Government did not disclaim or shrink from any responsibility.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that after the appeal which had been made to Her Majesty's Government, and after the discussion which had taken place, he felt bound to address a few observations to the House; and he must, in the first place, say that, considering the many attempts that had been made by the Government during the last four or five years to deal with the subject of highways and turnpike trusts, and the manner in which all those attempts had failed, it was not very encouraging to any Government to undertake such a task again. Every successive attempt had proved the very complicated nature of the subject, and had shown the vast number of interests that were involved in it, which, though not very apparent when the demand for the amendment of the law was first made, yet became sufficiently obvious when the details of the measure came to be discussed by the House. Several hon. Gentlemen had stated that a great desire had been expressed by the country for some alteration in the existing law. He (Sir G. Grey) knew that such a desire had been repeatedly and very generally expressed; yet it had always hitherto happened that, as soon as the Government endeavoured to frame and propose to the House the details of any Bill relating to highways and turnpike trusts, most persons opposed the Bill, and declared that they would rather the law-should remain in its present state than that the proposed amendment should be adopted. The hon. and learned Member for Cocker-
 439 pro formâ 440 441
 SIR G. GREY  observed that, as an ordinary rule, it was desirable that Bills brought forward by the Government should not stand for Wednesday, or be placed in the way of hon. Gentlemen who had obtained leave to introduce measures, any stage of which was appointed for those days. This Bill, however, had been introduced under peculiar circumstances. It was not a Government Bill in the ordinary sense of the word; it was a measure called for by Gentlemen unconnected with Government. They had forced upon the Government the past and present consideration of the question. Great disappointment had been expressed upon a former occasion because he declined to introduce a measure on this subject in the Session before last; but at length he was forced to declare he would as early as possible introduce a Bill upon the subject, because it was urgently called for. It was in redemption of that pledge that the present Bill had been brought forward. He must remind hon. Gentlemen that the House had made an order, by which the proceedings upon all private Bills relative to turnpikes had been suspended, until the House had pronounced an opinion upon this measure. When the Bill first introduced by his hon. Friend the Member for Herefordshire was withdrawn at an early period of the Session, a pledge was given by the Government that the amended measure should be submitted to the decision of the House; and he was anxious that the opinion of the House should be expressed upon it as speedily as possible, in order that it might not stand upon the Paper for any length of time. If the House objected to the Bill, and preferred the present system, he would very willingly bow to its decision, but he thought it should be unequivocally pronounced. At the same time, if the House thought the Government had taken an unfair advantage of his hon. Friend the Member for Berkshire, or of other hon. Members who had business on the Paper, by placing this Bill first, because it was introduced by a Member of the Government, he was not prepared to press its being proceeded with. He could not, however, fix any early day for the second
 407
 SIR G. GREY  did not apprehend that two, at least, of the orders would lead to any lengthened discussion; but if there was the slightest chance of it, he should have no objection to postpone them to the next Government night. As to Wednesdays, there was no rule of the House by which Bills in the hands of independent Members had precedence. Wednesdays, indeed, were appointed, by rule, for Committee of Supply, which of course must originate with Government.
 SIR G. GREY , in reply, said he could make no promise to give up any particular day.
 SIR G. GREY : Not virtually.
 SIR G. GREY  had asserted no such dogma. The Government were formally but not virtually responsible.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  reminded the right hon. Baronet that the Government had the three first orders to-day.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  said, in that case he would second the Amendment. Whether or not there was a rule of the House that Wednesdays should be set apart for the consideration of measures introduced by independent Members, he did not know; but, in point of fact, such had been the general understanding. The Government had now a third day, or at least they would have in a short time. Already they had every alternate Thursday. Considering, then, the disadvantages under which independent Members laboured in bringing on their measures, he thought Government ought not to encroach upon Wednesdays.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  said, he did not understand his hon. Friend to conclude with an Amendment.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  was sorry that he did not find himself able to support the second reading of the Bill; at the same time he must, in fairness and candour, say that he thought this Bill had excited a feeling in the country beyond that for which there was any occasion. It was, no doubt, most desirable that measures should be adopted which would have the effect of consolidating the trusts, and of gradually liquidating the debt. He knew of several districts where there were separate trusts of only five, six, and eight miles apart. He thought the House must feel it monstrous to have separate machinery—separate Acts of Parliament for each of those little trusts, only five or six miles apart. By consolidating them, they could have these trusts much better and cheaper managed than they were at present. In respect to highways, he did not quite concur with the views expressed by the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire as to the combination of parishes. He thought that if they amalgamated the parishes they would have much better roads than they had at present. This
 414
 SIR R. PEEL  was sure that, whatever opinion might be held in the House with regard to the merits of the measure which had been brought forward under the auspices of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Home Department, there could be but one feeling as to the obligations they owed him for the very great attention he had paid to this subject—a subject not immediately or necessarily connected with the executive duties of the office which he held, but overburdened as that office was with labour, which the hon. Gentleman had undertaken from a desire to advance the public good. He felt every disposition to acknowledge the fairness and candour with which the hon. Gentleman had discussed the matter; and he should not have said a word, if his hon. Friend had not professed an intention to answer the various objections urged to this measure, and at the same time had omitted to notice certain objections of a totally different character from those to which he had referred, and entitled to greater consideration. The hon. Gentleman had referred to objections on the part of the mortgagees, and of the clerks and other officers connected with the turnpike trusts. The objections on which he (Sir R. Peel) relied were of a different character, proceeding from a different motive, totally unconnected with any questions of personal interest. Those objections were urged by Gentlemen who had undertaken functions of an important and invidious character, imposed by Act of Parliament—namely, the administration of turnpike trusts in their immediate neighbourhood. He would take two cases with the particulars of which he was acquainted; one of an agricultural, the other of a manufacturing district. In one part of Lancashire the trustees had administered their functions with perfect satis-
 431 l l l l l l l Cheers 432 433
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  objected to some of the alterations which had been made in the Bill since last Session, and was at a loss to conceive why they had been made at all.
 415 l l l l l l l 416
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  thought great benefit would be derived by referring the Bill to a Select Committee. There was a strong feeling in the country against it, and most likely an inquiry would have the effect of dissipating the objections made to it. At the same it was desirable, for the sake of all parties, that some measure should be immediately taken and therefore, if the
 408
 CAPTAIN HARRIS , pursuant to notice, moved that the following clause be added to the Bill:—
 "And be it Enacted, That the master or owner of every ship belonging to any subject of Her Majesty, and of the burden of 80 tons and upwards (except pleasure yachts) shall have on board at the time of her proceeding from any port of the United Kingdom, and at all times when absent from the United Kingdom, or navigating the seas, one apprentice or more, in the following proportion to the number of tons of his ship's admeasurement, according to the certificate of registry; that is to say, for every ship of 80 tons and under 300 tons, one apprentice at the least; for every ship of 300 tons and under 600 tons, two apprentices at the least; add for every ship of 600 tons and upwards, three apprentices at the least; all of whom, at the period of their being bound respectively, shall be subjects of Her Majesty, and above twelve and under seventeen years of age, and be duly bound for the term of four years at least; and if any such master or owner shall neglect to have on board his ship the number of apprentices as hereby required, together with their respective registered indentures, assignments, and register tickets, he shall for every
 463 l 464
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  would not persist, after what had fallen from his right hon. Friend near him, in giving the House the trouble of dividing.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  seconded the proposition.
 MR. RICARDO  was satisfied that, as soon as the shipping interest got rid of that protection which they supposed the navigation laws gave them, they would be the first to appeal to the House to get their grievances redressed; therefore, he trusted his hon. Friend would not press his Motion on that occasion.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  begged to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he had made any calculation as to the particular sum which would be required to meet the destitution in those unions, and whether he could form an idea as to how long the 100,000 l
 The CHAIRMAN : Does the hon. and gallant Member persist in his Motion?
 LORD J. RUSSELL : This resolution will have to be reported, and we shall have, afterwards, to go into a Committee on the Rate in Aid Bill; and I do not think I am asking too much to ask the House to continue the debate.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  would not oppose the adjournment, as the feeling of a large portion of the House appeared to be in favour of it, but reminded Irish Members that by postponing their decision they increased the difficulty of providing the means for relieving the distress which existed.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, it is hardly necessary for me to address this Committee with respect to the answer which the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire has given to my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, because the hon. Gentleman has not invalidated any one of those arguments which my right hon. Friend employed in support of his proposition.
 523 l d l l 524 525 526
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Well, taking it with that salvo, all I can say is, that that "seeming" would be a very false "seeming;" that it would not be the real fact with regard to it; certainly, my expectation is, that if the Bill for the rate in aid should pass, the advance would be repaid by the sum which would be taken, probably, not by a special rate. Now, with regard to the proposition made by the hon. Member for Kerry, as I have said, we were ready to consult the wishes and opinions of Irish Members; but I think we were not mistaken in our original view, that with respect to the interests of Ireland it was better to take the measure of a rate in aid, than resort to the proposition of an income tax. My right hon. Friend said, that with regard to the rate in aid, it was to be collected by a machinery already in existence, whereas the income tax would require a new machinery; my right hon. Friend, as Chancellor of the Exchequer, has very naturally not gone beyond that statement; but if any one will reflect what is the meaning of a new machinery with regard to taxation, it will be seen that it means something which is not at all agreeable in practice. With respect to an income tax, it is generally agreed that you could not have an income tax in Ireland without applying it to trades and professions, and then you must ask every man what have been his gains and profits. Now, that is a question which is not answered without difficulty, it being of course very injurious to any man in trade to state that his profits have been extremely low during the preceding year—that they amounted to little or nothing; and, on the other hand, if he should state that they hate been very considerable, of course the tax he would have
 527 528
 LORD J. RUSSELL  moved—
 "That the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland be authorised to direct the advance, put of the Consolidated Fund of the said United Kingdom, of any sum, not exceeding 100,000 l
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he would endeavour to satisfy the hon. Gentleman, at least so far as stating plainly what were his views as to the course which ought to be adopted. The proposal of the Government now was, that the sum of 100,000 l l l l l l l l l l l 471 l
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The House must see, if the hon. Gentleman be allowed to pursue this course of observation, that I shall be entitled to reply.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : With respect to the three questions put by the hon. Gentleman, I have to state, first, with regard to Sicily, that the mediation between the King of the Two Sicilies and the Sicilians has come to an end; and that the papers connected with this subject are now preparing, and will be laid on the table of this House in a few days. With regard to the second subject mentioned by the hon. Gentleman, the negotiations with Denmark and the German Empire, I may state that, as communications are still going on, both with Denmark and the German Courts, it is not advisable to lay on the table the papers relative to that negotiation at the present moment. With regard to the third question, the hon. Member is of course fully aware that no Austrian Plenipotentiary is named to the Congress; although it was promised several months since, that promise was never fulfilled.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : As the noble Viscount has thought it necessary to make this statement to the House, perhaps I may be allowed to submit one or two observations
 461
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Then, that he was prepared to state the opinion of—
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Well, of a very large meeting. Before stating my intention to retire, I stopped to hear the noble Viscount's statement; but several other It then Gentlemen called out "No, no!" appeared to me, if I received the noble Lord's answer, I should not be receiving that of the meeting; other Gentlemen, after the noble Viscount's statement, would declare that they were no parties to it; therefore I should have been involved in a debate as to the real sense of the meeting, and, as my original intention was, I retired into the next room, stating that I would remain there, lest it should be thought desirable to receive any other explanation, which I was ready to give conformably to their wishes on the subject of the statement. I can only again assure the noble Viscount that I am sorry any misunderstanding should have arisen on this subject. If it is necessary to make any apology, I am ready to make an apology. I certainly did not intend any discourtesy to him.
 MAJOR BLACKALL  said, that the real question before the Committee was, whether the sums necessary for the relief of Irish distress should be raised by a rate in aid, or by a tax upon the whole of the property of Ireland? The proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Kerry was, he conceived, that any rate in aid to be raised for the relief of extraordinary distress existing in Ireland, should be levied upon all descriptions of property in Ireland. To the principle of the taxation of Ireland for the purpose of relieving Irish distress he was perfectly ready to submit. He could not shut his eyes either to the great distress which existed in Ireland, or to the extraordinary exertions which had been made in this country in order to relieve Irish distress. He could not, therefore, feel justified in refusing his assent to a proposition authorising relief of Irish distress from a tax upon Irish property. He considered it most unjust to tax landed property exclusively for the support of the pauperism of the country. His reasons for arriving at that conclusion were, that during the last year there had been collected, from Irish landed property alone for the relief of Irish distress, upwards of 1,700,000 l l l l s l l d l l 507 l
 MR. ANDERSON  moved the Amendment of which he had given notice.
 MR. DISRAELI  said: In moving that the House do now adjourn, I conceived that I should be perfectly in order if I proceeded to make a few observations on the subject which the noble Lord behind me has brought under our notice. I can easily, however, find another opportunity for doing this; but I hope it will not be said that I have taken any time for preparation.
 MR. DISRAELI  then rose and said: Sir, I have a remark to make on the singular statement of the noble Lord—
 MR. DISRAELI : I shall conclude, Sir,
 462
 MR. DISRAELI  wished to make an inquiry respecting the three mediations which, before the Easter recess, Her Majesty's Government announced they had undertaken, but which, after the Easter recess, had assumed the form of three blockades. He wished to know whether the Government were prepared to lay on the table any documents which might explain this strange metamorphosis; and whether, and when, the House might expect
 457
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, if the Chancellor of the Exchequer felt it necessary to apologise to the Committee for rising to address them at this late hour, I feel much more under that necessity; but as the right hon. Gentleman has been pleased to indulge in certain allusions, which appear to justify some observations on my part, I trust the Committee will pardon me if I venture to trespass briefly on their attention.
 514 l 515 516 l 517 518 519 520 521 522 l
 MR. SPEAKER  observed, that there was no Motion before the House, except the Order of the Day.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the Order of the Day had been moved, and he did not see how the noble Viscount could proceed in addressing the House on a different subject.
 MR. SPEAKER : I hope the House will at once see how much better it is in all such cases as this to adhere to the strict rules of order. I reminded the noble Viscount the Member for Down that the Order of the Day had been moved; but it appeared to be the wish of the House that he should proceed; and now I hope the House will support me in enforcing their own rules.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it would not be necessary for him to make any detailed statement in moving the Resolution he was about to submit to the House, because he believed they were fully aware of the circumstances under which it was necessary for the Government to call upon the House to vote a further advance of money to relieve the destitution prevalent in the western unions of Ireland; and the object of his Resolution was to advance 100,000 l "It is positively impossible to collect a larger sum than 100 l l 468 "The debts for provisions alone amount to more than 4,000 l s l l l l l l l 469 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he had listened to the speeches of the hon. and gallant Member who had just sat down, and of the hon. Member for Kerry, with great satisfaction and attention. Upon the present occasion they had had a clear and distinct proposition made by Irish Members, in a spirit which could not fail to call forth the respect and admiration of the House. He did not for a moment doubt the sincerity of the hon. Member who had brought forward the Amendment, although it did not appear, from the speeches made by other Irish Members, that many of them concurred in the view he had taken. Of those Irish Members who had spoken, two had supported the proposition, two had spoken against it, and two had taken views of the subject, neither condemning the proposition of the Government, nor that of the hon. Gentleman, but opposing altogether the imposition of any additional taxation upon Ireland in her present distressed state. An hon. Member had deprecated the use of any expressions which could give pain to Irish Members. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was not conscious of ever having uttered a word in the shape of reproach to them. It had
 508 509 l l l 510 s Cheers Cheers 511 512 513
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not state any reason for adopting the particular sum of 100,000 l l l l l
 MR. HORSMAN  could not consent to consider this discussion as a discussion on a mere Irish question. The hon. Member for Kerry who moved the Amendment had made a mistake, which was frequently made by Irish Members—which had been made by the Government itself, as appeared from the interview of yesterday—the mistake that this question was not an imperial one, but one in which the feelings and interests of Irish Members were alone concerned. The hon. Gentleman evidently considered the income tax as an alternative to the rate in aid. He could not consider it in that view at all. He thought that the proper way to meet the rate in aid would be, not by moving an Amendment for an income tax, but by a direct negative. It was not the want of a tax from which they suffered, but from the
 494 l "Do I understand you to say that the poor-law
 495 "Is it your opinion that any general rate levied upon Ireland with reference to that poor-law valuation would be an unequal rate?—I think it would. "You would reject, therefore, with reference to a general rate throughout Ireland, the basis of that poor-law valuation absolutely?—I would. "The poor-law valuation is not applicable; the tenement valuation has only just begun, and is imperfect; there remains, therefore, but the town-land valuation for a general rate?—I conceive that the townland valuation, though there are objections to it, which the present examination has brought forth, is still the only uniform valuation that we have to rest upon; it is the only one which has been conducted on a uniform principle. "But you admit that, without adjustment and without alteration, the townland valuation is very imperfect?—The imperfection arises from the deteriorations which have taken place in some local districts more than in others in the last three or four years." "It would be unjust to do it without a power of appeal?—I think so. "If there were a power of appeal given, would it not take many months?—The appeals would cause considerable delay." "With your knowledge of Ireland do you think that those difficulties would be considerably augmented if in addition to the rates to be raised from their own district the people of the north, for example, were called on to pay 5 per cent or 2½ per cent for the benefit of others?—If I know anything of the people of the north, they would certainly rebel against contributing by any rate in aid towards the poverty in the south." "The proposition is, that there shall be a rate of 5 s 496 "Did your guardians show an inclination to repay the loans that were made for the purpose of building workhouses?—I think they would object to the repayment of any money that was lent them for any purpose." "What do you think the effect would be of raising a rate within the district, not for the benefit of that district itself, but as a rate in aid of a national kind, to be applied for the relief, we will say, of Connaught and Munster?—My belief is that it would at once lead to a passive resistance to the collection of the rate in some districts; that passive resistance might or might not load to active resistance." "Do you conceive that it would be a passive or active resistance merely with regard to the new rate, or that that active or passive resistance, as applicable to the new rate, might endanger the collection of the previous rate, the collection of which you have stated to be easy and satisfactory?—It would in practice be impossible to disentangle the one from the other, for they must be collected together. "Would the consequence of this dissatisfaction be augmented if the additional or national rate was not only a rate leviable upon the whole of Ireland, but was, by reason of the insolvency of certain districts, to be a rate exclusively leviable upon the districts remaining solvent?—That would further add to the difficulty of collecting such a rate." "I can hardly conceive any evil greater than the rating of the whole of Ireland, for the deficiencies arising in a particular part, which may be very distant from the districts so rated." "Assuming the principle to be adopted, that one part of the country is liable for the deficiencies of another, the parties who had to pay the rate would feel no security that it would not be in the wisdom of Parliament to pass the limit." d 497 "However useful a rate in aid might be under proper safeguard, it would be useless and wholly inadequate as here proposed—the progressive effect of this measure would be a diminution of self-reliance, and a rapidly increasing balance to be paid out of some fund or other—or else starvation would ensue." "I am afraid to put a limit to what I believe the rate in aid necessarily would be, if it is adapted to meet the contingencies that will occur." "I do believe that if the potato failure had been treated as it might have been treated, it would have been looked on by this country as one of the greatest blessings that ever occurred." 498 499 500 and 501 502 "Give a man the absolute possession of a desert, and he will make it a garden. Give him a nine years' tenure of a garden, and he will leave it a desert." 503 "It is the magic of property which converts sand into gold." l 504 l 505 506
 MR. HORSMAN : What I said was, that it was not only based on false principles, but might almost seem to be on false pretences.
 MR. FRENCH  expressed his regret that the hon. Gentleman should have felt it his duty to proceed in a course which was entirely opposed to the opinions of a large and influential body of the Irish Members. He did not think the hon. Member for Kerry had succeeded in making out a case that would justify the House in adopting his proposition. He had quoted the opinion
 484 l l l 485 l l l l 486 l
 COLONEL DUNNE  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 COLONEL DUNNE : There are numbers of Irish Members who are anxious to speak. If Irish Members do not wish to adjourn the debate, I shall bow to their decision; but if there are Irish Members who wish to speak, I shall persist in the Motion I have made. The debate has been carried on on extraneous points. There has been no argument in favour of the rate in aid, or the application of the income tax to Ireland.
 COLONEL DUNNE  rose to order. It was not competent to the hon. Member to speak on the question—upon the question of adjournment. If any one was to speak he was in possession of the House.
 MR. H. HERBERT  replied, that it was paid exclusively by the county of Kerry. With regard to the proposition involved in the Amendment, it might be objected that there was no machinery to collect the tax. He could not admit the validity of that argument, especially when he considered that a similar argument was not permitted to have any weight against the proposition of the poor-law. At that time no machinery existed to collect the poor-rates, and it had to be created. If, therefore, the proposition he now made was right and proper in the judgment of the House, he hoped it would not be rejected upon the ground of the want of machinery. Let the principle be adopted, and the machinery could be created. But what did the Government call for? Why, for a tax which was to be
 481 laissez faire et laissez passer l l 482 "——impoverished, deprived of all command, Their taxes doubled, as they lost their land." "I should not, however, act fairly, and fully explain the intentions of the Government, if I were not to say that, according to all the information which we have collected, both in the past year and the present year, with respect to an in
 483 "The whole amount would not he more than we now expect to raise by the rate in aid." bonâ fide
 MR. H. HERBERT  then rose to move an Amendment of which he had given notice. He said he could assure the House that never was there an occasion on which they were called upon to exercise their indulgence more special than the present, when he craved them to extend that indulgence towards himself. Perhaps it would induce them to give him that the more
 472 473 474 "A return of the names of any unions or parishes in England and Wales in aid of which any rate or assessment for the relief of the poor has been made upon any county, hundred, union, or parish, during each of the ten years preceding Lady-day, 1848; specifying the names of such last-mentioned counties, hundreds, unions, or parishes, and the poundage and date of such rate in aid; also, the poundage rate which had been made on such first-mentioned parishes or unions respectively, during the year prior to such rate in aid; the amount of such poundage on the valuation, and the amount thereof which had been actually paid prior to such rate in aid having been made." "They find that in the year 1844, the parish of St. Alban's, in the city of Worcester, whose population in 1841 was 247, and whose poor-rate in the year ending the 25th of March, 1844, was 133 1. l l "The Board have ascertained, from correspondence in their office, that the application was made on the part of the parish of St. Andrew to enable it to meet a sudden demand made upon them for the maintenance of a lunatic pauper, adjudged to belong to the parish after a long and expensive litigation." 475 l l 476 477 l l.; 478 "If you check the exertions now making in! Ireland to place her in a state of prosperity, you check prosperity in the united kingdom; but if, on the contrary, you abstain from imposing on that country a burden which she might for the moment be unable to bear, and reserve the imposition of any additional burden that she is more equal to sustain, you in fact promote the prosperity of England and Scotland itself." 479 "That while we fully recognise the claims to subsistence of all our fellow-countrymen, we consider it but equitable that the necessary charge for relief of the destitute should not be borne exclusively by particular classes, but shared by the community at large; and with this object we would suggest that an income or property tax should be imposed on Ireland, the proceeds of which should be applied to the relief of the destitute in aid of local taxation." 480 l
 MR. LABOUCHERE  objected to the first part of the clause, on the ground that it empowered the colonial legislatures to proceed by Address, rather than by Bill. Such a course might be attended with some inconvenience; but if the right hon. Gentleman would consent to an alteration of the clause to meet this objection, he
 467
 MR. LABOUCHERE  hoped that the hon. and gallant Officer would not deem him guilty of any disrespect if he confined his observations within a very narrow compass. He was disposed to admit the importance of the question in one sense, but he did not think that the grievance arising from the present system of apprentices to the merchant service was very severe. He was, however, not prepared to say that it was a burden, however small, from which the service had not an undoubted right to be relieved. The hon. and gallant Member seemed all through his statement to think that such a proposition was necessary in order to induce lads to enter the merchant service. That argument, however, was answered by the fact, which was notorious, that at this moment, there were between 10,000 and 11,000 apprentices more than what were necessary. It was then obviously unnecessary to have any such regulation made to effect this object. He felt that he was not called upon to enter into a discussion upon this matter at the present moment. In regard to the longvoyage trade, it was decidedly the interest of shipowners to employ more apprentices than the law obliged them in most cases. In short voyages the apprentices which the shipowners were obliged to take, often ran away, taking the earliest opportunity of deserting them. It was different in regard to long voyages. There the apprentices were willing to serve, and ultimately became excellent seamen. The system thus worked naturally as a school for training seamen, and there was therefore no necessity for any compulsory enactment on the subject. Although he thought that some of the shipowners had overstated the effect which this system produced, yet he was not prepared to contend that in some instances it might not act as a burden. After what he had stated he hoped the House would not agree to the clause.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the question raised by his hon. Friend the Member for Orkney, was one of a class of questions which he had carefully abstained from touching upon in the Bill. He was most unwilling to add to the difficulties which any Minister proposing an alteration in the shipping laws must be prepared to encounter. He admitted, at the same time, that the manning of the Navy was a question of the greatest importance. He did not mean to deny that the manning of the Navy might not be better conducted, nor that, upon a particular occasion, it did not deserve the most attentive consideration of the House. He thought, however, it would be inexpedient to discuss such a question at present. That question was one that ought to be discussed independently. By entering upon the merits of it at present, they would only impede the progress of the present Bill. He felt he was not bound to argue such a question then, as it was not the fitting occasion to do so. He was sure that any plan for altering the manning of the Navy, if it was to be adopted, should only be adopted after full and mature deliberation of all the circumstances of the case. He did not think that they could, at the present time, give such a subject that fair consideration which it ought to have; and, without expressing any opinion on the subject brought forward by his hon. Friend, he hoped that the House would not agree to the Motion. He
 466
 MR. BRIGHT  asked the hon. Member whether the million he referred to was paid by one county only, or more?
 MR. HERRIES  hoped that his hon. and gallant Friend would not press his Motion to a division, as he would be afforded a much better opportunity of effecting his object on Monday next.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  considered that Irish Members were placed in a most unfair position in being called upon to choose between two measures—both of them measures of great injustice and hardship towards Ireland. Seeing that the whole system of government now tended to draw money from Ireland to be spent in England, it was in his opinion only just that England, who derived the benefit, should pay for the poverty which that system occasioned. It was most ungenerous on the part of English Members to call upon Ireland to support that poverty; he should have thought they would have been proud rather to have had the opportunity of doing so much justice to that unfortunate country. With regard to the Amendment, it would be most disastrous. Ireland now paid more than her fair share of taxation, and he could not vote for the imposition of a further tax, which, besides its injustice, he knew it would be impossible to raise. Then, as to the Government proposition—the rate in aid. That also was open to many objections. The poor man, who was now supporting himself with difficulty, would be ruined if forced to pay it, and the result would be to add to the pauperism which already existed. But what was he to do as an Irish Member? He saw his countrymen perishing by starvation, and the waste of human life was becoming
 487 "Every but in the district is full of dysentery, and even along the hedges the unfortunate evicted outcasts can be seen perishing of neglect and starvation. On Thursday last one died near a ditch, in Tuvegariff, and his only protection against the damp earth, or the inclemency of the weather, was a handful of half rotten straw. Michael Coarsy, of Giranbane, died of starvation, and his hovel was tumbled over him by the "driver" in the last agonies of death. Thomas Mullin, of Cloon, died of starvation, and his whole family, already reduced to walking skeletons, must soon share the same sad fate. The whole population will be swept away by the half-pound system, especially as there is no medical aid of any sort in this wild and extensive territory. It is a wonder the Government would not take the trouble of paying a small salary to a medical man, if they value the lives of Her Majesty's faithful subjects." "On my journey through the parish this morning, to attend dying calls, now more numerous than ever, on account of the prevalence of dysentery, &c, I met the heartrending spectacles of two dead bodies not one mile asunder on the public thoroughfare. Application was made to the relieving officer for a coffin, but to no purpose, and the messenger informed me that he was insulted and beaten for daring to call for any such thing. Last week an inquest was held on John Chambers, who died for want of sufficient food. He had eight children and wife; got 31½ lbs. of yellow meal weekly, say about eight ounces to each individual daily! As a matter of course, he died, as also his son Michael, same hour, same cause, father and son in one coffin, his nephew Gallagher in the same grave, who got no meal. It was proved that this man was frequently carried home from stone-breaking. We next went to Carrasollagh, where Mary Gibbons was buried on the mountain side; I should not say buried, for she lay under a wall from whence her unfortunate husband threw down stones to cover her remains, not having a spade, nor strength if he had one, to dig a grave. The
 488
 COLONEL RAWDON  said, he would not enter into the wide field of argument to which the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had invited the Committee. He had abstained from voting on this question for two reasons—first, because he was reluctant to say "No" to the only proposition which the House had had before it for affording relief; and, secondly, he was reluctant, by his single vote, to add to the
 492 l 493 l
 MR. SADLEIR  was anxious to have the opportunity of explaining why he could support neither the rate in aid nor the proposition of the hon. Member for Kerry. He believed other Irish Members wished to speak, and he hoped, therefore, that the noble Lord would not persist in going to a division on the main question that night. He would move that the Chairman report progress.
 MR. HUME  said, that although he was in favour of such a regulation as that involved in the hon. Gentleman's Amendment, he thought there was much in what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade to induce his hon. Friend to postpone the discussion of such an important question until some future occasion, when the whole subject of the manning of the Navy might be brought more favourably under the attention of the House.
 MR. HUME  wished to know if this advance was to be made before the Bill passed? He had understood the noble Lord at the head of the Government to say, that unless the Bill passed, the grant would not be made. Although he (Mr. Hume) might concur in the propriety of relieving this distress, he saw that the Bill upon which the security for the advance depended was in what might be called a doubtful state. From a communication made this day to the noble Lord at the head of the Government by a noble Lord connected with Ireland, it seemed doubtful whether certain hon. Members were not disposed to oppose the rate in aid; and if that were so, the understanding on which the money was to be advanced might not be maintained. He, therefore, wished to know whether any part of this money was to be advanced before the Bill became law, for he should object to such a course, inasmuch as after the money was paid there might be great difficulty in passing the Rate in Aid Bill, or it might not be passed at all? He appealed to hon. Members connected with Ireland if the destitution in that country were so great, and they did not feel for the sufferings of their fellow-countrymen, and if they would not assist in passing a Bill for their relief, why others should do so, well knowing that their constituents had protested against the advance of any more funds on the same terms as the 50,000 l 470
 MR. HUME  wished to know whether the rumour was correct which generally prevailed, to the effect that a messenger arrived on the 26th of March from Copenhagen, with a despatch of importance for the noble Viscount the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, which despatch, it was alleged, remained unanswered and unattended to until too late to prevent the hostilities which afterwards took place? He would put this question to-morrow if the noble Lord preferred to have notice of it, but he thought the question was one that ought to be put, in order that the House might know whether any blame attached to the noble Lord or not in respect to the rumour.
 MR. R. M. FOX  said, that he did not rise with the view of arguing the question of the soundness or unsoundness of the rate in aid, as he believed that even the supporters of the measure admitted that it was unsound in principle; but he wished to point out to the House the injustice of taxing the northern and eastern districts of Ireland for the support of the poor of Connaught. There were, it should be recollected, some material differences between the poor-law in England and in Ireland. They had no law of settlement in Ireland; and, again, with regard to the payment of rates, the tenant in Ireland deducted not merely half the rate, but half of the poundage rate from every pound of rent that he paid his landlord. It was
 489 d d 490 491
 CAPTAIN JONES  said, that it was his intention to vote for the Amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for Kerry, because he thought it better than a rate in aid. The county which he had the honour to represent (Londonderry), stood second or third, if not first, in Ireland—[Mr. FRENCH: DO you mean with regard to latitude or longitude?] He said, that he meant with regard to taxation. There were districts in Derry that paid as much as 4 s d
 MR. ANSTEY  begged to ask the noble Viscount the Foreign Secretary whether he had received any information from Constantinople on the subject of the alleged demand addressed to the Porte by the Government of Russia as to the removal of all the Turkish troops from Wallachia and Moldavia, and whether a threat had not been held out, that unless the troops were withdrawn the Russian Minister would demand his passports?
 MR. GLADSTONE  expressed his readiness to accede to the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman, and
 MR. GLADSTONE  then moved the following clause in lieu of Clause 14:—
 "Provided always, and be it enacted, That it shall be lawful for Her Majesty in Council, upon an address, or joint-address, as the case may be, from the Legislative Council, or Council and Assembly, or proper legislative authority, of any British possession, praying Her Majesty to authorise the conveyance of goods and passengers from one part of such possession to another part of such possession in other than British ships, to declare, by Order in Council, that such conveyance shall be authorised accordingly, in such terms and under such conditions as to Her Majesty shall seem good; and be it enacted, that upon a like address from the proper legislative authority of any two or more colonies, which Her Majesty in Council shall declare to be neighbouring colonies for the purposes of this Act, praying Her Majesty to place the trade between such colonies upon the footing of a coasting trade, it shall be lawful for Her Majesty, by Order in Council, to declare that it shall be deemed and taken to be a coasting trade accordingly, for all intents and purposes: provided always, that the privileges conferred by this Act upon foreign ships shall not be diminished by any such Order in Council, unless by regulations which shall be equally applicable to British ships."
 MR. MONSELL , on the other hand, requested the hon. Member for Kerry to persist. He wished, for one or two minutes, to reply to the observations of the noble Lord at the head of the Government.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  regretted that his hon. Friend the Member for Kerry had persisted in bringing forward this Motion. He had already stated, in writing to the noble Lord, the reasons which had induced many of the Irish Members to decline giving an opinion upon the question. As to the imposition of the income tax, he conceived it absolutely impossible to answer to those who had sent them here as to whether they were willing to agree with their Members in consenting to such an income tax. If the hon. Member for Kerry pressed his Amendment, he could not vote for that Amendment, however willing he might be at another time to vote for it and support it. He desired distinctly to be understood as perfectly willing to enter into the question of increased taxation of Ireland, on the understanding that it should be imperial taxation for imperial purposes; for he really objected to local taxation. As far as he was concerned, if he had any weight with the hon. Member for Kerry, he should press him not to go to a division.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH : I am quite aware that I am not in order, but I beg to throw myself on the indulgence of the House, and I assure hon. Members that I shall endeavour to render my observations as short as possible. It must be in the recollection of every one present that a few days ago the noble Lord at the head of the Government requested a meeting with those Members of this House who represent places in Ireland, in order to confer with them on certain propositions relating to the rate in aid proposed to be levied in Ireland. There were several Gentlemen who entertained strong opinions upon the subject of that rate, and who desired to have an opportunity of considering the propositions which they presumed the noble Lord was about to make to them. It was thought that the noble Lord intended to press for an immediate decision, and the Gentlemen who entertained sentiments adverse to the rate in aid, if the noble Lord should not give them twenty-four hours for consideration, were anxious to prepare an answer by themselves, and to communicate that at the meeting which took place. The hon. and learned Member for Limerick took a part in those proceedings, and was suffered to proceed with business of an extraneous nature, and Gentlemen were unable to decide who should express their sentiments as spokesman. The noble
 460 "My Lord—I was prepared to state to your Lordship to-day, not only for myself, but on behalf of a numerous and influential body of Irish Members, that whilst in deference to your position as First Minister of the Crown we attended the meeting in Downing-street, we were not prepared to pledge ourselves to the adoption of any particular tax to be imposed upon Ireland. We are not unwilling to discuss any proposal for this purpose upon its own merits in the House of Commons; but without hearing the arguments which might be adduced upon the question, and ascertaining the capability of Ireland to bear increased taxation, we could not be in a position to answer for our constituencies, and must, therefore, abstain offering any advice to the Government as to the course which it may think proper to adopt.—I am, &c." "My Lord—I have had the honour of receiving your letter of this day. I should have waited to hear your Lordship; but as several Members appeared to intimate that they did not wish me to do so, I thought it best to retire, otherwise I must have heard other Members, who do not belong to that numerous and influential body to which your Lordship alludes, and must have assisted at a debate, instead of receiving a decision.—I have the honour, &c."
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH : Not the opinion of that meeting. I was in no way authorised to do so.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  said: In making the few observations which I have to submit, I throw myself altogether upon the indulgence of the House. I throw myself quite upon that indulgence in laying before you the correspondence which has passed between the noble Lord at the head of the Government and myself on the subject of the conference which took place yesterday.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  intimated that he entirely acquitted the noble Lord of ony intentional discourtesy.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH : Of a very large meeting.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I have no reason to believe that any such announcement has been made by the Russian to the Turkish Government; on the contrary, I have every reason to believe the report to be unfounded. The fact is, that the presence of the Turkish troops in Moldavia was invited, I believe, by Russia; but the only fact I am in possession of is, that the
 459
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I may as well answer the question now as to-morrow. The facts are these:—After the Danish Government announced the armistice, communications took place between Her Majesty's Government and the two parties to the dispute, with a view of endeavouring to see whether it was not still possible to
 458
 MR. FITZROY  objected to the principle of obtaining votes on account, believing it to be unconstitutional to do so. There was no plea for the adoption of such a course as there was last year, when a Committee on the Navy Estimates was sitting. It was peculiarly desirable at present that they should have a discussion on these items, as they would now have the advantage of an explanation from the hon. Secretary for the Admiralty, which would not be the case in a short time, as it was understood that he had accepted a high colonial appointment. Under these circumstances, he should protest against their taking this vote on account.
 MR. FITZROY  had no wish to impede public business after the explanation of the noble Lord at the head of the Government; he, therefore, would not press his objection.
 MR. RICE  should have been content to have given a silent vote in favour of a rate
 557 d d and laughter 558
 MR. BANKBS  wished, in a few words, to give his reasons why he could not vote for the grant proposed by the noble Lord at the head of the Government. It was with great pain that he had come to that conclusion, because, though he was willing to vote for the Amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for Kerry, yet after what had passed, he could not contemplate the probability of that proposition being
 563 564 l l l l 565
 MR. CLEMENTS  considered the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down to be in favour of the Amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for Kerry—for an income tax in preference to a rate in aid. Much had been said as to the great difficulty of levying a new tax in Ireland. But it must be remembered that Ireland was in no ordinary position. Whether rightly or wrongly, the feeling of the representatives of England was against affording any further pecuniary aid to Ireland. It was, at the same time, unquestionable that the distress in the western districts must be relieved. Where, then, must the money come from for that purpose? It was perfectly clear it could only come from Irish resources; and the question now was, not whether Ireland ought or ought not to be taxed, but what tax could be paid with the least inconvenience. It was to this point he intended to address his observations. Everything that had been stated as to the injustice of throwing the rate in aid upon the farming classes, who were least able to bear it, spoke trumpet-tongued in favour of the proposition involved in the Amendment of the hon. Member for Kerry. He expected to have heard from the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the grounds for their preference of a rate in aid over an income tax; but they had assigned none. In fact, the right hon.
 555 d d d d 556
 LORD C. HAMILTON  should not have thought it necessary to address the House, but for the speech of the hon. Member for Dundalk. Amongst the many Gentlemen, Members of that House, upon whom the hon. Member had cast his censures, the first he had singled out for attack was the hon. Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Hors-man). Now he (Lord C. Hamilton) had
 579 580 l 581 582
 LORD J. RUSSELL  remarked, he had stated that the greatest distress would arise if these proceedings wore not speedily brought to a close one way or the other.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  remarked, that it would have been far more convenient for the Government to have gone on with the Navy estimates that evening, and his hon. Friend the Secretary of the Admiralty had been quite ready to do so, but this could not be done in consequence of the adjourned debate. The right hon. Gentleman himself admitted that some of these particular votes would have led to considerable discussion. The question, then, which they had to consider was, whether they should be able to resume the debate, and divide on it that night if they had taken the Navy Estimates first. If they had taken the discussion on the estimates, the probability was that there would be another adjournment of the debate, which could
 540
 LORD J. RUSSELL  observed, that he regretted that he could not, consistent with his duty, give any further explanation to the noble Viscount, beyond what he had already stated.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  stated, in reply, that the Government were not disposed to advance any money on the credit of the rate in aid until the Act imposing that rate was passed. Still it certainly would be in their power to issue money from the Exchequer in case of any unforeseen contingency arising, and then to come down to the House and ask for a vote on the subject.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he thought the support which had been given by the only two English Members who advocated the measure of the Government—namely, the hon. Member for Dover, and the hon. and learned Member for Pontefract, who had just sat down, was of a very questionable nature. The former hon. Member alluded to, had only, in fact, supported the Government proposition; for he had said, if any one had proposed to reduce the time to one year instead of two years, he would have voted for that suggestion. The hon. and learned Member for Pontefract had said that he intended to vote for the measure of the Government, for the not very logical reason, that he wished the Irish people to be taught to depend upon themselves. The hon. and learned Gentleman had assured the House that his well-beloved Presbyterians of the north—that class whose feelings and opinions he appeared especially ambitious of representing—had learned the art of depending on themselves; but most assuredly the hon. and learned Gentleman was adopting a very singular, and somewhat original, mode of testifying his approbation of their commendable conduct in that respect, when he proposed to tax them in the proportion of their industry, self-reliance, and providence, for the support of districts where the people were less energetic and thrifty than themselves, and had yet to learn the art of self-dependence. The hon. and learned Member was horrified at the injustice of proposing to sell the property of defaulting landlords in Connaught and Munster, in order to make their defalcations good; but if his sense of sacredness of property was so overwhelming in the case of the western and southern proprietors, was it not remarkable that he should not be visited by some feelings of an analogous description when he came to deal with the proprietors of Ulster? With respect to the general question, he would take leave to say that the division which was about to take place upon it, seemed likely to be characterised by unprecedented circumstances. During his Parliamentary experience he did not remember ever to have seen the House so thin on an evening of an adjourned debate, when it was universally understood that a division was to take place on an important subject. It was possible that certain sentences which had fallen from the noble Lord at the head of the Government, in the course of his address the evening before, might satisfac-
 586 "Now, Emma, now thy Last reflection make Which thou wilt follow, which thou must forsake. For by ill-omened stars and adverse Heaven, No middle object to thy choice is given." l 587 l l d l l l l l l l 588 s s s 589 590 591 d
 MR. DISRAELI  suggested, whether it would not be a more judicious course for the Government to take a vote of Exchequer-bills in Committee of Supply.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that would not put off the evil day. He admitted the course they now proposed was inconvenient, but it was the least inconvenient of any open to the Government.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  observed, that the real meaning of taking these votes on account was the adjourned debate of last night, and the arrangement of business which had been made for next week. Early in the Session the House voted a portion of the Exchequer-bills on the Committee on Ways and Means. He was very unwilling to pursue any other than the ordinary course; and that they should, as soon as possible, vote the remainder of the Exchequer-bills, as was the usual proceeding. If the debate of last night had not been adjourned, it was intended to have taken the discus-
 539
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  expressed his obligations to the right hon. Gentleman for putting the question to him, and said that what the Government proposed to do was to postpone, till some day about Michaelmas, the payment
 534
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose had referred to a balance-sheet which was laid on the table the other day. Although there was still in the expenditure of the year an excess over revenue, in round numbers, of 270,000 l l 535
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Gentleman was aware that the reductions already announced to the House in the naval, military, and ordnance estimates, amounted to upwards of 1,400,000 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had not stated that the revenue would be diminished by a decrease of exports arising from the blockade of the northern ports; but his right hon. Friend must know that the revenue of the country depended in a great degree on the country being in a prosperous state. He had within the last week received accounts to the effect that a check had been given to that prosperity of trade which existed two months ago; and any calculations which were founded on a state of trade so prosperous as trade generally was two months ago might not be borne out, unless the causes of the recent check were removed.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer was no doubt surprised to see Irish Members rushing forward with propositions for the imposition of an income tax, and the other unknown taxes that had been hinted at, in a time of such unexampled distress. For his part, he objected as much to an income tax as to the rate in aid, on the ground that both were alike inconsistent with the provisions of the Act of Union. He appreciated fully the motives of his two hon. Friends by whom the proposition of an income tax for Ireland had been brought forward. They had done so because they thought that some tax ought to be at once imposed to meet the destitution of the country, and because the House of Commons would not allow any portion of the tax to be drawn from England. But this consideration could not make him give up the great argument to be derived from the express provisions of the Act of Union. But he did not want the people to starve; and if he could receive any assurance from the Government that they would grant a Committee to inquire into the relative taxation of the two countries with a view to its equitable ad-
 560 561 l l l l 562 l l l l
 MR. SCULLY  was sorry the information of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Dover respecting Ireland, was derived from no other source than Her Majesty's Government. The hon. Gentleman had given no reason whatever why a rate in aid should be supported; and though he said it ought to be limited in duration and amount, he (Mr. Scully) knew enough of the condition of Ireland to be able to assure him it would, if once adopted, be neither one nor the other. It was an absurdity to expect that so small a sum as sixpence in the pound from the solvent districts, could maintain the distressed districts for two years, or even one year. The hon. Gentleman, however, wished both for the rate in aid and the income tax together. Let the Irish Members know the worst at once. Ireland could never support either a rate in aid or an income tax. But there were other sources from which relief could be obtained. He thought that a due proportion of the revenues of the Irish Church ought to be applied to the relief of the Irish poor. The Members of the present Government, when out of office, had pledged themselves to the abolition of that monster grievance, the Irish Church. The present Secretary of the Admiralty had admitted in a debate that took place in that House on the 11th January, 1844, that the Church revenues, from the Union to that time, amounted to 3,339,000 l l l 559
 MR. BANKES : Do I understand that the King of Naples has recognised the Government of Sicily? I had understood the contrary.
 MR. BANKES : Am I to understand that the Government now recognise the Sicilian Government as separate from the Government of the King of Naples?
 MR. BANKES  said, he had on the previous day given notice of his intention to put a question to the noble Viscount the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. As, however; he did not see the noble Vis-
 536 Viscount Palmerston here entered the House "It is possible that the Neapolitan Government may complain to you of this transaction on the ground that although no direct assistance was furnished by Her Majesty's Government to the Government of Sicily, yet facility was afforded to the contractor who had engaged to provide sup plies for that Government. If any such representations should be made to you by the Government of Naples, you will say that the authority in question was given inadvertently; that Her Majesty's Government regret what has occurred; and that no similar facility has been given, or will be given, by Her Majesty's Government to persons employed in furnishing supplies to the Sicilian Government, while the differences between the Sicilians and the King of Naples are unsettled.—I am, &c. "PALMERSTON." 537
 SIR W. H. BARRON  felt himself placed in a very difficult position on account of the proposition of the hon. Member for Kerry. Knowing the great misery which existed among all classes—knowing personally that every man in Ireland was involved in the deepest distress, he could not conscientiously vote for the imposition of any additional taxation on that unfortunate country. In Clonmel, Dundalk, Waterford, Kilkenny, and many of the most important towns, the shopkeepers, and many other persons who were formerly considered in good circumstances, were selling or pledging their stock in trade much under prime cost, in order to meet the poor-rates. Many of them were nearly without custom. Many gentlemen who had formerly possessed largo incomes, had been obliged to discharge their servants, thus adding to the misery of the country. A great number of the farmers were flying to America, leaving their rents unpaid, and many of the smaller farmers were either in the poor-house, or receiving outdoor relief. He feared the House had but a choice of evils on the present occasion, because the noble Lord at the head of the Government and many hon. Members had declared that the British people would not aid their brethren, as they had hitherto done, with the common resources of the common exchequer. Now he could not agree to that principle, and the sin and shame must rest on the heads of those who had brought the people of Ireland to their present state of destitution. The House had acknowledged the principle that the people of Ireland ought to be maintained out of the common exchequer; but now, after three years of the direst misery in Ireland, they were about to abandon the principle upon which they had acted in relieving that misery. If he was to have a choice in the present case, he should unhesitatingly prefer the proposition of the hon. Member for Kerry. The House ought to bear in mind the present circumstances of Ireland before they inflicted additional taxation upon that country. Within the last four years there had been imposed on Ireland nearly 2,000,000 l l 578 l l
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that, in his opinion, the Government could not, by any possibility, issue money upon the security of this Bill until it had received the Royal assent. The only fund from which they could relieve the distress was that which the House had placed entirely at the disposal of the Government, under the head of "Civil Contingencies," subject afterwards to the opinion of the House on its appropriation.
 MR. HERRIES  said, that he felt imperatively called upon to observe that there never was a time at which, on many accounts—especially considering how the eyes of other nations were upon us, and also considering the distress that existed among us—it was incumbent on the House to exert their most earnest endeavours in order to effect every possible reduction of expenditure in every department. He said this, as would be easily conceived, not from any sympathy with the sentiments of "liberal" agitators or political economists, or from any desire to advance their extravagant demands, but he thought the House were more than ordinarily bound to avail themselves of every opportunity of sifting to the utmost each item of expenditure. Surely, under such circumstances, it was unfortunate that these votes should be proposed at a conjuncture when they could not be discussed; and it would have been far better to have taken such a course as would permit a proper consideration of them, more particularly as the debate, to promote which the discussion of these votes was to be waved, had a close connexion with the subject of reductions on expenditure, seeing that an extraordinary measure was to be proposed for supplying the deficiencies in our revenue. He was unwilling to do anything to impede the public business, but he believed that it was unnecessary to press these votes in the way proposed; if, therefore, his hon. Friend the Member for Lewes persisted in pressing his objection to the proposal of Her Majesty's Government, he should feel compelled to support him.
 MR. HERRIES  had not clearly understood the right hon. Gentleman's meaning with regard to the blockade of the northern ports. He did not exactly see how that event could have affected the prospect of a favourable revenue for the year.
 MR. HERRIES  had a question to put to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, arising out of an answer which that right hon. Gentleman had given to a question put to him on a previous occasion. The question which was asked related to the hop duty, and he (Mr. Herries) had not been able to catch distinctly from the answer given what determination the Government had come to. As far as he could collect the meaning of the right hon. Gentleman, he understood him to observe either that his intentions had boon prematurely divulged, or that they had been incorrectly promulgated. It was very desirable, for the sake of a great number of suffering farmers, that there should be no longer any suspense or doubt upon this subject, and therefore he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would inform the House what were the intentions of Her Majesty's Government.
 MR. SADLEIR  denied that this proposition would give any permanent relief. So far from it, he was convinced that it was not only an unjust and delusive proposition, but that it was calculated to extend the circle of destitution and suffering, which he was sure the noble Lord was anxious, as far as possible, to reduce. He considered a rate in aid was contrary to the main principle of a poor-law. It would take away a most powerful stimulus to industry and to the principle of self-reliance. He regarded it as the worst description of income tax imposed on the small tenants and traders in the towns of Ireland. These classes of persons were exempted from the payment of an income tax in England, but they would be compelled by this plan to pay it in Ireland. The tenant occupier who had to pay this sixpenny rate in aid, practically had to advance 50 per cent of the tax for the landlords. The tenant occupier would be obliged to pay up this rate with the current gale of rent. The natural consequence of the excessive taxation on Ireland under the poor-law, and the depression which had taken place in the value of farming stock and agricultural produce, would be such that it was idle to imagine that the tenant occupiers could pay up the 300,000 l 542 "We, the undersigned pawnbrokers of this town, give the following reasons for the great decline in business, consequent on the blight of crops—both of potatoes and corn—for the past four years, namely—First, the small cottiers and struggling farmers, with artisans and other trades, are greatly diminished by emigration, deaths innumerable by starvation, and a vast number obliged to resort to the poorhouse, thereby rendering so much of the working population totally unable to apply to pawn offices either to buy, pledge, or redeem; and the remaining part thereof are reduced to utter destitution, and are also unable to resort to the pawn offices in the usual manner, which, in our opinion, is the cause of the pawnbroking trade being so languid as it is at present, and very likely to be worse." 543 "From my knowledge of the state of the people at present, I think the poor farmers the worst off of all classes; next to them the trades and labourers. The farmers commenced pledging heavily in 1846, and have continued to pledge and increase with the exception of the harvest seasons, and are commencing now again. Since 1846, more persons in a respectable rank of life have resorted to pawn offices than usually were used to it. Heretofore about five to ten per cent were left unredeemed; but since 1846, fully fifteen per cent were left unredeemed. The description of goods pledging at present by the poorer classes are very bad, and getting worse every day; and the clothes belonging to nearly all the trades and labourers are at present in pawn. The quantity of bedding pawned since 1846 is very great, and is still on the increase." "I have addressed myself to Mr. Ferguson, the only pawnbroker in my union, who, being a very intelligent person, has afforded me much interesting information on the subject. I cannot do better than transmit to the Commissioners Mr. Ferguson's letter to me, together with the returns, for the last five years, of the number of pledges made and released month by month; but it must be borne in mind, that for the last two years the clothes of the peasantry have been wholly excluded from these returns, as being too worthless to take as pledges." "I have been making the most minute inquiries from the conductors of my establishment, relative to the cause of the great falling-off in pledges, and the consequent reduction in the profits of the concern of more than half what it was before the failure of the potato crop. It appears that before that period there were various establishments that afforded the people an opportunity of renewing their clothes, such as loan offices, and woollen drapers were in the habit of giving out materials for clothes to the people on their joint security,
 544 s d s d d s d s d l s d d 545 d d d 546 l 547 548 549 550 551 552 l l l l * "He should commence by stating, that he should resist this Motion; and he would then state the reasons which, in his opinion, rendered it inexpedient that the operation of the income tax should at the present time be extended to Ireland. His hon. Friend had asked him one or two questions on this subject; the first one being whether he conceived it just that the income tax should not be imposed in Ireland as well as in this country? Upon the strict principle of justice, he could not deny that the tax ought to be equally imposed in both countries, and that a landed proprietor' or a merchant, or professional man in Ireland, receiving 3,000 l l * Vide 553 taxes in both countries. The grounds on which he thought it inexpedient that the income-tax should be imposed on Ireland as well as on this country were precisely the same as those stated on a former occasion by his noble Friend. His noble Friend stated that after they had for four or five years abstained from imposing an income tax on Ireland, and that, too, when she was in reasonably prosperous circumstances, it would be hardly justifiable to impose, for the first time, an income tax when she was suffering so fearfully under calamities of no ordinary nature. Everybody in that House knew the dreadful distress under which that country had so lately laboured, and from the effects of which she still suffered; and everybody knew that the greatest exertions were being made to obviate those evils as much as possible.  * * * * * * * * * 554
 MR. SADLEIR  said, he would state as briefly as possible some of the considera-
 541
 MR. HUME  wished to know what proportion of the whole vote was now proposed to be taken? He agreed with the hon. Member for Lewes, that the system of taking votes on account was most objectionable, and he trusted that this would be the last occasion of resorting to anything of the kind. As he understood the matter, the present vote on account was asked for, as it was extremely desirable that the question before the House last night should be settled.
 MR. HUME  had not so much intended to ask a question respecting the revenue, for he was not at all desirous that the revenue should increase, as to obtain information respecting the expenditure. He wished to know whether the reductions which had been announced were actually in progress?
 MR. HUME  said, it appeared from a balance-sheet which had been laid on the table by the Government, that there was an excess of expenditure over income amounting to 269,000 l
 MR. HUME  said, that the declaration of the noble Lord at the head of the Government was to the effect that the Government would not issue any larger sum than five or seven thousand pounds, on account, until the Act had received the Royal assent. Every person, therefore, who supported the measure would do so upon the assurance that the sum would not be exceeded.
 MR. HUME  wished to know what course the Government intended to take with respect to the advance of any money
 596
 MR. M'CULLAGH  said, he had been much struck by an observation that had fallen from the hon. Member for Dorsetshire with reference to the propositions of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, which had deservedly engaged so much of the attention of the House and the country. The hon. Member for Dorsetshire seemed rather inclined to deprecate those suggestions, and to think that
 568 "Difficilis, facilis, jucundus, acerbus es idem; Neo tecum possum vivere, nee sine te." 569 570 571 572 573
 MR. MONSELL  considered the real question to he debated was, whether they should accept the rate in aid, or support the proposition of the hon. Member for Kerry. For his part, he could not understand how any hon. Gentleman who acknowledged the pressing urgency of the case, and the necessity for immediate relief being afforded to the people, could oppose the rate in aid, without being prepared to vote for some substitute for it. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had dealt with the Irish Members somewhat unfairly with reference to the question. Professing to wish to decide it in accordance with the wishes of the Irish Members, he had, by the course he had pursued, rendered it impossible for them to express any opinion on the matter; for he had held up before them a veiled figure of indefinite taxation. He had asked them to decide, without telling them what it was that they wore to decide upon. The hon. Member for Dundalk had spoken of the question before the House as if it were a landlord question. He (Mr. Monsell) asked him, could he get up in his place and say the adoption of an income tax, instead of a rate in aid, would not relieve the great majority of the farmers of Ireland from the great weight of the taxation? Why, the great majority of them were to be rated under 300 l 574 "That as the real principle of a rate in aid obviously is to obtain that rate from other sources rather than those most distressed already, and as the present poor-law presses solely upon real property, it is the opinion of this board, that for any rate in aid to be levied on such property is not only a palpable contradiction in terms, but also a most grievous injustice. That the average of such rate not exceeding 2½ per cent, or enduring beyond two years, is, in the opinion of this board, wholly valueless; but they believe, on the contrary, if once the principle be conceded, this noxious tax will be unlimited in amount and indefinite in duration, higher and higher upon the solvent unions, as others, one after another, become bankrupt through such fatal legislation, and only repealed in consequence of the too sure recurrence of those unhappy scenes which some few years since (tithes) compelled the abandonment of an intolerable impost. That if the Imperial Legislature should see fit in their wisdom to refuse all further succour to Ireland, it is, in the opinion of this meeting, far more just to invoke all the resources of this island in aid of the common emergency, rather than to tax merely a fraction of those resources, especially as recent changes in commercial legislation forbid us to expect high or even remunerative prices for the staple productions of this island. That without pledging ourselves to the details of the present English income tax, we are of opinion that a tax upon property and income, from what source soever derived, would be less unjust and impolitic than an additional tax upon rateable property." "Except the proposal of applying a sponge to the national debt, no such palpable violation of common honesty has ever been entertained as an exclusive tax on realised property." "If such flagitious schemes be ever entertained, they will form a precedent that will justify the
 575 l l l l l l l l l l l l l s d s 576 577
 MR. GROGAN , who arose amidst loud cries of "Divide," said that he did not wish to interfere to prevent the division, but he was anxious to say a very few words on the question immediately before the House. He was unable to support either the proposition of Her Majesty's Ministers, or of his hon. Friend the Member for Kerry. He had given his con-
 592 l "As I stated at the commencement, this is a special case, requiring the intervention of Parliament. I consider that the circumstances I have stated, of that kind of food which constitutes the subsistence of millions of people in Ireland being subjected to the dreadful ravages of this disease, constitute this a case of exception, and render it imperative on the Government and the Parliament to take extraordinary measures for relief. I trust that the course I propose to pursue will not be without its counterbalancing advantages; that it will show the poorest among the Irish people we are not insensible here to the claims which they have on us as the Parliament of the united kingdom; that the whole credit of the Treasury and means of the country are ready to be used—as it is our bounden duty to use them—and will, whenever they can he usefully applied, be so disposed as to avert famine, and to maintain the people of Ireland; and that we are now disposed to take advantage of the unfortunate spread of this disease among the potatoes, to establish public works which may be of permanent utility. I trust, Sir, that the present state of things will have that counterbalancing advantage in the midst of many misfortunes and evil consequences." 593
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  considered the whole course of voting money on account was an extremely inconvenient and objectionable one. Why should not the estimates have been brought forward at an early period of the Session? The Government might have done so before Easter, when they had plenty of opportunity of doing so. They were getting into the system of postponing the consideration of the estimates to August, when they were smuggled through the House. If the hon. Member for Lewes should persist in resisting this course of proceeding, the Government would find that the present would be the last time that it would be allowed to take place.
 MR. WARD  moved—
 "That 350,000 l 538
 MR. WARD  said, that it was not proposed to take one half of the estimate on account in any case. He did not wish to shrink' from any discussion, and should be very happy to give every explanation.
 MR. WARD  did not believe that those votes could be reduced that amount without great detriment to the public service.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  did not object to the vote on account on the ground urged, but he did so because he believed some of the estimates wore capable of very considerable reduction. His own opinion was, that in Votes 8 and 10 reductions might be made to the extent of one half.
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  said, no one could possibly know the condition and sufferings of Ireland better than the noble Lord; and no one could accuse the noble Lord of wishing to see the people of Ireland suffering from destitution and disease. The noble Lord was placed in a painful position. He was hound to come and ask for money, but with the knowledge that the House would give no more grants of money. The responsibility of saving life was forced on the Irish Members, and he, for one, was willing to take his share; but he could not consent that it should be in the shape of a rate in aid. He had examined the question of a rate in aid in all its bearings, and he had found that it would produce nothing but detrimental effects—that it would paralyse industry, and would press with undue severity on those parts of Ireland which were sustaining themselves best under the burden of the poor-laws. He had not left out; of the question the fact that the sufferings which afflicted the west of Ireland extended I even to the most flourishing portions of Ireland. The labouring population of Ulster lived chiefly on the potato, and they had suffered nearly as much from the failure of the crop as the people of Connaught. Be-
 566 l l s s d s d s d 567 l l
 MR. S. MARTIN  said, that however unwilling he was to trespass on the time of the House, and however he participated in the feelings and wishes of a great number of persons, who he believed were more opposed than any others to this rate in aid, bethought it right to state the reasons why he should vote for it. He believed, that of all classes of Her Majesty's subjects those who were most opposed to the rate in aid were the Presbyterians of Ulster; and when he spoke of them, he alluded more particularly to the Presbyterian farmers, who would be called on to pay the tax, and with whose feelings and wishes on the subject he was well acquainted. Every person, he believed, would agree that the state of distress in the west of Ireland was such as to require immediate assistance. Most persons would also concur in the opinion that the means of relieving that distress should be sought, in the first in-
 583 584 d l l d
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  said, that he only wished to say a very few words previous to the division. He was sure that the House was placed in a very singular situation in consequence of the course taken by the noble Lord at the head of the Government and the hon. Member for Kerry. He had hoped that the House would have been spared from the alternative of deciding that night on those two propositions. His object in rising was to ask the noble Lord to be so good as to explain what additional taxation he intended to propose with regard to Ireland, in the event of the proposition of the hon. Member for Kerry being carried. He confessed that he never before was called upon to make such a leap in the dark. He, certainly, could not vote for this proposition.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Her Majesty's Government acknowledge the fact that there is in Sicily a Government administering the affairs of Sicily. It is a Government  de facto
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The hon. Gentleman refers to an impression made on my mind as to the tenor of a letter which the Neapolitan Minister read to me in the course of a conversation which took place between us in Downing-street. What I have now been stating has reference to transactions which took place at Naples.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said: In answer to the first question, I have to state to the hon. Member for Dorsetshire, that this letter was sent by the authority, not only, as he puts it, "of the united Government of Great Britain," but of the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain. With regard to the second question, I have to state that the existence of the Government of Sicily, acting in and administering the affairs of that island, was acknowledged by Her Majesty's Government as early as the beginning of last year, when, at the request of the King of Naples, the Earl of Minto placed himself in communication with that Government, for the purpose of effecting an amicable settlement of the differences between them. From that time a Government has existed. We recognise that which is; and though the hon. Gentleman may shut his eyes to the fact, it is a fact to which the Government of Naples have not been able to shut theirs.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, the commissioners appointed by the Admiralty to inquire into this subject had stated very strong objections to some parts of the Bill, and to those portions the Admiralty could not give their assent: but the commissioners themselves stated that they saw no reason why other portions of the measure should not be adopted. With regard to the charge of suppressing certain parts of the evidence taken by the Admiralty commissioners, he could only state that there had not been the slightest intention of acting with unfairness in this respect.
 ALDERMAN THOMPSON  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. CAMPBELL  rose to address the House amidst loud cries of "Divide!" The hon. Gentleman having failed to ob-
 702
 MR. CAMPBELL  then withdrew his Motion for adjournment.
 The MARQUESS of WORCESTER  moved that the report be received that day six months.
 The MARQUESS of WORCESTER  said, that he had moved the Amendment, because he was well aware of the great difficulty which would be found in collecting this rate, arising from the great repugnance of the people of Ireland to pay it. He thought that in so doing he should have received the support of the Irish Members, but as most of them had now left the House, he begged to withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. LITTLETON  observed, that the navigation of the Severn had already been improved by the proceedings of the commissioners, and was capable of still further improvement; and he hoped the House would allow the Bill to he read a second time, that its provisions might be considered in Committee.
 MR. GRENVILLE BERKELEY  opposed the Bill, observing that it was impossible large ships could pass up or down the river, in consequence of there being four bridges which were not drawbridges.
 MR. R. H. CLIVE  considered that the hon. and gallant Member was justified by the reports of the Admiralty officers, and other persons in opposing this measure; and as the Bill would injuriously affect the interests of his (Mr. Clive's) constituents in the southern division of Shopshire, he would vote for the Amendment,
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, if I feel any difficulty in addressing the House upon the present occasion, it arises from the consciousness that the whole argument in favour of the Bill now before the House has been exhausted by the masterly speech of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon. He went so completely through the argument, and touched on all the parts of it in so convincing a manner, and he has been so little answered by the hon. Gentleman who last spoke, that I feel great difficulty in addressing the House on this subject. Nevertheless, having a deep sense of the importance of this question, and feeling that, after a year of delay, after an inquiry by a Committee of the House of Commons, and by a Committee of the House of Lords, and after the measure has been twice recommended in the Speech from the Throne, it is high time that our deliberations on this subject should end in a settlement of this question, I am induced to address the House before it goes to a division on the subject. I was glad to hear the hon. Gentleman who spoke last admit in a somewhat different spirit from that evinced by the hon. and learned Member for Midhnrst, that all restrictions of themselves required defence; that there must be a strong case made out for them; and that consequently the burden of proof lies on those who attempt to support them. Every one, I think, must admit that it is no crime for a person to wish to bring wool from Australia to supply our manufacturers in a Bremen ship, and that there is no moral guilt in attempting to bring hides from Holland, and naturally no sin in attempting to introduce American cotton from Havre. The only crime, then, must consist in the violation of your prohibitory law, and that prohibitory law must require strong grounds for its defence. This question has been treated by the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst, in a speech of great ability,
 683 charta maritima 684 685 686 687 688 "The immediate lesson which I derive from it is this, that it is a part of political wisdom, when danger is foreseen, not supinely to wait for its approach, but, as far as possible, to take timely measures for its prevention." 689 Ironical cheers from the Protectionists 690
 LORD J. RUSSELL  expressed a hope that the hon. Gentleman would not persist in his Motion for an adjournment, as they were very anxious to come to a division on that night.
 MR. DISRAELI : I have upon another occasion entered very fully, with the indulgence of the House, into the discussion of this great question, and I shall therefore now only take the liberty, before the division is called, of venturing to express the general feeling with which I shall give my vote on this occasion. Sir, the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon has told us that he considers the question before the House to be, whether we shall place the capital on the column which we have been so long raising. But, Sir, if the column that we have raised be one that, in the symmetry of its outline and the general beauty of its design, has some-0
 691 692 "They express their readiness to discuss at the proper time fully and impartially all questions bearing on the practical amendment of the navigation laws. They consider themselves precluded from offering any suggestions at this particular time, but, guided by their avowed principles they
 693 694 s s s 695 696 tabula rasa 697 s 698 dilletante 699 700 701 l
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he had not the slightest wish to make an Irish debate, but he was quite ready to join in an Irish division.
 MR. ROBINSON  said, he was anxious to add a few words to what had fallen from his right hon. Friend the Member for Stamford in opposition to this measure. He looked upon this as an objectionable measure, not only because it would, in his opinion, affect very injuriously the shipping interest of this country, but also most injuriously the condition of all those who depended upon the building, equipment, and navigation of ships. But the greatest objection which he entertained to this fatal measure was the extreme danger which it must bring upon the naval supremacy of this country. He did not believe that any arguments of his right hon. Friend, or any other Gentleman opposed to this measure, would at all influence the noble Lord or the Government. They had, unfortunately, committed themselves to such an extent upon this question, that he did not believe it was possible for them to be dissuaded from their course by any evidence or arguments that might be urged against the measure. But he in common with others would nevertheless feel it his duty to point out the objections to which it appeared to be liable. His right hon. Friend had wisely abstained from going into any statistical details on this question, and although he (Mr. Robinson) had brought with him several documents bearing in his opinion to a most important degree upon it, yet he should follow the example set by his right hon. Friend. He agreed with
 633 634 635 636 637 638 639 640
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that though this measure came before the House in the form of a private Bill, it would affect public interests of great extent and importance. When this Bill came before the House last Session, he voted for the second reading, with the desire that it might be referred to a Committee; and, with the same intention, he would pursue a similar course on the present occasion. He would not offer any opinion as to whether there might not be solid grounds for some of the objections urged against the measure; but, considering that it had been brought forward by commissioners appointed under an Act of Parliament, and with the object of improving the navigation of the second and most important river in Great Britain, he thought it would be improper to reject the Bill.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  objected to the clause as brought forward at an inconvenient time.
 MR. HERRIES  rose and said, he should be deficient in his duty if he did not advert to some of the material topics involved in this question upon moving, as he intended to do, that the Bill be read a third time this day six months. The subject had been so fully discussed upon former occasions, that he hoped the House would excuse him from entering into any consideration of those minute details which had been the subject of previous discussion. They had now arrived at a point which required them, as statesmen and as legislators, to deliberate and decide upon the great measure before them upon the highest grounds of policy and national expediency. He did not think it necessary or proper at this stage to recur to any of the statistical elements of this question. He had done with columns of figures, with statements of the comparative prices of shipbuilding in this and other countries, and with the evidence contained in the ten folio blue books that had been presented. Nor would he again insist upon the argument that our great mercantile marine was the foundation of our naval power, or that the only effectual means of securing our mercantile marine was to hold fast by the fundamental principle of the navigation laws, which, as he had already so often asserted, consisted in securing to our own shipping the exclusive carriage of our trade where we could do so; and to extend to it the utmost degree of preference in our power in all other cases. He should not insist, on this occasion, upon the fact which he believed to be established, if not confessed, that in this country, the most wealthy, civilised, and most heavily burdened in the world with taxation, both local and public, ships could not be built as cheaply as in other countries not so burdened with local and general taxation. It would be a waste of time to the House to pursue the obvious line of general and irresistible reasoning which led to that conclusion. It was patent to every one, who would open his eyes to the relative condition of this and other countries. No inquiry concerning the prices of this or that particular ingredient in shipbuilding could materially affect it. High prices were the necessary accompaniments of wealth, civilisation, and burdensome taxation. All the fruits of manual
 623 624 625 626 627 628 629 630 631 632
 MR. HERRIES : I only applied the words to the present subject.
 MR. HERRIES  recommended the noble Marquess not to press his Motion to a division, as other opportunities would arise in the course of the debate on the measure.
 MR. MACGREGOR , in entering upon the discussion, would premise that he did not complain so much of what had been done for foreign ships as what had been
 641 Havannah 642 643 644 de jure 645 646 647
 MR. WAWN  replied, and intimated his intention to divide.
 MR. WAWN  then moved a clause, by-way of rider to the Bill, providing that where a British ship had arrived from a foreign port, and discharged her cargo in a British port, she should not be required to take a pilot in proceeding from one port in the kingdom to another.
 MR. BROTHERTON  objected to hon. Members getting up an Irish debate at that late hour.
 MR. HUME  hoped the hon. Member for
 706
 MR. HUME  observed, that the question was, whether the Severn could be rendered more navigable up to Worcester than it
 621
 MR. SLANEY  said, this Bill would inflict serious injury upon his constituents; he regarded it as a most unjust measure; and he would therefore support the Amendment.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, there was a considerable difficulty in reducing a question involving such complicated interests into a narrow and intelligible compass. To do this, he thought it might be regarded in three points of view, as an historical, an economical, and a national question. In looking at it in the first point of view, there would be found four great periods under which the navigation laws exhibited themselves in this country: the first was a period of restriction, the second of relaxation, the third of protection, and the fourth of reciprocity. The period of restriction commenced in the time of Richard II. In that reign the importation of merchandise into this country was prohibited
 648 649 650 651 l l l l 652 d d s d s d s d d d l l l l 653 l l 654 655 656 657 Pria Vene-ziani poi Christiani 658 "I cannot incur the responsibility, by my vote, of hazarding an empire gained by so much valour, and guarded by so much vigilance—an empire which is broader than both the Americas, and richer than the farthest Ind; which was cradled in its infancy by the genius of a Blake, and consecrated in its culminating glory by the blood of a Nelson—the empire of the seas."
 CAPTAIN JONES  said, he did not rise to oppose the measure, but as there was a clause in the report that the money was to be repaid from the produce of the rate in aid, he felt that if he supported that clause he would be a party to deluding the House, for he was satisfied that the money would not be raised. He quoted at some length the evidence of Mr. Twisleton to the effect that the rate in aid would not only be collected with difficulty, but that it would endanger the whole working of the poor-law in Ireland.
 MR. T. BARING  said, that it would have been more consonant with his inclination to give a silent vote, and he felt his difficulty the greater after the able speech just delivered by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon. But having acted on the Committee appointed two years ago to inquire into the operation of the navigation laws, and having taken no part, either in the discussion of last year, or that of the present, he could not refrain from shortly trespassing upon the indulgence of the House. He would therefore endeavour to explain the grounds upon which he had formed the opinion, that not only those who attached importance to the principle of the navigation laws, but those who desired to apply a practical remedy to any practical grievance, ought not to support the Bill in its present form. He was the more anxious to state his opinions, because he was one of the mercantile community. He avowed his opinion that, as a general principle, restriction must be an injury to trade. He had never shrank from saying that. If the whole country was to be regarded merely as a community of merchants, certainly it was desirable to allow the importers to get their wants supplied, and ship their goods from whence they pleased. If we were, as were the inhabitants of the Hanseatic towns, mere receivers and distributors, then we might say, let every other consideration be disregarded. But the real grievances of the merchants might fairly be taken from their own representations; and if they had
 677 678 679 680 681 682
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  said, from the knowledge he had of the north of Ireland, he was satisfied that the people there would never voluntarily submit to the imposition of this tax, believing it to be unconstitutional and unjust. The collection of the tax would cost more money than its produce would amount to; and if English Members voted for the advance of this money on the faith that it would be repaid by the rate in aid, they would be voting under a delusion: it would be a taking of money under false pretences.
 SIR J. GRAHAM : Well, Lord Stanley applied it generally, and what he said was this:—
 "I hear it said that free trade has been adopted, and that we must proceed in that course— vestigia 675 nulla retrorsum fait accompli "My noble and learned Friend professes himself to be still the advocate of free trade; and with equal frankness I avow that, whilst I do not advocate any unnecessary restrictions on commerce, I am the uncompromising enemy of the miscalled, one-sided, bastard free trade, which has been introduced by the Government for the benefit of foreigners, and to the detriment of British subjects; and I declare myself to be the uncompromising advocate of the old just and equitable principle which gave necessary protection—not monopoly—to the labourers and producers of this country, and to our fellow-countrymen, wherever they were to be found throughout the world." 676
 SIR J. GRAHAM : Sir, I have hitherto abstained from trespassing on the indulgence of the House by the expression of my opinion on this most important subject; but when it is remembered that I once had the honour of presiding over the Board of Admiralty—that the Act in its amended form with reference to merchant seamen, and the Act as to the registration of seamen, have been accepted by the House upon my Motion, and were introduced and prepared by me; when it is remembered that I have never ceased to take the most lively interest in naval affairs, being convinced that to the commerce of this country and to the navy of this country we owe that supremacy which is the arch of our power, and which still stands unshaken amidst the convulsions of the world—when all this, I say, is remembered, I hope I may be excused if I feel anxious to give my opinion on this measure before it is submitted in its final form to the final judgment of the House. Sir, I rise with mingled feelings to follow the hon. and learned Gentleman who has spoken last. I rise with heartfelt pleasure, after having listened to a speech so worthy of the name and reputation of the hon. and learned Gentleman—to a speech in its tone and temper so acceptable to the House. But I must at the same time express my regret that it becomes my duty to follow the hon. and learned Gentleman, and I do so because I feel deeply the disadvantage under which I labour, in presenting myself to the House after the delivery of a speech
 659 660 661 662 663 664 "In this altered state of the world it became our duty seriously to inquire whether a system of commercial hostility, of which the ultimate tendency is mutual prohibition—whether a system of high discriminating duties upon foreign ships, with the moral certainty of seeing those duties fully retaliated upon our own shipping in the ports of foreign countries—was a contest in which England was likely to gain, and out of which, if persevered in, she was likely to come with dignity or advantage? I will lay aside, for the moment, every consideration of a higher nature, moral or political, which would naturally lead us to look with some repugnance to engaging in such a contest. I will equally lay aside all consideration for the interest of our manufactures, and for the general well-being of our population, who as consumers would obviously have to pay for this system of custom-house warfare, and reciprocal restrictions; and I will view the question solely in reference to the shipping interest." 665 "In this comparatively narrow, but, I admit, not unimportant, view of the question, I have no difficulty in stating my conviction—a conviction at which I have arrived after much anxious consideration—that, in the long run, this war of discriminating duties, if persevered in on both sides, must operate most to the injury of the country which, at the time of entering upon it, possesses the greatest commercial marine. How can it be otherwise? What are these discriminating duties but a tax upon commerce and navigation; will not the heaviest share of the tax fall, therfore, upon those who have the greatest amount of shipping and trade?" Pro tanto 666 667 668 669 "With reference to our colonial system, he would say of the North American colonies that their situation was such that it was not possible to preserve them but by giving them all the advantages of a free trade, and attaching them to us by acts of kindness and liberality. If, therefore, it was desirable to preserve them, the system on which the right hon. Gentleman had acted was necessary; as, since the American war, these colonies had felt their own power, and knew their own interest; and it was not possible to retain them by violence, or to subject their trade to unnecessary restraint." 670 s 671 pro tanto 672 673 674 Mr. Herries had just re-entered the House vestigia nulla retrorsum
 SIR J. PAKINGTON , in rising to move the second reading, said he felt he had a very important and painful duty to discharge, the present being really a public Bill of great moment to the trading interests of the country, and being so, he had at the outset to express his regret at the prevalence of a practice which had been resorted to on this occasion, of making such Bills matter of private canvass, so that they were not decided on proper and public grounds. He thought that this was a most improper practice, and he appealed to the crowded House he beheld assembled to exercise an impartial judgment on the question. Properly speaking, the principle of the Bill was not in question. Seven years ago Parliament had passed an Act for appointing a commission of which he happened to be a member. It had turned out that the powers of the commissioners were not sufficient, and their affairs had become embarrassed; so that hence arose the necessity for the present measure, simply to aid in the promotion of an object already legislatively approved of. The opposition which he had to anticipate arose, firstly, from the Admiralty; secondly, from the town of Gloucester; and, thirdly, from the county of Shropshire. The opposition to the measure out of doors, in various quarters, had been most actively pursued; and he deeply regretted to have it to say that Captain Bethune and Captain Vetch, of the engineers, who had been sent by the Admiralty to inspect the Severn navigation in relation to this measure, had not conducted their investigations with that impartiality which they were bound on all such occasions to exhibit. Every one would agree that the first condition of such an investigation was that such an inquiry should be conducted with entire impartiality. The Admiralty had laid the evidence before the House, but perhaps it was not generally distributed among Members. When the inspectors opened the inquiry at Worcester, the clerk of the Severn commissioners made a statement of a most able character, and then proceeded to adduce evidence. Then a gen-
 619 in extenso
 SIR J. PAKINGTON , in reply, stated that the sole object of the promoters of the measure in coming to Parliament was, to be enabled to pay the interest due for advances to a London contractor.
 CAPTAIN M. BERKELEY  defended the Board of Admiralty, and observed, it must strike the House as strange that those who
 620
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY : I rise, Sir, to second the proposal of the right hon. Baronet the President of the Board of Control. I am sure the House must have heard with foelings of gratification and pride this detail of the glorious achievements and vmdaunted valour of our gallant army in India; and if anything could add to that gratification, it would be the thought that the victory is so complete that we may hope there will be no further occasion for warlike operations in India. But after the very able narrative which the right hon. Baronet has submitted to the House, I will only say, on my own behalf, and for those with whom I have the honour to act, that I most cordially concur in the vote of thanks which the right hon. Baronet has proposed.
 SIR E. PEEL : Sir, I trust the House will permit me to express the cordial satisfaction with which I shall give my vote for the proposal of the right hon. Baronet the President of the Board of Control. I should not have presumed to add my voice to that of the right hon. Gentleman on this occasion, if it were not that on four previous occasions I have been a party to proceedings by which the merits of Lord Gough have been brought under the consideration of the Commons' House of Parliament for his services in the Chinese war, for the battle of Ferozeshah, afterwards for the battle of Sobraon, and, lastly, upon the occasion when I had the satisfaction of announcing to the House the distinctions conferred by Her Majesty upon Lord Gough for his glorious achievements, and of asking the House to perform that duty, which they so readily and cordially discharged, of marking their sense of his services by a pecuniary provision. It was with the utmost satisfaction that I heard that that noble soldier had closed a long career of victory and of glory by au achievement worthy of his former exploits. He has now, I believe, for fifty-four years served the Crown as a soldier. If at the earlier period of the recent campaign in the Punjab, doubts were entertained by some as to the ultimate result of that campaign, in those doubts I never shared. I felt the utmost confidence that the final issue of it would redound to the honour of Lord Gough, and would give new security
 748
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, even if it were to be conceded that the Anti-Slavery Society was right in its assertion that there was more slavetrading now than at some period assignable in history, it would not follow that the endeavours to check it had been useless; but that, on the contrary, if the effort had not been made, the mischief would have been greater. Here was a parallel case, which the hon. Member for the West Riding would have been very ready to answer, which would be, if it had
 805 rationale
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The hon. Gentleman is mistaken. The Order of the Bath was extended in 1815, but there was a limitation fixed at the same tune in point of numbers; and, in fact, unless there were a limitation, it would hardly be a distinction at all. Earl Grey advised a new statute, which limited the numbers, both in the military and civil honours; but in any ease calling for an extraordinary statute, the number may no doubt be extended.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I did not say anything of the kind.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I wish to say one word in reference to what has fallen from the hon. Gentleman the Member for Guildford behind me. When the hon. Member for Montrose alluded to the accounts that had been received from India, I certainly did say that the subject was under the consideration of the Government, but I expressed no despondency or anxiety with regard to the fate of the army. On the contrary, I stated that I felt entire confidence in the army, but I informed the House that I did think it was a proper step to take, to advise Her Majesty to appoint Sir Charles Napier to the chief command in India. But then Sir Charles Napier
 755
 MR. URQUHART  seconded the Motion, and said, the noble Lord at the head of Foreign Affairs had taken great credit for the efforts of a former liberal Government to enlarge our trade and commerce; but he had twice admitted that all our ordinary channels of commerce had been choked up. But if this were true with our European trade, how much more strongly did it apply to our trade with Brazil—that empire which owed, as it were, its existence to the fostering care of this country. He had, over and over again, brought under the notice of the House truths that might appear disagreeable and invidious—namely, that the noble Lord at the head of Foreign Affairs had always made use of the agitation in respect of slavery and the slave trade to effect other and ulterior objects. He could not reconcile the noble Viscount's conduct with regard to the Brazils with his professed anxiety for the extension of British commerce. So far from the course taken tending to put an end to the slave trade, it was shown by the evidence of the commanders on the station that it tended to increase and perpetuate it. He said that Portugal had been treated in a similar manner to Brazil, and that the slave-trade transactions with the former country had been the model upon which the Act of 1845 was framed. He contended that there was no justification for the treaty of 1845, and that, as the Earl of Aberdeen had doubtless mistaken the law on the subject, the question naturally arose, in how far the present Government were responsible for that Act. To him it mattered little upon whose shoulders the responsibility must fall: they had to consider the "measures, not the men;" but in the consideration of this part of the subject, it must not be forgotten, that from the despatch sent by the Earl of Aberdeen to the Brazilian Government, it appeared he proposed the Act with extreme pain, and that he was anxious afterwards to come down to Parliament and move its repeal. M. Lisboa projected a treaty, to
 777
 COLONEL DUNNE  begged, before the
 756
 SIR F. THESIGER  said, that in consequence of the remarks which had been made by the hon. Member for Stafford, he thought it necessary to remind the House that the Motion of the right hon. the Member for Manchester involved the propriety of repealing the 8th and 9th Vict., cap. 122. He trusted that the House would give no encouragement to the Motion, because he was satisfied that if the House should adopt the course which the right hon. Gentleman was disposed to recommend, not only would the means of giving effect to the most important stipulation in the convention with Brazil he destroyed, but it would also exhibit a degree of weakness and vacillation, on the part of the Legislature of this country, which he thought would not tend to enhance its character in the estimation of foreign nations. The right hon. Gentleman had certainly introduced his subject with much clearness and force; but he had, If he would forgive him for saying so, fallen into one or two errors which it was necessary he should attempt to correct, before adverting to the general question. The right hon. Gentleman appeared to him to understand the 8th and 9tb Victoria as if it gave power to the courts of this country to deal with the persons of Brazilian subjects. He (Sir F. Thesiger) thought it necessary that any such notion should be corrected, in order that the question might be properly understood. There was nothing whatever in that Act which gave any power over the persons of Brazilian subjects. It merely gave power to the Admiralty courts to adjudicate with respect to the vessels of Brazilian subjects, and the cargoes of those vessels. This being the case, it was necessary also that he should call attention to the real state of the question with respect to the passing of the Act of the 8th and 9th Victoria, because it was necessary to come to a careful determination on the point. The convention with Brazil of November, 1826, incorporated all the articles, clauses, and provisions of the treaty with Portugal of 1817; and by the first article of the treaty with Brazil it was provided that, in three years after the exchange of the ratifications, the slave trade should be entirely abolished, and that any subject of the Brazilian Government who trafficked in slaves, after that time, should be guilty of piracy. The treaty was ratified on the 13th of March, 1827, consequently the three years expired in 1830; and, under the additional
 779 780 781 v Wasp Felicidade Echo Felicidade Wasp Felicidade Felicidade 782
 MR. GRATTAN  said, that the laudations that had been poured out on the gallant Commander-in-Chief in India would be responded to not the least warmly by the country to which Lord Gough belonged. It was the misfortune of that part of the empire to which he had just alluded, to have incurred the indignation of the vehicles of public news, and, he would add, of private slander, in this country; and it happened that when the career of Lord Gough was a little obscured, they opened their batteries upon him, and not the least serious of the charges against him was, that he happened to belong to his (Mr. Grattan's) unfortunate country. It was said that he was an old man, that he had not head, and that he never would gain a victory, though he might suffer a defeat. A great deal was said about his Tipperary tactics; but, unfortunately for the  Times
 MR. BRIGHT  said: I think the House and the country will feel under an obligation to my right hon. Colleague for bringing this question under the notice of the
 783 784 "Piracy, under the law of nations, may be tried and punished in the courts of justice of any nation, by whomsoever and wheresoever committed; but piracy created by municipal statute can only be tried by that State within whose territorial jurisdiction and on board of whose vessels the offence thus created was committed." Daily News locus standi 785 l 786 "In the year 1846 I had a conversation with Sonor Cavalcante, then Minister of Marine, and one of the ablest men in that country (Brazil). He expressed these opinions. He said, 'You cannot expect us to assist England, or to consent to stop the slave trade, whilst you are seizing Brazilian vessels, insulting our flag, and illegally condemning them.' " 787
 MR. BRIGHT , in explanation, said, the noble Viscount referred to the phrase, "a benevolent project," as if, in using it, he (Mr. Bright) had alluded to the feeling against the slave trade. He should be ashamed to suppose that one man in that House felt more strongly on that subject than another; he believed the feelings of
 806
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  did not think that the hon. Member for Montrose had succeeded in disconnecting the manufacturers of Manchester from the desire to promote the slave trade. Indeed it was pretty well confessed by the right hon. Member for Manchester; and it seemed to him (Mr. O'Connell) that the people of that town seemed to think that, in order that there might be free trade in goods, it would be desirable that there should also be free trade in slavery. He extremely regretted that the Motion had been brought forward by the right hon. Member. The Act of 1845 had given great encouragement to the abominable traffic in slavery; and they ought now to make a stand, or they would be driven back, and lose the advantages which had been gained by the Act of 1834, of which England might justly be proud, if even she had nothing else to be proud of. Hon. Members seemed to discuss the question as if it only concerned two parties—the English and the Brazilians; but they should recollect that there was a third party whom it more deeply concerned—the poor Africans; and surely this country had a right to interfere to protect them
 792
 MR. HUME  was surprised at the doctrine advanced by his hon. Friend the Member for South Essex, and that he should charge the manufacturers with encouraging the slave trade, because their goods happened to be carried to a particular place and made a particular use of. Why, on that principle a charge might be brought against all the distillers and brewers, that, by the manufacture of intoxicating liquors, they were destroying the health of the country. If that principle were acted upon, there was no saying where to stop. If his hon. Friend himself were to be judged by a committee of teetotallers, he would inevitably be condemned for compounding inebriating drink deleterious to health. His hon. Friend called upon the House to remember that for forty years they had been warring against the slave trade, and said they were about to retrograde. But was it not well to consider whether the means employed were beneficial, and produced the desired result? It had been shown by the clearest evidence from officers on the service, and others qualified to judge, that the means adopted did not promote the object, but on the contrary aggravated the evil. Was this country then, because it had originally acted with good intentions in a certain way, to refuse to consider whether the means had been adapted to the end? If
 791
 MR. HUME : That is just it. There is no limitation in the civil service, but there is a limitation in the military service of the Company.
 MR. HUME  said, the last rules, as laid down by Earl Grey, provided that not more than 100 officers in the Company's service should receive the honour of the Bath. He believed that there were 140 officers in the Company's service having that honour, and it followed that no now creations could be made until the number was reduced to a hundred.
 MR. HUME  said, that no man could rejoice more than he did to find that there were in the Company's service men of such high ability and talent, and he merely rose for the purpose of expressing his regret that by the present regulations they could not confer the honour of the Bath on any of the officers of the East India Company who had recently so signally distinguished themselves. Anything more disgraceful than such an arrangement he had never heard of. He wished to know if it was not a fact that Her Majesty had it not in her power, as the regulations now stood, to confer the honour of the Bath on any officer in the Company's service, no matter how meritorious his services might have been during the recent actions? Such were the rules and regulations made by Earl Grey; but he hoped that such ill-advised restrictions would be laid aside, and that Her Majesty would be left at liberty to confer the honour of the Bath on such officers as might be deemed most signally worthy of it. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Honiton had alluded to the gallant men who fell on the field of battle, and had stated that it must be a consolation to their relatives to know that these brave soldiers had helped to uphold the glory of their country. But he hoped that this was not to be the only consolation that would be offered to them, but that those who had the power would consider it a duty to make some provision for the families of some of them who most
 753
 MR. COBDEN  said, the noble Viscount the Member for Tiverton had done great injustice to his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, and those who concurred with him, in condemning the present method adopted to suppress the slave trade, by assuming that they wished for a return to the old practice of the slave trade. If there were one thing more universally admitted than another, it was the disastrous failure of the attempts to put down the slave trade by means of armaments. [Colonel THOMPSON: NO, no!] His hon. and gallant Friend said "No, no!" He would remind him of a statistical fact. Did not the Anti-Slavery Society, in the little tract which they had sent to hon. Members that morning, state, and prove by figures the truth of the statement, that the number of slaves now transported from Africa was more than it was in 1807, when the slave trade was earned on both by England and the United States of America? If more slaves were now taken by other countries than were required altogether, when England and France were the two greatest customers for slaves, could there be a doubt that all their attempts to suppress the slave trade by force had disastrously failed? In the same little paper, which was, he supposed, designed to induce them to vote against the Motion of his right hon. Friend, it was stated that the number of deaths on the middle passage had increased from fourteen per cent to twenty-five per cent since 1807, and that the horrors of the middle passage had increased in the same proportion. Under these circumstances, it was rather too hard, it was somewhat cool, for the noble Viscount to get up—the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tam-worth put the argument on a similar issue—and say, that those who voted for the discontinuance of the employment of armed cruisers, were for that reason advocates of a return to the slave trade. Why, what said the Anti-Slavery Society itself in the little pamphlet which they all had in their pockets? The very first paragraph of an address presented to the noble Viscount the Member for Tiverton by the Anti-Slavery Society, and signed" John Scohle, 27, Broad-street," was a protest against these armed cruisers, as having been totally unsuccessful. Did the noble Viscount mean to say that Mr. Scoble and the Anti-Slavery Society were in favour of returning to the slave trade? If the argument were good as against the hon. Member for
 804
 MR. MANGLES  said, that the soldiers in the East India Company's service were as much the soldiers of Her Majesty as those of the regular Army; and, therefore, there ought to be no distinction in the rewards offered to both services. He did not think that sufficient confidence had been placed by this country in the gallant men commanding the Indian army during the recent campaign. He remembered when the news of the battle of Chillian-wallah arrived, that his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose came down to the House and asked what was to be done for "the Indian army, and that the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown, in afterwards alluding to the matter, had admitted that the Indian army was in imminent peril.
 MR. MANGLES  explained. He did not attribute despondency to the noble Lord, but what he had stated was, that despondency prevailed throughout the country.
 MR. MANGLES  said, considering that they had such officers as had been so justly praised that evening, with the army, the general tone of despondency that had prevailed was surely not justified, as they had officers in the field who, it must be admitted, were fit to take the command of any army. When they had such officers in India as they had heard eulogised on that occasion, it must have been unnecessary to send over a general officer to take the command of the army there. Surely it could not be necessary to send a general from this country, a distance of 15,000 miles, to lead the army to victory.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  expressed his surprise that a Gentleman possessing so much acuteness as the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Oxford should have argued in such a strain; for by the treaty which this country had entered into with Brazil, it was distinctly set forth, that the Brazilian Government agreed with the Government of Great Britain that the carrying on of the slave trade by any subject of Brazil should be deemed and treated as piracy. What was piracy? Something that disentitled the persons committing the crime from the advantages of all international law. The Government of Brazil had declared that we were to deal with Brazilian subjects trafiicking in slaves as with pirates; therefore, the Government ofthat country had no right to complain if we dealt with them as pirates. There could be no doubt whatever that, according to the law of nations, private vessels legitimately captured by this country were amenable to the decisions of the Admiralty courts, and could be disposed of in any way that the Parliament of England might think most desirable. The Brazils would have no  bonâ fide
 MR. C. ANSTEY  differed from the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon in his version of the decision of the fifteen Judges on the Brazilian piracy case. The admiralty of Brazil had recognised and sanctioned the doctrine that Brazilian vessels captured under an English Act of Parliament were justified in turning upon their captors, and treating them as pirates. When questions of the nature of that which had given rise to the present debate, came before the fifteen Judges, the decision which they pronounced upon it was always in the nature of a recommendation to the Crown, and not in the manner of an award, as though they had themselves any authority or jurisdiction in the case. Amongst the objections taken was this, that the slave trade as carried on by the Brazilians was not piracy—that the men engaged in it had been wrongfully and illegally captured—and that the homicide which they did commit was an act done not within the Queen's jurisdiction. Mr. Baron Alderson was understood to hold, that if guilty of a crime, and though brought within the Queen's jurisdiction by an illegal act, it was not competent to the tribunals of this country to try them for such crime. It
 788 789
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, I have thought it right to bring under the attention of the House the present state of the relations existing between the
 758 "That the commercial relations between Great Britain and Brazil have, for some years, been placed in a most unsatisfactory position by the sole intervention of the British Legislature. That during the long continuance of a fiscal policy which, though most injurious to ourselves, was in a still higher degree offensive to Brazil—amicable relations between the two Governments were not interrupted, and British residents were protected, in their persons and property, by the provisions of a treaty which secured all the advantages of the most favoured nations; but, on the eve of a change in our own policy which would have enlarged our intercourse with Brazil, the Act of our own Legislature, the 8th and 9th of Victoria, cap. 122, aroused the indignation of the Brazilian Government, and caused the termination of the treaty on which the privileges of British residents rested. That your petitioners consider the. Act in question an aggression upon Brazil—unjust, impolitic, and destructive of the objects for which it was professedly framed; for although your petitioners yield to none in their detestation of slavery and the slave trade, yet they do not think that the destruction of that nefarious traffic will be hastened by forcibly offending national honour, or rendering impossible those results which friendly negotiation is more likely to accomplish. They therefore pray, on every ground, that the Act 8th and 9th Victoria, cap. 122, may be forthwith repealed." 759 760 761 "The Queen's Advocate is of opinion that the blockading rivers, landing and destroying buildings, and carrying off persons held in slavery in countries with which Great Britain is not at war, cannot he considered as sanctioned by the law of nations, or by the provisions of any existing treaties; and that however desirable it may be to put an end to the slave trade, a good, however eminent, should not be obtained otherwise than by lawful means." "The extinction of slavery and the slave trade can he obtained most effectually by the employment of means of a moral, religious, and peaceful character; and no measures shall he adopted by this society in the prosecution of its objects ex-
 762 763 "By the First Article of the Convention of 1828, the Brazilian Government pledged itself to the enactment of a law whereby the African slave trade should be declared illegal in Brazil, and any subject of the empire implicated in it be deemed to be and be treated as a pirate." "The treaty says that the being concerned in the slave trade by any Brazilian subjects shall be deemed and treated as piracy. By rights the Brazilian Government ought to have passed a law in accordance with that engagement." "We do not," said his Lordship, "want any mixed commission courts; we have got all the power we desire under the first article. You (the Brazilians) have agreed that your subjects are to be treated as pirates, and since you have agreed to that doctrine the Queen of England has derived a right to capture the subjects of Brazil on the high seas when engaged in the slave trade, to deal with them as pirates, to confiscate their ships and goods, in short to render them in any way subject to the criminal jurisdiction of this country." 764 jus gentium 765 "We are of opinion that the 1st article of the treaty of 1820 does not confer on the British sovereign any rights whatsoever over Brazilian vessels or subjects engaged in the slave trade, under the Brazilian flag; and that the right of search and mixed commission being now at an end, all the jurisdiction ever conferred on that sovereign by the remaining articles has ceased. We think that according to the true construction of the 1st article, the Brazilian Emperor did merely contract with the King of Great Britain that the Brazilian legislature should, within a certain period, enact a municipal law, making the slave trade illegal and punishable as piracy; and that the failure, whether from inability or unwillingness, to perform this stipulation, although it might possibly have been a good cause of war between the two countries, nevertheless could not justify Great Britain in assuming to herself legislative or judicial authority over an independent State. We are therefore of opinion that the Act 8 and 9 Vic. e. 122, being founded on an erroneous assumption, is inoperative and void as against the subjects of Brazil (and their ships) carrying on the slave trade under the Brazilian flag, and not being domiciled in this country, nor owing any allegiance to its sovereign. It follows, from what has been said, that the seizure and condemnation of the two Brazilian ships were, in our opinion, tortuous and unlawful. The condemnation having been effected in a Vice-Admiralty court, we think that the proper remedy is by appeal to the Queen in Council." "Lincoln, March 12, 1849.—I have always deemed the Act you referred to a national disgrace, manifesting either great ignorance of the law of nations, or monstrous assumption, and calculated to lead to a war, or to our rendering ourselves contemptible. Should we over presume to enforce such au Act against a strong nation, and
 766 767 "Protest.—House of Lords, August, 1839.—12th clause in protest.—Because the Bill authorises the capture and detention of Portuguese vessels, and natives of Portugal subjects to the crown of Portugal, and their adjudication before a British tribunal for a breach of treaty with the Sovereign of Groat Britain and Ireland, and a breach of the law of Portugal; thus assuming a right to exorcise a jurisdiction at sea to punish a foreigner by the sentence of the courts of this country, for a breach of the municipal law of his own country. "13. Because such proceedings as are authorised by this Bill are inconsistent with the ancient and honourable policy of this country, to maintain for ourselves peace with all nations, by respecting the rights, institutions, and independence of all, and, cultivating their goodwill by friendly relations, to promote peace between the nations of the world in general, by our good offices and exertions, particularly in favour of the weak.—Signed by WELLINGTON, LYNDHURST, SHAFTES-BUUT, DEVON, &C." 768 locus standi 769 770 771 772 "LORD PALMERSTON TO MR. HAMILTON, "Foreign Office, Aug. 13, 1846. "Sir—With reference to the Earl of Aberdeen's despatch, dated the 9th August, 1845, and to sub sequent correspondence on the subject of the Brazil Slave Trade Act, and upon the proposed negotiation of a new treaty with Brazil, which might suspend the operation of that Act, I have to desire that you will take no further steps in this matter until you receive further instructions from Her Majesty's Government. It will my duty to prepare a draft of an improved treaty between Great Britain and Brazil for the suppression of the slave trade, which I will send to you to be pro posed to the Brazilian Government; and it will only be upon such treaty being signed and ratified, and upon the treaty and Brazilian ratification being received in this country, that any steps can be taken by Her Majesty's Government to suspend the operation of the Act 8 & 9 Vic, cap. 122.—I am &c. "PALMERSTON." 773 "Her Majesty's Government are desirous of removing all sources of difference between the two countries, and although Her Majesty's Government are fully satisfied with the effectiveness of the operation of the law of 1845—" "and feel more confident of obtaining just and impartial decisions against slave vessels by courts of Admiralty than by mixed commissions such as existed under the convention;—" "yet they would consent to recommend Parliament to repeal the law in question, if the Government of Brazil had actually concluded and ratified an efficient treaty for the suppression of the slave-trade. I accordingly transmit to you a draft of such a slave-trade treaty as Her Majesty's Government think would be effectual for its purpose; and I have to instruct you to propose it to the Brazilian Government, and to state that on receiving the ratification thereof by the Emperor of Brazil, Her Majesty's Government would recommend to Parliament the repeal of the law of 1845. This draft of treaty is nearly the same as the treaty concluded by Great Britain with Portugal in 1842, with some few alterations, in order to adapt it to the case of Brazil; and as it establishes no regulations of maritime police, or any other measures which are not considered by Her Majesty's Government to be absolutely essential to the effectual attainment of the object which it has in view. Her Majesty's Government cannot consent to make any alteration therein. The language, then, which you are to hold in this matter is, that the British Government considers itself fully and completely justified in having proposed to Parliament the Act of 1845; that it considers that Act as being for the present sufficient for the purpose of putting down Brazilian slave trade; and that, consequently. Her Majesty's Government have no wish to press the Government of Brazil to conclude a slave-trade treaty as a substitute for that Act; but that as the Government of Brazil objects to that Act, Her Majesty's Government would be willing, in deference to the wishes of the Imperial Government, to accept the treaty of which I send you a draft, in exchange for the Act of 1845; but in that case the treaty must be adopted such as it is purposed to be by the draft; and upon no other condition whatever can Her
 774 "To expect that the Brazilian Government would unconditionally, under present circumstances, suppress the slave trade, is to look for impossibilities. Any such attempt on the part of the Government would be the signal for raising the republican flag in Pernambuco and Babia; but I entertain a confident belief that in the Brazils there is a number of young men who are as strongly impressed with a desire for the suppression of the slave trade as ourselves; but our obnoxious measure has raised the voice of the whole
 775 776
 MR. MILNER GIBSON , in reply, said his noble Friend the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, had, he apprehended, got into some confusion of mind between piracy by municipal law and piracy by the law of nations. Altogether, he (Mr. M. Gibson) must say, that his noble Friend had not been quite so clear as usual. He said, for example, that he could, under the existing treaty, deal with Brazilian slave-traders as pirates, and confiscate their ships; and yet he was, it appeared, about to negotiate a new treaty. If the old treaty were such as his noble Friend described, why did he seek to obtain a new one? The House was asked to decide that, in case his noble Friend made a declaration to a foreign Minister, that an Act which was now lawful in England had become unlawful, the subject might be handed over to the penal laws of a foreign country. He, for one, must repudiate such a doctrine as totally inconsistent with the first principles of international law and with common justice.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that he did not rise for the purpose of taking any part in the debate, but simply to allude to a remark which had been made by the hon. Member for Montrose, and which he believed to be unfounded, or, at all events, which ought to be explained on authority. The hon. Gentleman had stated that the honour of the Bath could not be conferred on any officer of the East India Company's service; but he believed that the limitation which prevented the Order from being conferred on any officer below a certain rank, applied equally to officers in the Company's service and in Her Majesty's forces.
 MR. W. P. WOOD  did not apprehend that any person in that House could believe that England would ever retrace the steps which she had taken in the great cause of humanity; and sure he was that if he thought such could be the possible consequence of supporting the present resolution, he should say nothing in its favour. He believed that the question, when rightly considered, was one of the driest and shortest that could well be conceived; but though so dry and so short, it was pregnant with great and important consequences as regarded the national faith, honour, and integrity. It appeared to him that if they looked to the Act 8 &; 9 Vic. they should find very great difficulties, because it did not in any shape carry out the treaty, construe it as they would. The treaty did not rest with declaring that the offence to which it referred should be piracy; but it appointed a special tribunal, composed of a mixed commission of the two nations, for the trial of the offence. The 4th Section of the Act of Parliament, however, provided that the courts of Admiralty should proceed to adjudicate in these cases according to all the provisions in the Act for the suppression of slavery, and
 796
 SIR B. BUXTON  would not enter into the legal or political questions raised on the present occasion; but he must confess his regret that this Motion should have been brought forward by the right hon. Member for Manchester at the instigation of his constituents; for he believed it to be a notorious fact that it was in Manchester that the goods by which the slave trade was fed were nearly all produced. He believed it to be the desire, he did not say of his right hon. Friend, but of some of those by whom he had been put forward, that all restrictions on the slave trade should be withdrawn, in order that their trade with the Brazils might prosper. [Mr. MILNER GIBSON: Substantiate the statement.] He apprehended his right hon. Friend would not deny that a great portion of the goods to which he had referred came from Manchester. [ Mr. Milner Gibson made a gesture of dissent 790
 SIR J. W. HOGG  begged to add his testimony to the importance of the services which had been rendered to the country by the noble Earl at the head of the Government of India, by Lord Gough, and by the gallant army under his command. He knew that when the Earl of Dalhousie proceeded to India, he did so in the confident hope and expectation that his would be the pleasing duty of developing and disclosing the resources of that country. At that time there was peace, and every prospect of the continuance of peace; but, unfortunately, that prospect was soon blighted by the outbreak at Mooltan. When the accounts reached Calcutta of the treacherous murder of two British officers, in the discharge of a public duty, the Earl of Dalhousie hesitated not a moment as to the course to be taken. He at once determined, at all cost, to avenge that atrocious act, and to vindicate the honour of the British Government. He therefore adopted, with vigour and energy, means to bring about that end in a manner that entitled him to the thanks of the House and of the country. He applied the vast resources of India in such a manner as to enable him to place at the disposal of Lord Gough the army which had achieved the victory for which the House was about to express its thanks. The last battle was doubly gratifying. It was gratifying, as giving a death-blow to the rebellion in the Punjab; and it was gratifying as gloriously maintaining to the last the character of the veteran chief as a gallant and successful general. It was now thirteen years since Lord Gough proceeded to India. For two or three years
 749 "I send you a rough sketch (but a very true one) of my last and best action—I say my last, as I have this day applied to his Grace to recommend a successor to Her Majesty for the proud position I have so long occupied. I say best, because both for the action itself, and its annihilating effects, I feel it well and justly merits that observation. The Sikhs have successively evacuated all the strong passes in the hilly country towards Rawull Pindec. The few guns they have are scattered in twos and threes. Several Sirdars have surrendered, or are about to surrender, themselves. How far the Dost will attempt to defend his ill-gotten territory it is difficult to conjecture; but I have pushed forward my very best and most energetic officer. Sir Walter Gilbert, with a force capable and willing to carry out the views of the Government." 750 751
 SIR JOHN HOBHOUSE : Mr. Speaker, in pursuance of the notice which the courtesy of this House, founded on established usage, enabled me to place first on the list, I rise to propose a vote of thanks, such as is detailed in the paper which I hold in my hand. I was in hopes when I was permitted to have the honour of seconding the Motion for the vote of thanks passed in May, 1846, proposed by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tam-worth, that the occasion would be the last on which I should be called upon to take a part in recording the gratitude of Parliament for Indian victories. I was in hopes that, after the great battles which had then been fought, the time was come
 735 "If on the one hand (says Dr. Robertson), that firm foundation on which the British empire in India seems to be established by the successful termination of the late war, remains unshaken—if, on the one hand, the Sikhs, a confederacy of several independent States, shall continue to extend their dominions with the same rapidity that they have advanced since the beginning of the current century—it is highly probable that the enterprising commercial spirit of the one people, and the martial ardour of the other—who still retain the activity and ardour natural to men in the earliest ages of social union—may give rise to events of the greatest moment. The frontiers of the two States are approaching gradually nearer and nearer to each other, the territories of the Sikhs having reached to the western bank of the river Jumna, while those of the Nabob of Onde stretch along its eastern hank. This Nabob, the ally or tributary of the East India Company, is supported by a brigade of the Bengal army, constantly stationed on his western frontier." "In a position so contiguous, rivalry for power, interference of interest, and innumerable other causes of jealousy and discord, can hardly fail of terminating, sooner or latter, in open hostility." Dissertation on India 736 737 738 "The post for England leaves Mooltan to-day, and it is doubtful whether the news of our victory will be in time from any other place; so I take the liberty of informing you that the city of Mooltan, after a week's battering, was stormed this day at two breaches; one of which was found impracticable, but the other carried at once. The assault commenced at half-past 3, P.M., and the whole city was in our possession from end to end by half-past 4. Loss believed to be trifling. The citadel has been already well battered; the enemy are now driven into it; it will be untenable from shelling in forty-eight hours; and I hope to God we shall hoist Old England's flag over its walls before three days are over," "As I don't see how the fort can hold out forty-eight hours, I am just starting for the Governor General's camp." 739 740 "How I escaped I know not; round shot and musketry streaming close to my head and body. Five men were knocked over with musketry close to me in the battery; but besides these and a few horses and other casualties from round shot, no officer was hit. If I had halted to fire at 600 or 800 yards instead of where I did, close up, all their shot which flew over us, would have pitched into and knocked us all to shivers. The horrible carnage and sights that met one's eye over the bloodstained field, I will not attempt to describe; all battle-fields are the same, but there was something in the prolonged and thundering shouts our follows gave after the enemy had fled, and left us standing victors on that field, heaped with slain, that was a new and thrilling sensation which I shall never forget." Gazette 741 "On the 18th inst the division made a forced march of thirty-two miles into Ramnuggur, which town it reached late in the evening. Marching the next morning at eleven o'clock, it reached Lord Gough's camp at night, after a harassing march of nineteen miles, and marched in order of battle the net morning, the 20th. A company of I the 19th Regiment had to escort the prisoner of war, Moolraj, to a village six miles on the Lahore road, and return, but it joined head-quarters by four o'clock in the afternoon, after a march of about thirty-two miles, with only one absentee. This was the light company under Captain liar-row. Marching thus for days in succession, nearly throughout the day, the men have had little time for meals, and the scarcity of wood in this part of the country had prevented all from having had a regular meal for four days. No complaint has, however, been made." "Having marched a distance of 238 miles without a day's halt, over a country where there are no roads, and over routes chiefly lying through corn fields, our men and followers suffered severely from the continual march and want of firewood, so that lately they were unable for about five days to cook their food." 742 "Aurungabad, opposite to Jhelum, "Feb. 27, 1849. "Our fire completely overpowered that of the enemy, but they behaved most gallantly. The artillerymen and gun-cattle were shot down time after time, and as often did they bring up fresh men and cattle to replace them. Three several times did I see them attempt to take three of their guns away, and at last they carried off two. On our reaching the village of Habrat, in front of Goojerat, some guns opened grape on our 70th Native Infantry and 2nd Europeans; and on sending in a company to feel the village, it was found to be strongly held by several corps of regular troops: they had made it the Hougoumont of their position. It was, therefore, immediately stormed, and carried by the 2nd Europeans after upwards of half an hour's hard fighting, our men having to take house after house filled with armed men. The effect of it was most tremendous. I was standing near the troop (Horse Artillery), and saw whole bodies of Sikhs all falling at the same time. A splendid regiment of regular horse, headed by an Affghan chief, one of Dost Mahomed's nephews, came down to the attack, and were charged by a wing of the Scinde Horse and a squadron of the 9th Lancers in the most gallant style. They met us, and were cut down and driven back like sheep—their chief and a host of others killed. Those who witnessed it say, it was the most dashing thing ever seen. Our cavalry and horse artillery pursued the enemy for some fifteen miles, cutting up immense numbers: they did not stop till it was dark. I followed with Lord Gough for five miles, and never beheld such a scene. The whole country was strewed for three miles in breadth with property thrown away to hasten their retreat—such a medley you can scarcely fancy—tents, clothes, ammunition, carts, camels, tobacco, opium, trunks and boxes, silver-mounted riding whips, palanquins, champagne, women and children, guns and timber, camels and mules, swords, pistols, and a host of other things too numerous to mention. The Sikhs can never stand again; they are utterly routed and dispersed. Nearly half have gone to their homes, the greater portion of whom are regular troops." 743 "Thirty Affghan horsemen, armed in mail, were appointed with orders to capture Lord Gough. Watching their opportunity, they made a dash, and were met by the body guard, commanded by Lieutenant Stannus. Our men finding their swords made no impression, sheathcd them, and took to their fire-arms, and a hand-to-hand conflict ensued, which ended in the destruction of the Affghans, one man excepted." 744 "About the same time an opportunity was given for Lieutenant Malcolm to charge with the Scinde horse. I am sorry I did not witness that charge, which was made homo upon a body of Affghan cavalry, and in which a chief of rani:, said to be a son of Dost Mahomed, was killed, with many of his followers. This excellent regiment has again equally distinguished itself, and Lord Gough expressed to me on the field that their conduct was magnificent. Major General Sir Joseph Thackwell, who saw this feat, calls it a glorious charge." "I have also the satisfaction to report to his Excellency the zealous and able manner in which Captain Cunningham and Lieutenant Paton performed the duty assigned to them, by bringing up the fleet of boats ordered by his Excellency from Ramnuggur, and placing them so as to enable the portion of the army on the other side of the Chenab to co operate and come up." "Captain Abbott has boon heard of up to the
 745 "It cannot he expected that the garrison will continue loyal after the open revolt of their brethren at Peshawur." "The tenure of the fort of Attock is becoming extremely precarious. Serious symptoms of insubordination have exhibited themselves among the men. No effort is spared to excite treachery within. Though anxious to make a sally upon the enemy's guns, I am prevented by being unable to place any longer confidence in my men. Scarcely a night passes without desertions. We have now been blockaded for twenty-seven days." "It is not so much physical force that I fear, as the effect of the constant efforts of the enemy to spread treachery. The Almighty has, in his great mercy, permitted of my holding the fort for forty days, and on him I hope that I may be able to do so longer; but, humanly speaking, it would appear almost impossible.' " 746 747
 SIR J. C. HOBHOUSE  said, it was true that the number was limited; but the limitation was not confined to the Company's service alone; and it should be recollected that there had been an extension of the Order in favour of the civil service of the Company.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, he did not rise to interfere with that course of eulogy in which Members on both sides indulged, in bestowing their praises on those who had deserved well of their country; but he was unwilling, whilst just and eloquent tributes were paid on every side to the skill and talent of those who had conducted the late military operations in the Punjab, to omit to give utterance to the expression how much they were indebted to a higher and stronger Power than any which had been directly and visibly exerted. He wished, in the words of Lord Gough himself at the commencement of one of his despatches in the early part of the year, and in the language of the distinguished young man whose letter was quoted by the right hon. the President of the Board of Control, that the House should recollect that it was the "God of armies" to whom they owed all this success, and not to the skill of the old or the valour of the young. He should have been conscious of a dereliction of his own duties, if he had not endeavoured for himself, and, he trusted, for every one who heard him, to give utterance to these feelings. He was one who never despaired of the success of Lord Gough; he never depreciated his talents; no man dared to de-
 752
 SIR R. PEEL  said: I have the impression. Sir, that this ought to be agreed to as a separate Resolution. I have very cordially to state to the House the satisfaction with which I join in this expression of its approbation of the character and conduct of the Earl of Dalhousie. That noble Lord has worked his way to public eminence and high station by the exhibition of those qualities that would have insured success, though he had not had the advantages of rank and title—by judgment, by temper, and by persevering industry, which conciliated confidence, and won the good opinion of all who came in contact with him. I think the noble Lord and Her Majesty's Government are entitled to great credit for acquiescing in the recommendation of the East India Company, and appointing to the high position of Governor General of India a man who stood in no immediate political connection with them, and whose political independence they did not in any way seek to fetter. They are entitled to take credit for the way in which they looked alone to the interests of India, and appointed a man whom they conscientiously believed to be the best qualified to discharge the duties that must necessarily devolve upon one holding his high and important office.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he thought hon. Gentlemen might postpone to another occasion than the present any discussion upon the general question of the suppression of the slave trade, and upon the measures which it might be desirable to adopt for that purpose, the more especially as the whole question was to be brought forward on an early day, upon the report of the Select Committee on the African squadron, when important evidence would be adduced, and the House would be in a position to form an opinion upon that subject. Of all the arguments which he had heard addressed to the House to-night, the effect was merely this—that because certain measures adopted by England had the effect of aggravating some of the evils attendant on the slave trade, therefore England should abandon all attempts to suppress or interfere with that trade. Now, there could be no doubt that if England would lend her ships to Brazil for the purpose of carrying slaves from Africa, the middle passage might be rendered more comfortable. Would this be any justification for such a proceeding on our part? And was it a conclusive argument against our continued attempt to suppress the slave trade, that such attempt occasionally increased the suffering of the unfortunate slave? He was sorry to find that the House should be pressed to apply to the slave trade the general principles of commercial traffic. The impression on the part of the public of this country and the Legislature was, that Christendom and the population of the world generally owed a deep debt to the African race, on account of the miseries inflicted, by the general consent of mankind, for the basest purposes of pecuniary gain, on their fellow-creatures of a different colour; and it had been the
 793 794 "With rare and short exceptions, the treaty
 795
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  begged to remark, in reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Montrose, that the limitation in the honours of the Bath applied to the Queen's troops as well as to the Company's service, and that the latter were not in any worse position than the officers in Her Majesty's service.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I certainly shall follow the recommendation of my Friend the hon. Member for Essex by not entering at present at large into the question of the means for the suppression of the slave trade. Indeed, I must do my right hon. Friend the Member for Manchester the justice to say, that there was nothing in his speech which rendered such a discussion necessary. He felt no doubt that, as a Committee was sitting
 797 798 799 800 801 802
 MR. VERNON SMITH  was surprised at the course pursued by the hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich, who, when the House were about to go into Committee, got up and introduced a discussion on the principles of his Bill. He said he was sorry to see another course now too frequently pursued, that of getting a Bill sent before a Special Committee, and then of coming back to the House with the decision of the Special Committee, announcing it in favour of the Bill, as though to influence the free opinion of the House. He thought the course was most prejudicial. It was, in his opinion, an objectionable practice first to introduce Bills, and then refer them to a Select Committee; and he considered that this was one which ought not to have been so referred. But, independent of this consideration, the Bill was objectionable, because it would tend to smooth over the offences of bribery and corruption. He should, therefore, give his decided opposition to it, and particularly to the first clause.
 VISCOUNT MAHON  suggested that the discussion should be taken in Committee; and intimated, that if it were, he should reserve until then the observations which he desired to make.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  moved the omission of the declaration contained in the clause.
 VISCOUNT MAHON  said, that he had voted for the second reading of the Bill, but had then carefully guarded himself on the clauses respecting the declaration, on which be had reserved his opinion. Having since been appointed a Member of the Select Committee to which this Bill had been referred, he had given the most deliberate attention in his power to the subject of the declaration. The provisions of it were attended, in his opinion, with insuperable objections; and therefore it was his intention to vote against them. If they looked back to the general subject of declarations, it would be found that they furnished no very encouraging examples to proceed further in the same direction. In the case of commissions in the Army, a declaration had been framed with the utmost care in order to provide that no more than a fixed sum should be paid for their purchase. Had that declaration been found effectual in any one case? Had it not, on the contrary, been found so ineffective that the War Office had been obliged to abandon it scarcely one year ago? His hon. Friend the Member for Droitwich had alluded to the debates in 1809 upon the subject of declarations. That year, however, was by no means the first time the question had been before Parliament; for in 1768 a Motion of the same kind as the present was made by Mr. Alderman Beckford. The difference was only that, in 1768, an oath was proposed instead of a declaration; and, if authorities were to be quoted, he would mention that no less an authority than Mr. Burke took part against the proposal in that year. But even with regard to Parliamentary oaths, the means of evasion had not been wanting. Look at a neighbouring country on this subject. In France, men, who in the transactions of life would be trusted with implicit confidence, had taken the oath of allegiance to Louis Philippe, whilst they were avowedly and without disguise in correspondence with the exiled royal family. Similar instances occurred in this country when there was a Pretender to the British Crown. From these facts, he came to the conclusion, not
 813 "I, A B, do solemnly and sincerely declare, that I have not by myself, or with my personal knowledge or consent, by any agent or person employed by me, or acting on my behalf, by any gift, loan, or reward, or by any promise, agreement, bargain, or security for any gift, loan, or reward, procured or induced, or endeavoured to procure or induce any person to give his vote for me." "That I will not hereafter give, pay, or lend, or knowingly repay or discharge, any money or security for money, to induce any person to give, or to forbear giving his vote." 814
 MR. VERNON SMITH  wished to put upon record his solemn objection to the multiplication of declarations and oaths by Members of that House. The proposed declaration would, he was convinced, be
 823
 MR. M'GREGOR  seconded the Amendment. He said that if he opposed the Bill it was because he knew it to be inimical to the religious convictions and general sentiments of the people of Scotland. It was contrary to all their traditional and social views. He would not enter into the religious aspect of the question, believing that that ought to be left to the people of Scotland themselves; but this he would say, that the observance of the Sabbath and the religion of Scotland had formed at all times a part of the education of the Scotch population, and that the House ought to hesitate before they passed a Bill which would cause religious strife in that country. Though the people of Scotland might be called bigoted and intolerant, he was quite willing to leave the question under debate to be determined by their reason and good sense; and, under these circumstances, he would oppose the second reading.
 MR. FORBES M'KENZIE  concurred in the sentiments so ably expressed by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, who had set the question of the necessity for opening these railways in Scotland on Sundays entirely at rest, by stating, upon his own official experience,
 845
 MR. F. MAULE  could not refrain from expressing his opinion upon the question before the House, and had no hesitation in avowing his intention to oppose the Bill, on the ground that it was obnoxious to the best feelings of the great majority of his fellow-countrymen, and if carried would tend to extinguish those sentiments which he respected more than any other trait in the Scottish character, and which he would do his utmost, so long as he had a voice in Parliament, to encourage and maintain. But he believed the Bill to be absolutely necessary. It professed to be general in its objects—but it was not wanted either in England or Ireland. In the majority of railways in England, and even in Scotland, it was quite unnecessary; and, therefore, on the present occasion, for the purpose of merely meeting a few cases, the feelings of the people of Scotland were to be set at nought and outraged, because on some few railways the mail trains now; ran without any passenger carriages being attached. Petitions, signed by 30,000 persons, had been presented against the measure, and not one petition in its favour; and other petitions, as numerously signed, had previously been laid before the House. Therefore he implored the House to pause before it violated the reverential feelings of the people of Scotland in favour of the Lord's day, when so slight a necessity, or rather no necessity at all, called for such a proceeding. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Honiton, in supporting the Bill, said, he only wished to attach a few passenger carriages to the mail trains. Now this Bill compelled railway directors and proprietors, under a penalty of 200 l 846
 MR. CHARTERIS  begged to remind the hon. Member for Montrose of the old Scotch proverb, "It is an ill bird that files its own nest." He sympathised with the feelings of the people of Scotland in their objection to any compulsory enactments on this subject, and he should, therefore vote against the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, he was not ashamed to avow a prejudice in favour of observing the Lord's day. It was remarkable that a general Bill should be brought forward for the sake of regulating some few railways in Scotland, especially as the public feeling there was decidedly and conscientiously opposed to the measure. Cases of inconvenience were alleged, but were there not inconveniences from having no delivery of letters on a Sunday in London?
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Before the House goes to a division, I wish to state two points which induce me to give my vote against the clause now under consideration. I could not make up my mind to give a vote silently against this clause, because I thought I should be doing an injustice to the hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich if I did not bear my humble testimony to the credit he deserves for the attention he has given to this subject, and the labour he has bestowed upon it. I would call the attention of the Committee to a declaration which the hon. Baronet proposes in the 8th Clause of his Bill, with respect to oaths taken by electors, where, having recited what the Acts of Parliament are, he says that "Whereas the oath of affirmation prescribed by the said recited
 824 825
 MR. B. COCHRANE  remarked, that the author of one of the prize essays on the Sabbath, alluded to by the hon. Member for Stockport, had himself declared that his own health had been injured, and his constitution enfeebled, from the want of proper recreation and open-air exercise. As to the assertion that this Bill sought to coerce, it seemed to him that the coercion was all on the other side.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  could not allow the debate to close without repudiating any acquiescence in the statement made by the hon. Member for Montrose with respect to the state of moral and religious feeling in Scotland. He gave that statement the most positive denial. They had been told that the strict observance of the Sabbath had tended in a great degree, by its extreme rigour, to demoralise the lower part of the population of that country. He did not acquiesce in the justice of that remark; and he could appeal, without the least difficulty, to those who were best acquainted with the people of Scotland, to bear him out in the assertion that the strict observance of the Sunday had given great moral strength and great moral dignity to the national character. It seemed to him that the directors of railways had generally exercised a sound discretion, and that the grievances complained of were not of such a character as should induce the House to interfere.
 MR. COWAN  said, that it was a well-known saying of Prince Talleyrand, "that language was given to man to disguise his thoughts." He did not know whether the hon. Member who had brought forward this measure, concurred in that opinion. With respect to the present Bill, he certainly should not have thought, judging from its title, that its object was that stated by the hon. Member. He thought that the object of the Bill was to limit the number of trains run upon Sundays. The title of the Bill was a complete misnomer. He felt certain that a more obnoxious measure than that of the hon. Gentleman could not be introduced to the notice of the House. If the Bill were passed, they would be obliged to go a great deal further, and take measures for ensuring the attendance of post-chaises and omnibuses at the various stations along the line. The case of the Duchess of Sutherland had been referred to, and a great deal more had been made of it than was necessary. He would state to the House an explanation of that transaction. It appeared that a rule had been established not to start trains on Sundays, and therefore it was impossible to comply with her Grace's wishes; but she might have availed herself of the facilities which would have been afforded to her for travelling on the previous Saturday. He believed there were 50,000 persons employed on railways, and if they did not give them a day of rest, they could not expect to get the  élite 838
 MR. COWAN  wished to know whether it was the intention of the hon. Member, if this Bill should go into Committee, to restrain any of the trains from running which at present run upon Sundays?
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  opposed the Bill, and protested against the practice, which was growing up in that House, of introducing Bills to remedy what a few individuals thought proper to regard as a grievance. There was here really no grievance, and the hon. Gentleman who introduced the Bill would find that by it he was retarding rather than facilitating the object he had in view.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the hon. Baronet proposed to make an experimental declaration, and the opinion of the majority of the House evidently was, that the experiment would fail, and that the declaration would fall into contempt. He would wish to know how the hon. Baronet would meet this case, which was not an improbable one: a Member might be returned by the influence of an association that advanced money as loans to indigent electors, on the understanding that if these electors voted against the candidate of the association the loans would be called in, but not otherwise? The Bill would not meet such a case as that, while it was made criminal to give a voter coming from a great distance a refreshment ticket to the value of a few shillings.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it was quite competent for the hon. and gallant Member to move an Amendment on the Motion of the hon. Baronet.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that, being the case, he should not hesitate to move that the further consideration of the Bill be postponed for six months. He had frequently taken occasion to express his deep detestation of measures of this kind. Many Bills similar to the present had been introduced;
 809 absurdum ad absurdius quondam l l
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  complained that he had not heard one single word that had fallen from the hon. Baronet, and he believed he was justified in asserting that none of his hon. Friends around him had been more fortunate than himself. The rumour in his immediate vicinity, however, was, that the hon. Baronet had moved that the Bill be committed; and to that Motion he should like to propose an Amendment if the Speaker should rule that it was competent for him to do so.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP : That's not what Pitt or Fox would have said.
 SIR F. THESIGER  said, when his attention was first called to the proposed declaration to be made by candidates at the hustings, and by Members at the table, very great objections occurred to his mind. If persons, for example, were disposed to violate the law, they would not hesitate to take the declaration; whilst, on the other hand, timid and scrupulous persons might be deterred from taking it from an apprehension that there had been conduct in the election which might be involved in the declaration. But, after considering the whole subject, and particularly the form of
 815 "by myself, or with my personal knowledge or consent, by any agent or person employed by me or acting on my behalf, by any gift, loan, or reward, or by any promise, agreement, bargain, or security for any gift, loan, or reward, procured or induced, or endeavoured to procure or induce, any person to give his vote for me, or to forbear giving his vote to any other person." 816 817
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that he had formerly stated that this Bill would be inoperative,
 829
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that whatever decision the House might be disposed to come to on this question, it was due to the strong feeling which the question itself had originated amongst large and respectable classes of the community, not in Scotland alone, but in this country also, that a debate upon such a subject should be listened to with attention, and that the
 839 840 841
 MR. HEALD  had listened with regret to some of the sentiments of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, who seemed to think that the duties of the Sabbath began and ended by going to church, and that after leaving it a man should go out on a pleasure-trip, by railway or steamboat, to enjoy himself for the rest of the day. That was a principle utterly at variance with the divine law, which required a man to make his pleasures subordinate to higher principles. The spirit of the Sabbath ought to pervade the whole day, and dominate over every other consideration; else what was the use of those holding high stations and authority setting the people the example of offering their homage to the Divine Being, and erecting churches and chapels throughout the country, to meet the spiritual wants of the population? This Bill was an attempt to coerce conscience, and not allow the people of Scotland—whose feelings did them the greatest honour, and were such as a Parliament ought to do all it could to foster and cherish, instead of to discourage and destroy—to act up to their convictions and their sense of duty as regarded the due observance of the Lord's day. The recent prize essays on the Sabbath, written by the labouring population of Scotland, showed, in an admirable manner, the
 844
 MR. PLUMPTRE  would oppose this Bill, because it sought to introduce an altogether new feature into our legislation—it wished to oblige the parties to break a law which they bad no inclination to do. When he and his late lamented friend Sir Andrew Agnew wished to establish certain regulations respecting the Sabbath, they were told that they sought to make the people religious by Act of Parliament, when their object, in fact, was only to give the people the Sabbath as a day of rest, and allow them to avail themselves of that privilege in the manner they chose. But the present Bill was really an attempt to make the people irreligious by Act of Parliament. Therefore, he would oppose it as far as he could. It was a most obnoxious measure generally, and particularly so when he considered that it would be doing violence to the feelings of the people of Scotland, in their just and most conscientious respect for the Sabbath-day. He trusted the good sense and good feelings of the House would resist the further progress of this Bill, and not infringe upon the religious liberties of the people, by making men do what they believed to be wrong.
 MR. REYNOLDS  did not admit the applicability to the hon. Member for Montrose, of the Scotch proverb just quoted, but believed that the vote which the hon. Gentleman was about to give would have the effect of cleansing his nest. He (Mr. Reynolds) had heard the debate of that day with surprise, because on reading the Bill he expected it would have been unanimously agreed to, and with regret that hon. Gentlemen should have endeavoured to mix up with the question so much religious feeling, when religious feeling had nothing to do with it, except in the imagination of the opponents of the measure. As it was his intention to vote for the second reading of this Bill, he would state, in justification of that vote, that of the sixteen railways in full operation in Scotland, eight, comprising 240 miles, worked on Sundays; the other eight, of an equal extent, did not. On the latter class, which he would call the religious railways—there had travelled, in the half year ending June last, 1,572,000 persons; and on the "irreligious" railways, 1,623,000 had travelled in the same period. Was it a sin, then, to travel on Sunday, in one part of the country, or on one railway, and not on another? Let it be remembered that inns were licensed, and the proprietors compelled to entertain travellers on a Sunday. In England people might travel all over the country on a Sunday; and on the river the inhabitants of the metropolis were not prevented from travelling. He would ask the hon. Member for Stockport and others, if they had not been directors and were not shareholders in railways that were open on Sundays? If they would not be accused, then, of rank hypocrisy, let them sell out their shares in those railways; but let not the people of one part of this empire be denied privileges which were enjoyed by others.
 MR. BROTHERTON  would first ask the House whether they were really desirous of putting down bribery? He thought that where there was a will there was a way. It appeared to him that Gentlemen wished to continue the system of bribery, and yet retain a character for honour and purity. The hon. Member for Montrose had proposed the ballot as an effectual check to bribery, but that measure the House would not adopt. He certainly admitted that it was difficult to make men honest by Act of Parliament. If they were determined to break the law, they would find means of evading any enactment; but the declaration proposed in the present Bill, appeared to him to be one means which would have a beneficial influence, both with regard to the candidate and the electors. Constituencies got it into their head that the candidates had some particular interest in being elected, and that the voters did them a service by sending them to Parliament. Now he wanted the electors to understand that it was the interest of the voters to have good representatives, who, if they did their duty, imposed on themselves a great deal of labour and expense. An hon. Member said that this Bill was calculated only to catch the scrupulous, and let the unscrupulous go free. He did not think it could have that effect. Although not a perfect measure it was in the right direction. He knew a Member for a small borough who said to him, "I can truly say that I have committed no bribery, and yet my election cost me 4,000?." He (Mr. Brotherton) wanted the country to believe that the House of Commons were desirous of putting down bribery. If that was their desire, let them exhibit it by passing this Bill. If they did not approve of this measure, had they any other to propose? If one measure could not be adopted, let another be substituted. But, at all events, let them show the country that they were determined to put an end to the evil. He had not changed his opinions on the subject, and, believing this to be a move in the right direction, he should give it his cordial support.
 MR. BROTHERTON  wished a division to take place.
 MR. HUME,  as a representative of Scotland, was bound to state that he had presented petitions from his constituents with regard to this Bill; ten or twelve of these petitions being against, and, he thought, three of them in favour of the measure. But, with every desire to pay attention to the wishes of those whom he represented, he felt he had to consider what was necessary and fit for the community at large for whom they had to
 842 843
 MR. HUME  made a few remarks in explanation.
 MR. HUME  must confess that of late his mind had very much changed on the
 822
 MR. LOCKE  rose to move that the Bill be now read a second time. He felt that in ordinary circumstances he might have placed the Bill on the table, and appealed to the common sense of the House in support of it, as a measure that simply proposed to attach a few passenger carriages to the mail trains that were already running on Sundays under the authority of the law; but the character of the opposition, as evinced by the petitions laid on the table, was such as to induce him to offer a few observations in reference to the objections urged to Sunday travelling. The House would bear in mind that it was not contemplated by the Bill to enforce the running of any additional trains whatever, but only to oblige railway companies to attach passenger carriages to those trains they were already compelled to run for Post Office services. By the Act 1 and 2 Vic. c. 91, the Postmaster General was authorised, on any day, and at any hour, to require railways to carry mail trains; there were companies that had voluntarily attached passenger carriages on Sundays to those trains, and even increased the number of trains; whilst, on the other hand, there were companies that refused to attach such passenger carriages, and there were others again who, not having been required to carry the mails, had closed their railways altogether on Sundays. This want of uniformity had led to serious inconveniences; and as he was persuaded Parliament never intended to permit railway companies to determine on what days they might altogether prevent the public from availing themselves of railway communication, he had felt it to be his duty to bring the subject before the House. The cases of individual hardship and annoyance were numerous; but he would only refer to a few. One of them was already too well known to the House and the country—the melancholy case of the Duchess of Sutherland. That noble lady posted on Sunday morning to Perth, having despatched a messenger the day before to secure a place in the mail train for Carlisle, near which her parent was lying dangerously ill. The regulations of the company did not admit the public to travel
 832 "Late on a Saturday night, two or three years ago, I was taken by a special train to Morning-side, to see a lady who had been hurt by the overturning of a carriage. In returning, the engine-driver stopped on reaching Holytown, and said he could go no further, as it was now Sunday morning, and it was contrary to the rules of the Garnkirk line to travel on Sunday. At Holytown I found that no post-horses were kept since the opening of the railway, and it was only after some delay and difficulty that I succeeded in getting a person to convey me to Glasgow in a gig. On another occasion I was taken to Ayr on Saturday afternoon, when, after my visit was made, I found I was too late for the last train; I had, therefore, the pleasing alternative of either remaining till Monday or posting back to Glasgow. On a third occasion, I was visiting a gentleman who had typhus fever, near Greenock, and was seeing him every day. When I saw him as usual on a Saturday, his friends regretted that I could not possibly visit him on Sunday, both the river and the railway being closed on that day, but requested that I would visit him by the first
 833 834 "To excuse those sins they are inclined to, By damning those they have no mind to?" "There is every probability that a proposal will shortly be made to run mail trains, with passengers, on the Lord's day; and, in order to meet this, and to meet the existing arrangements, whereby there has been no travelling on the line on the Sabbath since it was opened, the friends of the cause would require to redouble their exertions. We would, therefore, particularly request of you to purchase shares in the company, and to use your influence with other supporters of the Sabbath to do the same without loss of time. The stock is at present very low—(23 l l 835 s 836 "Look from Nature up to Nature's God."
 MR. LOCKE  said, that when the Bill reached the Committee, he should be perfectly satisfied with whatever mode the Committee might think fit to deal with it. The Bill did not propose to touch the question of the number of railway trains at all: that was left in the hands of the Postmaster-General; all that was sought was, that to whatever trains which might be ordered to be run by him upon Sundays, passenger carriages might be attached.
 ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, that the metropolis had reason to complain of the manner in which this Committee had been obtained. He objected to a new Committee at this late period of the Session. The corporation had been prevented from enlarging the market, because they did not know what Parliament was about to do.
 MR. F. MACKENZIE  seconded the Motion.
 MR. MACKINNON  said, he had not added to the Committee. He merely proposed to substitute two Gentlemen who were willing to servo, for two who were not. He had asked several metropolitan Members if they were willing to serve, and they had declined.
 MR. MACKINNON  moved that Mr. William Miles
 850
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  maintained that the declaration should be imposed on the candidate, and that it was most cruel to impose it on the poor voter; and gave cordial support to the principle of the Bill in requiring a declaration.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  objected to the Motion; complaining that the metropolis was not represented on the Committee. He moved, as an amendment, that Mr. Osborne be substituted for Mr. Wodehouse.
 SIR G. GREY  said, he was sorry that the hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite should oppose the House going into Committee on the Bill, as he thought this was only due to the hon. Baronet, the framer of the Bill, in common fairness. The House would remember that he opposed the principle of the Bill on the second reading; and he said then that the declaration exacted by the Bill from Members, that they had not been guilty of bribery, would be a snare to the conscience. He objected to its principle, and he thought it aimed at what was utterly impracticable. The House, after a full discussion, however, decided against the view which he took; and he must say that he was surprised when he found that he could not number amongst the opponents of the Bill on that occasion the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln, who, he believed, left the House before the division took place. As the principle of the Bill was then fully discussed, he would not now oppose its going into Committee; but he begged to be understood, in assenting to the Committee, that he still retained his objections to the principle of the measure, which he would take occasion again to bring forward at a future stage of the Bill, which would be, he thought, a more fitting opportunity.
 SIR G. GREY  said, the difficulty would be to specify the thing done.
 SIR G. GREY  was bound to say, that after having listened with the utmost care and attention to the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Abingdon, and having considered the arguments which he had adduced, the objections which he had made to the second reading of the Bill remained still unshaken. He thought the enactment of such a measure would be a very dangerous step; and he entirely concurred in the views taken of it by his right hon. Friend the Member for Northampton, and the noble Viscount the Member for Hertford, and in their objections to the declaration. He objected, first, to the principle of any declaration at all; and, secondly, to a declaration on the grounds upon which the proposed declaration stood. He thought it was rather an extraordinary course to adopt to present a Bill to that House to do away with the oath to be administered to the voter, and to substitute a declaration to be made by the candidate. The hon. Member for Droitwich said that Mr. Speaker Abbott's opinion was in his favour; but he (Sir G. Grey) believed that Speaker Abbott thought that so long as they imposed oaths upon the voters, they should impose oaths against bribery upon the Members also. But this was a now proposition to do away with the bribery oath, as taken by the voter, and to substitute two declarations, one to be taken by the candidate at the hustings, the other by the successful Member upon taking his scat in that House. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Abingdon also said there would not be the slightest difficulty, with any honest man, about taking the declaration, and that one of the consequences would be, that the candidates would scrutinise the charges of their election agents. But surely the hon. and learned Gentleman should remember that
 818 819
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  said, that this Bill had been supported by very high authority, and he was sanctioned by a recent majority in the House in his attempt to put a check to evils the magnitude of which no man could attempt to deny. His right hon. Friend the Home Secretary had thrown upon him a charge of inconsistency in proposing a declaration to be taken by Members, instead of the oath administered
 820
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  said, that, with
 821 bonâ fide s l l l
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  begged entirely to deny the charge that the Committee had been selected from Members partial to the objects of the Bill. The Committee had been chosen in the most impartial manner.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  said, that it was a most unusual practice to discuss the principle of a Bill on the question that the Speaker do leave the chair; and he would not now detain the House longer than to advert to one remark of the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Lincoln. That hon. Member asked what Mr. Pitt or Mr. Fox would have said to this Bill? Now, he was prepared with an answer, such as perhaps the hon. and gallant Member did not anticipate; he found that in 1809, a Bill was introduced by Mr. Curwen for the same object, and on similar principles as the one before the House.
 811
 SIR J. PAKINGTON,  in moving that this Bill be committed, observed, that it had undergone material alterations in its passage through the Select Committee which had been appointed to consider it. These alterations he would explain in detail when the Speaker had left the chair.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  replied: After the opinions which had been expressed by the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown and the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, he thought it very unlikely that the Bill, in its present form, would become the law of the land; and, therefore, he left it entirely with those who supported the declaration to say whether they would put the House to the trouble of dividing. He was willing to take what course was thought desirable by those who supported the views which he entertained.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  moved that the Committee report progress. There were several clauses of the Bill so connected with that which had just been rejected, that he would require some time to consider
 831
 SIR R. PEEL  had often given his support to policy which had for its object the suppression of the offence of bribery; but he feared that the House had only been increasing the evil by taking delusive securities against it. Every effectual security they ought to have; but if they adopted delusive securities, they would be giving to the dishonest, to those who were inclined to disregard the obligations of an oath, a decided advantage. He most cordially joined with the noble Lord at the head of the Government, in giving the fullest credit to the motives and to the ability of the hon. promoter of the Bill; but he feared that much of it was not well adapted to further the end which they all had in view. In the early part of the discussion they had been talking of two classes of
 826 827 l l l s s d
 MR. PETO  would not yield to any man in his respect for the Sabbath; but they were dealing with this question upon public grounds, and in all cases where railways were involved, in testing the right of the public to use them, they could only be viewed as the public communication of the country. It signified not that they were constructed by private capital—the shareholders stood simply in the position of persons receiving their income from the tolls for running carriages; and it fell within the exclusive province of that House to consider what was necessary for the public good as regarded railways. It was necessary for ah works of mercy and necessity that communication should exist throughout the country on Sabbath as well as on all other days, and this Bill, instead of increasing, would actually lessen the labour of the working men; for at present special trains were run on the lines that were closed on the Sabbath, and the special trains required more attendants and workmen than it would be necessary to employ if a few carriages were merely added to the mail trains—which now run on Sundays at any rate—as recommended by this Bill. He would support this Bill, as an independent Member who thought it would promote the good of the whole community, without interfering with any private right.
 MR. GREENE  replied to the first question, that the House itself might be rendered fit for the occupation of Members by the time named; but, at the same time, it would not be convenient so to occupy it until the library, offices, refreshment rooms, and approaches were finished. To the second question, he could only say, that it might be possible to get the whole ready if an additional sum of 50,000 l
 SIR. R. PEEL  hoped that the announcement made by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, with regard to the postponement of certain measures, did not affect the Motion of which he had given notice with respect to the Bill for the Amendment of the Irish Poor Law, or the other, respecting the sale of incumbered estates.
 MR. O'FLAHBRTY  bogged to assure the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth that his proposition had been received by all classes, rich and poor, and by the clergy of every denomination in the western part of Ireland, with the greatest possible favour, and that when it was brought forward in a substantial form, as a matured plan, it should receive his best support. He regretted the amendments in the poor-law had been brought forward by Government before the report of the Committee had been presented to the House, and thought that such a course was
 889
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that it was not his intention to make any
 893 894 l 895 896 897 898 899 900
 MR. STUART  said, that the experience of last Session was sufficient to satisfy the House that the task undertaken by his
 901 902 903
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the hon. Gentleman had misunderstood him. He had said, there would be a concurrent jurisdiction if measures had not been taken to prevent it; and he therefore proposed to give a paramount jurisdiction to the commission to stay the proceedings of the Court of Chancery.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  replied that the equity side of the Court of Exchequer would be in the same situation as the Court of Chancery.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that he wished to explain to the House the provisions of another Bill, which would confer considerable benefit in a small way. It had been a constant complaint in Ireland that there was a great defect in the law, which did not allow persons having a limited interest in land to grant leases for a term of years, which would enable improvements to be made. The principal object of the Bill, therefore, was to enable such persons, tenants for life, for instance, to grant leases for 99 years for building or improving purposes, provided that the fullest and best rent was reserved. Upon that being done, the lessee would have a parliamentary title to the extent of his lease. It was also proposed to extend this power to persons having an absolute interest in land, tenants in fee-simple or fee-tail, and to holders of leases having a right to perpetual renewal. At the same time, it was to be observed that certain covenants and forms must be followed in all these leases. It was proper to state that he should ask, in a few days, the leave of the House to introduce another Bill, without which this measure would not have the effect which he desired. As the law stood at present, wherever a power of leasing was granted, and the exact form of the power was not followed, the lease so made might be set aside at any time. He proposed shortly, therefore, to ask for leave to bring in a Bill to enable a court of equity to supply formal defects in the execution of powers, and it was intended to be a general measure, extending to England as well as Ireland. The hon. and learned Gentleman concluded by moving for leave to bring in a Bill to enable persons, having perpetual and limited interests in lands in Ireland, to make grants in fee or demises for long terms of years.
 MR. STUART  said, he should make no opposition whatever to the Bill, but he wished to know whether his hon. and learned Friend meant the present Bill to extend both to England and Ireland? [The SOLICITOR GENERAL: No.] He could not conceive why a difference should be made between the law of England and of Ireland in regard to building and improving leases. Although he could not prevent the Solicitor General from bringing in the Bill in any shape he pleased, he must not allow
 921
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, there was one course which might have been taken by hon. Members, and which had, indeed, been followed by the hon. Member for Northamptonshire, namely, the somewhat inconvenient course of discussing, without seeing the Bill before them, its several provisions, and of pointing out the merits and defects of the various provisions of the measure. There was also another course open to them, which would have been, without discussing the merits or defects of the present Bill, to have allowed him (Lord J. Russell) the opportunity of bringing in his Bill; to have deferred the discussion upon it to some future stage; and to have heard his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General state the several provisions of the measure he was about to introduce. But the third course was that which seemed to please hon. Members the most, and it was to attack the Government and all its Members for not having introduced measures of the nature of that which his hon. and learned Friend was about to introduce. Now, that he certainly could not think a very reasonable course. The long speeches in which some hon. Members who made those complaints had indulged, had hitherto prevented the explanation of the measure of his hon. and learned Friend. As hon. Members did not wish to discuss the provisions of his Bill for the amendment of the poor-law, he did not wish to enter upon its provisions, as he admitted it would be an inconvenient course. It would be, therefore, far better to allow him to bring in his Bill, and then to allow his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General to explain his measure to the House.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that that matter rested with the House, and not with him.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : By the return of last July, 70,000 persons with their families.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Oh no, these are not at all affected by what I said. They will come on to-night.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the yearly amount of grant was very much regulated by the income and expenditure of the year.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that there were many buildings in which, no doubt, economy would be consulted by granting larger sums of money; but if 50,000 l l
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he proposed to move the Order of the Day for going into Committee on the Poor Laws (Ireland) Rate in Aid Bill, for the purpose of postponing it, inasmuch as there were so many Motions on the Paper, that he could not expect it conveniently to come on that night. What he proposed was, to postpone the Committee on that Bill until tomorrow, when it could be taken first. Then, when the Bill had gone through Committee, he proposed that the House should meet on Saturday for the report.
 859
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he would at present leave the Bate in Aid Bill where it stood on the Paper, to come on at a later period of the evening. If it should not come on to-night, he would then revert to the arrangement he had already announced.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said: I rise. Sir, to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Acts for the more effectual relief of the destitute poor in Ireland. I have not proposed to the Committee now sitting on the Irish poor-law to come to any decision on the measure I am about to submit to the House. That measure I propose entirely on the responsibility of Her Majesty's Government. There are several points upon which the Bill I am about to introduce does not touch, but which are points requiring further consideration, and
 861 s s s s s 862 s d s s s d s s s 863 s s s s s s 864 865 certiorari 866
 MR. B. COCHRANE  asked if the noble Lord would increase the grant?
 MR. B. COCHRANE  asked, whether, as a great saving could be effected by additional advances, the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown would not propose them to the House?
 MR. B. COCHRANE , pursuant to notice,
 858
 Mr. STAFFORD : Sir, the noble Lord has stated that the rates for the maintenance of the poor in Ireland could be collected—all his arguments proceeded upon that assumption; but, over and over again, he had called attention to the fact,
 867 s s s 868 s s d l 869 870 Economist 871
 MR. CARDWELL  expressed his gratification that the duty had devolved upon Captain Denham, and hoped the Government would not lose sight of the subject.
 MR. HORSMAN  was anxious, in common with other speakers, to express his sense of the manner in which the hon. and learned Solicitor General had introduced this measure. One point ought, however, to be attended to in legislating upon this matter. While care should be taken that every measure should be based upon sound principles, it should be remembered that the evils of Ireland were many, and were in combination, and were only to be met by a combination of measures. No isolated measure could effect everything. If he had any doubt as to the operation of the present measure, it would arise, not from any fault in the Bill itself, but from the fact of its not forming a part of a general plan or design, which circumstance, he thought, was essential to the success of any particular measure. He had not heard that the Bill contained any provision for limiting the liabilities of an incoming purchaser of property; and if that were so, there ought to be another Bill, with such an object, to sustain and support the present. At the same time, he agreed with those who thought that this was a step in the right direction; and he gave great credit to the Government for the  animus 918
 MR. BANKES  observed that the hon. Member for Manchester, with the modesty which always characterised him, had avowed that he was really the author of this scheme, which he had propounded to the House at the end of last Session. Two hundred years ago, however, a statesman who ran a brilliant career, though its termination was not fortunate—the Earl of Strafford—proposed a measure very similar to the present, namely, to suppress all the courts of equity in Ireland, and to establish a court of commission, for which proposition he was impeached and lost his life on the scaffold. If a similar fate should ever threaten the hon. Member for Manchester, on account of his being supposed to be the author of such a proposition, he (Mr. Bankes) would not give his voice for his impeachment, because he knew that the hon. Member was innocent of its authorship. From all he had heard that evening, he feared that the measure would not be so effectual as had been hoped; but the Government certainly deserved the support of the House in the attempt which they were making.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  said, the commission about to be appointed under this Bill would have a superior jurisdiction to the Court of Chancery, if proceedings were commenced in that court for the sale of an estate. He wanted to know whether the Bill would give a similar power in the case of proceedings commenced in the Court of Exchequer?
 SIE H. W. BARRON  would not have troubled the House with any observations, had it not been for the extraordinary attack which the hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester had thought proper to make on the Irish Members. It was said that they did not care for these attacks; but yet they were published in the newspapers, and blazoned forth to the world; and it was because he wished that the antidote should go forth with the poison that he now rose to address the House. Did the hon. Gentleman imagine that the Manchester school was to guide the British nation, and lecture the Irish Members? Man-cheater doctrines might be very agreeable at Manchester, or at other places in the north of England, where the hon. Gentleman
 892
 MR. GRATTAN  said, he had made no such charge at all as the right hon. Gentleman imagined. He had merely stated what he believed would be the result of the right hon. Gentleman's plan if it were carried into effect. But he never thought of charging him with having any such intentions.
 MR. GRATTAN  complained that this Bill did not bring before them the whole question of Irish pauperism; for the noble Lord at the head of the Government had told them that there were some points which would be provided for in another measure, to be afterwards brought in. He thought it was better that they should have the whole case before them; for, otherwise, not only was the measure incomplete, but it excited suspicion. One part of the noble Lord's speech had given him hope—where the noble Lord said that this measure would meet the difficulties of Ireland in ordinary times: but what was to remedy the present emergency? Some hon. Members talked of emigration; but when did they read in the history of any country, that where there were 14,000,000 of acres, 4,000,000 of which were lying waste, they sent away the best part of the population, and retained the weakest? What, then, did they mean to do? They talked of being Christians, and yet they suffered the poor to die and to remain un-buried, leaving the corpses to be torn to pieces by dogs, or to have the eyes picked out by the fowls of the air. Hear that, Gentlemen of England! Shut your eyes you may; shut your cars you ought: it is a misfortune to us; but it is a disgrace to you. The true remedy would be found in sending the Irish landlords back to do their duty in Ireland. The Romans would have done that; the Greeks, with all their republican notions, would have done it; but you have not the courage to do it because your pocket gains by it. But now the day of retribution has come, and I rejoice that, in the decree of Eternal Providence, you are called upon to support the poor Catholic whom you have oppressed. I rejoice
 879 d l l 880 l l l l l 881 l l l l l l l l l s
 MR. GRATTAN  then rose and requested the hon. Member for Shrewsbury to postpone the Motion he had on the Paper for the appointment of a Standing Committee to consider the practical measures likely to improve the working classes; and he grounded his appeal to him on the distressed condition of the poor of Ireland. He hoped, therefore, that the hon. Gentleman would give way to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, that the measures respecting Ireland might be considered without loss of time.
 MR. HERBERT  said, that was what he wanted to show; because he wished to show the utter fallacy of relying upon returns in a question of this kind. That return did not represent the whole number of able-bodied poor; for, in fact, the poor-law guardians were, in all cases, most unwilling to resort to the system of giving outdoor relief to the ablebodied poor; and, rather than do so, they in many cases put down men as infirm who ought to be considered as ablebodied; and, indeed, such was the emaciated state of the people at present, that the boards of guardians were justified in so classing them.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  thought that he and his friends had a right, to a certain extent, to complain of the conduct of those who were opposed to a small area of taxation. When a Gentleman found that the arguments used on his (Mr. Herbert's) side of the House were unanswerable, what did he do? Instead of attempting an answer, he put into their mouths arguments which they never used, and statements which they never made, and then he turned round and demolished the case which he had himself raised. Thus the hon. Member for the city of Cork stated that the hon. Member for Northamptonshire attributed the miseries of Ireland entirely to the poor-law. His hon. Friend had said no such thing. Still less was it their wish to say, as had been represented, that Her Majesty's Government had not had great and tremendous difficulties to contend with—difficulties which, the more he reflected on them, and the more he knew the circumstances of the country, the more he saw their magnitude. But what he and his friends did say was this—that these difficulties had been increased and aggravated by the poor-law—by the large electoral divisions; so much so, that even in the distressed districts
 877 s s s
 MR. LABOUCHERE  was glad to say, that the attention of the Government had been directed to the lamentable consequences arising from the overcrowding of steamers, and the exposure of deck passengers, from overcrowding, on board steamers between England and Ireland. They had considered the question, not only with regard to the  Londonderry
 MR. BRIGHT  was of opinion that the hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat, had done the House some injustice. He (Mr. Bright) however admitted with him that coercion had been the rule rather than measures of real justice towards Ireland. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth had that night fully admitted, though not in so many words, that much of the present evil of Ireland was attributable to bad laws. All who had taken office, and all who held office, might take some blame to themselves in this matter. The right hon. Baronet was doing now what was calculated to atone in some measure for that share in the mischief which he had in his long political life been instrumental with others in inflicting; and he (Mr. Bright) believed that the noble Lord at the head of the Government—who, on the other side of the House, had promised a great deal, and who, on that, the Ministerial side, had not done much, was now convinced that a more energetic course of action than had before been adopted was now rendered necessary for Ireland. For himself he could say that although he believed he had found as much fault with the House as any hon. Member in past times for its legislation with regard to the sister country, and especially with reference to
 890 891
 MR. BRIGHT  wished to add his opinion in favour of the hon. Member postponing his Motion. Although the subject was one to which the hon. Gentleman had paid great attention, and was in itself very important, yet he thought he would be more likely to gain the ear of the House on another occasion if he would consent to postpone it to-night. He said, there was reason for wishing to forward any measure
 860
 MR. BRIGHT  could not allow this discussion to close without expressing his opinion on its subject. He had never listened to the deliberations in that House upon any question connected with Ireland with half the delight which that evening's debate had given him. A more beautiful explanation of a measure than that given by the hon. and learned Solicitor General of his most excellent Bill, he had never heard in that House or elsewhere. He could not find the slightest fault with the proposition, either that it went too far, or that it did not go far enough. There were, as the hon. and learned Gentleman admitted, other things to be done; but certainly the measure here submitted to the House
 916 917
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, that whatever might have been the misconception upon the mind of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Meath, he believed the Roman Catholics of Ireland laboured under no such mistake. The general opinion in Ireland amongst Roman Catholics was favourable to the plan proposed by the right hon. Baronet. Sharing, as he did entirely with the right hon. Gentleman, the desire to hear the details of the measure about to be proposed by the hon. and learned Solicitor General, he should not detain the House further upon the subject than to say that he did not think, with his hon. Friend the Member for Meath, that the right hon. Baronet's plan would tend of itself to increase the abominable clearance system in Ireland. The noble Lord proposed to tax jointures, but such a step would be the infliction of a great grievance upon a defenceless class. If they intended to embark in this method of taxation, why not interfere with mortgagees, and prevent them from foreclosing? He hoped, too, that the quarter-acre clause would be suspended. What they wanted, however, was, that Ministers should speak out, and give the country some insight into what they intended to do. There was one great scheme before the House, that of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth; and he wanted to know whether the Government intended to propose any great and comprehensive plan in opposition to it. As matters at present stood, there was nothing of the kind brought forward by the Ministry—their paltry and peddling plans standing in disgraceful contrast with the great and bold measure of the right hon. Baronet opposite.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  reserved his opinions until he had seen the Bill. It must be remembered, however, that such a measure as this alone could not effect all the necessary ameliorations; and he trusted the House would yet see the necessity of introducing other measures, conceived in as large a spirit as this appeared to have been.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  wished to ask the right hon. the President of the Board of Trad a question, of which he had given notice, whether it is the intention of the Government to bring in any measure so to regulate the carriage of passengers in merchant vessels, between various ports of the united kingdom, as may prevent the recurrence of such calamities as occurred on
 857 Londonderry Britannia
 MR. SADLEIR  was glad that a Bill had been brought in to improve the tenant tenure in Ireland, as nothing would more improve the condition of agriculture. He hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would in his Bill encourage leases for a fixed term of years, instead of the leases at present prevalent in Ireland, of leases for lives, with a term of years in reversion or concurrent.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth had made a salient and pointed attack upon the Court of Chancery in Ireland, and had illustrated it by a very touching anecdote. But the right hon. Gentleman had made a somewhat extraordinary statement, in saying that the first sale of the property in question had gone off upon a technical imperfection; while it appeared, when the circumstances were investigated, that the estate was 1,200 acres less than had been represented, that a portion of it was leasehold instead of freehold, and that there were certain leases under very awkward conditions which had not been at first disclosed. Now, these might be called technical objections in Ireland; but they certainly would not be so considered on this side of the water. With respect to the West Indian Commission—that might be said to be a precedent for the duties of the proposed commissioners in respect to the mere distribution of the funds after the sale of estates; but it was not a precedent for the duty of judging whether or not estates should be sold, and it was to this latter point that his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Newark had adverted.
 MR. HUME  said, he had postponed the two Motions which stood on the Paper in his name, in order that the Government might proceed with their measures for Ireland; and he was sure that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Shrewsbury, although his Motion was important, would find a more fitting opportunity for bringing it on at a future period of the Session.
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  said, the hon. Gentleman spoke of the people of England, but he (Mr. Scrope) appealed to the House, whether the distress of the Irish people did not make it much more important to proceed with the Government measures.
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  wished to say a few words before the Motion was agreed to. The improvements proposed by the noble Lord at the head of the Government involved merely the shifting of the burden of taxation as regarded the ratepayers; but what he (Mr. P. Scrope) wished to see was some improvement in the law as regarded the poor themselves, for whoso benefit the law professed to have been passed; and he could perceive nothing in the noble Lord's plan at all relating to them. With regard to the outdoor poor, he hoped the noble Lord would take into consideration the propriety of allowing something in the shape of lodging-money for the houseless poor, and also of providing them with some sort of clothing, so as not to leave them, as they were described, in the reports of the inspectors, to be wandering about the country without shelter, and almost naked. He wished to know if clothing and shelter were not as much wanting to preserve life almost as food itself. So much for outdoor relief; but with regard to indoor relief, immediate change was equally necessary. The union workhouses in the distressed districts were described as being at present absolutely pest houses. One gentleman, the chaplain of the Kenmare workhouse, had described the inmates as being crowded together four and five in a bed, and without any means of changing the wretched and filthy clothing that they were when entering the House. Again, in the Ballinrobe and the Ballinasloe unions, the mortality was described as averaging 100 a week. The poor people saw the workhouse managed in such a way that 100 burials went forth from it every week, and naturally preferred remaining to die out of doors, or if they did apply for admission, it was merely with a view of being provided with a coffin after death. There was one
 875 876 Economist
 MR. SLANEY  then said, that in obedience to the desire which appeared to prevail on both sides of the House, he would give way to the noble Lord, but in the hope that another day would be granted to him for the discussion of his Motion.
 MR. SLANEY : Can the noble Lord give me any assurance that I shall have the precedence on a future day?
 Mr. SLANEY  said, if any day were fixed when he could have precedence for the discussion of a subject to which he had given a long and painful attention, he had no objection to postponing his Motion. But unless that were assented to, at that advanced period of the Session, he did not feel it his duty to postpone a subject in which a large portion of the people of England were interested; he wished to know, therefore, whether the noble Lord would give him precedence on any day?
 MR. SLANEY  said, he had twice postponed his Motion, at the request of the Government; and now he thought it hardly fair that he should be appealed to for another postponement.
 MR. W. FAGAN  said, he fully agreed in the proposition that the ratio between population and capital in Ireland was daily becoming more distinct and marked; but, with regard to what had been said about the operation of the Irish poor-law, he should like to ask how they would have preserved the peace and the lives of the people of that country during the period of famine without such a law? He therefore protested against the practice of attributing the misery and destitution of Ireland for the last three years to the working of the poor-law. It was not fair to attribute the condition of Ireland, after three years of famine, to the operation of the poor-law. With reference to the limitation of the area of taxation, it was true that such a measure might be a stimulus to employment; but on the other hand it was admitted by all who had well considered the question, that it would also be a stimulus for clearances, and that it must be accompanied by a law of settlement. That was the opinion of Mr. Power, the assistant poor-law commissioner, and also of Mr. Twisleton, and others who had turned their attention to the subject. The noble Lord would allow him to express his regret that he had not taken into his consideration the peculiar position of the cities and towns, particularly the seaport towns, of Ireland. The city of Cork, for instance, was very much oppressed by the working of the poor-law. One of the greatest difficulties that the framers of the original poor-law for Ireland had to deal with was, how to meet the circumstances of the position of places like Cork; and to meet those circumstances a general union rating was adopted by this House, which, however, was changed into an electoral division rating by the House of Lords. But those who were the best authorities upon the working of the Irish poor-law, were of opinion that a general union rating would be a much fairer system, particularly as affecting the cities and towns. If those cities and towns were oppressed by the present system of rating—if they now complained of the inundation of paupers from a distance—if the corporation of the city of Cork had been obliged to grant, as they had recently done, the sum of 100 l 872 l
 MR. KEOGH  was desirous of taking the earliest opportunity of acknowledging that he thought the Government had taken a step in the right direction, by the introduction of the present measure. The Bill was calculated to relieve Ireland from one of the greatest inflictions which could oppress a country. It proposed to put an end to the present system of expensive and interminable litigation now going on in the Irish Court of Chancery. He remembered to have heard it said that the Irish Members would oppose the Bill of last Session, because it would deal with those abuses; but from conversations he had had with persons of eminence in the law in Ireland, he was satisfied that the Bill would meet with no opposition at their hands. The hon. and learned Member for Newark had said, it was the number of incumbrances upon the estates that prevented the sale of estates in Ireland; but he (Mr. Keogh) thought that the sales were prevented, not by the number of incumbrances, but by the complicated, expensive, and dilatory tribunal to which the investigation of them was submitted; and therefore he believed the plan of the measure before the House would go at once to the root of the evil, because it proposed at once to liberate the land, and it was to the land they must look to provide for the employment of the labourers. It was tied up at the present moment; and it was to emancipate it from the trammels under which it was now suffering that this Bill was directed. It was the land that must be the great absorbent of labour; and, argue as much as they would, and delay as long as they liked, this fact should be ever remembered by the House, that to Ireland in her present position delay amounted to death. The Bill proposing, then, to liberate land, sought also to effect its object in the speediest way. It was not intended to bring it to a hasty sale, irrespective of the rights of the parties having interests in the property, because the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General stated that the important and momentous trust of disposing of the lands was to be placed in the hands of the commissioners, who, no doubt, would be persons selected for their great learning, prudence, and well-established integrity, and taken from the highest ranks wherever they were to be found. And even then they were not to proceed
 904 905
 MR. KEOGH  was glad to learn that his first impression was erroneous. As to the feelings of the bar, with which he had the honour to be connected, he could assure the House that every member of it was quite willing to abandon every advantage which might be supposed to arise out of the present order of things, provided a benefit was conferred upon their country. Having thus spoken a word for the bar of Ireland, he intended also to have said something in reply to the aspersions which had been thrown out against the Irish Members by the hon. Member for Manchester; but that hon. Member had been so ably handled by the hon. Baronet the Member for Waterford, that it was unnecessary for him to say more than this, that such insinuations as had been indulged in could only have originated in a desire to gratify self-conceit. He (Mr. Keogh) begged to assure the hon. Member for Manchester, that if the Irish Members wished to profit by the example and precept of others, they would not become the pupils of the Manchester school.
 MR. MONSELL  wished to state his cordial approbation of the measure which had been introduced by the hon. and learned Solicitor General. It would abridge the time required for the sale of estates,
 919
 MR. W. P. WOOD  wished to say a few words on this measure, with reference to what had fallen from his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Newark, as to the measure of last Session, and the inference he had drawn from that with regard to the probable success of the present measure. It was not fair altogether to impute to the Act of last Session the failure of any favourable results from it, because unquestionably it was not to be expected—and indeed the hon. and learned Solicitor General seemed to have similar apprehensions with respect to this Bill also, owing to the same cause—that any complete results would have followed the previous measure, considering the existing circumstances of Ireland. These circumstances had greatly impeded its working; for it could not be expected, even with the best possible state of the times, that they would find persons anxious to invest their capital, whilst a general alarm prevailed as to the social condition of the country, though
 906 907 908 909 distringas 910
 SIR J. B. WALSH  observed, that the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tam-worth had given a striking instance of the abuses of the Court of Chancery In Ireland, and there could be no doubt of its being desirable to abridge the technical forms. But the provisions of the proposed measure extended to constitute a new tribunal. He warned hon. Members against supposing that the whole of the evils and difficulties in the case of Ireland arose from this particular condition of encumbrances upon property. He felt certain that no encouragement would be found for the investment of capital in any such union as, for example, that of Ballina.
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, I should be most unjust and most ungrateful towards the legal profession, if I were to throw any reflections on them, or their sincerity and willingness to co-operate in any reform for Ireland. I have, myself, been concerned in attempts to improve the law—the criminal law of this country, by measures which I thought it my duty when in office to bring forward; and I am bound to say that I found generally, on the part of the profession, speaking of the present body, a most zealous desire, at whatever pecuniary cost it might be to themselves, to cooperate in improvement. Now, without relinquishing any of the opinions which I have expressed on two former occasions—wishing of course to reserve to myself the opportunity which the House will have when this measure of the hon. and learned Solicitor General is before them—I cannot, however, avoid on this occasion expressing my cordial satisfaction at the course the Solicitor General has taken, and at the general propriety and principle of the measure which he has introduced. Sir, I believe, although the ordinary courts of law are admirably suited for the conduct of ordinary proceedings, and for the administration of justice between man and man, without extraordinary courts, yet I must say, when great social difficulties have to be contended with, my belief is, that you should step beyond the limits of those ordinary courts of justice, and establish some special tribunal, unfettered by reference to technical rules, for the purpose of solving those difficulties. I apprehend that is the course you have pursued on more than one recent occasion. Three or four years since we found all the southern counties of Wales in a state of insurrection on account of the turnpike tolls within those districts. The Rebecca riots must be familiar to many of those whom I address. The Queen's troops were resisted: it became necessary to apply a remedy. We proposed to Parliament to send down a commission to inquire into these tolls; we found the necessity
 911 l l l l l 912 l 913 "I know how apt the House sometimes is to have erroneous statements made. I do not, therefore, send this to you without having first submitted it to my solicitor, and asking him whether the account is true in every point." "A receiver was appointed over the estate in
 914 915
 SIR R. PEEL  explained: So far from his informant regarding those objections as technical, he found them valid and real. He said that he had bought a property of 10,000 or 12,000 acres, and afterwards found it 1,200 acres less; that a part had been sold as freehold which was really leasehold; and that there were reversionary leases on the property which he had not been informed of. He wanted to be relieved from his purchase, but was not allowed—but was forced to take the estate less the 1,200 acres. So far from viewing these as technical, he (Sir R. Peel) had urged them as strong and real objections. It was on the first sale that the technical objection arose; and it was the second purchaser, who bought thinking himself safe under the amended decree, upon whom these real difficulties accumulated.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that the hon. Gentleman had alluded to certain periods of
 888
 SIR R. PEEL : I am exceedingly sorry at having heard the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Meath. I am exceedingly sorry that it was my misfortune to have been present during that speech. I am most unwilling that any impediment should be thrown in the way of the hon. and learned Gentleman the
 882 883 884 l l 885 d 886 "' The bulk of the holdings would be inconsiderable in point of quantity, even if entire, but when subdivided are very small. There is a cabin, and sometimes two on each holding and subdivision of holding. These cabins are mere mud huts, covered sometimes with straw, at other times with reeds, or swards, and are but rarely water-tight. The natural soil is the floor. Sometimes there is a hole in the roof to serve for a chimney, at other times the door serves as the channel for the exit of the smoke, and generally, but not universally, there is a partition between that part which is devoted to the use of the family, and that part which is applied to the use of the cow, the horse, the goat, or the pig.' And their course of husbandry is thus described:—' They grow nothing but oats, potatoes, and flax, and the course in which they follow each other seems rather to be accidental than regular; the same piece of land is frequently sown two years successively with oats. The small quantity of manure which is made upon the farm is applied to the potato crop; fallows are never made. The land is sometimes said to be laid down in grass, but no grass-seeds of any sort are ever sown. None of the leases contain any covenants or stipulations as to the course of crops or cultivation of the land; in every respect, every lessee is as much at liberty thereon as if he was the owner of the fee. It would not be literally true to say that there is not a hedge or a tree upon the estate, but there are so few that no advantage can be derived from them.' Such was the condition of the Drapers' estate in 1817. The company, however, were not discouraged. They went to work with the zeal, energy, and perseverance, honesty of intention, and singleness of purpose, the characteristic qualities of the British merchant; and such has been the success of their labours that not a trace remains of the condition of the estate as described in the above report. Comfortable, neat, and substantial farmhouses and cottages, with suitable offices, have been substituted for the smoky cabins. The farms have been enlarged and fenced, an improved system of agriculture has been introduced, the subdivisions of farms prohibited, leases have have been made on the most approved plan of English farm leases, with covenants for making and maintaining improvements, and for enforcing a proper rotation of crops, and these covenents have been rigidly enforced. Wild, and previously impenetrable districts, have been opened by judiciously
 887 "A handsome church and Presbyterian meeting-house have been built in it at the sole expense of the company, and liberal contributions made for the improvement of the Roman Catholic chapel, and an annual salary is paid by the company to each minister of those respective places of worship. There has been also built in the town by the company an excellent, and now much frequented hotel; and the trade in it has increased so much as to require the establishment of a branch from one of the Belfast banks."
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  said, that he did not entertain the extreme opinions supported by some persons with regard to the diminution of the area of taxation; but he thought that they had, at all events, a right that the area in Ireland should be assimilated to the English system of parochial divisions. The working of the Labour-rate Act had convinced him of the impolicy of entrusting local authorities with the expenditure of money chargeable over a large extent of district, because, in that case, it was admitted that there had been an extravagant expenditure, by the granting of indiscriminate relief, merely because the money was to be drawn from the public exchequer, and not from the barony alone. A strong feeling existed on this subject in Ireland; and bethought that the public had a right to know at once what it was Her Majesty's Government intended to propose. It was his painful duty to preside at a meeting convened in the town which he represented, for the purpose of bringing under the notice of Her Majesty's Ministers the alarming distress of the western districts of Cork, Bantry, and Skib-bereen. At that meeting, the agent of the Earl of Bantry stated publicly that the Earl of Bantry and his son had applied for 12,000 l l 873 s s l s l 874
 CAPTAIN BATES ON : Is he not a solicitor?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHE
 933 : To the best of my belief, be is not.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  did not think there would be any difficulty as to this Bill, as the moiety of all sums which were paid was to be transferred to the rate in aid accounts. He agreed with the hon. Member for the University of Dublin, that it was most unfortunate the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown did not adopt some scale which should exempt districts which at present were unable to pay their own expenditure. There were upwards of 2,000 electoral divisions; of these 539 were in the course of the collection of rates of the amount of 5 s s s s d
 SIR R. FERGUSON  complained of the impolicy and harshness of the measure, and expressed his conviction that very great difficulty would be experienced in levying the rate.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, the question was one of considerable difficulty. He doubted very much whether the proviso came within the scope of the resolution.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, that it was difficult for him to pronounce at once whether the effect of the clause proposed would be to alter the existing state of the Irish poor-law. The doubt which he entertained was this—the measure before them was a Bill making temporary provision for a period of difficulty; for levying, in fact, a rate in aid. Now, the proviso pointed to this temporary provision, and not to the existing poor-law. His belief, therefore, was that the Amendment would not have the effect of altering the permanent law; at the same time he felt a difficulty, and he thought that the most conscientious way of discharging his duty was frankly to state the doubt existing in his mind to the House.
 The CHAIRMAN  then put the question as to whether the proviso should be inserted.
 MR. ADAIR  proposed the following clause:—
 "And be it enacted, That whenever a rate in aid shall have been levied in any electoral division, or when a sum equivalent to the amount of such rate in aid, if levied separately, shall have been paid out of any balance standing to the credit of such electoral division in the books of the treasurer to the union wherein such electoral division is comprised, it shall be lawful for the occupier primarily liable, being a tenant at will, or leaseholder for a term of years whereof not more than seven shall be unexpired, or for one life, at a rackrent of not more than 20 l
 MR. ADAIR  proposed three other clauses, to the effect that no sums should be advanced for the relief of the destitute poor in any union until the commissioners should have certified that the utmost diligence was used in collecting the rates; that the sums so advanced should be deemed a first charge on the property of
 955
 MR. J. A. SMITH  observed that his name had been placed on the Committee nominated by the hon. Member for Dublin, and he would be most happy, if appointed, to give his services; but he protested against the statement that this was an Irish question. The question in reality was, whether the Government was to be held responsible for the deposits in the savings banks before they were paid into the national exchequer; and he maintained that that was a point in which the English people
 962
 LORD C. HAMILTON  thought, that if those Gentlemen who now crowded the Ministerial benches had but heard the speech of the hon. Member for Kerry when he brought this subject of the savings banks before the House, they would not have shown the impatience which they now displayed, but would have seen the necessity for inquiry into a subject that trenched on the interests of a class which more than any other required their protection. The Committee of last year was not appointed to take into consideration the whole question of the savings banks, but to inquire into, and report on, the laws relating to savings banks in Ireland only; and, therefore, the reference to that Committee was not at all in point. All that was wanted, was a Committee, the Members of which would be able to devote the requisite amount of time to the investigation. He hoped that official and technical objections would not be allowed to stand in the way of such an inquiry.
 LORD D. STUART  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary a question, as to the intentions of the Government regarding the rating of the parishes in Middlesex for the support of the police. The Police Act gave the Government the power of issuing 90,000 l l l l
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I apprehend, Sir, that opinion equally applies to any such proposition in the Committee?
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that there had been reason to believe that the  Bombay
 LORD J. RUSSELL  admitted that the proposition of a rate in aid was accompanied with great difficulties; but he could not allow the language which had been employed by the hon. Baronet the Member for Waterford to pass without protesting against its injustice. The hon. Baronet stated that they wanted to save their own pockets, and to tax the poverty of Ireland. Now, so far from that being the case, he believed that England had never made such exertions on her own behalf as she had made to save Ireland. He did not wish to boast of the exertions that had been made; but when he heard it stated over and over again that England had done nothing to relieve the misery of Ireland, he could not but refer to the grants and advances of upwards of nine millions sterling, and to the proposals which had been made every Session for the purpose of assisting Ireland. It was hardly just, then, when hon. Gentlemen representing English counties said that they could not consent to further grants, to accuse them of refusing all assistance, and of throwing the whole burden upon Ireland. The fact was that there did prevail this year, as in former years, very deep and extensive distress, arising from the failure of the food of the country. Had the potato crop been abundant last year, the Government might not have had to ask for this extraordinary aid. But that, unhappily, had not been the case, and it appeared from reports from the Poor Law Commissioners, and from private communications, that the utmost distress did exist.
 938
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that as he had undertaken not to bring on the Naval Estimates after 11, and as it was now past that hour, he would not now proceed with the Naval Estimates, but would merely ask the House to agree to one vote, which it was necessary immediately to agree to.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the argument of the hon. and gallant Mover of the Amendment was this—that it was desirable to exact the rate separately, in order to put the question to the people, whether they would or would not pay, Now, that was not a desirable issue. When a law was once made, it ought to be obeyed; and therefore he could not understand why the hon. and gallant Member should be so very desirous of putting such a question to the tenantry. Undoubtedly, if the House wished to provoke resistance, the way to do so was to impose the rate separately, and to put it to the people whether they would or would not pay; but as there were persons ready to make violent harangues in Ireland, and to persuade their hearers to resist the tax, it was not desirable to levy it in the manner now proposed.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  expressed his regret if he had misunderstood any hon. Member.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  would not, under these circumstances, object to the proviso being argued upon its merits.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  doubted if the proviso came within the scope of the resolution on which the Bill was founded. He should be glad to hear the Chairman's opinion on the subject.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  remarked, that he was quite ready to abide by the decision of the Chairman as to whether the proviso should be rejected on a point of form, or as to whether it should be argued on its own merits. If the Chairman thought that the proviso could be legitimately put and debated, he, for one, would be very ready to accept that decision.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he had consulted Mr. Speaker, who was of opinion that the words of the resolution on which the Bill was founded were of so very general a character as to make it very difficult to say whether the present Amendment did not come within their scope. At the same time it was the opinion of Mr. Speaker that if the proviso was calculated to alter the poor-law, it could not be put, seeing that the resolution on which the Bill was founded gave no power to alter the poor-law. He had himself some doubts as to whether the proviso did not alter the poor-law.
 MAJOR BLACKALL : Though he might be willing to pay the rate for his poorer tenants if this rate should be proposed, he considered it extremely unjust to compel the landlord to pay in all eases for his tenants, who might have as much interest in the land as himself.
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  believed the House
 949
 MR. STAFFORD  said, the temporary rate could not be collected separately—that the Government dare not levy it in that form—and that, therefore. Ministers were compelled to disguise the obnoxious
 948
 MR. STAFFORD  explained that what he meant to say was, that it would be better to abandon the sixpenny rate altogether, than by adding it to the general rate, risk both. The hon. Member for Dublin asked what security would be given if the rate in aid were abandoned. His hon. Friend the Member for Kerry had already proposed an income tax as a security, for which the hon. Member for Dublin had voted, as soon as he had escaped the onus of it, by obtaining a lucrative appointment from the Government for a relative of his.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, when he considered they had to advance 100,000 l
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he was not acquainted with any union in Ireland where no poor's-rates at all were collected. But I if in certain distressed unions the commissioners were to have a discretionary power—["No, no!"]—"No!" then he should I like to know what was meant. As the Bill now stood, the Poor Law Commissioners
 939 d d l
 MR. DISRAELI  said, it would be in the recollection of the House that some time ago the  Bombay
 MR. PEARSON  moved as an Amendment,
 966
 MR. PEARSON  said he would not divide.
 MR. SPEAKER  put the question, that Mr. W. Miles be discharged from further attendance on the Committee, which was unanimously carried.
 MR. SPEAKER : To any proposition extending the rate, or altering its application; for to any such proposition a resolution of a Committee of the whole House would regularly be required.
 MR. SPEAKER,  on the Motion being put for the House to go into Committee on the Rate in Aid Bill, informed Sir H. W. Barron that be could not, consistently with the rules of the House, move the instruction to the Committee which stood on the Paper against his name.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : No, he is not. At the same time it was true that he had been appointed a clerk in the office of the Solicitor to the Treasury and the Mint in Ireland, which offices had been amalgamated; but upon the question being put to the Solicitor for the Treasury and the Mint, whether it was desirable that this clerk should be a solicitor or not, the answer was that he should not.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the vote he wished to obtain at once from the House arose in this way. Some years ago, a gentleman of the name of Turner died, leaving, apparently, no heirs or representatives; every precaution was taken to ascertain whether any such heirs or representatives were to be found, and none appearing the balance of his property became escheat to the Crown, and was accordingly paid over to the Consolidated Fund in 1842. In 1846, however, a Bill was filed in Chancery, by certain parties claiming to be the next of kin; a writ of inquiry was issued, and the jury deciding in favour of the claimants, the court ordered the money to be paid over to them. It being thus necessary for the Chancellor of the Exchequer to perform the disagreeable office of refunding, the present vote was asked.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Gentleman had expressed much unnecessary alarm about this clause, the real object of which was to place the money practically at the disposal of the poor-law guardians. The words objected to had, in fact, been copied from the poor-law Acts.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was now proceeding under an order of the Court of Chancery, and had no further control over the money.
 957
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was not prepared with an answer to the question.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was sorry to be obliged to take the course of objecting to the Committee proposed by the hon. Member; but he was obliged by his sense of public duty to do so, in order to avoid the consequence which would follow, of disagreeable personal recriminations. He considered that he had made a very fair proposal upon this subject to the hon. Member; but as he found it impossible to come to terms with him, the best way of avoiding all difficulty was, in his (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) opinion, to reappoint the Committee which had sat last year on the same subject. That Committee had very diligently performed its duties up to the end of the Session, without a single disagreement or division, until the hon. Member for Kerry had dissented from the opinions of the other Members. Therefore, under all circumstances, he thought a fairer Committee could not be named than those hon. Members who had already carried on an inquiry into the subject of savings banks. No report had been made by that
 958
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  denied that he had any desire to refuse an impartial inquiry into the circumstances connected with these savings banks. Referring to the list of names constituting the Committee of last year, he defied any man to say that it was possible to put fifteen gentlemen on a Committee of higher character than those who were on that list. What he proposed to do was this: he would assent to the appointment of the first four names on the hon. Gentleman's list, because they were Members of the Committee of last year; but when they came to
 964
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  objected.
 COLONEL DUNNE  felt satisfied with the turn the discussion had taken. His Amendment had effected exactly what he intended it should. The Government, by the mixing up of the two rates, had admitted the injustice of their present attempt, and that admission was now upon record.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, it was because the proposed plan of levying was a delusion that he should divide the House.
 COLONEL DUNNE  moved an Amendment of which he had given notice, to the effect that the rate in aid should be collected separately from the general rate under the Irish Poor Law Act.
 MR. SCULLY  thought the Amendment was of too sweeping a nature in exempting not merely tenants from year to year and tenants at will, but other classes of tenants also.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  also opposed the Amendment.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he would state very shortly his reason for supporting the proposition of his hon. and gallant Friend, and would point out what, as appeared to him, would be the effect of this clause, in order to justify himself in the course he had taken in opposition to the whole Bill, and in the conclusion he had arrived at, that an income tax, or any other mode of taxation, would be preferable to that which would be imposed under the Bill. The first clause made it imperative on the commissioners to impose the rate in aid in every union in Ireland of 6 d s d s d 936 s s d s d s d "With regard to the collection of the rate, I have devoted every exertion of mind and body to this important object; the collectors have been stimulated to use their fullest legal powers in the performance of their duty." "Many of the ratepayers are now in the workhouse, or are become paupers receiving outdoor relief, who only a few weeks past paid the poor-rate a large landed proprietor of the union, who had been reduced to support his family on the milk of two cows, had them seized for debt; they wore redeemed by a friend and restored to him out of pity to his children, who that day were without food; but the cows wore subsequently seized by the collector of poor-rates, and again sold; even the goat of the cottager had been seized in like manner." s s s d d s d d s d s d s d d d 937 d s l
 SIR H. W. BARRON  said, that having been precluded by the forms of the House from moving as an instruction to the Committee that all funds raised under this Bill be levied on property in Ireland which was not at present charged with poor-rates, he could not allow the opportunity to pass without appealing to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, against the great injustice which the Bill would inflict on the ratepayers of Ireland, by levying from them an additional rate. He complained that the legislation for Ireland was never founded on adequate information, and that any evidence but that of Irishmen, who well knew the country, was made the basis of it. The present Bill was an example of this which could not have been anticipated by him, although an advocate for a poor-rate, and surely was not anticipated by the Government; for when the noble Lord moved for a vote of 50,000 l l l
 SIR H. W. BARRON  objected to the proposition, as being a departure from the principle of the poor-law, in which the great error, as he thought, was that in the matter of rating it was not assimilated to the English law, which made the occupier liable in all cases. He contended that it never had been the intention of the House that the 100,000 l 946
 SIR H. W. BARRON  was satisfied with the explanation of the right hon. Baronet, but must confess that he was somewhat astonished at the coolness with which the hon. Member for Dublin was about to crucify the Irish landlords. That hon. Member was excessively liberal with other people's property; but it might be well to ask whether he was quite so liberal with his own. It was uncommonly easy to vote where a man had nothing himself to vote away.
 SIR H. W. BARRON,  in reply to the observations of the hon. Member for Dublin respecting his (Sir H. Barron's) property, bogged to say, that in twenty-one years he had built seventy-nine slated residences on it; had expended 4,900 l 951
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that certain allowances had been granted to some attendants upon the late Mr. Turner, who was a lunatic, for the extreme attention they had paid him. He hoped the case of these persons would be considered.
 MR. GOULBURN  observed, that this was a most unpleasant discussion. The question at issue was, whether the Committee of last year had discharged their duty fairly, or whether there was any imputation against thorn. He had not heard that there was any such imputation; and he was inclined to agree, therefore, with
 960
 MR. GRATTAN  moved the omission of the clause. He did not see the use of sending half-starved people out of the country. He advised his hon. Friends opposite to keep the ablebodied at home, in order to fight their battles, rather than send them to America to fight against them.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  thought, in the whole of that transaction, and in his endeavours to get the matter sifted by a Committee of the House, he had reason to complain of the manner in which he had been treated by the Government. Every possible obstacle had been originally thrown in the way of the appointment of that Committee. The hon. Member for Dublin had been appealed to frequently to postpone its nomination. At the end of the Session, however, feeling the necessity of such an inquiry, in order to satisfy persons that justice might be done to them, he had felt it to be his duty to put a notice of a Motion for a supply night on the Paper, and he had announced his determination to divide the House upon it. His right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had, however, asked to appoint the Committee, and he (Mr. Herbert)—in his innocence he admitted—had consented to it. Only three Irish Members, however, had been nominated on a Committee of fifteen, which was to inquire into a question mainly affecting Irish banks. He would appeal to
 959
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  suggested that the clause should exempt tenants at will only, as that would encourage landlords to give leases.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, as this Bill was merely a temporary measure, not interfering with the general poor-law, be thought that the proviso might be put. If the noble Lord would admit it, it would remove a great many difficulties out of his way.
 MR. REYNOLDS  understood that if the Amendment passed in its present shape, it would throw the whole burden on the landlord, and exempt the tenant. That was the fair construction—and that was the ground on which he was prepared to support it. This Amendment would test the sincerity of the 165 Members who had voted for the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Longford, which was something very like a proposal for imposing an income tax, instead of the rate in aid. The present proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Cork would relieve the tenants altogether from that burden which those hon. Gentlemen considered so oppressive that they preferred an income tax to it. Every man holding land as tenant at will or on lease would have the right to deduct the rate from the rent; this would not only relieve the tenant, but remove all the difficulties of collection, and he hoped, therefore, that those Irish Members who were so anxious to protect the tenants from the burden would vote for it. He regretted that the original poor-law had not proceeded upon the same principle; if it had they should have got rid of the landlord clamour. On a former occasion he had voted for the rate in aid, and he had found since that in doing so he was acting in accordance with the feeling of his constituents. ["Oh, oh!"] This was proved by the fact, that at a meeting held the other day of the town council of Dublin, called for the purpose of petitioning against the rate in aid, a petition in favour of the measure was adopted almost unanimously, and he had a day ago presented that petition to the House.
 MR. REYNOLDS  reminded the House that he had not made use of the word "crucify." He left expressions of that kind to the excellent and elegant vocabulary of the eloquent Baronet the Member for Waterford.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that he had two changes to make in the names of the Select Committee on Savings Banks, namely, to substitute Mr. Keogh for Mr. H. Herbert, and Mr. F. Mackenzie for Mr. Forbes. As he understood the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had some objections to make to the names, he would, with the permission of the House, reserve what he had to say on the subject until the right hon. Gentleman had stated his objections.
 MR. REYNOLDS  was not aware that any relation of his had received a lucrative appointment from the Government. So long as nine months ago, his right hon. Friend the Master of the Mint—his friend of twenty-seven years' standing—had offered him, for his son, the very small appointment of second assistant to the Solicitor to the Mint. He hesitated to accept it, as he thought his son had then much better prospects. After much deliberation, however, he did accept it; hut in doing so, he did not consider himself under any obligation whatever to the Government, or to Government influence, or to any other person whomsoever than his right hon. Friend, who had the right to appoint. He was sorry, therefore, that the hon. Member for Northamptonshire should have shown such had taste as to have given them a rehash of what he understood had been made the subject of a question in the earlier part of the evening by the hon. Member for Londonderry. The object of the allusion he knew very well was to damage him (Mr. Reynolds) in public estimation; but hon. Gentlemen much mistook his character, if they thought that that petty appointment, or any appointment, would induce him to give a vote against his conscience. His son was a gentleman by birth, education, and conduct; and in the latter respect, at least, would bear a comparison with the hon. Member for Londonderry. He could say of him, too, that he never sailed under false colours. He (Mr. Reynolds) could only attribute the hon. Gentleman's ill-natured question, because he (Mr. Reynolds) called him a captain on a former occasion in consequence of his exhibiting the signs of the military profession. In conclusion, he would tell the hon. and gallant Member—for gallant he could not
 952
 MR. REYNOLDS  observed, that al-though the rate in aid might be a delusion, the 100,000 l l Laughter. 950 par excellence
 MR. REYNOLDS  rejoiced that he had very little to answer in the shape of objection. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had steered very wide of the real question, which was, whether he (Mr. Reynolds) should enjoy the courtesy usually extended to those who succeeded in getting a Committee appointed. The sole ground of objections to him was, that the report of the Committee on which he had previously sat, was lame and impotent; but it had not been stated that he had sought to have its labours continued, and that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had himself defeated that object, by interposing Government business on the night when he (Mr. Reynolds) was about to make a Motion on the subject. The right hon. Gentleman now sought to reappoint the Committee of last year—a
 963 l l
 MR. SADLEIR  wished Government to consider the propriety of making an advance of 100,000 l l l 941
 SIR J. YOUNG  said, that the name of a gentleman from whom he had received a letter, had often been mentioned in the course of the debates upon this subject, and he did think that the hon. and learned Member for Dundalk had not fairly stated the opinions expressed by Mr. Twisleton, the gentleman to whom he alluded. He should, with the permission of the House, read the following extract from the letter that Mr. Twisleton had written to him:—
 "I shall be much obliged to you, as Chairman of the Irish Poor Law Committee, if you will take some favourable opportunity in the House of Commons to set Mr. M'Cullagh right in regard to his statement, that my 'only hope for the future rested on the revival of the potato crop;' in reference to which hope he proceeds to say, that 'nothing could be more fatal than to teach the people of Ireland to rely on that root;' as if I had been in favour of teaching them some such lesson. This misrepresentation of my evidence could only have arisen from an inaccurate and superficial perusal of parts of my evidence, without reference to the context, and the general drift of the questions and answers. You will probably remember that, so far from teaching the people of Ireland to rely on the potato, I expressed regret and apprehension at the apparent extent to which preparations were made for planting the potato again this year. It is true that I expressed an opinion that there was no hope that the distressed unions in the west of Ireland could go on without extraneous assistance after next harvest, unless the potato came round; but this was always on the supposition that no other measures were adopted in reference to those unions; and you will remember that I more than once stated that those unions did require the adoption of some other measures."
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, that some years ago Mr. Samuel Ashton, of Hyde, loft 150,000 l
 MR. HUME,  having been a Member of the Committee last year, must say, that most unpleasant disclosures had taken place, and, for one, he concurred in the resolution
 961
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  was anxious to see how those Irish Members, who had expressed such a decided objection to the rate in aid—because it would throw the burden upon the poor occupier—that they asked for the imposition of an income tax instead, would vote on this proposition, the effect of which was to transfer the burden to the shoulders of the landlords.
 MR. R. M. FOX  concurred in the Motion before the House, and thought it was a very advisable thing to appoint an Irish lawyer, like the hon. and learned Member for Athlone, on that Committee.
 MR. R. M. FOX  apprehended that his observations had been misunderstood by the noble Lord. He believed that the rate would be likely to be collected separately, if it were left to the good feeling of the people of the north of Ireland to say whether they would contribute towards the support of the distressed unions in Connaught. He had never dreamed of being so mad as to countenance resistance to its collection.
 MR. R. M. FOX  was for having the rate collected separately. He thought the people should be asked distinctly whether they would or would not pay 6 d
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, the hon. Gentleman need not trouble himself about the money, it was quite safe in Chancery.
 CAPTAIN JONES  stated, that it was his intention to take the sense of the Committee on this clause; and he would do so by moving the omission of the words by which the Poor Law Commissioners were empowered
 935
 CAPTAIN BATESON  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in the absence of the Master of the Mint (Mr. Shell), whether it was true that a certain young gentleman, who was not a solicitor in England, and who had only been sworn in within a few days in Ireland—he meant Mr. Reynolds, the son of the hon. Member for Dublin—was appointed to the responsible and lucrative situation of Solicitor to the Mint.
 MR. BATESON  would not notice the personal observation of the hon. Member for Dublin, hut he asserted his right, as an independent Member of Parliament, to ask a Minister of the Crown whether the newspaper statement was true, that a young gentleman, who was not an English solicitor, and had been but a short time a solicitor in Ireland, had been appointed to a lucrative and responsible situation in Her Majesty's Mint, without being subjected to the sneers or taunts of the hon. Gentleman.
 MR. W. FAGAN  then rose to propose the addition of the following proviso. He believed if it were acceded to it would go a great way in neutralising the opposition to the Bill:—
 "Provided always. That the occupier of all rateable hereditaments in any Union who shall not have any greater estate or interest therein than a tenancy from year to year, or who shall hold under a lease or leases terminable on the demise of one life, concurrent with thirty-one years, or under a lease of years not exceeding thirty-one years, or under a lease for one life without years concurrent therewith, shall be entitled to deduct from the rent payable by him to his immediate lessor, the full amount of all rates and arrears of rate paid by him under and by virtue of this Act: Provided further, that every person not an occupier as aforesaid, who shall pay rent in respect of any lands or tenements, shall not be entitled to deduct from the rent paid by him, any greater sum than a sum bearing such proportion to the amount of rate deducted from the rent received by him, as the rent paid by him bears to the rent received by him."
 MR. KEOGH  called on the hon. Member for Cork to explain his Amendment. It appeared, that if the landlord executed a lease for one year, he was to pay; if he
 947
 MR. KEOGH  said, he should much regret if the Act were to he met with what was called "passive resistance," hut he thought it quite possible to drive a coach and six through it. By this second section the rate in aid was only required to he added to the first rate struck after the passing of the Act. Now, if any board of guardians chose, before the Act passed, to strike a rate sufficient for the whole of the two years, they might get rid altogether of the rate in aid.
 MR. KEOGH  was prepared to support the hon. Member for Kerry in maintaining that for the consideration of this question another Committee should be appointed. It was said that this was a national question, and, in one sense, it was a national question. The right hon. Gentleman had said, that, when proposing a new Committee, he thought it fair and reasonable there should be six Members from Ireland; and yet he now proposed his Amendment that a Committee should be appointed in which were the names of only three Irish Members. The hon. Member for Dublin proposed a Committee of fifteen, with seven representatives from Ireland. Upon the selection of Committees in the House, the representatives for Ireland were not fairly treated. Nineteen Committees had been appointed this Session. One was on the Scotch marriage question, consisting of fifteen Members, every one of whom was a Scotchman. In the Army and Navy Committee, amongst fifteen Members, there was no Irishman. On the Divorce Bill Committee—divorce being a matter in which some persons said that Irishmen had something to do with the initiative—there was no Irishman. There was no representative for Ireland on the Real and Personal Property Committee. In the Committee on the School of Design, the English Members were fourteen to one Irishman. There was not a single Irishman on the Committee on Fees in Courts of Law. There was one Committee from which Irish Members were excluded, and on which he made no complaint, and that was the Insolvent Members Committee. This showed that Irish Members were carefully passed over; and in the Committee before the House, he said, they were entitled to a larger representation. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer said, that if the Committee reported that the savings banks had a claim upon the national exchequer, it would, therefore, become a national concern. He (Mr. Keogh) thought it an imperial concern, that no portion of Her Majesty's subjects in Ireland should remain under the impression that when they asked for an inquiry it had been denied to them by the House.
 MR. MACKINNON  moved that Mr. W. Miles be discharged from further attendance on the Select Committee on Smith-field Market, and that Mr. Ormsby Gore be added to the Committee.
 MR. MACKINNON  explained that he had left out Mr. Gore's name under the erroneous impression that he did not wish to serve.
 MR. M'CULLAGH  said, he had not
 956
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  moved an Amendment expunging the words, "as the said Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury shall think fit," and substituting the words, "as shall be directed by a board appointed as hereinafter provided." This was with a view to moving a clause of which the hon. Gentleman had given notice, vesting the power to dispose of the monies raised by the rate in aid in a national representative board, to be elected from the several boards of guardians in Ireland. The proposal of this clause to give this authority to the Commissioners of the Treasury was most unconstitutional, and one which Englishmen would not have submitted to. He sought, by moving this Amendment, to protect the popular rights. Should it be affirmed, he would then move a clause, giving power to the several boards of guardians to elect, on a day to be fixed, the national representative board. If the board were not so formed, there ought, at least, to be some national board, responsible to Parliament, even if they were appointed by the Government.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  opposed the Amendment upon the ground that it was based on injustice, and that the hon. Member for Cork could not have considered all the bearings of the question when he proposed it for the adoption of the House. He believed that tenants at will were not in many cases entitled to exemption. He desired that landlords and tenants should alike possess a mutual interest in preventing the evils of pauperism, but that desirable object would not be attained if the whole burden were thrown upon the landlords.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  augured great danger to the poor-law generally from the working of this Bill. In
 942
 SIR W. VERNER  considered, from what he had heard, that the difficulty of levying this tax was beyond what could be conceived. The hon. Member for Manchester had taken on himself to state that the unions in the province of Ulster were opposed to this measure, because they were actually coerced. Now, he had taken the trouble of looking at the petitions presented to the House, and there were upwards of seventy petitions against this measure. He believed there were no persons in Ireland more competent to judge of the working of the system than the guardians; and when the hon. Member took on himself to speak of the motives which influenced the province, he (Sir W. Verner) would ask him who had influenced the guardians?
 SIR A. B. BROOKE  said, that the feeling in his district was against the rate in aid, and he did not believe that one farthing of the sixpenny rate in aid would be collected without the greatest difficulty. He denied that the noble Lord at the head of the Government had fairly brought the question of the income tax before the House. He did not wish it to go forth that Irish Members were unconditionally opposed to every species of legislation, and all he asked of the noble Lord was to appoint a Committee to consider the propriety of imposing an income tax on fair and equitable grounds.
 SIR A. B. BROOKE  was so utterly opposed to Her Majesty's Government on this question that he would not vote in the division. He disapproved of the Amendment, and of the odium which had been attempted to be cast upon the landed proprietary of Ireland by the hon. Member for Dublin, and he would leave that hon. Member and the Government to settle the point between them as to who should pay the rate.
 SIR E. FILMER  had no personal objection to Sir De Lacy Evans, but the fact was that Mr. Gore, who was Chairman of the former Committee, had been left out of the existing Committee by a mere mistake, and on that account he thought it would be unfair to reject him now.
 MR. GROGAN  regretted that the discussion should have become so personal. He could not agree with the hon. Member for Dublin that the rate in aid was very popular there.
 SIR G. GREY  said, this was so improbable a contingency that it had not been
 953
 SIR G. GREY  thought the hon. and gallant Member had drawn an erroneous conclusion. The Government, by the plan of collection they proposed, had simply endeavoured to make the proposed rate as little obnoxious as possible.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the question was, whether the clause, as amended, should stand part of the Bill, and the hon. Gentleman only objected to a few words of it.
 SIR G. GREY  hoped that the hon. Gentleman would not press the clause, as it was the same in principle with the clause which had been proposed by the hon. Member for Cork.
 SIR G. GREY  observed, that the rates had been combined, as the money was more likely to be got if no distinction were made. Hon. Members opposed to the sixpenny rate had with a very creditable feeling expressed their desire that the rate should be collected without incurring the risk they apprehended of collision, or of a necessity arising for the use of the police and military. The less obnoxious the mode of collection, the less likely were they to incur the evils anticipated by some; and Her Majesty's Government had therefore thought it better, upon the whole, that the plan now proposed should be adopted. He must, therefore, oppose the Amendment.
 SIR G. GREY  objected to any alteration being made in the general principle of the Rate in Aid Bill, and for that reason deprecated the adoption of the proviso of the hon. Member for Cork.
 SIR G. GREY  feared that it would be impossible to give effect to this proviso without altering other portions of the Bill, although the principle might be a very proper one to raise on a general amendment of the poor-law.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that what his noble Friend had said was that, practically, he did not anticipate that it would be possible to levy this 6 d
 SIR G. GREY  said, that when the metropolitan police were first established it was necessary that a rate amounting to 8 d d l 932 d d l
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, that in 1844 a deputation from all the savings banks in the kingdom met in this metropolis: they did him the honour to make him their chairman; and he happened to know from that circumstance what was their opinion as to the changes of the law in 1844. In spite of all the remonstrances on the part of this deputation, that trustees and managers should not be free from the responsibility which should arise from the consequences of any wilful neglect, those who were in power in this House at the time made the change. Mr. Tidd Pratt was at that time the organ of the Government. At that very time, he knew this bank in Dublin was insolvent, and yet they were left to evade the law. Therefore, if ever there was a case where an impartial Committee should be appointed to inquire into an important question, this was one of those cases. It was a question which went to the security of the whole system of savings banks in the country. He considered the Committee appointed by the hon. Member for Dublin to be a fair Committee.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  thought it most unadvisable in a Bill of a temporary nature, and brought forward for a temporary purpose, to introduce so great a change in the principle of rating.
 VISCOUNT BARRINGTON  said, that in his opinion there was great impropriety in suffering the nomination of Committees to be in the hands of individual Members; and he submitted to the House, whether it would be advisable to appoint a Committee to nominate Members of public Committees, in the same way as was done with regard to private Bills?
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  hoped that the clause would not be pressed. He thought that matters of this kind would be better settled between landlords and tenants themselves.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  said, that in the course of the noble Lord's speech, reference was made to the unions in Ireland in which the rates could not be levied. He (Viscount Castlereagh) held in his hand a return of the financial condition of the following 13 unions in Ireland—namely, Ballina, Bantry, Clifden, Galway, Gort, Kenmare, Kilrush, Scariff, Westport, Ballinrobe, Castlebar, Carrick-on-Shannon, and Ennistymon; and by that return it appeared that the rate collected in 1848 was 114,474 l l l l l l l 940 l l l l l d l l l l
 LORD J. RUSSELL  did not think it would be advisable to insert the names of the commissioners in the Bill. He was not prepared just at that moment to give an explicit reply to the question of the hon. Member, but he was quite ready to admit that it was desirable that the greatest possible care should be taken in the selection of the gentlemen who were to act as commissioners. Who those gentlemen were to be he had not yet determined; he had not bestowed a thought upon the matter; but whether their names were to be inserted in the Bill, or the Government were to be entrusted with the power of nominating them hereafter, in either case care ought to be taken to select gentlemen who were conversant with the subject, and who would not be afraid to grapple with it; gentlemen, moreover, who would take care not to violate those rights which the owners of property justly thought they were entitled to claim.
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  wished to know whether there would be any objection on the part of the Government to furnish to the House the names of the Gentlemen who were to be appointed commissioners to carry into effect the provisions of this measure? His own vote on the second reading would be very materially influenced by a knowledge of who the gentlemen were who were to be entrusted with the duties of so important a character.
 MR. CORRY  took occasion to remind the House that the late Secretary of the Admiralty (Mr. Ward), in moving the estimates, and in explaining the alterations which the Admiralty proposed in the dockyards, made some observations with respect to the manner in which the business was carried on by the dockyard officers. Since that time certain hon. Members, following up the remarks of the hon. Gentleman, had made use of strong language in reference to those officers—some having oven gone the length of charging them with gross and profligate mismanagement. Now, having had five years' experience of the manner in which business was carried on in the dockyards, and entertaining as he did the highest respect for the officers of those establishments, believing that they were actuated by the most ardent desire to promote the public service, and having always found them conscientious and zealous in the discharge of their duties, he felt bound to say that the observations which had been made upon them were by no means deserved. He would do the hon. Gentleman the late Secretary of the Admiralty the justice to say, that he did not think he intended to convey the impression to the House which some hon. Gentlemen had attached to his remarks. It had been said, too, that the Board of Admiralty had for 200 years been conniving at gross peculation and extravagance in the dockyards. In disproof of this assertion, he would refer to the investigation into dockyard affairs which had taken place under the Commission of Inquiry, appointed by the 43rd George III., passed in 1802, and to the various amendments subsequently introduced by successive Boards of Admiralty. Without denying that the system was open to improvement, he felt bound to maintain that the charges which had been urged against it were greatly exaggerated. It was said, for instance, that there had been no audit of wages; but that did not arise from any loose management on the part of the authorities, but simply because they had always found their preliminary inquiries sufficient to secure accuracy. Then again it was said that there had been no general survey of stores; but that was because of the enormous expense which such a survey would have occasioned, and because it was considered to be unnecessary, in consequence of other arrangements calculated
 1002
 SIR F. T. BARING  regretted that his hon. Friend (Mr. Ward) was not present, in order to explain personally that he had had no intention whatever of ascribing blame to the officers of the dockyards. So far was his hon. Friend from stating that the system hitherto pursued at the dockyards had been a system of peculation, that he, on the contrary, was much struck and greatly satisfied, on strict inquiry, by the honesty with which the public business had been carried on in the dockyards. No doubt there was room for improvement there, as in all large establishments of a similar nature.
 SIR F. T. BARING  would prefer proceeding with the votes; and he would afford the hon. Member for Montrose an opportunity of taking the sense of the House on the estimates upon the bringing up of the report.
 Sir F. T. BARING  said, that an inquiry had been made into all the dockyards, and that the report consequent upon that inquiry had been carried into effect with gratifying success.
 Sir F. T. BARING  admitted the pledge to which the hon. Gentleman referred. They were bound to establish the naval works in question, and were most anxious to do so. Up to the present moment, however, a difficulty as to the title of the requisite land had delayed the works; but as soon as the title had been made good—and he was glad to hear from the hon. Gentleman that the difficulty in this respect had been overcome—an additional vote for the purpose would be applied for. As to the steam factory, no doubt there had been an intention to erect an establishment of the kind; but that intention had been abandoned, with a great many other schemes involving expense.
 ADMIRAL DUNDAS  reminded the hon. Gentleman that the estimates for the present year included items which were not embraced in the expenditure of 1814.
 MR. CORRY  said, that he could not agree with the hon. Member for Oxfordshire as to the greater economy of our naval administration in 1814 and 1815. He had taken ten years preceding 1828, and calculated the average expense of the Navy during that period; and from 1818 to 1827 the cost of the Navy was 6,141,000 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l
 CAPTAIN FITZROY  was happy to bear his testimony to the fact that the Navy had never been in a more efficient state than under the late First Lord and the late Secretary to the Admiralty; whilst, at the same time, due attention had been paid to economy. He wished to know whether there was any improvement as to the method of coaling the steam navy, for, considering that only 100 tons could be put on board in a day on the old system, it was desirable that some other mode should be adopted. Another question to which he wished to call the attention of the Government was with regard to the freight of specie. He thought it would be better if some arrangements could be made for altering the present practice.
 SIR F. T. BARING  was much obliged
 1013
 MR. CORRY  said, that as he was in office at the Admiralty when the works at Keyham were undertaken, he was enabled to afford the House some information on the subject. The hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark had proposed in the Committee on the Navy Estimates that a stop should be put to these works, but his proposition was supported by only one hon. Gentleman the Member for the West Riding; and he (Mr. Corry) therefore hoped that the Committee of the House would support the Committee upstairs in their decision, by rejecting the hon. Baronet's Amendment. The hon. Baronet had said, on a former occasion, that the Admiralty, under the pretext of making economical repairs, were squandering large sums upon the works at Keyham. Now, these works were undertaken solely in order to maintain the efficiency of the steam navy in time of war, when, he maintained, they would be absolutely necessary to the safety of the country. It must be obvious to every one acquainted with naval affairs, that if there were any part of the coast where it was essential to have basins and docks, and other means of repair for steam ships, that place was Devonport. As a great part of our naval force would be required in the event of war for protecting the coast of Ireland, or for blockading the western coast of France, Devonport was the nearest point at which provision could be made for its repair, and that port was also the first that could be made by steam vessels returning in want of repairs from any foreign station, with the single exception of the Baltic. He admitted that a majority of the Select Committee had expressed the opinion that if the works at
 1018 1019
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, that the reason he had not risen before was, that as those arrangements were made not by him but by former Boards of Admiralty, he thought the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Tyrone, who had formerly been Secretary to the Admiralty, the proper person to give an explanation respecting them. With regard to the recommendation of the Committee of last year, to which the hon. Member for Oxfordshire referred, that was carried out strictly by the Government, and the present vote was in conformity with that recommendation. He was aware that there would be differences of opinion as to the expediency of commencing such an outlay; hut though it might seem large, he had heard from authorities well worthy of attention that this establishment, when formed, would be of great value in case of war; and the question was whether, having expended a considerable sum on the works, they would throw that all away, or proceed in carrying those works into completion. The money he now asked for was money required under existing contracts, and he believed the contracts went further than the sum he wished the Committee now to vote. If the Amendment were carried, the works would
 1022
 SIR F. T. BARING  replied that the whole sum was required under the contracts.
 SIR F. T. BARING  repeated that the Government had carried into effect the recommendation of the Committee.
 CAPTAIN BERKELEY , in reference to the argument used by the hon. Gentleman the Member for the West Riding, that it was not necessary for the Royal Navy to have a steam basin, because there was no such thing as a steam basin for the mercantile navy, requested the hon. Member to look to the East and West India Docks, and see if there were no steam basins there.
 MR. COWPER  explained that the sum of 120,000 l
 MR. J. B. SMITH  thought that a very small sum might be necessary to complete a sea wall, and the making of docks and basins might be reserved till some future opportunity; and great expenditure might be saved by rendering it unnecessary to remove the powder magazine.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, that his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose had given notice of a Motion upon that subject; and it appeared to him (Sir F. Baring) that it would be better to postpone the discussion with respect to it until that Motion should have come under their consideration.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, that the late Lord Auckland had thought that the number of cadets ought to be limited to 100, and had issued an order for so limiting them. That order would henceforward be complied with.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, that the vote then under their consideration was for the payment of half-pay to which officers were already entitled. He could not, therefore, see how the Committee could refuse to sanction the vote.
 MR. COWPER  explained that the increase from 2,000 l l l
 MR. COWPER  replied, that tenders had been called for by public advertisement. The new breakwater at the Isle of Portland had since been finished, and it would give Weymouth an advantage.
 MR. COWPER  said, the subject would receive consideration at the proper time.
 MR. COWPER  said, they might be terminated on the 1st January, 1853.
 MR. COWPER  said, that as the present contract for the conveyance of the North American mails had not terminated, the Government had not been able hitherto to give the subject mature consideration.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, that the arrangements respecting the West India packets had been made before the penny postage reform took place. The Government found it necessary to complete the communication between the mother country and her various colonics; but it appeared that it was now contended that such communication should be limited to the mere postal necessities of the country. He could not consent to look at the question as one merely of the amount of balance that might be left at the end of the year; nor did he think that, because those expensive communications between England and the colonies absorbed a considerable portion of the income derivable from postage, that that fact was to be taken as an argument against postage reform.
 ADMIRAL BOWLES : Sir, having been appealed to by the hon. Member who spoke last, I add with pleasure my testimony to the importance of a steam basin at Cork, and sincerely regret that some small proportion of the millions so lavishly wasted in Ireland in 1847, was not applied to this purpose, which would have been a really reproductive work, and equally useful in a national and local point of view. It is always with reluctance that I ask for the attention of the House; but really we have of late heard and read such absurd and mischievous misrepresentations with respect to naval affairs, both here and elsewhere, that although I am fully aware of the difficulty of dealing with a dry professional subject clearly and intelligibly, and sincerely wish the task had fallen into abler hands, I feel it to be a duty I owe to my country to endeavour to dispel prejudices so unfounded, and at the same time so dangerous; and I am encouraged by reflecting, that at least no one will deny the paramount importance of the question at issue—that it is by her maritime strength and superiority that this country has been enabled to raise herself to her present proud pre-eminence, or that without that strength and superiority she could not maintain her rank amongst powerful rivals and competitors even for a single year. Withhold from our merchants that naval countenance and protection on which they have hitherto been accustomed to rely in peace as well as in war, or diminish it below that which other nations afford to their subjects, and see what execrations would be heaped on the heads of those shallow and shortsighted politicians (as well as on any Government weak enough to give way to them), whose mischievous interference had caused this national degradation. In all former times, and when our military organisation and preparations were much more
 1005 Hansard 1006 1007 1008 1009
 LORD J. RUSSELL  thought that the word in question was not open to objection. The word "general" was used as in the case of the income tax, which was said to be a general tax on property and income; and as the assessed taxes were said to be general, although they applied only to England and Scotland, and not to Ireland, he thought that the word general might be used as well in the present case as in those he had pointed out.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  did not rise to renew the argument which he had already frequently urged upon the House with regard to the rate in aid; but, in consequence of the distressing accounts received from Ireland, it was necessary for him to advert to an answer which he gave a few days ago to a question put by the hon. Member for Montrose, whom he regretted not to see in his place, especially as he understood the hon. Member was absent by reason of indisposition. In answer to that hon. Member, he (Lord J. Russell) stated that it would be his duty, during the time that this Bill might be expected to be under consideration in that and the other House, to advance from the Civil Contingencies Fund such sums as were absolutely necessary to maintain the people who had been hitherto supported out of the grant of 50,000 l l l 981 l
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he had hitherto refrained from expressing any opinion on this measure during the several discussions which had already taken place on it, naturally feeling that the discussion should rather be conducted by the representatives of that country for which they were now legislating; but he would venture that evening to make a very few remarks explanatory of the vote which he was about to record on this question. His observations would be brief, because he had no confidence in the present Administration with reference to their conduct on Irish affairs. He had met with a passage the other day, in a play written by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and which was acted last year at  Sadler's Wells Don Carlos "Like ships at sea becalmed, Whose sails flap to and fro with scanty measure." "Achieving nothing, still promising wonders, By dint of experience improving in blunders." 983 l l 984
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  complained that the estimates had been brought on unexpectedly, it being supposed that the debate on the Irish Bill would occupy the whole evening. It was probably under this supposition that the hon. Member for Montrose, who had several Motions on the Paper, had vanished. It was probable that many Members of the Government were now donning their silk stockings and pumps, with a view to making their appearance in a more brilliant assembly. As economy was the order of the day, he thought there only ought to be three Lords of the Admiralty, instead of six; but he would not cut down the clerks a single sixpence. If he was too late to move that reduction, he would give notice to do so on the bringing up of the report. He had no wish to interfere with the efficiency of the Admiralty, nor would the reduction of the Board from six to three have that effect. He also thought it would be well to reduce the salary of the First Lord some ten or twenty per cent. The clerks, generally speaking, were ill paid.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  observed, that the penny postage had no connexion whatever with steam navigation; but as the former had been mentioned, he might be permitted to say, that looking at the result of the penny postage, no experiment could have been more satisfactory than it had proved. The number of letters passing through the Post Office had greatly increased, nay, had actually doubled. In any fortnight of the present year, compared with the corresponding fortnight of any year before the postage was altered, it would be found that the proportion was as 6,000,000 to 3,000,000,
 1029
 COLONEL DUNNE  still believed that the measure would prove a failure, although, like other Members who had spoken against it, he was quite prepared to submit to any tax which was calculated to benefit Ireland, if just in its principle. The responsibility of the failure of this measure, therefore, would not rest upon them, but upon the Government, who were inducing the House to advance money upon insufficient
 996 l l 997 l l 998
 MR. BANKES  said, the House was not surprised, probably, at the observations of the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown. He believed the statement of the other night was made rather according to the wishes of the noble Lord, than according to his expectations. He (Mr. Bankes) had himself had a letter from a gentleman, who in travelling but a very short distance in Ireland had to stop his car five times in order to have removed the dead and the dying who were lying on the road. It was obvious that the present measure would do nothing to relieve the distresses of the country, and it was deeply to be regretted that the Irish Members had not acted with more union and decision on the subject. He thought that the best mode of administering relief to Ireland would be to impose a rate in aid not only on one portion of that country, but on the cereal produce of foreign countries. It was to such a rate as that alone to which he could look forward with any hope for a permanent alleviation of the ills of Ireland. Let the Government abandon, at least for a time, their views of economical science; let them also increase the postage to a moderate amount; and an ample sum would soon be received by the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the evils which this Bill sought to remedy. He looked upon this measure with the greatest alarm; for by the second clause he found it was provided
 982
 MR. GRATTAN  was glad to hear the intimation of the noble Lord, as to his intention to make larger advances than he had at first contemplated for the relief of the perishing people of the west of Ireland. He (Mr. Grattan) had just received letters from Ireland to the effect that the distress
 992 l 993
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that in the course of the last Session a Bill came down to that House from the House of Lords for establishing an improved system of auditing railway accounts. He then expressed his opinion that it was most desirable that a more efficient audit of railway accounts should be provided, and he voted for the second reading of the Bill. Unfortunately, however, the House took a different view of the measure, and threw it out by a considerable majority. He had reason to believe that the subject had undergone most careful consideration in a Committee of the House of Lords. He expected that a measure would very speedily emanate from that Committee; but, if he were disappointed in that expectation, he should feel it his duty, on the part of the Government, to submit a measure to the House.
 MR. WYLD  begged to ask the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade, whether it was the intention of the Government to introduce any measure to provide for a more effectual audit of railway accounts? In connexion with this subject he might direct the right hon. Gentleman's attention to a report lately printed relative to an investigation instituted by the Eastern Counties Railway Company. In that case auditors were appointed under the Act of Parliament, which directed that the accounts should be placed in the hands of the auditors at least fourteen days before the meeting at which they were presented; but the accounts were not submitted to the auditors until the very last day, and, consequently, they were unable to give them a thorough examination. He considered that some change in the law was absolutely necessary.
 MR. BRIGHT  explained that what his hon. Friend the Member for the West Riding bad said was, that it was not fair that 240,000 l l
 MR. FLOYER : Then we may still hope that Weymouth may be the port of departure?
 MR. FLOYER  inquired whether any opportunity had been given to the port of Weymouth to send in a contract for this service?
 MR. FLOYER  said, the item for conveyance of mails between Southampton and the Channel Islands had boon increased from 2,000 l l
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, he should commence the observations which he had to make on this Bill, by entering his protest against the invidious distinctions that had been drawn by the Gentleman opposite, the Member for Bridport, between different sections of the Irish Members; such comparisons ought to be given up. He had also to protest against the manner in which the hon. Member alluded to the restoration of the Irish Parliament, as being equivalent to a separation between the two countries. He believed that the tendency of the present debate was in favour of a restoration to Ireland of her just rights; and his firm conviction was, that the repeal of the Union would lead to a more real and sound connexion between the two countries than had over been witnessed before. He should also protest against what the hon. Gentleman had said as to the former grants having produced the bad consequences that they now sought to struggle against. The present state of the country was owing to the recurrence of the famine, and not to the dole of money—large, he admitted, under other circumstances, but small and inefficient under the amount of evil which it was intended to check. As to the Bill before the House, be had voted for it, because a most harsh and cruel alternative was alone held out—that of electing between it and a still worse measure. But if hon. Gentlemen would not listen to the advocates of repeal, they ought to pay some attention to the representations of those Irish Members who had always opposed the repeal agitation. Were it only from a feeling of gratitude for past services, the aristocracy of the country ought now to be attended to by this country. He was grateful to the noble Lord at the head of the Government—for at present people should be grateful for even common humanity—for the promise that the miserable dole of 5,000 l l 994 Cork Examiner 995
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  would remind the House that it would be very harsh treatment towards Ireland if there were to be only one naval establishment there. He would remind them that, by the Act of Union, to which reference had been made, it was stipulated that there should be a dockyard at Cove; but, without reference
 1004 Crocodile
 COLONEL RAWDON  remarked, that the word "general," in the title, was at variance with the intention of the Bill. The contents of the Bill only applied to a proportionary part of the united kingdom, and in lieu of the word "general," it would be more in conformity with the contents of the Bill if the word "separate" were inserted instead. He felt it to be his duty to enter his protest, now that the Bill had passed, against this innovation of the Act of Union, which he considered the House had broken through most unjustifiably. If they adopted the word "general," it would imply that the rate extended over the whole country, which it ought to do under the Act of Union. There was another objection he had to the Bill, or rather,
 1000
 MR. HENLEY  thought that the Government was in a difficult position; on one
 1010 l l l l
 MR. HENLEY  had taken care in his
 1011
 MR. HENLEY  thought that after the recommendation come to by the Committee of last year, the estimate on its face should clearly show that the expenditure was to be limited to that particular branch of works within the recommendation of the Committee.
 MR. HENLEY  inquired what portion of the 120,000 l
 MR. HENLEY  expressed his surprise that no Member of the Government should have thought it necessary to explain this vote; for there was nothing by way of explanation in the estimate itself which seemed to bring it within the recommendation of the Committee of last year. The Committee recommended that the works contracted for the construction of a coffer-dam should be continued, but that no progress should be made in building factories till the Navy Estimates of 1849–50 should have been submitted to the House. Now, as far as he could gather, part of the expenditure seemed to be on account of factories. It appeared to him, that in accordance with the recommendation of the Committee of last year, which was founded on good sense, that, so far as the Government were bound by contracts, the works should be continued; but that they should not go beyond that without the concurrence of Parliament; and he thought some explanation due from the Government as to how far this recommendation had been acted on.
 MR. HENLEY  wished to know whether the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty was desirous that they should pass the votes that evening, and postpone the discussion of them to some other occasion?
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the expenditure complained of had been mainly caused by the necessities and requirements of the commercial classes. It was the object of giving increased facilities to commerce that had induced Government to set up such expensive modes of communication. At the same time he admitted that the management of the Post Office was a question that required looking into.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the object of Mr. Rowland Hill, in the introduction of the penny postage, was to extend the delivery of letters and to increase the number of letters passing through the Post Office as much as possible. The change had been important and valuable. It certainly was one which ought not to be measured by its expense; neither, he thought, should the packet-service be measured by its expense.
 MR. POULETT SCROPE : Sir, I have opposed the principle of this measure throughout on two grounds—first, that it is inherently vicious, unjust, and impolitic; secondly, that it is not required, as its supporters allege, by an overwhelming necessity; there are other preferable modes of meeting the exigencies of these western, unions. That the principle of this rate in aid is inconsistent with that of the poor-law itself, local responsibility, and wholly indefensible, except on the assumption of an overbearing necessity, is in fact admitted by its authors. The question, therefore, really is, does that necessity exist? Are there not other and preferable modes of meeting the exigency of the case? No doubt there is a necessity for advancing money from the Exchequer, as you are doing under this Bill, for the all-paramount object of saving the lives of hundreds of thousands of starving poor in
 985 l l l 986 987 988 l s d l s d l s 989 990
 MR. COBDEN  said, that with reference to the charge of peculation against the officers of the dockyards, all those hon. Members who had taken part in the exemination
 1003
 MR. COBDEN  expressed a hope that the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty would postpone these votes until the hon. Member for Montrose was in his place, to move two amendments of which he had given notice—one for the reduction of the number of admirals, and another for the reduction of the dockyard battalions and shipwrights. His hon. Friend had been unable to remain in the House owing to a sudden attack of cold, which rendered him inaudible, and, as his amendments were of importance, it was advisable to let the votes to which they had reference, stand over until he was present.
 MR. COBDEN  said: Mr. Bernal, I beg to inform the hon. Member who spoke from the opposite benches that the Committee which sat last year upon the Navy Estimates did nothing more than recommend that the contracts already entered into by the Government should be completed. The Committee did not know whether this sum of 120,000 l 1020 l 1021
 MR. COBDEN  observed, that what he had stated was, no private steamboat builder had a basin for the purpose of putting
 1023
 MR. COBDEN  was as willing as any man to admit the advantages of Post-office communication with every part of the world, but if no reference was had to the number
 1028
 MR. COBDEN  thought that the vote for the Post-office packet department ought not to pass without a word, in order that the country might know why no profit appeared, It was evident that many of these charges would never have been undertaken as a matter of profit. He found here a charge for carrying the mails between Alexandria and Beyrout; a charge for the mail from Singapore to New South Wales; from Suez to Calcutta, 64,000 l l l l
 CAPTAIN JONES  moved, as an Amendment,
 974
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  observed, that it had been stated that he had drawn an improper comparison between the number of officers in the British Navy and in the navies of France and the United States, and had not explained the circumstances which caused the number of officers in the British Navy to be as great as they were. He had stated a fact which was not denied, and the object of that statement was, to call the attention of the Government to the necessity of bringing the number of officers within proper limits. He had excellent authority on this question, namely, that of a very distinguished officer in the British Navy, who said that the number of officers in the British Navy should bear some sort of proportion to the work to be done; and if any circumstances caused the number to be greater than it ought to be, steps ought to be taken to bring it within
 1025
 MR. W. FAGAN  complained of the small share enjoyed by Ireland in the great sum expended upon the naval establishments of Great Britain. Out of a total expenditure of near 2,000,000 l l
 MR. MONSELL  asked if the Government had considered the importance of appointing some port on the west coast of Ireland as the port for the arrival and departure of the North American mail steamers?
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  asked, if hon. Gentlemen had read the accounts just received from Mayo? If they had, it was impossible for them to believe that the utmost amount to be raised under this Bill would be at all adequate to the growing increase of distress. Three-fourths of the unfortunate inhabitants of Mayo were without clothing, houses, and employment. In such a state of things, the rate in aid would have the effect of increasing the evil, and
 991
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  called attention to the great increase which had taken place under the head of No. 11 (new works). From 1833 to 1840, the average yearly expense was 95,000 l l l l l l
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  wished to call the attention of the Government to the impolicy of appointing so many cadets while the officers were so little employed. He found that from 1833 to 1840 they had averaged 104 a year, and during the last eight years they had averaged 150.
 SIR J. DUCKWORTH  said, that as the contracts for sending the mails from Southampton would soon expire, and as railways had effected a great change in all internal communication throughout this country, he did hope that fair consideration would be given to such tenders respecting the packet service as might, when the contracts became open, proceed from the ports of the West of England. Those ports should at least enjoy an opportunity of sending in their tenders.
 SIR J. B. WALSH , in seconding the Amendment, said that the present measure was pernicious in its tendency, and would prove most inefficient in its provisions. The inevitable result of it would be to alienate the affections of the most loyal portion of Her Majesty's subjects. They knew that disaffection was unhappily very prevalent in Ireland, and the Government had but recently been compelled to take extraordinary measures for the purpose of preventing that disaffection taking the shape of rebellion in that country. It appeared that the people of Ireland were now forced to adopt a measure which was revolting to the feelings, the just feelings, of the most loyal portion of that kingdom. The effect of it would be to strengthen considerably the argument in favour of repeal. This measure was pressed upon them against the conviction and the most strenuous opposition of almost the whole of the Irish representatives. It was passed in utter ignorance of the circumstances of Ireland, and with the erroneous idea that England would derive a benefit by throwing upon the Irish the duty of maintaining their own poor. They were treating this as a provincial question, and were withdrawing, as it were, from Ireland the privilege to which she was entitled—that of being one of the component parts of the united kingdom. Notwithstanding the evidence of the lamentable distress in some of the unions in the west of Ireland, he had considerable doubts as to the urgent necessity of such a measure as this, which alleged urgent necessity, indeed, was the only argument by which Ministers met the opposition to this Bill. They were now about giving outdoor relief, without accompanying it with any practical test whatever of the destitution of the particular districts. They were thus opening the door to every species of abuse, fraud, and imposture, against which they would have no adequate protection. Even in this country, where the poor-law worked under more favourable circumstances, they found how inadequate, after all, their machinery was to check it. In
 975
 MR. PETO  said, he had examined the works at Keyham, and there would have been, in his opinion, no difficulty in having a close estimate of the total outlay before the commencement of the works. He never saw a position in which works were placed on a better foundation, and in respect to which fewer contingencies existed, and therefore it was inexcusable in any Government undertaking such works without the most accurate previous information.
 SIR T. ACLAND  inquired what was the remaining term of the contracts for the packets to Alexandria and the West Indies?
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  denied that he had made any mis-statement of the nature which the hon. Gentleman had attributed to him.
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  said, he must oppose the vote for steam docks and steam basins at Keyham, and call the attention of the Committee to the manner in which Parliament had been systematically misinformed with regard to the extent and intended cost of these works. In the Navy Estimates of 1844, Parliament was informed that certain works were to be commenced at Keyham; those works were to cost 400,000 l l 1014 l l l l l l l l 1015 l l 1016 l l l l 1017 l l l l l
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  thought that the hon. Member for Oxfordshire had very unfairly attacked hon. Gentlemen who had urged upon the Government the case of Cork harbour; the harbour of Cork was distant from the city, and a harbour of the utmost importance in case of war. It had always been so esteemed by naval officers, and on those grounds he was anxious to urge on the Government the propriety of carrying out, not any extensive alterations, hut a few trifling improvements, which would not cost more than 30,000 l 1012
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  regretted that he was not in time to move the Amendment which had been proposed by his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Londonderry. He hoped, however, that the House would bear with him whilst he made a few remarks in reference to the measure, and referred to some official returns containing matter which bore upon the question. In the first place, let him be allowed to state that there was no disinclination—that there never had been any disinclination—on the part of those Irish Members with whom he generally acted to submit themselves to any altered system of taxation that might be required by the circumstances of the country. But they certainly did think it unfair that after having expressed their disapprobation of the measure—after the great debate that had taken place upon it—the consideration which it had undergone, and the jockeyship that had been resorted to in order to carry it—
 976 l l s d d s l l l l l l l s d s d l l l l l 977 s d s d s s s s d s s d s d s d s d l l l l l l 978 s s d s d s d s d s d l l l s d s d s s s d s 979 980
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  knew that the hon. and learned Member for Athlone was not going to make an onslaught on his right hon. Friend the Attorney General for Ireland, for he had told him so at the commencement of his speech; but he was glad of an opportunity of refuting charges which, if not openly made, were insinuated. He thought he had disposed of all the topics in his hon. and learned Friend's speech.
 LORD NUGENT  seconded the Motion.
 MR. H. DRUMMOND  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had argued the question with his usual ability; but he thought he had the happiness to have heard the same speech before. ["No, no!"] Yes; he remembered precisely the same appeal to the right hon. Baronet—he remembered the same remarkable cases from Durham—and he remembered, too, the answer which was given to those cases at the time. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Dumfries, who began the debate, anticipated that in a short time the law enforcing capital punishments would be repealed. He confessed, he, for one, should not be surprised at it; for he saw every day increased morbid sentimentality, increased false humanity, and increased sympathy with murderers on every side. He had seen the petitions which came to the Secretary of State for the pardon of murderers with unbounded disgust; for he saw that, so far from any reverence for human life being manifested, it was just the reverse: there was a total indifferentism towards murder, and a sympathy with murderers. It was unfair in the hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester to say that the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary anticipated the time when this law would be altered. He (Mr. H. Drummond) understood him to say nothing of the sort. That murders had increased, there could be no doubt. They had increased not only in frequency, but in intensity; and he believed, that they had done so mainly because murderers were made heroes in that House; and because these debates, which had gone abroad, instilled into people's minds the idea that, after all,
 1085 ennui
 MR. H. DRUMMOND  begged the hon. Gentleman's pardon, as he had misunderstood him. They were told that this was not a theological question, and undoubtedly he was not going to talk theologically. But there was one plain sentence in holy Scripture, to which he could not but advert—" He that sheddeth man's blood, by man
 1086
 COLONEL THOMPSON  would submit, that the practical way to put an end to capital punishment, would be by setting about the preparation and improvement of some punishment not including death, and trying the effect of it on those cases or crimes which at present were spared from the actual execution of capital sentences. If this was proved effectual, there would be a disposition to trust the repression of murder to the same. But there appeared a total absence of such punishment at present, though there would be no difficulty in creating it. The public had not much confidence in transportation as now administered, even though declared to be for life; for there was always the idea abroad, that a criminal, by pretended reformation, would find some good-natured governor to send him back again. There should be a removal to some distant land, return from
 1089
 LORD NUGENT  said, that if the supporters of the Motion wished for an argument confirmatory of their views, it was to be found in the actual state of crime at this moment. Not only statistics, but example and experience, were in favour of those views; so that the whole burden of proof rested with their opponents—first, that capital punishment had a tendency to repress crime; and, secondly, that crime could not be equally well repressed by any other punishment. He believed that the great majority of the Judges of the country were in favour of removing the punishment of death, and in corroboration of which, the opinions of Mr. Justice Wight-man, Mr. Justice Coltman, and Mr. Baron Richards, were opposed to death punishment. Mr. M. D. Hill was also of opinion that the punishment of death ought to be abolished; because, he said, if we did wrong, we never could atone for it. [Cries of "Divide!"] In deference to the wish of the House to go to a division, he would at once conclude by appealing to those hon. Members who might have any doubt on their minds to lean to the side of humanity, and vote for the Motion.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, before he proceeded to state to the House the short grounds why he apprehended this Committee ought not to be appointed, he must be allowed to thank the hon. and learned Member for Athlone for the tone and manner in which he had brought this question before the House. The hon. and learned Gentleman had abstained very properly from introducing topics of a personal or exciting character, which he might have had recourse to; and, following the same course and the same line of argument, he (the Attorney General) would endeavour, as shortly as possible, to satisfy the House that this case could be properly left in the hands in which the constitution had placed it—namely, in that of his right hon. Friend the Attorney General for Ireland. He must, in the first place, remind the House that the large increase of expenditure which the hon. and learned Gentleman referred to, occurred some time before his right hon. Friend the Attorney General for Ireland came into office; but having found, as his right hon. Friend did, from inquiries into the system, that a very expensive system had previously regulated the criminal administration of Ireland, he availed himself of the earliest opportunity, and his long experience, in effecting a reduction of the expenditure to the extent of one half; and he (the Attorney General) was surprised that his hon. and learned Friend, who formerly assisted in some of these Crown prosecutions under the old system, should not have found out, by his recent experience, the beneficial effects which had resulted from the alteration. His right hon. Friend the Attorney General for Ireland came into office early
 1096 l s l s 1097 "1. No more than two counsel shall be employed in each case on the part of the Crown; this rule to apply to all cases, whether only one or both courts are disposing of criminal business. If only one is so occupied, the counsel to be employed are the permanent Crown counsel on the circuit; when both courts are engaged in criminal business, the two supernumerary counsel ought to be employed. When convenient, it will be advisable that one of the permanent and one of the supernumerary counsel should be employed in each court; but this is to be at the discretion of the senior Crown counsel, who will make such arrangements as he shall consider most conducive to the public service; but the expense of more than two counsel is not to be incurred in any case. In any case this will render it necessary that the permanent counsel should return any briefs they may have received, which, in consequence of both courts sitting in criminal business, they shall be unable to attend to." 1098 "2. When there are a number of cases of the same description, and only one or two witnesses to be examined, as, for instance, in prosecutions under the recent Act, for having arms without licence in a proclaimed district, as occurred in some counties on the last circuit, only one counsel is to be employed in each such case, and a very small fee paid." "3. Cases in which prosecutions have been directed by the Attorney General are not to be submitted to counsel on circuit for directions (as is now done in all cases) unless in cases in which such directions are equally required by the Crown solicitor for his guidance, as when some of the witnesses do not attend, or their examinations vary from their informations: the object of this rule is merely to limit the eases for directions to those instances in which such directions are really required." "4. A similar course is to be observed in relation to indictments in these cases of frequent occurrence, in which a settled form of indictment is used, the expense of submitting them to counsel should not be incurred, but in cases of difficulty the present practice is to be continued; but when counsel receive their briefs (if any mistake has occurred in the indictment), they will of course have proper indictments sent to the grand jury. "5. Briefs are not to be given out to counsel until the prisoner has pleaded, the intention being that the expense of employing counsel shall not be incurred in cases in which the accused is not amenable, or pleads guilty. "6. The amount of fees whore a trial is had, unless in cases to which the second rule applies, is to be regulated by Mr. Blackburn's letter of June, 1834, namely, not exceeding three guineas to the senior Crown prosecutor, and two guineas to each of the other counsel employed. "7. The Crown is not to be at the expense of defending prisoners; and therefore should the Court think right to assign counsel for a prisoner's defence, such counsel should act gratuitously, as is the case in England." 1099 l s l l l 1100
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  doubted whether a Committee would have it in their power to obviate the objection of the hon. Member.
 MR. GRENVILLE BERKELEY  suggested to the hon. Member to send, in future, his speeches to the papers, instead of making them in that House.
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  was glad to hear the admission that a reduction in the expense of these prosecutions had been commenced, and that it would be still further carried out.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that in order to make the Motion in the regular form, the hon. and learned Member must ascertain the name of the printer of the paper.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that on receiving an application from the trustees of the British Museum for the sum of 3,000 l l
 MR. O'CONNOR  hoped the hon. Gentleman the Member for Limerick would spare the time of the House by not proceeding with his Motion. If any hon. Gentleman, in the House or out of it, had a right to complain of misreports, he (Mr. O'Connor) had; and he should begin to
 1057 Times
 MR. SCULLY  seconded the Motion.
 MR. BRIGHT : I did not say so. I said, it might be possible to relax the imprisonment with respect to hard labour or solitary confinement. I referred to no provision for their coming into society again—it is the present law that does that.
 MR. BRIGHT : I am rejoiced to have heard the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary, because it does not indicate that he feels quite so confident on this question this year as he did twelve months since. The right hon. Baronet commenced his speech by an allusion to this not being the time when my hon. Friend's proposition could be safely entertained. The right hon. Baronet would seem to admit by that that he was looking forward to a better time; and I suppose he means a time which is not far distant, when the proposition of my hon. Friend the Member for Dumfries may be taken into consideration, and may become the law of the land. The right hon. Gentleman has also, as the House will observe, repeatedly, during his speech, repudiated any conclusion drawn from the statistics of this question. I agree with him in thinking that statistics cannot be absolutely relied on with regard to this subject, because they are so likely to be disturbed; and I should not urge that the question should be decided on the figures connected with it, although I do not fear the conclusion to which they lead. But
 1073 1074 Life of Sir Thomas Powell Buxton, by his Son 1075 1076 1077 1078 1079 1080 1081 1082 1083 1084
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, that if the debates were reported at all, Irish Members ought to be treated with fairness. He repeated that, not only was much omitted which they said, but a great deal was given which they did not say; and
 1058
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  then stated the printer to be John Joseph Lawson, of Tottenham Cottage, Downshire-hill, Hampstead, in the county of Middlesex; and the Motion he wished to put was, that he be required to attend at the bar of the House to-morrow.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  wished to call the attention of the House to a matter which he thought involved a breach of their privileges. A sessional order, passed at the beginning of every Session, provided that the debates in that House should not be reported, or at least that no strangers should be allowed in the House, and that no accounts of their proceedings should be published in the papers. He was not going to argue the good sense of keeping such a rule upon their books; but, if it was the pleasure of the House that the rule should be done away with, he had no objection,
 1055 Times Times 1056 Times
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, that the  Times Daily News l
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, that after the powerful and eloquent speech of the hon. Member for Manchester, he did not think it necessary to trespass beyond a moment on the attention of the House. The hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat, and the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary, had told them that, in their opinion, the time was not yet come when the country ought to dispense with capital punishment. He would humbly ask what was the symptom whereby they were to know when that time would come? He had often heard it said that they were a Christian Legislature, and that they lived in a Christian country. But when he came to consider the important injunction respecting our rule of faith, he very much feared that they disbelieved the principles they professed, by not looking more to the reformation of society for the prevention of crime. It was fully shown and admitted that capital punishment did not prevent crime, and that it had a demoralising effect on those who witnessed it. It was the duty of the Legislature to act on and inculcate the principle of cherishing the sacredness of human life; for if they should disregard it, how could they expect the people, generally, to pay respect to it? He believed, although some of the Judges were favourable to capital punishment, that the improved education of the people had given rise to a strong public feeling against the taking away of human life. It was recorded of a judge having stated that a man who would cut down a tree would take away human life—and a man was hung for cutting down a cherry tree in Essex. Lord Campbell, in his  Lives of the Lord Chancellors 1088
 MR. HENLEY  trusted he had not rightly understood the Attorney General to say that because a gentleman was old in his office, any delicacy should be shown with respect to his removal. Where the proper dispensation of the criminal justice of the country was concerned, he thought such a consideration superfluous. With respect to the reforms which the Attorney General for Ireland had introduced, they might be expected at first to cause inconvenience, but he trusted that they would be carried out still further.
 MR. EWART , in rising to move for leave to bring in a Bill on this subject, said that he believed that the conviction was every day growing stronger, openly with the public and secretly with the House, that the time was not very distant when they must totally abolish the punishment of death. The increasing conviction among the public was proved by the numerous and almost unanimous meetings in the country. In the House many Members who seemed neutral, or even unfavourable, had avowed to him that the time must probably come when the Motion would be carried. The only crime virtually punished with death was murder. Yet the number of murders lately had most unfortunately and lamentably increased. Now suppose that they had abolished capital punishment in the last year, would not his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department have attributed to the repeal of
 1059 De' Delitti e dette Pene in foro cœli 1060 1061 1062 1063 1064
 MR. KEOGH , pursuant to notice, then rose to call the attention of the House to the general management of Crown prosecutions in Ireland, at assizes and sessions, and to the expenditure incurred in these prosecutions. The subject, he said, was one of general importance to Ireland; and the system to which his notice referred, if only in a pecuniary point of view, called loudly for an alteration, seeing that large sums of the public money were expended upon these Crown prosecutions in a manner least calculated to produce the effect for which they were instituted. He did not intend, in bringing forward his Motion, to make the slightest charge against the Government, nor did he intend to refer to the late State prosecutions in Ireland, the more especially as he perceived his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose had a notice on that subject on the Paper, which would shortly be brought before the House; but although he did not intend to refer to those matters, he would have to occupy the attention of the House while he stated some facts in support of his Motion. No doubt the attention of Government had been wholly directed to far more important matters; but still it must not be forgotten that a system which involved a certain speedy and uniform administration of the law ought to form an essential ingredient in any plan for permanently improving the state and condition of Ireland. As regards the expenditure upon these prosecutions, he found that in the year 1847 a vote was taken for Crown prosecutions in Ireland amounting to 71,000 l l l l l 1092 1093 1094 1095
 MR. KEOGH  thanked the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Attorney General) for the manner in which he had been pleased to speak of the mode in which he had brought forward his Motion; but the hon. and learned Gentleman had paid him another compliment which he did not deserve. The hon. and learned Gentleman seemed to think he was going to make an onslaught on the Attorney General for Ireland—and had taken the trouble to defend him against a series of charges which he (Mr. Keogh) had never made. The hon. and learned Gentleman had not, however, said, one word upon some of the important
 1101
 MR. MONSELL  thought it an unfortunate circumstance, that under the present system so small a proportion of persons committed underwent trial. The omission entailed injustice to the persons charged with offences, and expense to the country.
 SIR E. N. BUXTON  felt reluctantly bound to say that he was not prepared to vote for the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Dumfries, inasmuch as it seemed to him that they had not yet arrived at that point at which they could say that there was so great a difficulty and uncertainty in obtaining convictions for murder that they must abolish the punishment now attached to the crime. On the other hand, it appeared to him that there was a growing dislike amongst the people of this country to convictions in capital cases. He had observed instances of this in the county he represented, where some atrocious cases of poisoning had occurred. In one case, a woman charged with poisoning her husband was now at large; but so convinced was the prosecutor of her guilt, that he tried her again on a second indictment, and he (Sir E. Buxton) had no doubt upon his own mind that she would have been convicted if the punishment were not death. In a second case, there was a conviction; but again, in a third case, also that of a woman, there was no conviction. If they found that there was an increasing difficulty in getting convictions in cases of murder, they would thus be only adding to the evil by retaining the punishment. He believed it would be a much better check to crime to have a certainty of punishment in a diminished form, than a severer punishment if uncertain. While he could not assent to the Motion, he thought that before long they might, through motives of expediency, be obliged to come to the conclusion it involved. He entirely concurred in the remark of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, that public executions were a great moral evil; and he would suggest, as public trials took place within the limits of a building, so should executions. It was well known that at Norwich a much larger number of persons desired to be present at the trial than could be accommodated; and he saw no reason why executions should not take place within the precincts of the gaol; so that although
 1087
 SIR G. GREY : My hon. Friend the Member for Dumfries has rightly anticipated that I shall feel it my duty to oppose the Motion. With every respect for the opinions of many Gentlemen who think that the punishment of death might in all cases be dispensed with, I entertain the strongest conviction that, without making any predictions as to what in the course of years may be the duty and policy of the State to do in this matter, the time is yet far distant when we can safely dispense with the extreme penalty of the law in cases of extreme guilt. I must remind my hon. Friend that many of the arguments he has used are more applicable, perhaps, to former periods than to the present; for since 1841 no person has suffered death, the extreme penalty of the law, except for the offence of wilful and deliberate murder. My hon. Friend, at the commencement of his speech, expressed an opinion in which I concur, that this question does not rest upon theological grounds; and I am not prepared any more than he to argue it upon such grounds. I will only say upon that point, that while I entertain the strongest conviction that there is nothing in the written Word of God which precludes the State, for its own safety, for the safety of society, from inflicting
 1065 Punishment of Death Statistical Argument Eclectic Review 1066 1067 1068 1069 1070 1071 1072
 SIR G. GREY  hoped the public out of doors would not, from the description of the hon. and gallant Gentleman, be induced to adopt the idea that transported convicts were sometimes sent home by governors, because no governor had the power of exercising the prerogative of mercy. Transportation for life could not be altered, except by the express act of the Sovereign.
 SIR G. GREY  did not know whether the hon. Gentleman the Member for Limerick was serious in his Motion. With respect to the grounds laid for the Motion, he must say that though reports of their proceedings were contrary to the letter of the order of the House, yet, after the length of time during which reports had been sanctioned, and considering the immense benefit and value of an impartial report, he did not think it could be expected that the strict letter of the order was now to be acted upon. He was not much in the habit of reading reports of the debates, and therefore he was unable to form an opinion as to their literal accuracy; but he had not heard before that the speeches of Irish Members were not reported. There was, however, now published a summary or sketch of the debate. This was a modern practice, and an extremely useful one, and through it the pith of the debate was given in a compressed form. He must say that the summary generally presented a most fair and impartial  précis
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  entirely dissented from the opinion expressed by the hon. Baronet the Member for South Essex. He hoped to live to see the day when capital punishment would be nearly if not wholly abolished; but he hoped he would never live to see it take place privately. His horror of an execution would be ten times greater if it were to happen in a private manner. Prom an early period of his life he entertained a horror of capital punishment, but on grounds different from those taken by other hon. Gentlemen. Having been called to the bar, he went circuit for a few years, when lie became so deeply impressed with the imperfect character of all human tribunals, that he felt thoroughly convinced that in some instances the innocent had been found guilty, and were wrongfully executed. He had seen poor wretches in the dock struck with such terror at their position as to be unable to defend themselves. He had the satisfaction of seeing that state of things altered, and of having assisted in giving counsel to the prisoners, which was not previously the case. Still, when he considered that human tribunals must he imperfect, he thought they ought not to have recourse to that punishment which, if wrongly inflicted, never could be recalled. He believed that argument and public feeling were daily gaining strength in favour of the sacredness of human life; and he hoped the time was not far distant when capital punishment might be totally and safely abolished.
 SIR H. VERNEY  said, that a quarter of a century ago, when acting with the father of the noble Lord who spoke last, on the Prison Discipline Committee, he felt as he now did as to the iniquity, abomination, and wickedness, of public executions. He held that they did not tend to repress crime, while they were abhorrent to humanity. He thought the Secretary of State should bring forward some Motion and test the feeling of the House upon the subject of some better mode for the punishment of criminals. A friend of his, a man of benevolent and humane feelings, attended the execution of Rush, in order to
 1090
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether it was the intention of Government to assist Mr. Layard in his discoveries at Nineveh by any grant of money; and if so, to what amount?
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  was happy to find that the reforms which his right hon. Friend the Attorney General for Ireland had introduced, had met with, he might almost say, the universal approbation of the House. It was also gratifying to know that the diminution effected in expenditure had involved no falling off in the efficiency of the system.
 MR. BOURKE , having presented several petitions in favour of the Cattle and Sheep (Ireland) Bill, moved the second reading of the Bill. He considered that, in doing so, it would be only necessary to state some facts briefly for the necessity of the Bill, and to show how fearfully this crime had increased. In 1845, the number of offences under this head, reported by the constabulary, was 620; in 1846, the number reported was 3,025; and in 1847, they had risen to the startling number of 10,044, out of which only about 1,500 convictions occurred. It was not owing entirely to distress that an increase had arisen in that particular class of crime, but the fact was, that evil-disposed persons, who were to be found in every community, had availed themselves of the distress to commit depredations. The evil, he regretted to say, had materially increased during the last year. Mr. Baron Lefroy, in his address to the jury at the
 1105 1106 onus probandi
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  observed that the Bill gave summary jurisdiction to a magistrate to convict a person in whose possession mutton was found, and who could not satisfactorily account for it. He understood his hon. Friend to object to that principle, and say that it was hard and unjust to make him account for the possession of what he had honestly obtained. If this was a proper measure for Ireland, it was proper for England. Only the other day sheepstealing was a capital felony. If you could convict summarily for a sheep, why not do the same for a horse? Summary convictions had been only allowed in cases where there was no necessity for any publicity of investigation; and which were not attended with any serious consequence.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, if this measure were pressed to a second reading, he should vote against it on the ground that this short Bill, consisting almost entirely of details, was to be altered in Committee in almost all its details, and in some of its principles. The fair course, and that which had been adopted with other Bills
 1118
 MR. GREENE  would put it to the promoters, whether they ought not to adopt the course which was taken with regard to the Insolvent Members Bill, namely, to withdraw the measure, and bring in a new Bill?
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  would remind the hon. Member for Kildare that those parties in Ireland who approved of the Bill as it stood, might not approve of the alterations, so that that was no reason for persisting with a Bill which he meant to alter.
 MR. BOURKE  in reply, said, as the principle of the Bill was agreed to on all sides of the House, he hoped they would allow the Bill to be committed, in which stage he should be happy to alter it, so as to meet the objection of hon. Members. The changes required to be made in the Bill were not greater than the House was in the habit of permitting to be effected in Committee. If the Government promised to introduce a measure of their own on this subject, he would at once consent to withdraw the Bill, but otherwise he should feel
 1119
 MR. DRUMMOND  observed, that he agreed with the hon. Member for Oldham as to the difficulty of legislating on such a subject. He was of opinion that this instruction, if carried, would go much further than was anticipated by its Mover, and that it would have the effect of legal-
 1125
 MR. CLAY  was not prepared to give any opinion on the principle involved in the Amendment, but should vote against it, because he believed it would interfere with the granting of a specific remedy to a specific grievance.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  defended the clause, and it was agreed to without alteration.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  rose chiefly to correct a misconception which appeared to exist on the part of the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst. As the law stood, a clergyman was hound to bury and marry Dissenters. It had been decided that a clergyman ought to bury; and the 6th and 7th of William IV. enacted, that he should, on production of a registered certificate, perform the ceremony of marriage. It was true, that on evidence that the parties were schismatics the clergyman was exempted from any liability. But it was a mistake to suppose that excommunication followed a sentence of deprivation from a living, or deposition from the ministry. There was no recent instance in which such sentence of excommunication had been carried into effect. The clause, in reality, proposed to put clergymen seceding from the Church under peculiar penalties. It was unjust that those Gentlemen should suffer from penalties
 1137
 The EARL of ARUNDEL AND SURREY  thought that a seceding clergyman ought to he placed in the same position as one of the class with whom he was to be identified. The law was wrong which compelled a clergyman of the Church of England, or any clergyman, to do anything contrary to his conscience; but the point was too difficult to enter on it at that moment.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  replied that, according to the clause under consideration, a clergyman of the Church of England might refuse both to marry and to bury one who had seceded.
 MR. BOUVERIE  stated that the dissent of the Dissenting minister was also legally known; for one of the Toleration Acts required that he should register a declaration that he was a Dissenter.
 MR. BOUVERIE  thought the question at issue was, whether the clause formed a new class of Dissenters, or left a discretionary power to the minister. Every Dissenter, unless under excommunication, had a right to church burial and to the performance of the church funeral service; and it was questionable whether at common law the courts could not compel the clergyman to perform the services of baptism and marriage. There was surely no reason why the seceding clergyman should be treated with greater severity in these respects than other Dissenters.
 MR. BOUVERIE  wished it not to be inferred that he was opposed to granting relief in such cases, but to the engrafting upon this Bill a provision which he felt would defeat it altogether.
 MR. BOUVERIE  observed that the Bill proposed to apply a specific remedy to a specific grievance, viz., that a clergyman having once taken ordination vows and becoming a minister of the Church of England, afterwards changing his opinions, entertaining doctrines and opinions inconsistent with those of the Church, and being desirous of leaving the Church, and escaping from its discipline, was unable to do so, but was liable, if he exercised clerical duty not strictly in accordance with the forms
 1122
 MR. BOUVERIE  moved that the House go into Committee on this Bill.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : No; I said no such thing. But when a public servant, stationed, as the Earl of Elgin is, in a distant colony, does not think it expedient to address a public despatch to the Colonial Secretary, I conceive that he is not deprived of the liberty of stating in a private letter what he thinks of the position of affairs in the colony over which he presides. I may add, in illustration of this subject, that very serious mischief is sometimes produced by the publication of despatches in this country; and I refer particularly to an instance which occurred when I had the honour to hold the office of Colonial Secretary, when the Governor of Jamaica complained very seriously of the angry feelings which had been raised in that island by my having made public, by command, a despatch addressed by him to me as Colonial Secretary.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, no extracts of the votes and proceedings of the Legislative Assemblies of Canada have been received by Her Majesty's Ministry. Nor has there been any correspondence on the subject which it is in my power to lay on the table of the House. I must state,
 1103
 LORD J. RUSSELL : No, it has not.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I by no means wish it to be understood that I stated Bills were not sent up to the Governor General immediately after they are passed; but what I intended to convey was, that it was not usual for the Governor General to signify his decision with respect to such Bills until the Session was somewhat advanced, and that the various measures agreed to by the Assembly had come under his observation. I may also add, that there is no doubt to be entertained that when the Indemnity Bill comes under the observa-
 1104
 MR. O'FLAHERTY , as coming from a part of the country which suffered much from these depredations, felt bound to support the proposition for sending the Bill to a Committee. He knew one case of a poor farmer in his neighbourhood, who, in one week, had lost forty sheep.
 MR. STAFFORD  hoped, on the other hand, that the House would allow the Bill to go into Committee, after the distinct pledge of his hon. Friend the Member for Kildare, that he would then introduce the desired alterations. It should be recollected that this Bill was almost word for word the same measure as was introduced by the late Attorney General for Ireland, Mr. Pigott, and Viscount Morpeth, in 1839, and which passed through that House. Many of the objectionable portions of the present measure were introduced in deference to the high authority of the framers of the Bill of 1839. His hon. Friend the Member for Kildare had ventured to make the present measure less objectionable than that of Mr. Pigott's, by empowering magistrates in petty sessions to entertain an offence of the description in question; whereas the Bill of Mr. Pigott empowered a single magistrate to do so. Those who were acquainted with the present condition of Ireland must acknowledge that the growing crime of sheepstealing required an immediate remedy, and he therefore hoped that the House would not delay the adoption of such a remedy by compelling his hon. Friend to withdraw this measure, with the hope of being allowed to introduce another at some future period.
 MR. LUSHINGTON  remarked that the Committee were unanimous in passing this clause; but it did not occur to them how harshly, severely, and un-Christianly it would operate.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  did not approve of sympathising with rogues and vagabonds. He was sorry to say that in many cases in this country where sheep had been stolen, they had been cut up and carried to town by railroads and by express trains. It had been found that the skin had been taken off evidently by some master workman with great care, so as to prevent the possibility of identification. Farmers' pro-
 1114
 COLONEL DUNNE , in consequence of the increase of sheepstealing in Ireland, felt himself compelled to approve of a measure calculated to diminish the evil. The increase of this crime during the last few years in Ireland had been forced on the attention of Her Majesty's Government, and he was therefore surprised at the tone which the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department had adopted with regard to this measure. It was high time that the Government had introduced some measure for the protection of the small farmers of Ireland against this increasing evil of sheepstealing. It appeared that the Government did not object to the principle, but merely to the details of this measure; he hoped, therefore, that the House would allow it to go into Committee, as in that stage its objectionable portions could be removed.
 MR. SCULLY  would not support the measure, if he believed it would interfere with the rights and liberties of his poor fellow-countrymen, who, he regretted, were so inadequately represented in that House. He supported the Bill because many poor farmers had been materially injured by the want of such a law.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  wished to know with precision what were the rites and sacraments the Established Church could refuse to any ordinary Dissenter, and what it was intended to give the power of refusing to a seceded clergyman under this Bill; and then the House might act upon the knowledge of the difference. He was afraid, from what he heard, that there was a hidden arrow with which somebody was to be pierced. The openheartedness of hon. Gentlemen opposite had let out, that the intention was to treat the seceded clergyman as a "person excommunicate." This was the next thing to putting him into a white sheet. Till he heard this, he was disposed to think the Bill a favourable specimen of the moderation of the ecclesiastical party in power.
 MR. G. THOMPSON  thought it would be unwise to circumscribe the relief proposed to be extended to persons in holy orders, by making it conditional that those persons should declare their dissent from the Church. He could imagine thousands of cases in which the reasons inducing ministers of the Church to retire from holy orders were altogether separate and distinct from reasons growing out of dissent from the forms or doctrines of that Church. A person might find himself uncomfortable in his ministration, and therefore might desire to leave it. He should support the instruction, in the hope that it would make the Bill a perfect measure of relief.
 MR. TURNER  suggested, that before they proceeded any further with the clause, they should ascertain the exact effect of a sentence of deprivation or of deposition.
 MR. AGLIONBY  had always regarded it as a disgrace to the Church to permit members who were found to be totally unfit for the discharge of its functions, to retain their office in it; and he hailed a proposal which would relieve the Church of England of such persons. But he could find nothing in the spirit of the religion of the Church of England which should disqualify one who had ceased to be of its clergy from representing his fellow-subjects in Parliament, and yet that disqualification existed at the present moment.
 MR. AGLIONBY  hoped the Bill would be withdrawn. No inconvenience would arise from this course, as a new one could be immediately introduced.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  said, that it was the small class of farmers in Ireland who were particularly affected by this systematic sheepstealing which had taken place in almost every county in the south of Ireland. He was himself obliged to keep two men as night-watchers, with arms licensed, to protect his sheep. Was that state of things to be admitted in a civilised country professing protection to life and property? The noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government had lately said, that the first duty of the House was to protect property in Ireland; he said that that was the paramount object of his Government. Let them prove that by their acts this day. He said, in bringing in a measure for the
 1112 1113
 MR. LACY  begged to move the instruction to the Committee, of which he had given notice. He was anxious not to offer a premium for insincerity, which this Bill, if passed in its present shape, was calculated to do. The Bill, as it now stood, allowed every priest in England to go out of the Church by merely saying that he was a Dissenter. It might often happen that clergymen of the Church of England might wish, for secular purposes, to retire from the ministry of the Church, though they might not be willing to declare themselves dissenters from the forms and doctrines of that Church. Why, then, should these persons be compelled to make such a declaration? It was converting them into hypocrites, inasmuch as, for the sake of consistency, they would no doubt ever after keep up an appearance of dissent. If the Motion he now submitted, were agreed
 1121
 MR. LACY  replied, disclaiming any intention of attempting to effect by a sidewind what was not openly attempted by the Bill.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the proposition of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Plymouth would entail a very great hardship upon the members of the Church of England, because it stated that the Established Church was a power in some degree opposed to the civil subjects of the realm. Now, if a member of the Established Church became a minister of that Church, and wished to retire, he might have some good reasons for that wish; and Parliament should not permit any power to prevent his retirement. He believed that a great many persons entered the Church in the same manner as others entered dissenting bodies, without that solemn consideration to which reference had been made. Many entered because their families held preferments, and these persons might afterwards have the most solid grounds for wishing to retire. A man, for instance, might be unfit to discharge his duties, or he might have an income insufficiently small; and, therefore, he might desire to retire, and to enter some trade or profession; and the House ought not to allow the man who had made his election to be prevented by any power from following those useful and honourable occupations which are open to all classes of the Queen's subjects. Now, it was on this common ground of not denying to any man the civil right to make such change in their profession as they pleased, that he would
 1127
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the House seemed to argue upon the presumption that no Irishman could have any mutton in his house; because, according to the Bill, if any Irishman had any animal food therein, it was immediately to be suspected that it was dishonestly come by. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department had pointed out many defects in the Bill; and he (Mr. Bright)
 1111
 MR. HERRIES : Do I distinctly understand the noble Lord to say that the Bill of Indemnity has not been referred to Her Majesty's Government for an ultimate decision?
 MR. HERRIES  begged to put two questions to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, of which he had given him notice. He must preface them by stating, that he viewed with pain and anxiety the present condition of Canada; and he hoped he should not subject himself to the charge of having acted with precipitancy in asking the noble Lord whether Her Majesty's Ministers were prepared to communicate to the House extracts from the votes and proceedings of the Legislative Assembly of Canada on the Bill for granting an indemnity for the losses sustained during the rebellion in Canada, and also any extracts or copies of the correspondence between the Governor General of Canada and Her Majesty's Government relating to that Bill? The next question which he had to put was, whether the sanction of the Crown had yet been given or refused by Her Majesty's Government to the Indemnity Bill?
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  believed that this Bill would operate rather as an incentive to crime than as a prevention. After what the hon. Member for Rochdale had said, it was clear that if the House held out a prospect of a competent provision in gaol for three months, the offences against which this Bill was intended to guard, would not be diminished. If a measure of repression were necessary, let some well-digested permanent measure be introduced instead of the present Bill, which was confessedly of a temporary character. As he believed that the Bill would defeat its own object, he, for one, would vote for the Amendment.
 MR. PLUMPTRE  suggested to the hon. Member for Kildare to withdraw the Bill, and bring in another embodying the required alterations.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that the hon. Member for Waterford had ended his speech by expressing a hope that this Bill would be read a second time; he (Mr. Reynolds) would commence by expressing a hope that it might not be read a second time. The hon. Baronet, in asking the House to road this Bill a second time, placed his claim on these grounds; it is a Bill for the protection of the poor man; it is a Bill for the protection of my farmers in Waterford—those farmers to whom he had lent tups. He was not surprised that the hon. Baronet should call on the House to support this Bill. There was a very strong analogy between this Bill and the Bill of Pains and Penalties which had recently been introduced into the House. The hon. Baronet said that this was a Bill of mercy towards the small farmers of the county of Waterford; he forgot to inform the House that the present law against sheepstealing was a very severe law, that it provided seven years' transportation for the offence; but he wished that the possession of a neck of mutton and a leg of mutton should be punished by a fine of 5 l 1115
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  wished to observe that the Insolvent Members Bill was withdrawn on account of the extensive changes introduced into it; and though in the present case the principle of the Bill might be retained, yet the changes were also so great that he thought the same course should be adopted.
 MR. HENLEY  considered, that with regard to clergymen having incumbrances on their livings, the clause would have the effect of placing the creditors in a much worse position than they otherwise would be.
 MR. HENLEY  said, it was admitted on all hands that this was exceptional legislation, and he therefore thought it was but fair that such a measure ought to be presented to the House in a definite shape as regarded its details, without leaving their adjustment to the next stage (the Committee), because the very essence and justice of such measures of exceptional legislation depended upon the frame of the details. With the view, then, of compelling the withdrawal of the Bill for the present, in order that it might be introduced in an amended shape, he should vote the second reading.
 MR. HENLEY : Do I rightly apprehend the noble Lord in supposing that the Governor General of Canada prefers addressing private letters to the Colonial Secretary in lieu of public despatches?
 MR. HENLEY  thought the real distinction was that, in the case of a seceding clergyman, the party had gone to a competent court of record, and there registered a certain fact, which was thereby brought judicially to the knowledge of every clergyman of the Church of England. It was not so in the case of an ordinary Dissenter.
 MR. NAPIER  had concurred in the clause in Committee from the feeling that it was not right to require the parish clergyman to administer the rites of the Church when his conscience told him they ought not to be administered.
 MR. NAPIER  explained that he was in favour of the principle of the Bill. The
 1117
 MR. NAPIER  said, that if he thought the Bill such as it had been represented to be, he should not give it his support. It was complained that if a man had mutton in his house he might be brought before a magistrate; but there must be witnesses to prove that it was stolen mutton, on the premises with the knowledge of the party. The magistrate was bound to issue his search warrant, and bring the party before him; and a party so circumstanced, either in England or Ireland, having a charge against him on the oath of a credible witness that he had stolen property, would be committed for trial. It was plain that this crime had very much increased. It was of the greatest advantage that the guilt or innocence of the party should be ascertained at the earliest possible period, and he should support the Bill.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  seconded the Motion, concurring as he did cordially in its principle. A person once invested with holy orders could only he deprived of them by the Church itself; therefore as regarded the Church, the question was the same whether they called on this party to declare himself a Dissenter, or whether he merely stated that he was desirous of being relieved from orders. As regarded the relations of the party with the Church, they had nothing to do; but in relation to his position as a civilian, the Bill placed him in the baneful position of making a public declaration of a change in his religious opinions, and he thought tempted him to mix up temporal with religious motives. Suppose a man differed from his diocesan in respect to doctrinal points not interfering with the general discipline of the Church, or from any other cause, as, for instance, a feeling of unfitness or unworthiness, and entertained conscientious scruples which induced him to desire to he relieved from the ministry, but yet not to separate himself from communion with his Church, you call upon him, as the only condition on which the relief he asked should be conceded, to make a declaration that he was a dissenter from the Church altogether. It was in accordance with the spirit of the times that the Church should be served by none but willing ministers, and he was confident that she would be more efficiently served by permitting such as conscientiously believed themselves to be incompetent or unfit to perform the duties, to retire, rather than to force them to remain in the ministry.
 MR. SPOONER  reminded the House that there were men in the Church of England who, feeling that they could not exercise their duties as clergymen in a way consistent with their own consciences, sought to be delivered from the obligation to remain in that Church. He thought that that was a grievance well worthy of consideration, and that the House ought not to set any obstacle in the way of such men seceding from the Church. He should support the proposition of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Bodmin.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he knew an instance of a clergyman who, feeling that he could not conscientiously remain in the Church, had loft it; but afterwards thinking he was wrong in leaving the Church, and his conscientious scruples being removed, he had returned to the Church, and had become one of the most useful members in it.
 MR. SPOONER  would put a case. Supposing one of those seceding clergymen should demand afterwards to be married according to the rites of the Church of England, could a clergyman of the Church of England refuse to marry him without becoming liable to a penalty?
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  agreed with the observations of his hon. and learned Friend (the Member for Reading), and could not refrain from entering his protest against the manner in which it was proposed to interfere with the constitution of the Church of England. The Church was a religious society, and its inherent principle was, that those who took the solemn vows of ordination should be subject to them as long as they continued members of the Church. It would be a gross out-
 1126
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  observed, that excommunication was nothing but exclusion from the Church, and the canons said that schismatics were to be held excommunicate. With respect to those who were commonly called Dissenters, it was not for any one to say how far they were persons desirous of separating from the Church. But the case of a clergyman in the present instance was quite different; because here was a person who had in a solemn manner entered the Church, and who by a solemn act separated himself from the Church, for the purpose of disentitling the authorities of the Church to enforce against him ecclesiastical discipline. The measure afforded a short method by which he might exclude himself; and the question was, whether, having ascertained in his case what was not ascertained in the case of ordinary Dissenters, the existence of a definite intention to separate from the Church, the opinion of those clergymen of the Church who thought such a person a notorious scandal to the Church should be disregarded, whether clergymen were to be compelled to administer to him those rights and offices of the Church which they could not be compelled to administer if the law were allowed to take its course, and sentence of excommunication were pronounced. Many clergymen would feel great violence done to their consciences were they required to administer the sacraments to persons who, having taken the solemn vows of ordination, departed therefrom afterwards. It must not be forgotten what were the sacraments and ceremonies to be administered and performed. The exclusion of persons not connected with the Church from marriage or burial according to the rites of the Church was to be regretted; but when a clergyman entertained a  bonâ fide 1136
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the clause under consideration would not act as a prohibition; it merely laid down that where a person had become a nonconformist, the clergyman should be put into the same relative situation with regard to that person so becoming a nonconformist as he now was with regard to any other person who was a nonconformist. ["No, no!"] In principle, it was the same thing. If he understood the meaning of the clause, it merely meant to leave with the clergyman of the Church of England, in administering the rites and sacraments of that Church to a person taking the benefit of this Bill, the same discretion as he now had with regard to any other person who was a dissenter from the Church.
 MR. SERGEANT TALFOURD  differed altogether from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. If the instruction to the Committee were carried, it would impose upon him great difficulty as to supporting the Bill, inasmuch as that instruction involved considerations of a very serious description. If they permitted every young man, as had been suggested, to take upon himself holy orders as a mere experiment—not with regard to his ultimate fitness for the office, but as to his success in that as in any secular employment, they would withdraw from the entering on holy orders that check which required the gravest consideration upon the part of those who were candidates for them not to take a step from which they could not draw back without weighing all the consequences; and this Bill, which was intended to relieve those who desired to pass from conscientious Churchmen to conscientious Dissenters, would effect alterations of a much more serious and important character in the law.
 MR. GLADSTONE  observed, that to a person excommunicate the sacraments would be denied; but a person taking advantage of the present Bill would not necessarily be thereby deprived of the sacraments. The question was, whether a clergyman should be required to administer the sacraments to persons so situated, irrespective of his own knowledge and his own convictions.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that the clause had been adopted in its present form with the unanimous consent of the Committee, not so much because it carried out the precise views of any individual Member, but because it established a point at which, by concession on both sides, the different Members might combine, and afforded a reasonable prospect that the measure, with respect to which every one felt that success was desirable, might be passed;
 1132 1133 1134
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he apprehended that something had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken which he (Mr. Gladstone) conceived might give rise to some misapprehension. He had understood the hon. Gentleman to say, that when a clergyman had once taken on him ministerial vows, but became desirous of ceasing to be a minister, the Church interposed some power by which that person was prevented from following any other pursuit or career in life. The hon. Gentleman, he apprehended, was mistaken in that assumption. Indeed, the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department had asked a question, which still remained unanswered. He had asked to be shown a case in which any person desiring to desist from the exercise of ministerial functions, had been subjected to prosecution on that account in the courts of the Church? No such cases of prosecution had occurred; and he apprehended that he was not trenching upon any abstract question of law in venturing to say, that there was no power, on the part of the Church, to compel any unbeneficed clergyman to continue in the active exercise of the ministry. But it was perfectly true, as had been asserted, that a person who had taken holy orders remained a clergyman in the sense of the Church of England, and that, in virtue of those holy orders, he was subjected to certain civil disqualifications. It should be understood, however, that those disqualifications did not arise out of the laws of the Church, but from laws passed by the State for civil and political purposes. He did not wish to prejudge this civil question, which was one of extreme delicacy and difficulty. Pointed allusions had been made to the levity with which young men of former times—he trusted the charge need not be applied to the young men of the present day—assumed the sacred responsibilities
 1128
 MR. GLADSTONE : May I ask whether Bills passed by the Legislative Assembly of Canada are reserved and held back for a certain period previously to being sent up for the approval or otherwise of the Governor General?
 MR. W. J. FOX  rose and said: Supposing the clergyman had gone great lengths in his renunciation—supposing he had gone even to the disownment of the Christian faith, was it for this House to say that upon his penitence afterwards he should not have the right of readmission to the communion which he had once aban-
 1131
 MR. W. J. FOX  could supply the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary with a case precisely in point—that of John Wesley. Though he might not have been exactly prosecuted, he was precisely in the position in which the right hon. Baronet thought no clergyman had been placed. He ceased from his ministry in the Church, yet retaining his membership of that Church, and his attachment to it; and not only the founder, but the entire body of the Wesleyan denomination during the lifetime of its founder, was precisely in the same condition. Holding certain opinions different from that Church, it was yet their practice to repair, once a year, to their parish church, to receive the sacrament—indicating by that custom that, whatever might be the original cause of their secession from the Church of England, it was not such a one as altogether to dissolve their connexion with its communion. Some confusion arose, he thought, in consequence of describing Churchmen and Dissenters as bodies between which it was possible to draw a distinct line of demarcation. The Church allowed a largo latitude to its members which it did not allow to its ministers. But there were many who might desire from the most conscientious motives to retain one character, but not to continue the other. Take the case of John Milton. He was prevented in his youth from entering the Church of England as a minister, because he could not, as he says in his writings, sign himself "slave." Yet he had no desire to break off his connexion with the Church as one of its members. These and kindred scruples were entitled to respect, and he thought his hon. Friend the Member for Kilmarnock, in his own estimate of the grievance, had not shown that the remedy he proposed was commensurate with it. Men might desire to retire from the ministry on other than doctrinal grounds. A person taking holy orders early in life might afterwards feel that he was not qualified or suited for the ministry.
 1124 "Provision for a son in the Church, the next presentation to a living, the incumbent aged 76, population of 150, glebe 50 acres, value 300 l
 MR. KEOGH  did not think that the measure was so objectionable as it had been represented to be by the criticisms of the hon. Member for the city of Dublin. This Bill had been introduced with the approbation of a large number of the Irish representatives, and of a vast number of the grand juries of Ireland. The hon. Member for the city of Dublin had expressed it to be a measure to restrict the liberties of the Irish people. Now, it was no such thing. It merely aimed at the restrictions of the felonious propensities of certain parties, who gained their livelihood
 1116
 MR. KEOGH  explained that that was his understanding of the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and what he intended to convey to the House.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  should oppose the second reading of the Bill, believing that it would rather increase and perpetuate than diminish the evil complained of, and because that in Ireland, at least, persons convicted of this offence did not care for the infliction of the utmost punishment which the law awarded. In support of this view, he would mention the case of the trial of four young men for sheepstealing, who pleaded guilty, and besought an assistant barrister who tried them to transport them, as, if they were liberated after a short imprisonment, they must commit some other crime, in order to provide the means of subsistence, for they were starving. He acceded to their prayer, and they were all transported for seven years, which seemed to gratify them exceedingly. This Bill provided that a suspected person might be brought before a magistrate, and if he could not show how the property came into his possession, and there was reason to think he had not come by it honestly, that he might be committed for not less than three months, or until a fine of 5 l
 MR. W. P. WOOD  said, that the real object of the clause was that which had been pointed out by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of
 1138
 SIR E. N. BUXTON  differed from the noble Earl, for he thought that in the cases in question grounds might be assigned for administering the rites of burial, and perhaps of marriage.
 MR. GROGAN  agreed with some of the arguments used by the hon. Member for Rochdale; but he did not agree with him in his conclusions. Because a few persons, who found that their ill repute prevented them from subsisting at home, wished to be transported when they were convicted, was property to be left at their mercy?—for his argument amounted to this. Was, therefore, no remedy to be applied to a glaring and monstrous evil? He denied that the increase of sheepstealing had arisen from the state of the country. It was true, poverty had increased; but he attributed the increase of this particular crime rather to the laxity of the law. He maintained that the crime of sheepstealing had been gradually growing and increasing; and he thought it was the duty of the House to take measures to suppress it. Many private Members had ineffectually taken up the subject; but, in his opinion, its importance demanded that it should be looked into by Government. The criminal returns of Ireland proved, beyond all doubt, that the farmers suffered terribly from the depredations of thieves, and he should cordially support the Bill.
 SIR G. GREY  said, he was afraid, notwithstanding what had fallen from the hon. Member for Kildare at the conclusion of his speech, he should still feel it necessary to give his opposition to the Bill. He certainly did intend on the part of the Government to have given the Bill, it its present shape, his most decided opposition; but, even with modifications, he did not see that the principles involved ought to enter into the legislation of the country. The hon. Gentleman had stated the extent to which the crime of sheep and cattle stealing had increased, and the number of cases which had been prosecuted, leaving a considerable number still behind, which could not be prosecuted for want of suffi-
 1107 onus probandi 1108 1109 pro formâ
 SIR G. GREY  observed that if he rightly understood it, the proceedings against John Wesley were not to compel him to officiate in the Church, but to prevent his officiating elsewhere than in it.
 SIR G. GREY  would ask the hon. Gentleman the Member for Warwickshire if he could cite an instance of any legal proceedings being taken against a clergyman for abstaining from officiating? He meant abstaining from taking duty in the Church of England, if he entertained a conscientious objection to do so? Of course, if he retained any preferment or living, he must perform the duties attaching to it; but it was open for any man to abstain
 1123
 SIR G. GREY  was prepared at once to admit that a clause, which had been carefully considered in the Select Committee to which the Bill had been referred, and which came to the House recommended by the unanimous opinion of that Committee, was entitled to be treated with respect, and not to be lightly set aside. Before, however, the discussion proceeded further, he thought it would be well to understand what was the intention of the Committee in inserting that clause. The hon. and learned Member for Midhurst had stated that the effect of the clause would be to place seceders from the Church upon the same footing with other Dissenters. If that were the meaning of the clause, he should have no objection whatever to it, as it would be perfectly unreasonable to place upon those persons any disabilities not borne by the general body of Dissenters of which they formed a part. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford had, however, stated that this was not the opinion of the Committee. He said that there was something peculiar in the case of these persons, and that they ought to be subject to peculiar disabilities, which did not affect Dissenters generally. He (Sir G. Grey) did not concur in that opinion. He thought that there was nothing peculiar in the case of this class of Dissenters, on the ground of their having once been Churchmen and having seceded from the Church. He could see no reason why such persons should not be entitled to the rites and offices of the Church in the same manner as other Dissenters were. The law of the land, as well as of the Church, was that the rites of burial, according to the Church of England, must be administered to all parties, not excommunicate, and the Court of Queen's Bench enforced the right of parties to that service by mandamus. There was nothing in the case of a seceder from the Church which would make a mandamus not apply in the case of a clergyman who refused burial to a person of that class. He did not think that the sentence of deprivation would prevent any bishop, at his discretion, from reordaining the party so deprived at any future period of his life, if he so desired; even if that were so, he did not see why it should follow that a person so deprived, wishing to have the marriage service performed by a clergymen of the Church of England, or
 1135
 MR. PETO  expressed his regret that the Bill should make a distinction between clergymen seceding and the other nonconformists of the country. He should move that the words "and that no clergyman," &c, to the end should be omitted.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  rose, in consequence of a remark made by the hon. Member for Athlone, to the effect that his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary had stated, that if that clause in the Bill was removed which extended its provisions beyond sheepstealing, he would give his assent to it. What his right hon. Friend really said was, that he objected not only to that clause but to some others, which he had pointed out to the hon. Member for Kildare, at a private interview with him, and which the hon. Member for Kildare expressed his willingness to alter. For his own part he should vote for the Bill going into Committee.
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  supported the Bill, and referred to a memorial which had been sent up in its favour from the grand jury of Cork.
 VISCOUNT BRACKLBY  said, that he should leave the historical portion of the right hon. Gentleman's arguments to he dealt with by abler hands than his; but he wished to refer briefly to some special reasons why he thought that this Bill ought to be supported by the Members of the different denominations of which that House was composed. The law of the Roman Catholic Church on this subject was that the Church generally disapproved of such marriages, but that under peculiar circumstances the power of granting dispensations, which they believed to rest with the Pope, and under him, with the prelates whom he appointed, might he used in giving permission for the celebration of such marriages. The evidence of Dr. Wiseman before the commissioners showed that this permission was very often granted, and that the bishops of the Roman Catholic Church very seldom indeed refused to grant the dispensation demanded. But after a man complied with the law of his church, was it not very hard that the law of England should step in and declare that his marriage was no marriage, and that the children horn after it were illegitimate? That was, therefore, a Roman Catholic disability, and he was sure that the Roman Catholic Members in that House ought, therefore, to give the Bill their best support, in order to ensure that the dispensations given by their Church should be to do what was legal, and not what was illegal. As to other Dissenters, he thought that those who called themselves the friends of civil and religious liberty,
 1183 "Be it therefore enacted, that all laws and canons aforesaid shall be utterly invalid, and of no effect."
 The EARL of ARUNDEL AND SURREY  said, he wished to explain the theory upon which dispensations were obtained from the Pope in the cases of marriage between a deceased wife's sister, and between an uncle and niece. The theory of the Roman Catholic Church was, that an inferior could not permit an infraction of a law imposed by a superior; that a priest could not permit an infraction of a law
 1195
 MR. MONSBLL  supported the Motion for an adjournment. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had excluded every Irish lawyer from the Committee.
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  thought there was little hope of coming to a division that night, as there were many hon. Gentlemen who wished to speak. He hoped it would suit the convenience of the Government to allow the debate to be resumed to-morrow.
 MR. COCKBURN  said, he was anxious that this measure should receive the very careful consideration of the House. The Act which it was intended to repeal, had been introduced into the other House without any such clause as that now sought to be defended. It had been introduced for a totally different purpose—to protect marriages liable to be impugned by the institution of legal proceedings, and preventing them from being so assailed beyond a given period after the marriage. This was done, not with any reference to the general interests of society, but for the purpose of protecting particular parties against consequences. In the course of the discussion it was suggested, that it would be better at once to remove the anomalous state of the law; and, instead of allowing marriages then voidable to be avoided within a specific time, to make all such marriages void for the future. Accordingly, the Bill was so passed; in other words, the particular case was protected by the sacrifice of all those who might be found in a similar predicament. When the Bill came to that House, the clause was strongly opposed; but it being near the time for prorogation, it was suggested by the supporters of the Bill, particularly Sir William Follett, who had the charge of it, that the rejection of the clause might endanger its safety in the other House—that the Bill should be passed for the sake of the good it did, and with the understanding that, when the matter was again submitted to the Legislature, this point should be considered as one particularly deserving its notice. Under such circumstances it now came before them, and he at once admitted, that if the position of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge was tenable, and that these marriages were prohibited by divine law, there was an end of the question. But this must not be treated as an exclusively theological question. If these marriages were contrary to divine
 1198 ipsissimus verbis 1199 Abstinere se a conjugibus suis et non liberos generare 1200 1201 1202 à priori "The prohibition has been extended in England to the marriages between a man and the
 1203 "This is certainly the law in all the New England States. In Virginia the English rule prevails. In Prussia, Saxony, Hanover, Baden, Mecklenburg, Hamburg, Denmark, and in most other of the Protestant States of Europe, the rule prevails that a man may lawfully marry the sister of his former wife." 1204 1205 1206 mutatis mutandis "I answer, that, therefore, let them marry, as the remedy. For it were a hard thing that cousins, who do converse and are apt to love, should by men be forbidden to marry, when by God they are not. … For brothers and sisters, where the danger is still greater, God hath put a bar of positive law, and nature hath put the bar of a natural reason and congruity, and the laws of all mankind have put a bar of public honesty and penalties, and all these are sufficient to secure them against the temptation. … It were good, if standing in the measures of the Divine law, we should lay a snare for no man's foot by putting fetters upon his liberty, without just cause, but not without great danger." 1207 1208
 MR. STAFFORD  begged to toll the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that if he would refer to Mr. Dod's  Parliamentary Companion 1242
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the House would go into Committee to-morrow with reference to an advance of money for Ireland. If that subject did not occupy too much time, the debate might be resumed afterwards.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he certainly should make no objection to the name of his hon. Friend, Mr. John Abel Smith, as he was a Member of the Committee of last year. He begged to assure the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin, that in opposing the insertion of his name the other evening, it was for no other reason than that the hon. and learned Gentleman was not on the Committee last year. When he endeavoured to effect an arrangement for the nomination of the Committee, he actually had put the name of the hon. and learned Gentleman on his list; but, finding that the only ground on which he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) could stand, was by the reappointment of the Committee of last year, and the hon. and learned Gentleman not having been on that Committee, it became necessary to omit his name from the list. He had hoped that the division the other evening would have been taken as expressing the opinion of the House, and that he should have been able to reappoint the members of the late Committee without any opposition on the present occasion. It was true he had proposed no names which were not on the Committee of last year; that was in consequence of Mr. Hume having expressed his wish not to be put on the Committee; he, therefore, had substituted for Mr. Hume an additional Irish Member. The name of Sir J. Graham had also been left out, because there was little probability of his being able to attend the Committee,
 1241
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thanked the hon. Member for not persevering in his intention to take sixteen divisions, and assured the hon. Member that he was quite as anxious as himself that the Committee should be a fair one, and that its inquiries should be characterised by a spirit of impartiality.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not believe any arrangement would be come to by any adjournment, though he had no objection to the debate adjourned  sine die
 MR. E. H. BUNBURY  had no wish to come in the way of the House if they were desirous to come to a decision. At the same time, he should like to express his opinion on the question.
 MR. E. H. BUNBURY  moved that the debate be now adjourned. He believed many Members were anxious to express their opinion on a subject of much importance.
 MR. HORSMAN  suggested that an arrangement might be made to prevent the disagreeable necessity of sixteen divisions. The question appeared to be, not that a certain number of Irish Members should be put on, but that an equal number should be substituted. He begged to second the proposal of his hon. and gallant Friend, that the debate be adjourned.
 MR. HAGGITT : When I consider the vast importance of this question, and the greatness of the interests at stake—that it is not a mere commercial question, or one connected with the passing politics of the day, but one involving the happiness of hundreds of families, and thousands of individuals among our fellow countrymen—I cannot but feel that it is a subject which should not be discussed with levity; and therefore I confidently claim a more than usual share of that indulgence which the House so kindly affords to those who address it for the first time. There are two grounds on which this question may be discussed: the theological and
 1184 1185 1186 1187 Odyssey
 MR. GOULBURN  having presented several petitions against the Bill, proceeded to move that it be read a second time that day six months; and in so doing he said, he was sensible that in opposing the Bill he had imposed upon himself a duty which, under any circumstances, would have been painful. It was painful to him to find himself opposed on a question of religious obligation to many persons for whom he entertained the highest respect, and to whoso opinions, under ordinary circumstances, he should be most ready to defer; and he could assure his right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Bute, that it was an aggravation of that feeling to find
 1163 1164 1165 1166 1167 1168 1169 1170 "Whereas your Lordship writeth to me in favour of this bearer, Massey, an old servant of the King's highness, that, being contracted to his sister's daughter of his late wife, deceased, he might enjoy the benefit of a dispensation in that behalf, especially considering that it is none of the causes of prohibition contained in the statute; surely, my Lord, I would gladly accomplish your request herein, if the word of God would permit the same. And where you require me that, if I think this license may not be granted by the law of God, that I should write to you the reasons and authorities that move me so to think, that
 1171 1172 "Nor were these commands peculiar to the Commonwealth of the Israelites (as some think), but they have the same weight of authority which our religion assigns to the decalogue. But this is to he diligently observed in those passages of Leviticus, that all persons within the prohibited degrees are not there expressed by name. For the Holy Spirit lays down evidently and expressly those persons from which the like distances of the remaining degrees may he easily computed and settled. As, for example, where a mother is not allowed to marry with her son, it follows that a daughter cannot be allowed to be the wife of her father; and, if it is not lawful to marry the wife of thy father's brother, neither can marriage be allowed with the wife of thy mother's brother. Above all, we wish two rules to be attended to, of which one is, that we should understand that those places which are assigned to men, are assigned to women always in equal degrees of proportions and relationships. The second is, that a man and his wife should be considered to have one and the same flesh; and thus, in whatever degree of consanguinity any one stands to another, in the same degree of affinity he stands to the wife, and so conversely. And if we keep ourselves within these limits we shall not introduce more prohibited degrees than the sacred Scriptures have appointed, and we shall preserve whole and inviolate those degrees concerning which God has given us a commandment. And not only does the rule which we have now laid down apply to lawful matrimony, but has the same force with respect to any unlawful connexion." 1173 "It is agreed that all such marriages as have been contracted within the Levitical degrees be dissolved; and, namely, those who have married two sisters, one after another, who are by common consent judged to be within the case." "I reckon the words in Leviticus, whereupon you ground, are those,  Uxorem et sororem suam ad lacessendam eam, ne ducas, ut retegas turpitudinem ejus, ilia adhuc vivente; "The practice of former times appeareth by the canons; but I know you make smal stay upon the canons, and sooner rest your self upon these words in the text,  ilia adhuc vivente ergo a negativis Corvus non est reversus ad arcam donee exsiccaœ erant aquœ; ergo 1174 "Wherefore we must needs think that God in that chapter hath especially and namely forbidden certain degrees; not as leaving al mariage lawful which he had not there expresly forbidden, but that therhy, as by infallible precedents, we might be able to rule the rest. As when God saith, 'No man shal mary his mother,' we understand, that under the name of mother is contained both the grandmother and the grandfather's wife, and that such mariage is forbidden. And when God commands, that no man shal mary the wife of his unkle by his father's side, we doubt not but in the same is included the wife of the unkle by the mother's side. Thus you SCO God himself would have us to expound one degree by another. So likewise in this case, albeit I be not forbidden by plain words to mary my wives sister, yet am I forbidden so to do by other words, which by exposition are plain enough. For when God commands me I shal not mary my brother's wife, it follows directly by the same that he forbids me to mary my wife's sister. For between one man and two sisters, and one woman and two brothers, is like analogy or proportion, which is my judgment in this case." 1175 dictum 1176 "I do not think there is a direct prohibition. There is no prohibition which I should deem of authority in the case, because I do not consider that the Levitical law is an authority for us. I think that belonged to the Jewish dispensation; it was a constitution for the Jewish nation, therefore I should say there is nothing in Scripture expressly to forbid any such marriage." "I should feel great delicacy about the prohibition of marriages. I do not know what particular points may be referred to, but I should not see any objection to the Legislature acting independently of the Levitical constitution, which is the only divine law we have upon the subject, and which I think is not binding upon Christians. I see no objection to the Legislature taking into consideration what affinities are proper, and what are not; and, therefore, the prohibition might extend to some points not at all referred to in Scripture; or even if they were in the Old Testament, I do not think that, in itself, is binding upon us. I should not hesitate to act upon the general considerations of reason and propriety, and the good of society, as now constituted, independently of what may be found in the Old Testament Scripture." 1177 "It appears, however, that the traditional law of the Jews did exclude the marriage of two sisters in succession; but whether upon the ground of this passage, or upon some more general law, does not clearly appear. It appears, moreover, that they interpreted the passage in question merely as prohibiting a particular case of polygamy, and allowing others; according to which interpretation, this law is designed only for a particular period, and for the regulation of an indulgence altogether removed by Christianity, must fall rather under the positive than under the divine law, and have no bearing upon the matrimonial code of the New Testament. But if, on the other hand, the passage in question refers to the marriage of a wife's sister after putting
 1178 Cadit questio 1179 "In our rank of life I believe good is more likely to be obtained by leaving the law as it is." "If you do not allow this liberty to the lower orders, they will go into a state of concubinage." 1180 "Even now, wherever the human law, as it
 1181 1182
 MR. GOULBURN : The charges made by the hon. Member for Evesham were that he (Mr. Goulburn), having a knowledge of the state of the St. Peter's savings bank, had brought in a Bill for exempting trustees from their liability. Now, that Bill had been brought in and passed in 1844, and the communication made to him on the subject of the savings bank was not made until late in the year 1845.
 MR. H. HERBERT  was not disposed to withhold his sympathy from the Government in its struggle to get a Committee nominated by itself appointed, because it had all along most consistently attempted to quash inquiry. Let it be remembered that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had, in the first instance, done all in his power to prevent the appointment of the Committee, and that had it not been for the justice and humanity of the House, they would not be now engaged on the present debate. He admitted that the question was an awkward one, for there were grave and serious charges to be brought against persons in high places, and because the question had been shirked by an officer of the Government, who felt that his conduct was blame-able on the recent occasions in which he conducted inquiries, and who, instead of feeling sympathy for the poor persons who had lost their money, had made a report containing the most unfounded calumnies and falsehoods that ever came out of the mouth of man. ["Hear, hear!"] This perhaps was strong language, and he admitted it would be disgraceful in him to use it if he were not prepared to prove the charge. He was prepared to do so, and
 1244
 MR. LABOUCHERE  hoped the House would not be led into a discussion upon the general question of savings banks, but would confine itself to the question at issue—namely, the composition of the Committee. He protested against the "doctrine laid down by the hon. Member for Northamptonshire, that any discourtesy was intended to any hon. Member, because the Government wished to make an alteration in the names proposed by him to serve on the Committee. If the Government were not to have some control in such matters, the object of appointing Committees would be, in a great measure, frustrated. He assured the hon. Member for the city of Dublin that no discourtesy was intended to him; and he begged other hon. Gentlemen, to whose names exceptions might be taken, not to consider that any discourtesy was intended towards them.
 MR. KER SEYMER  wished to say a few words as to the proceedings of the late commission on this subject. He had read over, he believed, every question and answer in the blue hook, and he still retained his original opinion, that the proceedings of the commission had been of a most onesided character. It had been stated that it was during the progress of its labours that the commission had become convinced of the necessity of the present measure. If such were the case, that impression must have seized their minds at a very early period of the investigation. This was evident by the way in which the witnesses were examined. He did not think it a matter of charge against the commission that they had examined witnesses interested in the passing of such a law as the present; but what he complained of was, that as regarded the social state of the question, the commission had heard only one side. He believed that such was the general impression. Indeed, in an article in the  Law Review 1193 "Did you meet with any cases of marriage within the prohibited degrees of consanguinity?—Several. "Did you observe that those marriages were regarded in a different manner, and that the feeling of the people was different with respect to those marriages in cases of consanguinity?—In some cases, but not in others. "Do you think that marriages in eases of consanguinity do not meet with general disapprobation?—In many instances they do. "Do they bear a large proportion to the marriages in cases of affinity?—No, very small. "Did you hear any complaints of the existing law?—A great many complaints." "I may mention one instance more to show the injurious operation of the law in another way. It is a well known case at——, that of a party in very extensive business, a man of wealth, who keeps his carriage, and lives avowedly, in fact, with his deceased wife's sister, whom he would gladly marry, but for the uncertain state of the law. He is much respected, and bears a high character as an excellent man and a good citizen, where be has lived for the last quarter of a century; and, though he is living in open concubinage, his neighbours sympathise with him, and in a manner excuse him because of the restraint of an inexpedient law, he himself openly declaring that he would marry her, and will marry her if the law will permit him." 1194
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  regretted that on the present subject he had to differ from the noble Earl who had just addressed the House. Entertaining, as he did, the greatest respect for the opinion of the noble Earl, he regretted to say that he felt it to be his duty to oppose the further progress of the Bill. He thought the Catholic Members of that House had not been fairly dealt with on this question—they had been subjected to a species of canvass—he must say, a most indecent practice. They had each of them been favoured with two or three circulars on that important question, just as if it were a private Bill, and their support was sought by contending parties. That made him fear that the promoters of the measure had some ulterior object in view; and he was rather strengthened in that conjecture by the fact, that although by the Bill a man might marry the sister of a deceased wife, there was not a word about enabling a woman to marry the brother of her deceased husband. It appeared to him that the promoters of the measure were afraid of alarming the prejudices of man, but feared not to tamper with woman. With reference to the opinion which the Catholic hierarchy and clergy of Ireland entertained on the subject, he was permitted by one right rev. Prelate to state his view to the House—taking care, however, to remind the House that the right rev. Prelate spoke only as an individual member of the hierarchy, the other members of whom he had not consulted. He alluded to the Right Rev. Dr. Browne, Bishop of Elphin, who had had the charge of two dioceses; firstly, of Galway, and secondly, of Elphin. That right rev. Prelate had told him that in neither of those dioceses had he ever known a single case of a man marrying the sister of his deceased wife. The right rev. Prelate dreaded the result of a repeal of the Act, which repeal would, in his opinion, act as an incentive and stimulus. The dispensation afforded to enable first cousins to marry, had been attended with this consequence—that whereas such marriages were formerly the exceptional case, they were now the general rule. The Catholic people of Ireland, in his opinion, thought that if the Bill passed, all restrictions would be done away with. He would ask the House what would be the feelings of delicate-minded woman, if the Bill became a law? She would always consider that she was suspected by her married sister; and being placed in so delicate a position, would she,
 1197
 COLONEL RAWDON  regretted that the name of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin had been excluded, as its retention would have given great satisfaction in Ireland. He proposed that the debate be adjourned, in order that some amicable settlement might be entered into.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said no man was less disposed to interrupt their sleeping hours than he was, but he thought an adjournment ought to take place.
 MR. REYNOLDS  observed, that he had promised the House sixteen divisions, but as there had only been two, he was fourteen in arrear. Having consulted, however, with those who were joined with him on the present occasion, he found they were of opinion that, under all the circumstances, it would be better for him not to press his own list any further on the
 1247
 MR. REYNOLDS  rose to move that the remaining names on the list formerly nominated by him as a Select Committee on Savings Banks be agreed to. He observed from the amended lists which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had put on the Paper, that he had now named the Marquess of Kildare and Sir G. Clerk, neither of whom were on the Committee last year. He wished him to explain this deviation from the rule he had laid down. If the Chancellor of the Exchequer's Motion were carried, there would be eleven English and four Irish Members on the Committee. He (Mr. Reynolds) originally proposed that there should be eight English and seven Irish Members. The House had rejected Mr. Napier by a majority of 37, on what ground he could not tell, for a more scrupulously honourable man did not exist. It was said, he was not on the Committee of last year; but neither was the Marquess of Kildare nor Sir G. Clerk. He had put the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge in his former list; but he would not do so now, because it was when he was Chancellor of the Exchequer that the fraud commenced. [Mr. GOULBURN dissented.] If the fraud did not commence when the right hon. Gentleman was in office, it was at least fostered during that time. His attention was called to the frauds that were committed by a dozen credible witnesses who waited upon him; but he never directed the accounts to be closed with the bank, as it was his duty to do. What was the meaning of this attempt on the part of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to select this Committee? Should the House carry the Committee against him (Mr. Reynolds), he would retire from the duty he had imposed upon himself altogether. In the list he had originally handed to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, there were eight English Members and seven Irish. That list he would again, in the name of peace and fair play, and in the name of the unfortunate paupers whom he represented, tender to the right hon. Gentleman. He had used the word "pauper" advisedly, for they had been rendered poor by bad laws badly administered. He thanked those hon. Members who supported him on the former evening; and he begged
 1240 Times Morning Chronicle
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  begged to compliment the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House on the ability he had shown in arguing a very difficult question, and one which it was very painful to discuss. He did not consider the House capable of entertaining the theological argument. Because, if they were to decide that the theological arguments were good at all, they should admit that they were good
 1188 1189 à priori 1190 1191 1192
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER : *
 MR. GLADSTONE  thought it would be scarcely fair to ask the hon. Gentleman to commence his argument on a question so important at that late hour. It was not possible to come to a decision that night; and he was sure there was no wish to come to any premature decision.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  observed, that from 1833 to 1848 the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt were cognisant that the bank was insolvent—and if hon. Gentlemen doubted the fact, he could refer them to question 1646, page 120, of the report of the evidence taken before the Committee. Moreover, he was enabled to state that the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt had consulted with Mr. Tidd Pratt as to the possibility of closing the bank in 1839, and therefore that person must also have been cognisant of the position of the establishment. The question, therefore, which the House had to consider was, whether the Government, knowing that the bank was insolvent, and knowing that
 1243
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  hoped that no time would be fixed which did not give ample opportunity for debating the subject. If
 1239
 VISCOUNT BARRINGTON  reminded the House that the debate was extremely personal, and expressed a hope that the Government would select Gentlemen to serve on public Committees in the manner they did private Committees, in order to prevent those scenes of personal recrimination.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, that he was not going to offer any observations either in opposition to or in approval of the proposition made by his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but there were a few points on which he thought it desirable that some explanation should be offered. He should like, in the first place, to know whether the Irish Members concurred in what had been said by his right hon. Friend, that those who opposed these advances proposed by the Government, lost sight of the state of Ireland. He confessed
 1278 l
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, several Gentlemen had gone away with the impression that there would be no division that night.
 MR. A. B. HOPE  agreed that it was incumbent on those who opposed the Motion to show that the prohibition was in accordance with the law of God; but there was no inconsistency in those who believed this assuming that the prohibition in Scripture was not positive, in order afterwards to argue the question on social grounds. It was a material step in the argument to show that the prohibition operated beneficially to society. The laws of God were all wise and good, and that which operated injuriously might be assumed to be opposed to them. As to the allegation that the existing state of the law led to immorality, that was begging the question. If the thing were wrong in itself, the giving of a ring could not make it right; it would only be super-adding to concubinage an unreal form. Among the things which appeared to him as strange in the conduct of this case, none
 1298 1299 "We are now to all appearance destined by Providence to spend the remainder of our lives together. I am sure I need not use any argument to show how much it would add both to her comfort and my own could we be lawfully placed in the situation of man and wife; and this we had determined to do, but find the law of consanguinity as it now stands to be a bar, and unless this obstacle is likely to be speedily removed, we shall be induced to adopt some mode to evade or seek redress in a foreign country. I view the
 1300
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  did not think it impossible for the House to divide that night; the subject was pretty much exhausted last night, and the opinions of two important classes upon it had been tolerably well obtained. At the same time he must apologise to the House for taking it upon him to mention to any hon. Member that he supposed the debate would not come on after nine. The noble Lord the Member for Bath had gone away with the belief that they would not divide to-night.
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, that he was ready to proceed with the debate; at the same time he was aware that there had been some misunderstanding between himself and his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford and others that the discussion should not be taken after nine o'clock. [It was then twenty minutes past nine.] While he should be unwilling to depart from that understanding, he was, on the other hand, prepared to go on with the debate.
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  trusted that he had not been guilty of the slightest breach of faith to the hon. Baronet. He had hoped that the debate would have been resumed before nine. They had been trembling in the balance, in the hope that hon. Gentlemen from Ireland would not have detained the House after that time; and as the hour had only been exceeded by twenty minutes, he trusted he should not be acting unfairly, if, in deference to what appeared to be the feeling of the House, he proposed to go on with the debate.
 LORD D. STUART  said, that some doubt existed with regard to the answer
 1259
 LORD D. STUART  wished to know if the Bill would be brought forward during the present Session?
 LORD J. RUSSELL  expressed his willingness to postpone the Orders of the Day in order that the debate might be resumed.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  should have been glad to have had last night and to-night for other business; but as this Bill was an important subject, he had given up the whole of yesterday for its consideration, thinking, if such a measure ought to be passed at all, it should be passed as soon as possible. He had known nothing whatever of the arrangement fixing the latest hour for continuing the debate at nine o'clock; but all he could say was, he would leave the House to decide whether it should go on with the discussion now, or prefer some other time for resuming it.
 MR. STAFFORD  observed, that the
 1286 1287
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  might have told them that he did not see any advantage in going into the merits of the question until the proceedings in the courts of law had terminated.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  rose and said, that during the recent protracted debates on the Rate in Aid Bill, the state of Ireland had been so fully discussed that he should not feel it necessary to say much on that subject in prefacing the resolution which he had to submit
 1261 l l 1262 "The facile mode by which the landlord or middleman hitherto obtained exorbitant rents, and the labourer or peasant a wretched subsistence, has unfitted each for energetic exertion. The greater portion of this union was essentially a potato country, yielding the most prolific return. The peasant's life was passed in planting his potatoes in spring, digging them up in autumn, and dozing through the winter over the turf fire which
 1263 d d 1264 "In the Ballina union I hope the worst is arrived or passed. In the Ballina union, emigration, through money sent from America, has had an important influence in relieving pressure. On one day in November, twenty-nine persons left the parish I lived in for America; on another day, within a short period, nineteen left. In the
 1265 "It has been my duty so frequently during the past two years to report, in unfavourable terms, of the prospects of the county of Mayo, and especially of the Ballina union, that I feel peculiar pleasure in being at length able to state to you that, in my opinion, there appear to be some signs of improvement in this district, and that the alarm and despondency which have heretofore paralysed almost all exertion, seems to be giving way to a feeling of hope, which is leading to increased industry and energy. During the last week I have had opportunities of observing the general appearance of the country in this union, and of conversing with persons competent to form a just opinion of the state of affairs, and I have arrived at the conclusion that a spirit of activity prevails throughout the greater portion of it, und that strenuous exertions are being made by all classes to draw out the resources of the soil, and increase the means of support. Much of the land which during the last year remained uncultivated is now under tillage, and anxiety is shown to invest capital and labour in the improvement of land, where before the greatest apathy prevailed. All accounts that I have received agree in representing that more land has been sown with corn than during the past year, and a very considerably larger quantity of potatoes has been planted than is usual at this early season. In several instances I have heard of farmers increasing the size of their holdings, and becoming tenants of unoccupied farms adjoining their own, and, in some cases, land has been taken by persons from a distance, who are investing their capital in its cultivation. I think, also, that I can perceive that a better and more careful mode of husbandry is gradually being introduced, and, calculating upon a certain amount of turnips, and other green crops, being sown at a later period, when the time for their operation shall arrive, I think we may hope to see a very great change for the better in the appearance of the country at the next harvest. These results have been arrived at during a period when money has been peculiarly scarce; and I think it affords just grounds for hope that, if the produce of the crops now planted shall prove ordinarily good, the increase of food and wealth which it will occasion will lead to renewed exertions in the same direction in succeeding years. And these exertions, which have now produced but little corresponding benefit to the labouring classes—for in consequence of the poverty of the small farmers, their agricultural operations have been chiefly executed by themselves or members of their own family—yet hereafter, when their means are increased by the
 1266 l 1267 l l l l l l l l l l l l l "In no part of the world is steady employment, even at the lowest rate of remuneration, more highly appreciated than in this district; and the employment provided by the Land Improvement Act is now peculiarly valuable, when the country is in a state of transition between the old vicious system of paying the labourer, not in cash, but by making him a sort of jobbing farmer, working under an oppressive rack-rent, to the more correct arrangement of giving him steady employment and regular payment in money wages. Heretofore the lands were in the hands of the class called "farmers," but who had never expended one shilling in either draining or deepening the soil; they confined their exertions to planting and digging out potatoes, or herding a few head of cattle. Owing to the failure of the potato they became destitute, and numbers would have perished were it not for the employment afforded under the Land Improvement Act. In many instances lands, which three years ago were not worth 2 s d s "Out of a great number which have come within our knowledge, we shall quote one decisive example of the pecuniary advantage derived from
 1268 l s d l s d l s l s d l s d l s d l l l l l 1269 "A lively and gradually diffused sense of the benefit is evidenced by the tenants opening up their minor drains, spreading the soil from the cuttings on their land as top-dressing, and tilling the reclaimed land. In some cases those low lands which were formerly subject to frequent and destructive floods are already thorough-drained, and fine crops are at present growing on lands which could not formerly be calculated upon as affording even a coarse meadow." "Land upon which, previous to the drainage, grass was cut to be used as litter, was let in 1848 at 5 l 1270 s "A quantity of flooded land, which was let to tenants at will for 15 l l l l s d l "The flooded lands of this district have almost all been cultivated before the works were completed, and had crops of oats, rape, potatoes, turnips, golden pleasure cabbages, on them. Two men, holding jointly about 35 acres of land that was in a very bad state previous to the works, stated that the first year's crops of oats and rape would more than pay the entire sum chargeable to their lands, although one-half the lands, subject to floods, was not cultivated. Many of the occupiers admitted that their crops of rape cleared from 15 l l s s s 1271 l l l l l 1272 l "1. That the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury be authorised to direct the advance of sums, not exceeding in the whole 300,000 l "2. That the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury be authorised to direct the advance of sums, not exceeding in the whole 200,000 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  wished to be allowed to explain, in answer to the questions put by his right hon. Friend the Member for Northampton, that he had not stated that those gentlemen who voted against the 50,000 l l l l l 1279 l l l l l l l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought a little explanation would save a great deal of discussion; he would therefore inform his hon. Friend that the two Acts under which he proposed to advance this money were the Land Improvement Act, and the River Drainage Act. Under the first, the works were performed by the landlord, and inspected by the Government officer. Under the latter the Board performed the work, as the rivers going through many estates rendered it difficult by any other means. It had been found impossible to procure agreement among the proprietors as to the apportionment of the work, and therefore the Board had been obliged to undertake it. The observations of the hon. Member for Shropshire applied to neither one Act nor the other, but to works which had been undertaken simply for relief purposes under what was called Mr. Labouchere's Act.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that a direct charge had been
 1283
 MR. E. H. BUNBURY  said, he laboured under very considerable disadvantage, in rising at that period of the debate, and especially after the able and eloquent speeches addressed to the House last night by the hon. and learned Member for Southampton, and the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth, who had to a considerable degree exhausted the subject. However, the result of their speeches had been to narrow very much the issue which the House had
 1294 1295 1296 1297
 MR. F. FRENCH  thought the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not fairly dealt with this question. No one felt more alive than himself (Mr. French) to the advantages derivable from a judicious system of drainage; but he would appeal to the House whether this plan of the Government, which would involve an outlay of at least 52. per acre, could be otherwise than ruinous to those who should be so foolish as to accept a loan from the Government for the purpose of land improvement. He would undertake to prove that 30 l l l l l 1274 l l l "To attempt anything like a true description of the universal misery that prevails, would be futile; I have no heart to do it, nor can I say I know one hundredth part of the misery that exists, or the number of deaths that are daily and hourly taking place—one of my curates gave the same morning the last sacrament to thirty-seven persons in the auxiliary poorhouse, and remarks, 'I have four curates.' " "Awful as was the destitution of the poor for the last three years, comparatively speaking, their state was good to what it is at the present time; to form a correct estimate you should witness the squalid misery and wasted forms of our starving and half-naked poor. All persons are
 1275 d l 1276 l l l 1277 l s l s l l l l l
 MR. AGLIONBY  hoped that there might be some opportunity afforded to hon. Members for making themselves acquainted with facts before the vote now proposed, and the Bill to sanction it, should have passed that House. The question of Irish distress was every day becoming more painful, in consequence of the extreme differences of opinion that existed respecting it. There was one thing which he should certainly like to know before the end of the Session, and that was—what was the subject which the Irish Members really did agree upon? The English Members did agree upon a great many subjects, though he would not say that they were of one opinion in respect to this vote; but the extrordinary thing to him was, that the Irish Members did not even agree upon the single question as to receiving the public money. Apparently they did not, though he doubted whether, notwithstanding they spoke against it, they would not in substance be quite willing to accept it. They had one hon. Member taunting the Government with throwing away the public money without doing any good; another Member saying "No money will do us good; give us good laws, and take away your poor-law; "while a third exclaimed, "We don't want your money, but give us something that shall afford employment to the people, and save them from starvation." But what was that something? He strongly suspected that when they came to a division, not one Irish Member would be found to vote against it. He himself should certainly speak against it, although he should vote for it. The right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer had justly said that the prominent feature in the present case ought with all of them to be the miserable, wretched, starving, and dying condition of the people of Ireland.
 1281 l l
 MR. AGLIONBY  admitted that he owed an apology to the right hon. Gentleman for not having, in common courtesy, informed him previously of what he had heard. He dared say he might have misunderstood the parties; but they certainly showed him some documents with the view of proving that the right hon. Gentleman had been misinformed as to the expenditure of their money in nothing besides law proceedings; and when he asked one of them in the lobby of the House whether a deputation had been sent to explain matters, the reply was that information had been declined.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, the question he had asked the right hon. Gentleman was, how the money was to be applied; whether it was to be applied by the Board of Works? to which an answer in the affirmative was returned. Had a distinction been made upon that occasion by the right hon. Gentleman with reference to the mode of application, he (Mr. Aglionby) should not have advanced the observations which he did; but upon this he had distinctly come to the conclusion that he never would invest any power in the hands of the Board of Works in Ireland. And he would tell the House the reason. They were all
 1282 l
 MR. AGLIONBY  contended that he was speaking to the question, if he succeeded in showing that the Irish might have money from other sources, and that they refused it. His point was this—that, when they refused money offered to them, they had no right to come to the House and say they would take it from the Legislature. He believed it would be shown to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that what he had been informed about the Lough Corrib Company was untrue. It was believed that they had not proceeded with their works. The fact, however, was, that although they were prevented for some time by circumstances over which they had no control from being able to carry on their operations, it was a mistake to suppose that the 15,000 l
 MR. AGLIONBY  asked whether any hon. Member knew of anybody who had gone away between nine and half-past nine o'clock; and if so, whether there could be any difficulty in bringing them back again?
 SIR H. W. BARRON  indignantly repudiated the attacks which Gentlemen of the free-trade school were in the habit of making against Ireland. Free-traders in that House said, that neither grants nor loans should on any account be made by the British Parliament for Irish purposes. He trusted that the Irish Members would not forget that sentiment. To exhibit the ignorance of the Gentlemen of the free-trade school on this question, he quoted from a return which had been placed on the table of the House within the last ten days, showing that during the last few years nearly 8,000,000 l l 1288 l l l
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that if a pledge had been given to hon. Members that the debate would not be brought on after nine o'clock, it was only right to consider what influence it had upon their attendance, especially as an Irish debate happened to be in progress.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, no person could doubt the advantage of arterial drainage, but the question to be considered was whether this measure was calculated to give any very extensive relief to destitution. He believed that it tended to have that effect; but he was convinced that every measure of this kind that they could adopt, would be thwarted while they retained the present large area of taxation. It was said that they underrated the grievances of Ireland; but what they complained of was that Her Majesty's Government did not themselves appreciate the magnitude of the evil with which they had to grapple. In the union with which he was connected, they had raised 40,000 l l 1280
 MR. LABOUCHERE  trusted, it was unnecessary for him to assure his hon. Friend and the House that the story, so far as it concerned himself, was utterly without foundation. The House would not be surprised at a misapprehension on the subject, when he said that this account of a private conversation between the hon. Member for Montrose and himself, was said to have been repeated by him to the Provost of Montrose, who repeated the same to Mr. George Frederick Young, who in turn repeated it to the meeting. No doubt the truth had somewhat suffered in the transit. He (Mr. Labouchere) had never said anything to the hon. Member for Montrose which could by possibility have been construed into anything like the version given by Mr. George Frederick Young. Mr. Hume was unfortunately unwell, and unable to attend the House; but he had received a note from him, stating that the story was altogether incorrect. The only ground he could imagine for the report was thus: He had had many conversations with Mr. Hume and other Members concerning this Bill, and had been urged by them to take the opportunity of settling the light-dues and other questions; and he had stated his opinion in reply, that this would be a most improper occasion to arrange matters of such magnitude, but at the same time agreeing that, if this measure passed, it would become the duty of Government and Parliament in a succeeding Session to apply themselves to those questions. That, perhaps, might be the foundation for the statement, the accuracy of which he denied altogether.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  rose to order. The drainage of Lough Corrib had been debated on a former occasion, when a private Bill was before the House.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, he would address the Committee for two or three minutes, and upon only two or three points. Giving the Government credit for their proposition, and admitting that some good might result from it, he, nevertheless, thought that they had overlooked one or two important features in the present condition of Ireland. The first step the Government should take should be to stop the wasting of life, which, in defiance of the poor-law, was now going on. The people could not subsist on one pound of yellow meal per diem for each pauper. Such a scale of relief ought to be raised; and if the Government found it necessary to raise additional sums for that purpose, they should brave public disapprobation, if such existed, and come forward boldly and ask for the money. He also thought
 1289
 MR. REYNOLDS  felt bound to state that he heard the plan of the Government with feelings of unmixed satisfaction. The well-toned and equally well-timed speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he was certain, would be well received on the other side of the Channel. The money to be advanced was to be expended in the employment of labour, and he had expected that Irish Members generally would have hailed the plan as one likely to benefit the country. Though they might regret that the grant was not larger, they must rejoice that the national exchequer was not to be for ever hermetically scaled against the distress of Ireland. He had that day heard the clerk of the Limerick union examined before the Irish Poor Law Committee, and the details he gave were most harrowing. He stated that numbers of ablebodied men in the workhouse had previously offered to work at twopence per day. He (Mr. Reynolds) rejoiced to learn that the subject of an advance to the Gal-way railway was still under consideration. The other remedial measures would be incomplete, unless the means were given for improving the internal communication in the west of Ireland. He had had some experience of arterial drainage in Galway; the suspension of certain works there had been most injurious, and it was essential that they should be resumed as early as possible. In making the grant now proposed, the Chancellor of the Exchequer might be certain, not only of its repayment, but of the interest being regularly paid. An hon. Gentleman opposite, the Member for Shropshire, had complained of his having had to pay 200 l
 MR. TRELAWNY  must oppose the proposition for advancing British money for the purpose indicated by the resolution. He altogether deprecated the system of going on advancing sum after sum, and think that they were benefiting Ireland by so doing. The Irish Members, he thought, had not exhibited any particular sagacity in saying anything about the matter to-night. They ought to have taken their cake in silence; but the present system was one which would not be long continued. Since he had been a Member of that House, upwards of 10,000,000 l l
 MR. HENLEY  said, if the arrangement had not been publicly made, it had certainly been generally understood that the debate should not come on after nine o'clock. It was impossible that so important a discussion could close that night; and it would certainly be setting a very bad precedent if they were on this occasion to depart from the ordinary rule of the House of acting upon any general understanding that might be come to between the Gentleman having charge of a Bill, and those who took a leading part in the discussion of it, even although that understanding did not amount to a definite public arrangement as to the hour for a debate coming on. If the discussion were now to go on, it was not likely to be conducted in the proper spirit.
 MR. HENLEY  seconded the Motion. He had been asked if he knew any one who had left the House, expecting the discussion would not come on. He would answer that he did. The noble Lord the Member for Bath was one, and went away almost at the very moment.
 MR. W. O. GORE  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had taken great credit to himself for the advantages that Ireland had derived from the system of drainage. He (Mr. Gore) held in his hand a return which had been made to him by a surveyor who had measured the length, depth, and breadth of the drainage of some lands of his, which were not very wet, but required some drainage, in the county of Leitrim. The quantity of land drained was 6 acres and 20 perches, and there was a claim made upon him by the Government for this drainage of 200 l l l s d 1273
 MR. GROGAN  said, he might congratulate the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the House upon this, that amidst the dismal accounts which were daily received from Ireland, a bright spot at last appeared. He gave Her Majesty's Government credit for this at least, that they had taken the affairs of Ireland into serious consideration. There were many measures which might prove beneficial to the country; they formed, indeed, a part of the scheme of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth,
 1285
 SIR G. GREY  could not state positively, but he had every reason to believe that it would.
 SIR G. GREY  said, what he stated in answer to the noble Lord the Member for Bath was, that a Bill was in course of preparation on the subject of burials in the metropolitan districts. The question of extending the provisions of the measure to other large towns was still under consideration. He could not say when the Bill would be introduced.
 SIR G. GREY  said, he would be as brief as possible in stating the reasons which induced him to vote for the second reading of the Bill. He was relieved from the necessity of saying much, because he fully agreed with what had been said in the early part of the evening, that the subject was almost entirely exhausted by the speeches which had been delivered on the former night of discussion. He would not enter into the theological branch of the subject, not certainly because he undervalued its importance, for he felt that it involved a preliminary point upon which it behoved every man to satisfy his own mind and conscience before he gave his
 1301 1302 1303 1304 "We cannot avoid the conclusion that the statute of 5 and 6 William IV., c. 54, has failed to attain the object sought to be effected by its prospective enactments. It has not prevented marriage with the sister, or niece, of a deceased wife from taking place in numerous instances; whether more or less numerous than before the passing of the statute, we have not, as was before observed, sufficient data to enable us to form an opinion. But, without reference to any comparison of this description, the number of those marriages is so great as to justify us in saying, that the provisions of that statute, rendering them null and void, have not generally deterred parties from forming such connections. "We are not inclined to think that such attachments and marriages would be extensively increased in number were the law to permit them, because, as we have said, it is not the state of the law, prohibitory or permissive, which has governed, or, as we think, ever will effectively govern them." "We do not find that the persons who contract these marriages, and the relations and friends who approve them, have a less strong sense than others
 1305 1306 1307 1308
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Board of Trade a question which he must be allowed to preface by reading a portion of a speech reported to have been delivered on Tuesday last by Mr. G. F. Young. The following was the statement to which he referred:—
 "I now come to the position in which the measure is placed at the present instant. Uncalled for as the measure must be considered, and although it is not only unsupported by, but is in direct opposition to, public opinion, Her Majesty's Government did not hesitate to take the most extraordinary means for the purpose of pressing it through the Legislature; and in confirmation of this statement, I can state a fact to the meeting which will, I think, surprise them not a little. The Provost of Montrose, who had come to London with a deputation to oppose the progress of the Government measure, waited on his representative, Mr. Joseph Hume, and urged on him the palpable inconsistency of his supporting a Bill such as that, which was diametrically opposed to the principles of free trade, of which he had always been a strenuous supporter. Now, what do you think was the reply of Mr. Hume? This occurrence, I may observe, took place yesterday week, the day on which the House of Commons divided on the third reading of the Bill. Mr. Hume said, 'You need not be alarmed. I was with Mr. Labouchere for an hour on Saturday last, and I told him that I, with several of my friends who entertained conscientious scruples upon this question, could not support the third reading of the Bill, as being inconsistent in its provisions with the principles which we have always
 1260
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  would agree to the debate going on if he thought it possible to conclude it that night; but it was clear they could not divide upon the Bill that night. If the Government did not consider the other orders of sufficient importance to occupy the remainder of the night, he would insist upon moving the adjournment of the House.
 SIR R. INGLIS  protested against the course of proceeding proposed to be adopted. It was impossible to conclude the debate that night; and to resume it under those circumstances would, for all practical purposes, cause the loss of the rest of the evening.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  admitted that his right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Buteshire had not risen in his place to tell him that the debate would not be resumed after nine o'clock; but he had informed him, in that kind of intercourse which took place between Members holding opposite opinions on a question, that he would not bring on the question after nine o'clock. Of course he did not conceive he had violated any confidence in communicating such an intimation to others; and others had gone away. He admitted the hon. and learned Gentleman might urge the resumption of the discussion if it could terminate that night. But did any hon. Member believe it would terminate? [An Hon. MEMBER: Yes.] An hon. Member said "yes;" but such, he was sure, would not be the response of the hon. and learned Gentleman, for he himself would probably occupy at least two hours. From the number anxious to speak, it would be imposssible to dispose of the question tonight. The Government proposed to postpone other public business of importance, although there was no chance of the debate on this question being concluded tonight. He should resist the proposition.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  agreed with the right hon. Gentleman the Homo Secretary that it might not be desirable to enter into any detailed examination of sacred Scripture in a popular assembly; least of all, in one which did not acknowledge any common authority of interpretation. But there were subjects upon which it was not possible to avoid distinct reference to the word of God. The right hon. Gentleman had stated that if that word were clear upon this question, the decision of the House must be in conformity with it. Now, in regard to the ordinance of marriage, there was in the New Testament no authority whatever, so far as the choice of persons was concerned; and in the most important relation of life it must have pleased Almighty God to leave his creatures without any authority unless we were to take into consideration the Old Testament also. Taking that also, we should find no regulations except in Leviticus; and, taking Leviticus, we must take the 18th chapter. That chapter, warning against certain practices which had polluted the nations of Canaan, conveyed a general principle, that a man should not marry any one that was near of kin to him; but it did not detail every specific instance to which the principle might he applied. The hon. and learned Member for Southampton had told the House that that which was not prohibited was permitted. If that hon. and
 1309 1310 prestige 1311 1312 "A man may not marry any of his wife's kindred nearer in blood than he may of his own; nor a woman of her husband's kindred nearer in blood than her own." 1313 Dissent 1314 Times 1315 prestige post hoc propter hoc 1316
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, he should move the adjournment of the House.
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  expressed his gratitude to the Government for their conduct upon the present occasion, and said that they would have the grateful thanks of thousands, whose condition would be improved by the works that were to be carried on under the proposed arrangement. The noble Viscount then proceeded to quote, at considerable length, letters from
 1284
 MR. WADDINGTON  said, he did not rise to offer any remarks with a view of stopping any inquiry which the House might think fit to make; but he wished to inform the House that he was not aware of the remarks quoted by the hon. Gentleman till he saw them in print, or that other observation made by the Committee, when they said—"The Committee did not further press this question, as it appeared to be one which Mr. Waddington could not answer, lest it might be asked again 'in another place.'" He assured the House that he had named no hon. Member whatsoever before the Committee, but quite the contrary; he had made no observation or remark with regard to the House of Commons, reflecting on individual Members, or in any way implicating any Member of the House. As soon as the Committee's report was published, the directors of the company took the only course which could gain them the public attention, by issuing a series of observations in reference to that report. These observations had been issued, and he would now read the remarks of the directors in reference to this sum of 7,606 l "In reference to an expenditure, however, of 7,606 l 1396
 MR. A. B. HOPE  wished to explain the vote which he was about to give on this Bill. If the subject-matter of this Bill related only, as its title implied, to the revision of the oath of supremacy, he should have had no hesitation in supporting it. But it appeared that the revision of the oath was only a mask to cover the admission of the Jews into Parliament—a subject which was brought openly before them last year—which was then rejected—and which had now come before them again in the shape of an Oaths Alteration Bill; which, when it came to be debated, turned out to he the mere Jews Bill of last Session; for, except by the hon. Baronet who moved the Amendment, the subject of oaths had not been referred to by any hon. Member who took part in the debate. He would not oppose the alteration of the oaths; but, both as protesting against the emancipation of the Jews, to which he was strongly opposed, and against a course of legislation which was unworthy of the Government of a great country, he should oppose the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. ROBARTES  supported the second reading. He did not think that the existence of Christianity in this country depended upon the exclusion of the Jews. On the contrary, he thought that their emancipation would conduce to its more perfect establishment. Believing that it was wrong to deprive any class of Her Majesty's subjects of their civil rights, he should support the measure.
 An HON. MEMBER  here moved that the House be counted.
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY  imagined that the hon. Member for Warwickshire was speaking on the subject of diplomatic relations with Rome, rather than on the question of admitting Jews to a seat in the Legislature, for he had dwelt so much on matters connected with the Roman Catholic religion. Last year he (the Earl of Arundel and Surrey) had written a pamphlet to prove that the bull of the Pope  In Cœna Domini
 VISCOUNT MAHON  said, that the declaration made by the noble Lord at the head of the Government in introducing this measure, had been lost sight of by the noble Lord the Member for Arundel. The noble Lord the Prime Minister, when he moved for the introduction of a measure similar to the present, last year, had declared, with perfect frankness and candour, that the question now was not merely whether they should free from the religious test one sect small in number, and respectable in character, but whether hereafter they should have any religious test at all. That noble Lord, and another Member of the Government, now the Earl of Carlisle, had both acknowledged that if this Bill passed, it would no longer be possible to shut the door of the House against Mahometans, Hindoos, or professed unbelievers; the question, therefore, was much wider than it appeared at first sight, and the noble Lord the Member for Arundel was not justified in confining his argument to the Jews alone. But he (Lord Mahon) would pass from the observations of the Member for Arundel to those which the Member for Leominster had with so much ability brought forward that night in his first address. He (Lord Mahon) trusted that the great and well-merited success
 1425 1426 1427 "He's Knight o' the Shire, and represents them all!" 1428
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY : Sir, I am anxious to state to the House the grounds upon which I shall give my vote against this Bill. The alteration of the oath taken by the Members of this House has little to do with the important point now under discussion, the alteration only being the means to an end of introducing the Jews into this House. I think it will be generally admitted by the Members of this House, though not perhaps by every one, that it is impossible to separate that
 1429 1430 1431
 MR. FAGAN , as a Roman Catholic who had formerly been excluded from the House by the state of the law, must vote for this Bill on the principle of doing unto others that which he should wish them to do unto him. He thanked the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown for having brought in the Bill, which would be the crowning cap to the many triumphs which he had already achieved in the cause of civil and religious liberty. He was also pleased to find the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, who had also done good service to that cause, support the Bill; and he begged to congratulate the
 1432
 MR. CHARTERIS  said, with all respect for the hon. Gentleman, notwithstanding the declaration which he had made, he still believed it would be more satisfactory to institute an inquiry. And he, therefore, now begged to give notice, that on Thursday next, he would move for a Committee to inquire into the circumstances of this case.
 MR. CHARTERIS  said, seeing the noble Lord the First Minister in his place, he rose to ask the question of which he had given notice. Before he did so, however, as considerable misunderstanding existed as to the object which he had in view, it being supposed by many that his question was directed against some individual Member of the House, than which, he assured them, nothing could be further from his intention; and, besides, as many of those present might not have a printed copy of the report of the Committee appointed to inquire into the financial affairs of the Eastern Counties Railway Company, he should read a short extract from that report, the bettor to explain the purport of his question. The Committee said—
 "In the investigation of the disbursements under the head of Parliamentary expenses, there are several items, the precise character of which your Committee could not arrive at. The items referred to are the following—
 MR. CHARTERIS  hoped that if the second reading was taken now, the Committee would not be hurried forward. There were nine Scotch Bills on the table, and the people of Scotland were quite alarmed at the legislative fecundity of the Lord Advocate.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I agree with the hon. Gentleman, that the words alluded to do tend to excite suspicions affecting the character and credit of this House. For my part I do not believe there is any foundation for the rumours, affecting still more deeply the private character of individual Members; but I do agree with the hon. Gentleman that it is not right to leave these words given forth by a Committee, a public Committee of persons of known name and character, without inquiry. I do not think it would be any advantage that that inquiry should be instituted by one of the Members of Government, although, if it seems desirable, and is the general wish of the House, I shall not refuse to ask some Member of the Government to move for a Committee. But I think the hon. Gentleman, having turned his attention to the subject, and the question being a question affecting the character of Members of the House, it were bettor that the inquiry should be conducted by the hon. Gentleman, assisted, as
 1395
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, as the House seems to desire that the division should now take place, I am ready, not having spoken at the commencement of the debate, to offer such answers as seem to me conclusive to the objections that have been made to the second reading of this Bill. I must lament, however, that in the course of this debate I have not had the advantage, as I had last year, of the assistance of the hon. Gentleman who sits opposite to me, the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, who, last year, with so much eloquence and so much force, argued in favour of the measure which I then proposed. But I trust that if he has forborne any arguments to-night, it is because he thinks that the arguments urged by his hon. Friends who sit near him were so entirely devoid of force that they did not merit the reply which his powerful eloquence could have given to them. But if I have been disappointed in that respect, I have been greatly gratified at hearing a speech from a Member who has not before addressed the House—from whom the House, knowing his name and lineage, were prepared to expect close argument, force, and eloquence. The hon. Member, therefore, had much to do to fulfil the expectations of this House; but I must say those expectations were more than realised. The
 1437
 LORD J. RUSSELL : That is another part of the question. The objection which the hon. and learned Gentleman put, that they were obliged to hold freehold lands, was not a valid objection, because it was not until the 9th of Anne that that Bill passed—a proof of the jealousy, as I think, of the landed interest against the commercial interest, and a provision which, as far as regarded the cities and boroughs of this country, was totally opposed to the spirit of the constitution. This, therefore, is not a point in favour of the hon. and learned Gentleman's view, as far as relates to the constitutional argument. My hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford, who commenced this debate, discussed the proposal which I have made with reference to one alteration of the oath; and he insisted that it was desirable still to keep that part of the oath by which the Protestant Members of this House deny that the Pope has any ecclesiastical or spiritual authority in this country. In bringing forward this question, I argued that that denial was intended as a security against the Roman Catholic, and that no Protestant was likely to promote the ecclesiastical and spiritual authority of the Pope, but that you had parted with that
 1438 1439 1440 1441
 The LORD ADVOCATE  moved the Second Reading of this Bill.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  reminded the
 The LORD ADVOCATE  did not think that a Bill precisely on the plan of the law of England would have been opposed at all. He did not object to a postponement, if such were desirable, but he should leave it to the House to decide whether any reason had been shown for postponement.
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  opposed the second reading of this Bill. He wished it to he postponed to a more fitting opportunity.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  resumed: He was not surprised, considering what was passing in another place, that many of his hon. Friends had been listening to what was then passing in the House of Lords, for it was currently believed that the fate of the Ministry hung in the balance of that discussion. This might account for the thinness of the House. But it was something singular to notice that Her Majesty's Ministers had selected the same night for attempting to reverse the decision of the House of Lords against the Jew Bill, on which they were attempting to drive the House of Lords from deciding according to the dictates of their cooler judgment in the discussion then proceeding in the Upper House. The meaning of the present discussion on the Jews' Disabilities Bill, in the minds of Her Majesty's Ministers, was doubtless this: "You (the House of Lords) last year refused to pass this measure. You protected the Christian character of the Legislature, and you were responded to by the feeling of the country, but no matter, we have a tyrant majority in this House, and if you deal with the matter in question—if you differ from us, we will test your strength and endurance—we will render the House of Lords the mere record-office of the will of the House of Commons." But to return to the question: if they admitted the Jews, who denied Christianity on principle, they could not refuse admittance to the infidel. If they admitted the infidel to the same privileges and power as Christian Members, then it was an insult to those Christian Members to exact from them a profession of their faith. There was another view of the question: the Jews were a separate people by race and by religion. The religion of the Jews taught them to consider themselves as a separate people; they considered them-
 1418 Mishna Mishna 1419
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that no one could accuse the hon. Member for Tavistock of religious bigotry, since he would admit not only Jews, but Hindoos and Mahometans to Parliament. The hon. Member might be a bigot to his opinions on political economy, but not on religion certainly: he seemed to agree with Voltaire, who urged, that because Jews and Christians made money together on the Exchange, therefore that there ought to be no restriction upon the admission of Jews into the Legislature. But was there no difference between the House of Commons and the Exchange? if the House of Commons and the Exchange were the same, there certainly would be no justice in the exclusion of the Jews from Parliament; but he had been brought up in a different school of belief. He had been taught to consider the House of Commons as the representatives of a great Christian country, assisting a Christian Sovereign in the discharge of her Christian duties; and he could not therefore look to this as the denial of a right of the Jews to sit in a Christian Parliament. The right to a seat in the Legislature was spoken of as a privilege; but he (Mr. Newdegate) considered a seat in that House not as a right or a privilege, but simply as a trust vested in the person elected by the public for the public good. He was of opinion, that no constituency, however large, had a right to force their views upon the other constituencies of the empire, by changing the nature of the assembly common to the representatives of all constituencies according to their fancy, in the election of their own representative. In reference to the speech of the hon. Member for Leominster (Mr. F. Peel)—a speech which gave promise of high talent—if the arguments of that hon. Gentleman were pursued to their legitimate conclusion, they would lead to far other results than he had predicated. The hon. Gentleman had cited the period when the words "on the true faith of a Christian" were added to the oath taken by Members of Parliament, the period of
 1414 1415 In Cœna Domini In Cœna Domini brutum fulmen "Meanwhile, venerable brethren, we wish to communicate to you the extreme surprise with which we were affected at receiving a document, written and published by a certain individual in
 1416 In Cœna Domini "In the first place, because a custom against the liberty and immunity of the Church, even though it be an immemorial custom, is at all times invalid and inadmissible, as we have proved at largo from one and the other (canon and civil) law, lib. 1, tit. iv.  De Consuetud Cœnœ 1417
 MR. BANKES : I said, the Jews could not sit because they were not naturalised.
 MR. BANKES  admitted that the speech in the present debate which had produced the greatest effect was that of the hon. Member for Leominster. That speech was a condensation of all the arguments which had been used in favour of the measure. But he could not help thinking that it was not the weight of argument so much as the fervour with which it was delivered, that produced so strong an impression upon the House. It was said that the exclusion of Jews from the House was only a recent act of legislation, but that was a mere evasion of the fact. There was no need of passing an Act of Parliament to exclude Jews from a seat in the House, when they were denied those civil rights and privileges the concession of which had taken place at a comparatively recent date. In those times there was not only no probability of a Jew taking his seat in the Legislature, but there was no possibility of it, because a Jew was not naturalised. To propose, therefore, in the period to which he referred, that a Jew should not be allowed to sit in Parliament, would be as wanton, as useless, as absurd, and as superfluous a piece of legislation as could well be imagined. In the reign of
 1435 1436
 MR. TURNER  said, he felt that he laboured under a great disadvantage in having to address the House after the very able and eloquent speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down—a disadvantage which he felt more strongly, as he had the misfortune to differ from that hon. Gentleman in the arguments he had advanced on the present occasion. He (Mr. Turner) had given this question the most calm and dispassionate consideration. He had weighed it over and over again without any feeling of prejudice towards the Jews, and he must confess that he was quite unable to arrive at the conclusion at which the hon. Gentleman had arrived. As far as possible he should endeavour to avoid repeating the arguments which had already been laid before the House against the measure under discussion, though he by no means wished it to be understood that he dissented from those arguments; on the contrary, with the great majority of them he entirely concurred. The question had hitherto been considered simply as a question of the exclusion of the Jews; but they ought not to forget that the admission of one Member implied the exclusion of another—that the admission of a Jew was equivalent to the exclusion of a Christian. The question, therefore, was not one of exclusion, but of preference; and the true question was, whether they ought to vest in the constituencies of the country the power of excluding Christians, for the purpose of admitting Jews? The claims of the Jews had been urged on the ground of their contributions to the State. He would call upon those who advanced their claims upon that ground to account for the exclusion of aliens by birth. Aliens by birth contributed to the wants of the State. Alien merchants were capable of giving the best information on the trade of the country with the States to which they belonged; and yet they were excluded from Parliament—and why? Because questions might arise in which their feelings and their interests would be adverse to the interests of the country. The same principle applied to the Jews, who were aliens in religion. What was the first duty which Members of this House had to perform? Was it not to provide for the religious instruction of the people, and to extend and promote Christianity amongst them? Could the Jew participate in such a measure?
 1409 1410
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that he would not trespass many minutes on the attention of the House. He had been anxious to hear some explanation from the noble Lord at the head of the Government to enable him clearly to understand the nature of the proposal; for this Bill was entirely different from that of last year; and he thought the House had a right to inquire upon what grounds the noble Lord, professing the same object, proposed an alteration which appeared to be as much misunderstood by the supporters as by the opponents of the Bill. Some hon. Gentlemen who were advocates of the Bill, spoke of it as the keystone of the arch, as the removal of all remaining disabilities and exclusions; that was very poetically stated by the hon. and learned Member for Reading, and perhaps it was the better poetry because it was quite inconsistent with the fact. This Bill got rid of no exclusion but one; it altered the oaths to be taken by Members of that House, which in their present state had been characterised as irrelevant and absurd; but if the Jew came into that House, and by his talent and ability proved himself qualified to fill high offices of the State, he must then take those very oaths which they said were so absurd. Why had the noble Lord continued that exclusion? The House also had a right to know why the
 1442
 MR. GOULBURN  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman had so totally misunderstood what fell from him—if the hon. and learned Gentleman would listen, he thought he would himself admit he had misunderstood him—that he hoped the House would allow him, in a sentence, to restate what he did say. He stated that those hon. Members who supported the Bill did not seem to understand its purport, because they spoke of it as the crowning arch of entire freedom to all persons in the State; and he said it was no such thing, because it only relaxed those oaths which related to entrance into Parliament; but it retained, in the oaths which must be taken by persons on being admitted to office, all those phrases which the Jew rejected, and all those absurdities of which the noble Lord wished to get rid. The Bill, therefore, would not satisfy the ambition of the Jew, nor would it accomplish all that the hon. and learned Member for Reading had in such poetic language described.
 MR. H. WILLYAMS  would be sorry to have such a weak opinion of the Christian religion as to suppose for a single moment that the introduction of the Jews into Parliament would weaken or affect it. It appeared to him that the fears for Chris-
 1411
 MR. PLUMPTRE  could say, from the bottom of his heart, that he was not actuated by any bitter, hostile, or persecuting spirit towards the Jews, in giving the Bill his most strenuous opposition; and he believed he might say the same for those who acted with him. For his own part, he had anything but such a feeling;
 1433
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he would not trouble the House long. He hoped the observations of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge, would be a lesson to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, as he had told them that, if the noble Lord had brought in a Bill to admit everybody, he should have no objection to urge against it. ["Hear!"] That, at
 1443 1444 1445 1446
 MR. TRELAWNY  remarked, that the term "alien" had been applied to the Jews by the hon. and learned Member for Coventry, and it was contended that because they were aliens they were not entitled to the same rights and privileges as other classes of our fellow-subjects. He denied that a Jew living in England was an alien. An alien, although residing in England, owed allegiance to a foreign Sovereign: an English Jew owed and rendered allegiance to our Queen. The foolish assertion that Jews were incapacitated by the nature of their religion from discharging the duties and obligations of legislators and governors was completely exploded in France, where, after a complete investigation of the whole matter, it was declared that there was nothing in the religion of a Jew which incapacitated or disqualified him from discharging all the duties of citizenship. Again, it was said that this was a Christian Legislature, and that we ought not to destroy its characteristic. But was it a Christian Legislature? Were they all Christians? Were Unitarians Christians? What did they mean by the term Christians? Did it not imply a belief in the doctrine of the Trinity, which Unitarians disbelieved? As far as the strict meaning of the word Christian was concerned, it was plain they might as well exclude unitarians as Jews. Well, but it was said, once admit the Jews, and you cannot refuse admission to the members of any persuasion. His opinion was that they ought not, and, as far as he was concerned, he would not exclude Mahometans or Hindoos. If a Mahometan or a Hindoo were to obtain the confidence of a British constituency, he certainly would
 1412 Cheers
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  deprecated the strain of argument in which the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken had indulged. The question was not whether a man should be admitted into that House who should be chosen by any chance constituency, but whether a man of the highest station and character who had been elected to a seat in that House some two years ago by one of the most powerful and intelligent constituencies in the country, was, by the regulations of the House, to be debarred from taking his seat and joining in their deliberations—whether, in fact, that election was to be declared null and void? They could not come to a decision of that kind without declaring that the constituency of the metropolis had violated its electoral character. He was surprised that that view of the matter had not been more regarded in the course of the discussion. Following out the train of reasoning which it suggested, they would come to a sound and practical conclusion. He would recall to their consideration a matter which had not been sufficiently pressed upon their attention, namely, the end and object of the Bill before them, which was, that there should cease to be within the realm of Great Britain any one
 1434
 MR. SPOONER  said, that his faith was, that national sins had ever met, and ever would meet, with national punishment; and though the noble Lord the Member for Arundel had said that Roman Catholics had been before their admission into that House described as idolaters, and had argued from thence that the opinions of Protestants were changed, he would state that his opinion was that the Roman Catholic had ever been an idolatrous Church—his opinion was that it still was an idolatrous Church—and his opinion had not altered in the slightest degree because Roman Catholics had been admitted into that House. He did not think the ques-
 1420 1421
 Mr. SERJEANT TALFOURD  said, that there was something so inviting in the present state of the House, that he could not help saying a word or two on that question, in which he felt the deepest interest. There was something inviting in the present appearance of the House in another respect, because, giving full weight to the fears of hon. Gentlemen opposite, that that House and the country were about to be unchristianised, he could not help thinking that a great number of those who imagined that they were on the verge of that great calamity must have deceived themselves greatly as to the real state of
 1422 1423 1424
 MAJOR BERESFORD  seconded the Amendment. He considered the measure to be founded upon a principle which involved the national respect and deference
 1399
 MR. F. MACKENZIE  objected on the ground of the lateness of the hour, and moved, as an Amendment, that the House should adjourn.
 MR. F. MACKENZIE  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. F. PEEL  would not have risen to address the House on that occasion were
 1400 Cheers status 1401 1402 1403 1404 1405 1406 1407 1408 Cheers
 Sir G. GREY  said, that if any hon. Member objected to the principle of the Bill, ample time would be given before the Bill was passed on through the House.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  rose and said, he hardly thought it was quite consistent with the usual forms of that House to have the Order of the Day read for the second reading of a Bill introducing alterations into the constitution of England, without some statement of the alterations which it was calculated to effect. The measure, it was notorious, would never have been brought forward but for the purpose of the admission of a Jew into Parliament. The measure for relief of Jewish disabilities was first mooted soon after the election of a gentleman of the Hebrew faith for the city of London, as the colleague of the noble Lord at the head of the Government. It was rejected in the House of Lords. Immediately the noble Lord had reintroduced the measure under another name, "The Parliamentary Oaths Bill "—a course which, if not irregular, was hardly courteous to either House, and calculated to place the one in collision with the other. The measure, however, advanced no further than its mere announcement. Practically, the present measure was another "Jew Bill," altering, as it did, oaths hitherto thought essential, and which excluded Jews from that House. The alteration was suggested, too, without a single argument in its favour. He admitted the necessity of oaths being as short as pos-
 1397 "I will do my utmost endeavour to disclose and make known to Her Majesty and Her successors all treasons and conspiracies which may come to my knowledge;"— 1398
 MR. HEADLAM : * * 122 123 124 125 126 "That, notwithstanding such incorporation, the several shareholders for the time being in the said banking business, and those who shall have been shareholders therein, and their several executors, administrators, successors, and assigns, shall be and continue liable for all the dealings, covenants, and undertakings of the said company, subject to the provisions hereinafter contained, as fully as if the said company were not incorpoarted." 127 l 128 129 130 * "If the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Huskisson) had allowed persons to combine together on condition of depositing their capital and of limiting their responsibility to their capital, he would have found plenty of individuals ready to engage in such associations. Landed gentlemen would put down their five, their ten, or their twenty thousand pounds, as might be convenient, and banks would be formed all over the country on the best principles." "He allowed that it would be a great improvement, if, under a proper system, chartered banks were established with only a limited liability. But the Bank objected to the extension of this limited liability: it would, no doubt, induce many persons of great credit and fortune to invest their money in shares in such banks." * † Ib., p. 243. 131 * "In the case of joint-stock bank companies not issuing their own notes, one fourth of their subscribed capital should be paid up, and vested in securities, and that the shares in such banks should not be less than 100 l * † Ib., Vol. xix. p. 82. 132 "Any person being a member at any time between the date of the contract and the time when the debt arising therefrom is satisfied, is to become liable for its payment. A person might not be a party, or liable to the contract; he might not be a member of the copartnership at the time when proceedings were taken to enforce it; but by becoming a member at an intermediate period between the contract and the judgment, he would thereby render himself liable to the payment. This is no small advantage given to the creditor of such a concern." "If a number of persons choose to associate for carrying on any operation of commerce or industry, agreeing among themselves, and announcing to those with whom they deal, that the
 133 134 135
 The CHANCELLOR or THE EXCHEQUER  said, his hon. Friend had completely misrepresented what he stated. Far from attaching more value to ultimate than to immediate solvency, he said the very reverse.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, that, seeing the disposition of several hon. Members to uphold the principle of unlimited responsibility, he should not put the House to the trouble of a division, but would withdraw his Motion.
 MAJOR BLACKALL  rose to move the Resolution of which he had given notice, namely—
 "That the peculiar circumstances of Ireland, consequent upon four successive years of distress, require the immediate adoption of such measures as may assist and encourage the individual exertion of the owners and occupiers of Irish property, and promote industry by giving remunerative employment; and that all grants or loans of money to particular districts should be applied, as far as possible, to such purposes as may conduce to the eventual improvement of those districts, and enable them to support themselves from their ordinary resources." 152
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, his hon. and learned Friend had, in the course of his speech, gone into various details of the measure which he proposed to submit to the House; but into those details he should not follow him, as he was opposed altogether to the principle of limited responsibility in banks, which the hon. and learned Gentleman contended for. He thought it was but fair to him to state at once his opposition to the principle of the Bill, and his determination to take the decision of the House upon the principle of limited or unlimited responsibility as applied to banks, and therefore it would be unnecessary for him to go into details. Last year he had certainly received three or four representations from parties in favour of the views held by the hon. and learned Gentleman; but all of them came from the town of Newcastle, where this notion of limited liability had taken hold of the public mind. From no other part of the country had he received a single representation in favour of the principle of limited liability. His hon. and learned Friend had stated correctly that the 7th and 8th of Victoria prohibited limited responsibility; but he had referred to an advertisement of a bank about to be established in London, in which "limited liability" was put forward. This advertisement was extracted from the  Newcastle Chronicle Newcastle Chronicle 137 "There is a great difference of opinion as to unlimited liability and limited liability. I think that a middle course may be steered." "Persons of wealth and respectability would join with limited liability; but he said, at the same time, with unlimited liability I every day hear of persons of property taking shares." "Unlimited responsibility affords better security. Unlimited responsibility does not prevent persons from embarking in joint-stock banks, properly conducted." "A charter of limited liability might induce respectable persons to purchase shares. It might make the directors more negligent in looking after the concern. I think there might be danger to the public in limiting the liability." 138 "Where there are small stock banks, with small proprietaries, I think the security which they would give to the public would not be of that unquestionable description which it ought to be." "I think the condition of unlimited liability is the better of the two; it is a security to the public. In the instance of the late bank that stopped we have full proof of that." "I do not see myself any public advantage or security to be derived from limited responsibility." "In reference to the system of joint-stock banks, do you conceive it would be an improvement, or a disadvantage, to the present system, if joint-stock banks were permitted to be established with a limited liability?—I think it would be a very serious addition to the evils of the case." 139 140 l l History of Banking in America "Unlimited liability gives greater security to the public… Unlimited liability is to a certain extent a guarantee for prudent management… If in some cases even this has been found to fail, are there no failures on the other side? Has not limited liability been also tried, and failed? Are the 165 chartered banks that have failed in America to go for nothing?"
 MR. CARDWELL  thought that the hon. Baronet who had just sat down had been rather unfortunate in telling the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer that he had mistaken assertion for argument. He thought that imputation more fairly belonged to the hon. Baronet himself; for, after showing, as reason and example, that private banks sometimes failed in their solvency, and that joint-stock banks with unlimited liabilities were also sometimes unfortunate, the hon. Baronet jumped at once to the conclusion that their only security was in joint-stock banks with limited liabilities. That was a fair statement of the argument which the hon. Baronet addressed to the House. He did not see this question involved any recondite matters of monetary speculation, or of monetary history. He thought it was a very simple question—the application of ordinary common sense to a very familiar business—the business of banking. The object was to attain well-constituted and well-directed banks; and how was this to be accomplished? By requiring from all persons connected with them that they should be liable to the whole extent of their fortunes; or by allowing persons, to whom a few thousand pounds were of comparative indifference, to place them in an institution where they might expect a higher rate of interest than they could otherwise attain, while they remained careless as to the management of the institution, because the loss would be a small one to them? Before the Committee, of which so much had been said, this subject was referred to; and one of the witnesses stated the difference between joint-stock
 144 "What would be the effect of establishing banks with limited liabilities?" "I think you will retain the evils of both systems, with none of the advantages of either—that was to say, that they would have smaller resources to fall back upon to secure ultimate solvency, and less vigilance to secure solvency at the moment." "Have the goodness to state what are the evils we should retain of the system of private banking?—We should have a security inferior to that which most private banking establishments give, and, generally speaking, a less safe system of management." 145 "I do not believe any mode can be devised which would enable the public to judge of the trustworthiness of the accounts published by banks, or to obtain from these accounts a satisfactory pledge as to their real position. Nothing but constant and daily superintendence can supply the means of accurate knowledge. The only real security is in having good management, at whatever cost and in whatever form; and this is more likely to be required by shareholders, who know that all their property is pledged on its accomplishment." "I have a strong opinion that if you limit the responsibility of shareholders, you take from the public the only really valuable security which they possess; and that a law to establish joint-stock banks with limited liabilities would be most objectionable to the safety of the community at large. Without the power of scrutinising the bills and assets of the bank, the publication of their accounts would be liable to deceive; because, by the insertion of securities that could not be realised, of bills that were overdue and unpaid, and of debts which the parties were not able to meet, it was obvious that these accounts might be made to meet the means of any one who had an object to serve." 146 l l l nil; l l l l l l l l nil l nil l l l l l l l 147 148
 MR. MACGREGOR  believed that the greatest misfortune which could be inflicted on this country would be to establish banks in England with limited responsibility. The whole of the business in Scotland was transacted by joint-stock banks, and he was glad to know that the Bill of 1844 would cause these joint-stock concerns in this country to be conducted on such principles as would give the most extensive security to the public. Allusion had been made to a new bank in London which had been established upon the Scotch principle. He was happy to assure the House that the responsibility of the shareholders in that concern would be altogether unlimited, and that, in his opinion, joint-
 151
 MR. W. BROWN : Sir, I dissent from most of the opinions expressed by the hon. Baronet the Member for the Tower Hamlets, as well as those of the hon. and learned Member for Newcastle-upon-Tyne; but I agree with the hon. Member for Liverpool, as I have been connected with one of the joint-stock banks in Liverpool, to which the hon. Baronet has alluded, ever since the commencement of joint-stock banking. That bank deemed it proper at an early period of their business, to send a deputation to Manchester to meet deputations from other joint-stock banks from various parts of the kingdom, to discuss the propriety of asking Her Majesty's Government to establish limited liability to shareholders; and a great majority of the trading interests there represented, repudiated limited liability. They considered it of great importance to this country that parties should know with whom they dealt; that they should have the greatest possible security for their transactions; and that a mere list of stockholders would not give them that information and guarantee which they ought to possess for the good management of joint-stock banks, and therefore no action was taken in this matter. The Bank of England, and two Scotch banks under charters of limited liability, are cited
 149 pro rata 150 s
 MR. EWART  said, that having entertained a strong impression for many years in favour of the measure which his hon. and learned Friend had introduced, he begged leave to be permitted briefly to second the Motion. The conviction on his
 136
 SIR W. CLAY  begged permission to say a few words on the subject before the House, as he had been personally alluded
 141 l 142 s 143
 MR. MOFFATT  inquired of the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether it was the intention of the Government to impose any duty upon the article of chicory; and if so, whether there was any intention of reimposing the excise surveillance which had existed for so many years? He asked these questions more particularly in reference to certain memorials which had been addressed to the Government by influential parties interested in the colonies.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  thought it would be advisable for the hon. Baronet to state precisely what he intended to do with respect to the Bill.
 MR. GREENE  suggested that the better course would be to strike out in Committee the whole of the first six clauses, and leave the remainder of the Bill to be dealt with on a future occasion.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  thought that if the hon. and gallant Member wished to get rid of the Bill, he could not do so by better means than getting rid of it clause by clause, as the Committee were now doing.
 MR. ORMSBY GORE  said, that he considered the Committee to be fairly constituted; indeed, if the Committee were composed of Scotch and Irish Members exclusively, who were unconnected with the different interests concerned, it would be the more likely to arrive at a perfectly independent decision.
 MR. LAWLESS  would give his cordial support to this measure. He was not aware, until informed of the circumstance when he came into the House, that the happy accident of the Ministers being asleep had secured the second reading of this Bill; and if similar results were to follow, it might be a very good thing for Ireland
 171
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  begged to express his dissent from the statement of the last speaker, that the people of the distressed parts of Ireland were indolent and indisposed to work. The fact was, that most of them bad suffered so much that they were unable, though willing, to work; and he regretted to have to concur in the painful representations given by the hon. Member
 170
 MR. STAFFORD  was sorry that the reports which he received from Ireland were not of so cheering a nature as those which had been received by the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary. He feared that the ray of hope had only glimmered upon one side of Ireland, while the other portions were plunged into still darker despair and gloom. He attributed much of the existing evils of Ireland to the extended area of taxation. In the county with which he was connected—the county of Clare—in that county the right hon. Baronet stated that there had been upwards of 15,000 evictions. That might be all very true; but if any hon. Member would inquire he would find that the greatest number of evictions had taken place in those electoral areas which were the largest; and it would appear that the numbers were just in proportion to the extent of the area. One witness before their Committee had declared that, in some instances, the area extended to as many as 12,000 acres, in others to more, and in one instance to as many as 17,000 acres. After all, the question would still and still revive—what was an ablebodied labourer? Here was a great practical difficulty in giving a proper answer to that question. In order to carry out the full principle of the Bill, they must give a ratio of wages on which all persons should be bound to act; and without some such provision as this, they would be adopting a principle which, obnoxious in England, would be perfectly impracticable in Ireland. The hon. Gentleman who had so strongly put to the House the idea of so many labourers in Ireland standing idle on so many thousand acres, had said, let this arrangement be left to the board of guardians. With this suggestion he quite agreed, for every Bill that had lately been laid on the table of
 165
 MR. STAFFORD  moved that Mr. Eliot Yorke be discharged from further attendance on the Select Committee on Smith-field Market, and that Sir De Lacy Evans be added to the Committee.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he had a precedent for the Motion, inasmuch as the Chairman of the Committee had upon a previous occasion proposed the omission of Mr. Eliot Yorke's name. Mr. Yorke, he understood, was unwell. He had not yet attended the meetings of the Committee, and there was a feeling among those interested in the trade of the market that their interests were not sufficiently represented. As to not having communicated himself with the Committee, he was not aware it was necessary; but, as representing a grazing county, he thought it would be far better that his own name should be struck off it, than that the Committee should remain as it was. The hon. and gallant Member for Westminster was willing to serve if appointed.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  inquired whether the duty which the right hon. Gentleman contemplated would be imposed on chicory grown in England?
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that what he wanted was, to get rid of the Bill, and the hon. Baronet too.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  thought he had
 174
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that he certainly could not understand what the Committee were about; and moved that the Chairman report progress, and obtain leave to sit again.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Decidedly. It would be a duty imposed on chicory grown in England, and roasted for the purpose of being used as coffee.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he had stated some weeks ago, in answer to the hon. and learned Member for Youghal, that this subject was under the consideration of the Government; and he also stated then, that which he believed to be true, that to a certain extent the use of chicory promoted the use of coffee, but that if it were employed to a great extent it would interfere unjustly both with the colonial producer and the revenue of the country. He said, also, at that time, that it would be extremely unjust to impose a duty in the course of this year on chicory, the cultivation of which had been carried on under the expectation that no duty would be imposed; but he wished persons to take warning, that if upon further inquiry it should appear that the use of chicory interfered to a great extent with the growth of coffee, a duty might be imposed upon it next year. The result of the inquiry which he had made since that time, showed that there had been a considerable falling-off in the growth of coffee, and had led him to the conviction that the use of chicory, roasted and used as coffee, had interfered to a considerable extent with the growth of coffee, to the injury alike of the colonial grower and the revenue. If further experience should show that that still went on, he should feel it necessary to impose a duty upon chicory roasted and used as coffee. It was not his intention to re-establish the excise surveillance, which he believed to be perfectly useless; but he should take the same course with regard to home-grown chicory as was taken with foreign chicory before home-grown was known—namely, to impose a small duty, which would afford the consumer the benefit of the use of chicory, whilst it would not injure the revenue or the colonies.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Certainly not.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that chicory, roasted for the
 155
 MR. F. FRENCH  could not concur in the objections of his right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland to this Bill. It was perfectly true that the system embodied in this Bill had been tried in this country, and that it had not worked successfully or satisfactorily. But the circumstances of the two countries were entirely different. If the system had failed in this country, it was owing to the absence of that stimulus which now existed in great force in Ireland, and which would force the farmers of that country to evince a great desire to carry out this proposition of the hon. Member for Stroud—he alluded to the stimulus which the present destruction of property in Ireland (caused by mislegislation) administered to every Irish farmer to adopt every conceivable means to remove the crushing burden of poor-rates from his shoulders. Some of the ablest and most practical men in Ireland had given their opinion that this measure would work well. If the Legislature would adopt a reasonable view of the case of Ireland, and listen to the opinions of the residents of Ireland, they would know that if the people of that country were permitted to apply their means for the employment of labour, they would save the whole expense of the staff of the workhouses, from one end of the country to the other. But instead of thus judiciously applying the funds derived from the
 160 l l
 COLONEL DUNNE  agreed that the principle of employing the people by a labourrate was bad. It had failed in England, and could not possibly be rendered practicable in Ireland. But that was not the object of this Bill. It was only proposed to carry out the principle which had already been found successful in Ireland, namely, that of voluntary associations for the employment of labour. He certainly considered the details of the Bill to be objectionable; but as those could be altered in Committee, he should give his support to the Motion of the hon. Member for Stroud, preferring that the Bill should go into Committee of the whole House rather than he sent to the Select Committee on the Irish Poor Law now sitting upstairs. He maintained that it was the poor-law which had brought Ireland into its present state; for, although it was impossible not to allow that many had been rescued from starvation by the money applied by the poor-law, yet it was equally impossible to deny that much destitution had been reproduced by
 166
 SIR H. W. BARRON  felt embarrassed about the manner in which he should vote upon this Bill; because, whilst its objects were not only legitimate, but most desirable, and whilst all who were really acquainted with the state of Ireland practically must be ready to grasp at any measure likely to give additional employment, or incentives to employment, in that country; nevertheless, he was afraid that the Bill, good as was its principle, would fail in carrying out its objects: still, he should vote for referring it to a Committee. But he must tell Her Majesty's Government that all their legislation to stimulate employment, and the investment of capital in land, or to amend the poor-law, would be perfectly nugatory and useless so long as they allowed the enormous size of the electoral divisions to remain in their present state. In the largest electoral division in the county of Waterford—that of Ardmore, in the union of Dungarvon—the evictions within six months numbered no fewer than 600, being at double the rate of the evictions in any other electoral division in the entire county. This proved that the larger the area of the electoral division, the more certain were they that evictions by wholesale would take place within them; and the reason was this—that the man who turned out forty or fifty poor people in a large electoral division, did not have to pay for their support himself, but only shared the burden with nine or ten other landlords in the same district. Now, if we reduced the area, so as to make him pay for the support of the whole forty or fifty evicted persons, instead of for a proportion of perhaps, only five of them, as was often the case under the large area, that proprietor would be led to hesitate before be adopted a course which would only be injurious to his own interest. This was the prime injustice and most prominent evil of the existing poor-law: it destroyed all chance of its having its proper effect; and unless the Legislature applied a bold and suitable remedy, all their mere tinkering and patching would be utterly useless.
 MR. J. E. DENISON  supported the Bill. They had evidence that while numbers of the ablebodied poor were unemployed and destitute, large tracts of land were remaining uncultivated for the want of the seed to put into it. If assistance were at once given to enable the people to raise grain crops on those lands, it was possible that the progress of the famine might be stayed; but unless such assistance was immediate, there would be but little chance—seeing that we had now
 162
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that in the belief that much of the misery of Ireland was to be ascribed to the absence of employment for the ablebodied poor, and thinking that the Bill of the hon. Member for Stroud would tend to promote such employment, he should give that measure his support. The hon. Member for Northamptonshire had proposed a reduction in the area of taxation, on the ground that if the change were made, and an ablebodied man found himself without employment, he would apply to the guardians, who would give him outdoor relief. Now, what was that outdoor relief? Outdoor relief, in his opinion, meant outdoor starvation—outdoor relief meant, reducing an ablebodied man to a helpless skeleton—outdoor relief meant, the depopulation of Ireland. What was the amount of that relief? One pound of Indian meal to each adult pauper within the 24 hours, and half that quantity to a person under age. In the majority of unions in Ireland, the adult who received that amount of food had not fuel to dress it with. That was what was called relief throughout half of Ireland, and the people
 167 Freeman's Journal Tralee Chronicle "At the meeting of the Tralee hoard of guardians on Tuesday Mr. John Twiss, of Haremount, related to us the following horrifying circumstance:—A farmer named Daly, of Killackeon, in the parish of Dysert, in the previous week, lost a mare in fever. In two hours after the skin was taken off the entrails and head were seized upon by some squalid wretches and devoured! This occurred within a musket-shot of Mr. Twiss's house. And yet we have a board of guardians, relieving officers, with rates upon rates, wrung from many who are themselves paupers, or descending rapidly to that class. Mr. Twiss, who is himself a guardian, and an attentive one, should have brought this frightful affair before his brother guardians. Mr. Twiss informed us also, that a poor man in his locality, who had succeeded in procuring a coffin for his brother, was obliged to leave it on the road, within two miles of the hovel where the dead man lay, and died on the spot, the victim of that exhaustion and physical debility which what is called outdoor relief is every day producing, and which had already, bit by bit, crushed the life from the once vigorous frame of his brother. They were buried next day in the same humble grave." 168 169
 MR. HENLEY  inquired whether the right hon. Gentleman intended to tax, in the same way, burnt bread, which was not unfrequently used by the poorer classes as coffee?
 MR. HENLEY  asked whether the House was to understand that the British grower of chicory was to be subjected to a tax if it were used as a beverage, without being mixed with coffee?
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  moved the Second Reading of the Bill for Encouraging the Employment of Labour in Ireland. He said that, without claiming for this Bill the character of a great and comprehensive measure, he expected it would produce considerable improvement in the condition of the working classes in Ireland by stimulating employment. He proposed it not as a substitute for, but as an adjunct to, the poor-law, in the view of relieving that law from the stigma of operating as a discouragement to the employment of labour. All parties were united in one belief as to the great advantages which would result from the employment of labour, and the inadequacy of the existing means for effecting that object. Was it that the labourers were unwilling to earn their own livelihood? Was it that they preferred idleness and parochial assistance to work and wages? The right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth had vindicated the character of the Irish labourers from that charge; and it had been proved by experience that the labourers were willing to work, rather than have recourse to parochial relief. He confidently referred upon this point to the evidence of Colonel Knox Gore before a Committee of the House of Lords upon the Irish poor-law. That Gentleman stated that employment had produced a marked improvement in point of feeling, and that, though he at first found a difficulty in getting them to work, they worked satisfactorily in the course of a month, so that now he found that when they did a good day's labour they were greatly pleased to receive their small stipend, which was paid to them every evening in cash. It was, after such experience, a harsh, cruel, and inhuman calumny against these men to say they would not labour, the fact being that they were willing to work for the smallest possible amount to maintain themselves and their families.
 156 s s d 157 s s s
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  said, before the House went to a division he wished to explain one matter. He feared they were about to divide under a misapprehension as to what passed between him and the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland. The right hon. Baronet, on the part of the Government, stated, that if he (Mr. P. Scrope) had proposed to refer the Bill to the Select Committee, he should not object to it. The moment he announced his acquiescence in that proposal, the right hon. Baronet dissented from it instantly. He was in the hands of the House; but he wished to say he would be perfectly satisfied to refer the Bill to the Committee on the poor-law upstairs, and hoped the House would not dismiss summarily a measure which had been supported by all the Irish Members except those who had some crotchet about diminishing the area of taxation.
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  said, he had no objection to adopt the course of sending the Bill before the Committee now sitting on the Irish poor-law, if that would meet the views of the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, that however unprecedented the course might be that was followed by the hon. Member for Northamptonshire, he believed that he was entitled to the thanks of persons connected with very great interests both in the metropolis and in the country, for the course he had pursued. However well some Members of the Committee might be satisfied with the constitution of the Committee, the butchers of the metropolis and the graziers
 176
 MR. R. M. FOX  believed that some such measure was required for the present state of Ireland. He believed that if they adopted the proposal to exempt from the
 161
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  contended that the grazing interests were fairly represented upon the Committee, and that great inconvenience would arise if the practice was sanctioned of Motions to discharge individual Members without consulting either the Chairman, the Committee, or the Member himself.
 MR. SLANEY  would venture to ask the House to recollect the numerous evils that prevailed throughout twenty-five of the southern counties of this kingdom some years ago, in consequence of the operation of a scheme such as that which the hon. Gentleman now proposed to introduce into Ireland. And he would ask them to be careful before they adopted such a plan, without having it guarded, at all events, from those evils which in this country were found to have been of so lamentable and demoralising a character. He gave the hon. Member for Stroud every credit for the benevolence of his intentions; but he believed that if this measure were carried into effect, it would have a tendency not to improve, but permanently to depress the condition of Ireland. If, however, in the present extraordinary state of Ireland, it were carried out for a period of two years, it might possibly assist the people of that country to pass through a state of transition from extreme misery to improvement; and entertaining such a view of the measure, he would vote for its operation during that limited period, on the understanding that in Committee every possible means should be adopted to guard it against the evils which were attached to the system when it was in force in England.
 MR. W. FAGAN  seconded the Motion.
 MR. KEOGH  wished to remove some misunderstanding which had unfortunately been originated by what fell from him on the prosecutions which had been conducted in Ireland. He assured the House that he had carefully abstained from any remarks of a personal nature, whether for praise or blame; and the Attorney General on that occasion did him full justice in having been able to keep to his original purpose strictly throughout. It appeared, however, that he had unintentionally given offence to a friend of his, Mr. George Bennett, the senior Crown prosecutor, on the Munster circuit, whom, if he had mentioned any one, he would certainly have mentioned with praise; for he was a gentleman who stood high in his profession, and who had merited the approbation of the public for the zeal and success with which he had conducted the prosecutions. Another gentleman, connected with the Western circuit, had also taken umbrage at the same debate—a gentleman who had always discharged his duties with zeal and ability. But, after assuring the House that he had no intention to injure the feelings or the reputation of any one, he hoped he had done his duty towards those two gentlemen.
 MR. MACKINNON  opposed the Motion on the ground of the unprecedented and unusual course adopted by the hon. Member in making the Motion. No communication had been made by the hon. Member to the Committee of his intention to bring forward such a Motion. As Chairman of the Committee, he believed that he expressed correctly the opinions of the other Members of the Committee, when he said that they were perfectly satisfied with the Committee as at present constituted. There had been an ample attendance of the Members of the Committee during its proceedings, never less than thirteen out of the fifteen Members, and he could not conceive any possible reason for making any alteration in the Committee.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  would ask the House if something should not be done to encourage the employment of the people of Ireland? He did not mean to say that the present measure would do everything that was required, or that it was not liable to some objection. But he put it to the House whether every measure was not liable to objection more or less grave, and whether it would not be well to adopt a plan which would at least do some good, even although it might not be wholly unobjectionable? It was objected to it that it would demoralise the people; but the present poor-law was demoralising the people to a frightful extent, and the present Bill was proposed for the purpose of preventing some portion of the demoralisation which the poor-law was producing. It need not be made a general Act. It might be limited to certain unions; and he himself would be favourable to its limitation. He thought that Ireland was in a transition state. The present measure was suited to a country in a transition state; and, in fact, no measure and no system could be devised which would be applicable without certain limitations to the condition of Ireland. He implored the House not to reject the Bill. They might make such modifications in it as would make it more suitable to the circumstances of the case; but he begged of them at least to give it a trial.
 SIR A. B. BROOKE  entirely concurred in the object sought to be attained by the Bill, but could not agree in the plan by which it was proposed to be carried out. He believed it would be quite impracticable to carry it out in the southern and western districts of Ireland, owing to the indolent habits that had been engendered amongst the people by the vicious system of outdoor relief. During the recent calamities the Society of Friends had offered the peasantry seed gratuitously in the west of Ireland; but the people actually refused to accept it, because they would not take the trouble of putting it into the ground so long as they could obtain outdoor relief. He entreated the House to adopt measures to compel absentee landlords who did not reside six months in the country, to employ people in developing the resources of the soil, because he believed that that would be the only effectual means of meeting the necessities of the case.
 SIR C. DOUGLAS  expressed his surprise that this Motion should have been made. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Cambridgeshire had given great attention to the subject upon the former Committee; and to move to discharge him without any request from him, or any acquiescence on his part, was, at least, an unusual proceeding. If the parties interested in the question were not properly represented upon the Committee, an addition to it might be moved, and the hon. Member for Middlesex might be substituted for his noble Colleague (Lord R. Grosvenor), who was unable to attend, but certainly no grounds had been laid for the present Motion.
 SIR G. GREY , having been appealed to, could only say it appeared to be an unusual course to propose the substitution of one Member for another, without communication with the Chairman, or some of the Committee, unless some strong reason was
 177
 SIR Gr. GREY  said, that the Bill having been read a second time rather by accident than otherwise, he thought the House might fairly be called upon to vote upon the principle of the measure in this further stage of it; for if it were now allowed to go into a Committee, it might be concluded that the House had assented to the principle which the Bill involved. He should, therefore, take issue upon the principle of the Bill by opposing its going into Committee. The principle of the Bill was to reduce all labour to the standard of pauper labour, and to reduce wages to a minimum. The hon. Member for Stroud required that a certain number of persons should be employed according to the extent of the estate of the landlord, and the same rate of wages was to be given. Now, the House was not altogether ignorant of what would be the practical effect of such a measure, because they had had the experience of the operation of a similar plan as applied to England. Some years ago, just such a Bill as this was tried in, England; and he believed the most convincing testimony was afforded that the principle of the measure was vicious, and tended to defeat the object they all had in view, that of affording legitimate employment to labour and capital. The Poor Law Commissioners had, in their report, adverted to this point, and had given it as their opinion that it would be an attempt to coerce the occupiers of land to employ labour, instead of encouraging them to employ it voluntarily, and therefore profitably. He would not go into the objections which he entertained to the details of the Bill. He thought the provisions of it were utterly impracticable. His hon. Friend the Member for Malton had expressed a hope that it would be in his (Sir G. Grey's) power to state to the House, on the part of the Government, that they had some plan in contemplation for the remedy of the evil which it was admitted on all hands existed in Ireland
 163 d 164
 SIR G. GREY  seconded the Motion.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  said, that after the decision at which the House had arrived on a former day on the first clause of this Bill, which had reference to the declarations to be made by Members at the table, he had postponed it for the purpose of considering what should be done with the remaining clauses. He had some hesitation, after that decision, on a point to which he attached some importance, whether he should go on with the Bill; but understanding that some influential Members of the House were desirous to have a portion of the Bill preserved, he wished to give notice that although it was not then his intention to proceed with those portions of the measure, he did intend on a future day to do so. After the decision which had been pronounced, he did not intend to ask the House to assent to the declarations which it was proposed should be made by Members at the hustings, and by agents; but there were other clauses—beginning, he thought, with the sixth—which he considered it was desirable that the House should pass, and he proposed to fix the Committee for a future day, with a view to take those clauses into consideration.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  said, that he had no objection whatever to that course.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  thought the House would agree with him in thinking that nothing had fallen from the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Lincoln that was worthy of notice. [Colonel SIBTHORP: Hear, hear!] With respect to what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Northampton, he admitted there was some practical difficulty in dealing with the matter. As he had before said, it was not his intention—in consequence of the division on a former day, to proceed with the declarations, but he intended to proceed with other parts of the Bill. It was only in deference to the opinion of very high authorities in the House, that he intended to persevere with the latter portions of his Bill. He did not mean to press then the earlier clauses, but it would still be competent for any hon. Member to take what course he pleased with respect to them.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  then moved that the Chairman report progress.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, the hon. Member for Stroud had misrepresented him, though, he was quite sure, unintentionally. What he had said was, that if the hon. Member had invited him to consider the question in Committee upstairs, he should have been very happy to give it the best consideration in his power; but as the hon. Member had thought fit to launch his Bill before Parliament without having taken such a step, he (Sir W. Somerville) must oppose it. The fact was, the hon. Member was anxious to do two things—to make a speech, and to refer his Bill to a Committee. But he could not do both.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  appeared to be about to address the House, but, delaying for two or three moments, was informed by Mr. Speaker that it was then too late to address the House, as the Motion had been agreed to.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that he thought what had just occurred must prove to his hon. Friend, that he was not very anxious to oppose any measure that his hon. Friend thought it his duty to introduce to the House. He could assure his hon. Friend that the measure would not receive at his hands—to use his own words—any contemptuous rejection; because he fully appreciated the hon. Member's motives, and he believed that every Gentleman connected with Ireland owed his hon. Friend a debt of gratitude for his persevering attempts to alleviate the miseries which unfortunately afflicted the poorer classes in Ireland. If his hon. Friend had moved that the subject be referred to the Select Committee now sitting, he, for one, should have been ready to give it his best consideration then; but after the course which his hon. Friend had taken, he felt that he had now no alternative but to oppose the Motion for referring the Bill to a Committee. He believed that few questions had been more debated than the question of forced labour, which was, after all, the principle of the Bill; and the general impression seemed to be that such a system was most demoralising to the labourer. His hon. Friend had referred to the evidence taken before the Committee upstairs; but he had not noticed the fact that Mr. Twisleton, who had much experience in the working of the law in Ireland, had stated in his evidence that all the objections that could be urged against forced labour in England, applied with tenfold force to Ireland. The proposition of his hon. Friend was a departure from the great principle, which it was so necessary to adhere to, of keeping labour and relief completely distinct. Under this Bill the labourer, feeling that he worked not for profit but for relief, would give as little work as he could for the money which he received. His hon. Friend said, that in some parishes in England the system worked well. That might be the case, and he believed that in some parts of Ireland, for instance in the county with which he was connected, the system would work well; but then there were other parts, such as the pauperised districts of Mayo, Galway, and the other parts of the west of Ireland, where the system would be most prejudicial. He did not wish at the present time to allude to the details of the measure; but if hon. Members would look to the clauses, they
 159
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  agreed with the hon. Member that he had spoken on the occasion referred to without the slightest personal allusion to any one.
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  contended, that the measure was utterly impracticable, and that, even if it were practicable, it was irredeemably bad in principle. He maintained that much of the absence of employment in Ireland was occasioned by the indecision of Government as to the course they meant to pursue with reference to the area of taxation. He assured the Government that the question was one of surpassing interest among all parties in Ireland. He had attended many meetings of poor-law guardians in that country, and the universal cry was "Establish a small area of taxation, and we will soon take the people out of the workhouse." He hoped the House would not pass the present Bill, for it would afford no remedy to the existing evils.
 VISCOUNT PALMENSTON  said, as the Greek Government had made no payment of the interest, and as this country had guaranteed the payment, it had fallen on us to make it good. Government were in communication with the Government of Greece, and continually pressing upon them the necessity of making good their engagements. That Government promised to pay the interest with the first produce of the Greek revenue; but that, he was sorry to say, had been so small that they had not hitherto done so.
 MR. M'GREGOR  said, that during his connexion with the Board of Trade, this question had been often brought before it, and he should say that he thought it would be perfectly impossible to prevent the adulteration of ground coffee, or of anything in a pulverized state. To attempt such a thing would require great and intricate machinery, and it could never be effectually prevented after all. But as to the imposition of a new excise duty, he would rather see the present duty taken off hops, than another excise duty established. To meet the falling-off in the importation of coffee and the increased consumption of chicory, he would recommend the reduction of the duty on foreign-grown coffee, so as to cheapen it to an extent that would hold out no inducement for adulteration. He believed the Chancellor of the Exchequer was quite right in asserting that the admixture of chicory improved the cheaper and inferior coffees, and that it was only the high-priced and high-flavoured foreign coffees that were injured by the adulteration.
 MR. DRUMMOND  rose to move the appointment of a Committee to consider the public expenditure and the existing system of taxation. He said, that he rose with the greatest hesitation and embarrassment) which every one felt in rising to address the House when he had reason to suppose that the minds of hon. Members were preoccupied with a subject very different from that upon which he was about to speak. Having lately read  The Memoirs of P. P.; or, the Importance of a Man to Himself 209 in limine 210 "That all classes of productive industry laboured under serious depression, arising from the great reductions in the profits of capital and labour, and from the diminished consumption caused by the excessive pressure of local and national taxation." 211 Edinburgh Review 212 l l l l l l l l 213 l 214 215 s ad valorem adscripti glebœ 216 Whole Duty of Man 217 l l 218 History of the Public Revenue l 219
 SIR J. TYRBLL  said, he would not have risen to address the House at all on that occasion had it not been for the remark of the hon. Member for West Surrey, that those who had been attending the meetings which had of late taken place throughout the country were agricultural impostors, when they spoke of attempting to restore protective duties on the import of foreign corn. Now, though he (Sir J. Tyrell) did not agree with the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the subject of finance, yet he must say he thought he had gone far to show that the hon. Member for Surrey was a financial impostor. He understood that hon. Member to have called the gentlemen who had been recently meeting in his own county and speaking in favour of protection, a mass of impostors. He regretted to say that he (Sir J. Tyrell) had felt it to be his duty to attend similar meetings in the county he had the honour to represent; and, however lightly the Manchester school or any other school might think of such matters, he had no hesitation in saying, that, so far as his own county was concerned, they had given all the free-trade Members that were connected with it or its boroughs Parliamentary notice to quit. The borough of Harwich had been the only place they had been unable to touch; but there was now a great reaction in that neighbourhood; and one gentleman of great influence there had permitted him (Sir J. Tyrell) to state that his sentiments on free trade had undergone an unequivocal alteration, so that he (Sir J. Tyrell) had now to give the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control, the Member for Harwich, also, notice to quit. The hon. Member for West Surrey called them impostors, because they thought they would get back protection; but with reference to the present Motion of the hon. Member himself, of however grave a character he might consider it, he must say, after the way in which it had been handled by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he did not think that it would sustain for the hon. Member that character for good sense and discretion he had hitherto possessed in that House. The hon. Member, too, had shown much levity in the course of his speech on many matters of serious importance, and on many others had failed to make out his position, and particularly with reference to the colonies;
 227 Laughter on the free-trade benches usque ad nauseam
 MR. J. O'CONNBLL  observed, that the hon. Gentleman the Member for West Surrey had expressed himself reluctant to enter into the question of Ireland; but when he left out Ireland, he left out the part of  Hamlet
 MR. COBDBN  rose and said that he was not one disposed to doubt the sincerity of the hon. Gentleman who had proposed this resolution, or to charge him with undue levity. On the contrary, in a great deal of what the hon. Gentleman had said he concurred. He agreed with him that the tendency of excessive taxation had been to produce revolutions; that it was the tendency of bodies of rich men to lay undue taxation on the poor; that the colonial system required remodelling; that the waste of expenditure in the dockyards and other establishments was excessive; and that the public debt ought to be grappled with. In these views he agreed with the hon. Gentleman, and he did not much differ from him as to the means of accomplishing what he proposed. The hon. Gentleman said, "Put on a property tax, equalise the land tax, and with the produce eventually
 239 240 241 from the Protectionists d d 242 s 243
 MR. DRUMMOND  rose to reply. He said, he was perfectly surprised at the language of some hon. Members, and the advice of others. But in not laying his Resolution upon the table of the House, he believed he was in conformity with the practice of the House; he remembered one case in point; he recollected that when the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade was asked, in bringing the navigation laws before the House last year, to lay his Resolution on the table, he distinctly refused. He observed, that it had been the invariable custom never to lay the resolution before the House till they were about to go into Committee. He did not put in any resolution respecting direct taxation, because he differed widely from hon. Gentlemen on the subject. The first observation that he had made to the House, was to warn the House against any one measure being sufficient to bring about the reduction which he said was necessary to the exigencies of the case, and he said we must go over the whole of our taxable system. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer began, first of all, with giving him a lecture for having lectured the House a great deal too seriously, and having talked to them about their selfishness, and about the way in which the rich always oppressed the poor. He suspected that the knowledge of the right hon. Gentleman, politically, was on a par with his knowledge of law, for he seemed never to have heard of the Saxon law by which every hundred in the kingdom was punished for every case of violence; and
 244
 MR. A. HASTIE  expressed his full concurrence in the principle of the Bill.
 MR. F. MAULE  said, that if the noble Lord admitted that such a measure as the present was imperatively demanded, it was asking nothing unreasonable to propose that the Bill should be advanced a stage at that hour.
 MR. CHARTERIS  said, the House would remember that when he called its attention the other day to certain rumours in regard to an expenditure of sums of money unaccounted for under the head of "Parliamentary Expenses" in a report recently published by a Committee appointed to inquire into the management of the affairs of the Eastern Counties Railway, he then gave notice, in accordance with what appeared to be the general feeling of the House, that he should move for a Committee to inquire into the whole matter. He should think that every Member would be anxious and eager to investigate this subject, and clear away those rumours which so prejudicially affected the honour of the House and the character of its Members. He could not anticipate any opposition to his Motion, and would, therefore, not weary the House by making any further remarks, but would at once move—
 "That a Select Committee be appointed to in-
 247
 LORD D. STUART  said, that this was a Bill in which a large body of the inhabitants of the metropolis took great interest—and he trusted, therefore, that no opposition would be offered to the introduction of the Bill.
 MR. C. BRUCE  would have preferred a board in Scotland. He likewise objected to the Bill because it ousted the county magistrates from jurisdiction, and conferred it exclusively upon the sheriff.
 MR. B. COCHRANE  said, that although he had been present during the whole of the hon. Member for West Surrey's speech, he felt compelled to rise to state that he did not think the hon. Gentleman had been at all fairly dealt with by those hon. Gentleman who had accused him of approaching this serious subject with feelings of unseemly levity. Different individuals naturally had their different and peculiar styles in addressing the House, and certainly there might have been something, now and then, amusing in the course of his hon. Friend's speech; but he was sure that all those who had deeply thought on the question, when they came to read that speech, would certainly acquit his hon. Friend of anything like the charge which had been brought against him. There had, indeed, been levity upon this subject; but it was the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in his reply to the speech of his hon. Friend, who had evinced that levity, and who had taken advantage of his hon. Friend's having introduced various topics to overlook and override the main feature of that speech—namely, the principle which it laid down of throwing the burden of the taxation of the country upon those classes who were best able to bear it, and relieving the poorer classes from the crushing pressure upon them. That had been the tone and temper of his hon. Friend's speech; and he (Mr. B. Cochrane) was glad to have this opportunity of expressing his cordial concurrence in the principle which it had enunciated, because he believed it was one of the most noble and most worthy principles that could govern the conduct of a country or a legislature.
 MR. B. COCHRANE , seeing the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs now in his place, which was a rare sight at the time for questions, wished to ask him whether the British Government were still paying the interest on the Greek loan, and whether he intended to insist on that being paid by the Greek Government?
 MR. B. COCHRANE  hoped the British Government would insist upon payment. The answer of the noble Viscount was precisely the same now as he had got six years ago.
 MR. OSWALD  stated, that great jealousy prevailed in Scotland at the number of new offices created by the Bills which the Lord Advocate had introduced. At the present moment there were four Bills upon the table, each of which created four new offices. Those offices would entail an expense not only upon Scotland, but England, because the salaries would be paid out of the Treasury. If it were necessary to incur expense, in order to promote the health of the people of Scotland, let it be done, but the necessity should be made apparent.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  then said, that the object of the Bill was to apply to Scotland the provisions of the Bill passed last year with reference to England and Ireland. That measure, he believed, had been productive of very great advantages to the towns in which it had been put into operation. Scotland had been purposely exempted from that measure. He now proposed, however, that Scotland should experience its benefits, and he had, therefore, drawn up the present Bill, which was similar to that which had been passed for England and Ireland. This was not, however, a compulsory Bill, as was the measure which had been adopted for those two countries. He proposed that its provisions
 254
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for West Surrey was one, no doubt, not only of general but of universal interest. It was a Motion "That we resolve ourselves into Committee to consider the public expenditure, and the existing system of taxation, and how far both may be revised, with a view to relieve the pressure upon the industry of the country." He had not the gratification of hearing entirely the speech of his hon. Friend, though he had the pleasure of listening to a considerable portion of it. He entirely acquitted his hon. Friend of treating this grave subject in a tone of levity. A spirit of philosophic sarcasm did not necessarily involve a tone of levity; and he knew well, not
 234 235 236
 MR. COWAN  referred to a report from the Edinburgh commissioners of police, to show the necessity for the Bill before the House. The people of Scotland were
 255
 MR. HINDLEY  said, that when he had formerly introduced this Bill, it had been supported on every division by large majorities; and it was only at the request of the Home Secretary, and on account of the late period of the Session, that he had consented to withdraw it. Sunday trading was carried on in that metropolis to an extent of which hon. Gentlemen could scarcely be aware. In Lambeth and other parts of the metropolis—boots, shoes, clothing, paintings, and a thousand other things were as regularly sold on Sunday as on any other day. He understood that about 8,000 tradesmen, with about 15,000 assistants, were employed on Sundays quite unnecessarily, and that many of them were exceedingly anxious that the state of the law should be altered. He trusted, therefore, that the House would not refuse him leave to introduce the Bill.
 MR. HINDLEY  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to prevent unnecessary Sunday trading in the metropolis.
 MR. SPEAKER : The words which fell from the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield in no way applied to the hon. and gallant Officer.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP : Then I am satisfied.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP : Whether the expression that fell from the hon. and learned Member opposite—the word "buffoonery" was applied to me?
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  again rose, and wished, he said, to make some observations on a matter in which his personal character was involved. His character and his honour were the greatest treasures which he possessed. He hoped he had never sullied his character, and he hoped he never should. He defied the world to call his honour in question; but some individual in that House—
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  seconded the Motion, and cordially thanked the hon. Member for having brought the subject forward. He only regretted that the hon. Member had not proposed a general inquiry into the whole of these railway companies. [An. Hon. MEMBER: One at a time.] Let them have an inquiry into the whole system. It was most desirable, in order to convince the country that these newfangled schemes were not deserving of their confidence. He alluded to no particular individual, nor to any particular company. Among a multitude there were good and bad. What he desired was, that the people should be able to discriminate between the good and the bad, and therefore he advocated a searching inquiry. They who feared inquiry tacitly admitted that they were not in the position in which they ought to be. He questioned all these new schemes. He was not old enough to recollect the South Sea bubble, but he had seen enough in his day on the part of men, as well on the Treasury benches as on those of the Opposition, to tell him that men who possessed power were capable of abusing it. These schemes had ruined the private interests of thousands; and, in his opinion, the whole railway system was a public fraud, and a private robbery. He would have the whole thing sifted to the bottom, that they might find out who was right and who was wrong; and if they even hanged the wrong he would subscribe to it, for it was high time that these new customs, systems, and doctrines were annihilated altogether,
 COLONEL SIBTHORP : I do not wish
 250
 COLONEL SIBTHORP : That you meant nothing of the kind?
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  rose to support the Motion. Very few Gentlemen would have the firmness to rise and bring forward such a question, and he had to thank his hon. Friend for the manly courage he had displayed in undertaking it. If anything more than another would induce him (Colonel Sibthorp) to vote for this Motion, it would be to see the right hon. Member for Manchester, who was once a Conservative, and now a free-trader, oppose it, for the free-traders were ready to subscribe to or support anything, no matter how inconsistent. In 1797, they had as Ministers more hardworking men, who, though they were not so well paid as at present, were better taught. They now had Ministers possessing too much of the sticking-plaster quality. They could not be moved—they were glued to their places. It would take something to move them, and if he thought they would go, he would consent for a time to raise their salaries. He thanked the hon. Gentleman the Member for West Surrey for proposing this inquiry, though he might have gone into the question a little more than was advisable. Still it was a matter deserving of inquiry; and
 231
 MR. BARING WALL  considered that this Bill was founded upon no principle
 251
 MR. B. WALL  withdrew his Amendment.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  admitted that if the hon. Gentleman who had brought forward the present Motion had set out with the intention of making an entertaining speech, in which he might give utterance to opinions of every shade, from Jacobitism to Socialism, he had gained his object, although it was to be regretted that the House was prevented from proceeding to the discussion of a measure upon which it was important that there should be a decision. If the House should show any disposition to go into Committee upon the manifold subjects to which the hon. Member for West Surrey had drawn attention, he warned hon. Gentlemen that there was work marked out in the resolution sufficient not only to employ the attention of a Committee of that House, but to engage the attention of Parliament for an entire Session. There was, indeed, hardly a subject which could come under the consideration of the House of Commons which the hon. Gentleman did not propose to include in
 221 l l l l l 222 223 224 l l l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that although the question had not properly been raised in that debate, he might be permitted to say that he never had said that he thought it possible or expedient to impose a duty upon chicory grown for the use of sheep. He merely alluded to chicory when roasted for the purpose of being mixed with coffee.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the commission had made its first report, and that in accordance with the recommendations therein contained, a Treasury Minute had been issued, the effect of which would be, he was happy to say, a saving of 50,000 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that if the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Youghal would look to the Act 3 George IV., cap. 53, he would find that a discretionary power was given to the Treasury as to enforcing its provisions or not; and that the offence it contemplated was not one against which a public informer could proceed. He entirely concurred in the doctrine laid down in one of the Treasury Minutes, that it was the duty of the Government to interfere as little as possible between the buyer and the seller. At the time the Act was passed no such thing as home-grown chicory existed, though it was extensively cultivated on the Continent, where it was
 203 204
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said that he would read the gross returns of coffee imported from Ceylon during the last five yers. In the year
 205
 MR. URQUHART  seconded the Motion. Instead of following out the newfangled system of modern times, which had been devised for no other purpose than to increase Ministerial power, it would be far better to return to the old practice. He had opposed the free-trade policy, as it was called, because it was imperfect and one-sided. There ought to have been free trade in gold as well as in corn. He had no expectation of the Motion being carried, still, he thought that good would arise out of the discussion. He rejoiced that the proposition had come from the Opposition side of the House, because it was in accordance with the old Tory principles of Government. The Whigs were the first to impose taxes on trade, and to set up what was called the monetary system. All the abuses of which the country now complained were introduced by the Whigs, at and subsequently to what they called their "glorious revolution." Before that period the taxes, few as they were, were placed upon those who could best bear them. As to the national debt, it was the consequence of Ministers entering into war-producing treaties without the sanction of Parliament.
 MR. URQUHART  said, that it seemed to be a case of freedom of agriculture. But the object of the present Motion was not to prevent either the growth or the consumption of chicory, but merely to arrive at the point at which chicory should be used as chicory, and not imposed upon the buyer as coffee—a point which could be arrived at simply by enforcing the law as it stood. The Motion sought to press upon the Government the execution of a law which that House had passed; and if, upon the show of any reason or expediency, the Government could defend its suspension of a law, he could not see why they (the Members of the House of Commons) should sit in that place, or pass laws at all. The Motion had been treated as if it had originated solely with his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Youghal; but such
 206
 MR. MUNTZ  said, that he had not heard the speech either of the hon. Member for West Surrey, or of his hon. Friend the Member for Warwickshire; but, as regarded the Motion itself, he must say, that the terms of that Motion were unexceptionable; and that the subject of it was one which, whether it had been treated with levity or not on that occasion, could not be so treated for any very long time. It was not long since he had himself made some statements in that House which had, in some quarters, been treated with ridicule; but those statements he now begged to reiterate; and he would further observe that subsequent experience had more than confirmed the opinions he had previously advanced. The time had come when some means must be adopted by somebody or other, by which the taxation of the country must be removed from the industrious classes. That must be done—and must be done soon. Trade was deteriorated, the wages of all the manufacturing population was deteriorated—they were worse off than formerly, notwithstanding what was said about the reduction of prices—the condition of the industrious classes was daily becoming worse—and knowing that to be the case, he should give his hearty support to the Motion of the hon. Member for West Surrey.
 MR. ROBINSON  acquitted the hon. Mover of treating the subject with unbecoming levity, but doubted whether, considering the gravity and importance of the subject, he had adopted the best means of effecting the object. As long ago as 1830, Mr. Huskisson stated his conviction that the time had then arrived when it would be absolutely necessary to consider the question of taxation. He differed with the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire as to the invariable practice of the House having been to preface a Motion of this kind by a statement of the resolutions which the hon. Mover intended to propose; but he agreed with the right hon. President of the Board of Trade in thinking that such a course would have been far more likely to
 238
 MR. BAILLIE  seconded the Motion, and said he thought there had been two points raised by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Youghal, which were worthy the attention of the House: the first was, whether a great loss had not occurred to the revenue in consequence of the issue of the Treasury Minute to which he referred, and by which coffee was allowed to be adulterated by chicory; and, secondly, by what right the Chancellor of the Exchequer could issue a Treasury Minute dispensing with an Act of Parliament. It was quite clear, from the statement of his hon. and learned Friend, and from the consumption of chicory known to exist, that a great loss must have occurred to the revenue; and the fact which was mentioned by his hon. Friend respecting tobacco was a clear illustration of that point. His right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge, when he came into office, found that the right hon. Baronet who was now First Lord of the Admiralty (Sir F. Baring) had, during his administration, allowed the adulteration of tobacco to a considerable extent. It was adulterated with the leaf of the rhubarb plant; and he determined to investigate the subject. It was a difficult matter, but he succeeded, and the result was that a law was passed by which the system of adulteration was prevented, and a great evil cured. Under these circumstances, he (Mr. Baillie) considered that the subject was well worthy the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer; and he trusted that upon a full view of the subject he would be induced to enforce the law as it now stood, not to prevent the consumption of chicory, but to prevent the sale of chicory by dealers in coffee.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  rose to correct a misapprehension that seemed to exist with respect to the speech of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and into which hon. Members who were not present when he addressed the House might be induced to fall. It would be strange if his right hon. Friend should treat with levity the subject of economy or remission of taxation; for his right hon. Friend must feel more sensitive on the point than any other person. It was true that he might have indulged in remarks savouring of levity while referring to some of the topics that had been introduced; but that did not imply that with regard to the subject itself his right hon. Friend took any such view of it. He (Mr. Labouchere) had only to say, with regard to the Motion before the House, that he thought the hon. Gentleman should follow the advice of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire. Let him put his suggestions in the form of resolutions, and place them on the table of the House, and he could not but say that he might be more successful in obtaining the concurrence of the House for a Committee, than on the present occasion. On the contrary.
 237
 MR. H. BROWN  said, that he had been present at a meeting of the Eastern Counties Railway that day, at which very full explanations had been given, and though he had looked very narrowly and closely into the accounts, he had not found any item affecting any Member of that House. Unless the Motion would compass the whole affairs of the Eastern Counties Railway, he did not think any practical good would result from it. Perhaps the House would excuse him if he mentioned the items which had been investigated that day. The items composing the amount respecting which a full explanation had been given were these:—Advertisements, l,537 l l l & l l l l
 MR. PLUMPTRE  observed, that it was not his intention to vote for the previous question, nor could he agree with the hon. Member for Warwickshire in voting for the Motion of the hon. Member for West Surrey. The speech which had accompanied that Motion—and a Motion, allow him to say, on a very serious subject—had treated matters of the highest importance with a degree of levity of which he could by no means approve, and which, he regretted to say, had also been followed up in the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Now, he must take leave to say, that this was by no means a time, nor was that at all the place, for levity—when their workhouses were becoming full of ablebodied labourers—whilst so many were out of employment altogether, and those that were employed were working for one-third less wages than they had formerly obtained—whilst whale families were in a state of the greatest distress and misery, and ruin was threatening them from every side—whilst they were breaking' the fortunes, nay, the hearts of their West India proprietors, and destroying the prospects of their shipbuilders—whilst so great a portion of their home population was driven to the verge of destitution and ruin, in order that they might carry out their one-sided system of free trade—surely such was not a time for levity or for joking. Whatever the Manchester or any other school might say, there would, he feared, be such a feeling ere long throughout the country, that the Government would be brought to say that
 229
 MR. ROEBUCK : I will repeat the words I used, and I am sure, Sir—addressing the Speaker—that you must have them in your mind. I said to the hon. Gentleman that I begged he would take nothing to himself, even though I used the word buffoonery. If that is out of order I will retract it.
 MR. ROEBUCK : I ask the hon. and gallant Member to put the question. I do not know what it is; but whatever it is I will answer him.
 MR. ROEBUCK : Yes, if I understand the hon. and gallant Member's question. If he will be good enough to put it, I will answer it as plainly as I can.
 MR. ROEBUCK : I am anxious that the House should not be led away by any misunderstanding of the nature of the Motion of the hon. Member for Haddingtonshire. It is a very grave subject, and should be dealt with gravely. The House should not be misled by any idle notions or peculiar whims of any hon. Member. Buffoonery is not the matter in hand; the matter in hand is that a serious and grave inquiry is suggested by the hon. Member opposite into what I understand him to have understood—namely, that certain insinuations have been made respecting this House—that insinuations and charges, which ought to be met and ought to be
 248
 MR. HENLEY  did not hear the speech of the hon. Member for West Surrey; but the House would vote rather upon the resolution proposed than the speech of the proposer; and he saw nothing objectionable in the resolution. The speeches of hon. Members had all differed in their exposition of the views they had taken of the subject; but they had all agreed in the lamentable fact that the country was in a state of great distress. No one denied that fact, although they might differ in their views as to the reasons for that distress, and the remedy. But that difference of opinion was no justifiable reason why the House should refuse to inquire into a distress so universally acknowledged, and the best means of remedying it. The reasons given by hon. Members for opposing this Motion were very unreasonable; but when the hon. Member for East Kent stated that the workhouses were overflowing, the colonies ruined, and the country in distress, and yet refused to vote for a Committee of Inquiry, he must confess he was greatly astonished. Neither could he agree with the hon. Baronet the Member for North Essex, who would not vote for a Committee because the hon. Member for West Surrey would not support the repeal of all our recent commercial legislation; on the contrary, he (Mr. Henley) would vote for every Motion of a practical nature of this kind, because, while it did not pledge the House to any course, it proposed to inquire, and to remedy that distress, which was unfortunately too general and too overwhelming. Something had been said of the largeness of salaries; and it was, he believed, the universal opinion that the rates of salary were fixed in times very different to the present. He did not go back to the last century; but he was aware that at the time fees were abolished, and fixed salaries given in their place, the cost of all the necessaries of life was very different to what it was now, and that of itself constituted a good reason for inquiry. A great portion of the direct expenditure, as well as that which was deducted from the revenue before it reached the exchequer, consisted of salaries; and a considerable reduction in the expenditure might be effected by their revision. The necessary result of modern legislation was the principle
 233
 MR. HEYWORTH  considered the Motion of the hon. Gentlemen the Member for West Surrey of vital importance. There was no doubt that the agricultural interest was suffering severely, and that being the case, it behoved the House and the country to see to the cause that had produced so prominent and prevalent an evil. It appeared, from what had passed in the House, that there was a feeling that that cause was somehow or other connected with the financial affairs of this country. It was his firm belief that it was so, and it was only the expansion of commerce that could relieve them, by giving employment to a large amount of labourers. It was their bounden duty to see if there be any fetters upon that commerce; and the way, perhaps, to arrive at any just conclusion was to look to the cause of their former prosperity. What was it that had made them the first nation of the earth, and had rendered them so wealthy? What was it that had given to the land a higher value than in other parts of the world? Why, it was the commerce of the country and the ingenuity of their manufacturers. It was by that means they gave millions of their population the means of being consumers, and that was the reason why they had been able from time to time, and from year to year, for the last seventy years, to go on enhancing their rents, until they had increased them in some places 10,000 l l l l l 232
 MR. P. BENNET  said, that the growth of chicory was a most important matter to the agriculturists; and he strongly recommended freedom being given to its production and sale.
 MR. COBDEN  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. SPOONER  did not consider that the House was bound to go into the Committee with all the views entertained by the hon. Member, or to enter into all the subjects adverted to by him. The question was whether they would resolve themselves into a Committee to consider the public expenditure and the existing system of taxation, and how far both may be revised, with a view to relieve the pressure upon the industry of the country. How could any Member of that House refuse to go into such a Committee, and answer for his vote to his constituents? Was any one of the great interests of this country flourishing at the present moment? Let the House look to the state of the agricultural interest. Landlords were receiving little or no rent, tenants were making no profits,
 225 l l l l l l l l l l l l l 226
 MR. ANSTEY  said, that his proposal was simply that the duty on colonial coffee should be taken off—that colonial coffee should be placed upon precisely the same footing as English chicory. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, on the contrary, proposed to raise English chicory to the position of colonial coffee. His (Mr. Anstey's) proposal was that the existing law should be enforced, and by that law the English agriculturist might grow, and the English dealer might sell, chicory, subject merely to the proviso that dealers in coffee
 207
 MR. ANSTEY  had some doubts as to the Chancellor of the Exchequer's statements as to the increase in the consumption of Ceylon coffee.
 MR. ANSTEY  rose to move the resolution of which he had given notice. He said he was bound to inform the House that this Motion, if carried, would amount to a vote of censure upon the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as well as upon some of his predecessors in office. Certain Acts of Parliament had been passed, for the double purpose of protecting the revenue and encouraging the trade of the colonics. Another purpose of these Acts was to prevent fraud, individuals mixing certain deleterious ingredients with tea and coffee, and particularly the adulteration of coffee with chicory. The 3rd George IV., c. 53, recited that it was expedient to allow the manufacture and sale of scorched and roasted vegetable substances by persons not being dealers in coffee and cocoa; then it enacted that persons not being dealers in coffee might roast and sell such substances; and there was a clause in it which forbad the Excise from granting any license for that purpose to any dealer in coffee or cocoa. The object was, not to deprive the poor of the right to manufacture those substances for themselves if they chose; but to prevent parties making money at the expense of the public by selling cheap substances roasted and ground under the name and at the selling price of coffee. The prohibitions in this Act were enforced by penalties to be levied by the Excise. The right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer was bound to cause this Act to be respected, and to set an example, in his own
 196 "Copies of Treasury Minutes allowing the use and sale of chicory as a substitute for or mixed with coffee, and of all memorials on this subject now before the Treasury." l 197 "Write to the Commissioners of Excise, that my Lords consider that the law was altered with the view of admitting the admixture of chicory with coffee. My Lords, therefore, do not consider that any measures should be enforced to prevent the sale of coffee mixed with chicory, and are of opinion that the prosecutions in question should be dropped. My Lords do not consider such admixture will be a fraud on the revenue, so long as the chicory pays the proper duty; and as between the seller and consumer, my Lords desire that Government should interfere as little as possible." 198 l l
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the words of the hon. Member's Motion were perfectly unexceptionable; but when he came to couple that Motion with the speech which the House had just heard, he felt somewhat at a loss to see how he could support any such proposition. He professed himself utterly unwilling to give any sanction to the doctrines which the hon. Member had propounded to the House; he could not vote under his leadership for the appointment of any Committee, for he felt
 228
 MR. THORNELY  said, that the petition in question was from the clergy of the archdeaconry of Dublin.
 MR. THORNELY  wished, as Chairman of the Committee whose duty it was to examine public petitions, to state, that a petition was presented to the House, and had been laid before the Committee, to which there were 200 signatures, which were written on scraps of paper, and pasted on a large sheet. He thought it was important that hon. Members should examine petitions before they presented them to the House. The Committee were of opinion that the petition in the present case was informal, and he, therefore, moved that it be withdrawn. According to the rules of the House the marks of persons who were
 194
 MR. EWART  said, that some time since a commission had been appointed to consider the best means of approving the administration of the Board of Customs. He begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether any progress had been made by that commission, and when it was likely that they would report?
 MR. F. MACKENZIE  was satisfied that the Lord Advocate would have met less opposition had he made the statement he had now made at an earlier stage. The large powers given to the commissioners of defining districts were objectionable.
 SIR C. M. BURRELL  said, that if the Chancellor of the Exchequer intended to impose an excise duty upon chicory, a large quantity of which was grown for the purpose of feeding sheep, it would be a direct contravention of free-trade principles, and a gross injustice to the agriculturists, who were suffering already from the effects of free trade in another direction.
 SIR G. GREY  wished to correct a mistake on the part of the hon. Member for Ashton-under-Lyne. The hon. Gentleman had said that the Bill which he brought in last Session was almost successful, and was likely to have met with the sanction of the House, when he (Sir G. Grey) interposed and asked him to withdraw it in consequence of the lateness of the Session. Now, the fact was, that when the Bill got into Committee, the hon. Gentleman found himself involved in such difficulties with respect to its details, that he (Sir G. Grey) believed it was absolutely impossible to prosecute it during that Session. Under these circumstances, he suggested to the hon. Member that his best course would be to withdraw the Bill, and take further time to
 252
 SIR J. TYRELL  said, that the last few words of the Chancellor of the Exchequer sounded to him rather ominous. The right hon. Gentleman thought it proper to warn the growers of chicory, and to put them on their guard that it might become necessary for him to impose upon them an excise duty next year. Chicory was an existing crop. He (Sir J. Tyrell) knew a farmer in his neighbourhood who had grown from twelve to fifteen acres of it, upon which he had realised in the London market 15 l l
 SIR R. H. INGLIS , as a Member of the Committee of which his hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton was chairman, begged to corroborate his statement, that the clergy of a certain archdeaconry had by letters sent in their adhesion to a principle of legislation, and their signatures were cut out of those letters and pasted on a petition. He thought it very important that all petitions should be signed by the parties who concurred in the prayer of them, or by a friend authorised to sign them on their behalf.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  did not rise to give any opinion upon this subject, but he thought it would have been more satisfactory if the individual to whom partial reference had been made, had been permitted
 249
 MR. JACKSON  could not but express his astonishment at the speech of the hon. Member for West Surrey. He (Mr. Jackson) had come down to the House with the intention of supporting the Motion as it appeared on the Paper; but after what had since taken place, he was convinced that the very important question before them would sustain great damage if the present mode of discussing it were carried further; and, therefore, he could not support the Motion.
 VISCOUNT DRUMLANRIG  said, it was preposterous to think of proceeding with the discussion of the Bill at that late hour. If it was too late to proceed with an English Bill, it was too late, also, to discuss a Scotch one. He, therefore, begged to move that the House do now adjourn.
 VISCOUNT DRUMLANRIG  objected to smuggling through important Bills at so late an hour.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the House was in possession of all the information on the subject; but they would recollect that England was only one of three Powers who had guaranteed the payment of the loan, and England therefore could not take a separate course from France or Russia.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, that the company was about to be dissolved; but some parties who were in the company were prepared to go on with their contracts with certain modifications. That was under consideration, and the correspondence had not been entirely concluded.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, that it was not in his power to state the particular names.
 MR. SHAFTO ADAIR  had had considerable experience of the operations per-formed under Mr. Labouchere's most admirable modification of the Labour Act;
 336
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  moved the Second Reading of this Bill.
 SIR R. B. BROOKE  approved of the principle of the Bill, and thought that the Government deserved credit for its introduction. Nothing was more important to the future prosperity of Ireland than the existence of some means for facilitating the transfer of property from those who were but the nominal possessors of it, to those who could really improve the land and employ the people. He would recommend the addition of a clause compelling absentee landlords to provide in some way or other for the support and employment of the labourers upon their estates.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the hon. and learned Member for Coventry seemed to have misunderstood the objects of the Bill. It was intended by the Bill to empower the commission to sell incumbered estates; but in order that they might do so speedily, it was necessary to disencumber them of those fetters and forms of the Court of Chancery which had interfered with the course of justice. In regard to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Oxfordshire, as to the mortgages, he wished the House to bear in mind that the title-deeds of an estate, which in this country were looked upon as of the greatest importance, were, in Ireland, of next to none; and what was called the legal estate was of no importance whatever. Hence it came that a mortgagor would never show his deeds. But then, the commission would act upon decrees of the Court of Chancery, where all the deeds and muniments had been produced and examined before the decree was pronoueced. Now, in the present state of Ireland, it was open to a mortgagor either to sell the property or to foreclose his mortgage, or to enter into
 358 359 360
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL , in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said that it was one of considerable importance in cases where a lease was made under the exercise of a power given to any person having a limited interest given either by deed or will. There were two defects—one where the number of witnesses was not sufficient, and the other where the lease was executed under a power given by will and not by deed. In both of these cases the Court of Chancery supplied the omissions; but there were other defects to remedy, which the Court of Chancery was not in the habit of interfering with, and which were only taken advantage of for purposes that he might say were not honest ones. For instance, a person having certain property on the hanks of the Thames, the tenant for life, in connexion with the remainder-man, obtained an Act of Parliament to authorise the granting of building leases, with the usual proviso of the best rent being reserved in the leases. In the leases a peppercorn rent was reserved for
 362
 MR. SCOTT  wished to know if the Bill did not affect the validity of grants of land made in the Port Phillip district?
 MR. SCOTT  expressed his dissatisfaction at the explanation given, and said that his impression was, that in settling the doubts as to title in one part of the colony, the Bill would raise far greater and more serious doubts with regard to title in the Port Phillip district.
 MR. SCOTT , seeing the First Lord of the Admiralty in his place, asked whether the company which had engaged to manage the steam communication with Australia were likely to fulfil their engagements?
 MR. SCOTT : Would there be any objection to state the names of the parties likely to conduct the communication?
 MR. WORTLEY  had had it suggested to him in a quarter entitled to the greatest respect from the House that Thursday, June 7, not being an Order day, and being a day too distant for any Motion to be yet fixed for it, the House might be disposed to consent in this special case to give precedence on that day to the adjourned debate. He would therefore move at the proper time that on Thursday, June 7, Orders of the Day have precedence of notices of Motion.
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, he felt the difficulty experienced by hon. Members not connected with the Government in conducting Bills of great public interest through the House, and had appealed to the noble Lord at the head of the Government to assist him in fixing some day next week for the resumption of the adjourned debate on the Marriages Bill. He now renewed his appeal, and suggested Thursday next as a day that might he given for the discussion. The Poor Law (Ireland) Bill was put down for that day; but from what he had heard of the progress of the Committee upon that subject, he believed the noble Lord would not look with confidence to bringing on that Bill upon that day. If the adoption of this suggestion were declined, he would make another proposal to the House, but trusted the noble Lord would accede to this. He would also beg to remind the noble Lord that 2,700 of his own constituents had petitioned the House in favour of the measure.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  hoped the right hon. and learned Gentleman could suggest some other arrangement. It appeared to him (Lord J. Russell) that the adjourned debate might have been concluded on the second night, especially as it was a Friday; and he could not consent to put of Government Bills of great importance from the days for which they were fixed.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  apprehended that the hon. Member was confounding two different transactions. The questions asked of him (Lord J. Russell) in August were—speaking now from recollection—whether Admiral Parker was at Naples in consequence of orders from his Government at home, and with the purpose of interfering with the expedition then supposed to be about to leave Naples for Messina; and his answer was, that Admiral Parker had not been sent by Her Majesty's Government—that he had gone of his own accord, in consequence of questions arising relating to British interests; one in reference to a forced loan, one in reference to certain persons being captured in the waters of Corfu; and he (Lord J. Russell) stated that a settlement had been made with regard to two of those questions; and as to a third a negotiation was pending. That, it appeared to him, was a satisfactory answer to questions directed, as he understood, to the purpose of inquiring whether the Government had sent Admiral Parker to Naples for the purpose of preventing the departure of the Neapolitan squadron. The hon. Member now referred to a request of Lord Napier, that Admiral Parker would go to Naples in February. When he (Lord J. Russell) answered the question, he certainly had not in his mind what had occurred in February. Admiral Parker had been at Naples, had left it, and gone to Palermo, and again returned to Naples; and he (Lord J. Russell) naturally supposed it was in consequence of his last appearance there that those questions were asked. The hon. Member would find in the blue book the reasons why, on the 29th of July, Admiral Parker was at Naples, and his statement in his letter to Lord Napier completely confirmed what he (Lord J. Rus-
 329
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I state again that, in August, I was referring to what had then recently occurred; and that Lord Napier had no power to direct Sir W. Parker to go to Naples at all. He might have stated it was desirable, but he had no power to direct the commander of the squadron to enter.
 MAJOR BLACKALL  said, he was far from underrating the advantages that this Bill offered to the landlords of Ireland, with a view to the improvement of their estates. At the same time, he must say that he looked upon it as a great mistake to suppose that the landlords alone were the employers of the people, and to pass
 330 331
 MR. B. COCHRANE  wished to ask the noble Lord if he was aware of that passage in Sir W. Parker's letter of the 11th February, which said—
 "By a Neapolitan steam vessel just arrived, I have received a letter from Lord Napier, dated Naples, February 9, 1848, who informs me that the presence of the squadron there will probably add weight to the negotiation which Lord Minto and himself have in hand."
 MR. B. COCHRANE  asked whether any communications had passed between the Foreign Office and the Government of the French Republic respecting the expedition to Rome? He might also ask whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to mediate?
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he highly approved of the measure now proposed. He thought all their legislation should be subsidiary to the passing of this Bill. He not only cordially supported it, but he thanked Her Majesty's Government for bringing it forward; and he entertained sanguine
 345
 MR. HAWES  said, that the Bill applied only to certain local grants, of which the titles had not been issued, and without the sanction which the present measure would give, the act of the local legislature, authorising the grants, was considered to run counter to the general act of the Imperial Legislature.
 MR. HAWES  stated, in answer to a question from Mr. Scott, that the object of the Bill was to remove some doubts which existed respecting the validity of certain grants made some years ago in New South Wales.
 MR. SPEAKER  reminded the hon. Gentleman that a Motion for compensation could not be made when the Speaker was in the chair.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  did not think it advisable to enter upon the discussion as to whether some other mode of applying the public money for the improvement of Ireland might not be adopted. He thought it much more convenient to consider this additional advance to be made on the same terms, and applied to the same objects, to which the former grants had been made applicable. He would take this opportunity of referring to a statement which was made the other night by the hon. Member for Shropshire in reference to the expenditure for certain works performed on his estate in the country of Leitrim. The observation of the hon. Member on that occasion did not apply to either of the Bills under which he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) proposed to make this additional advance. The works to which the hon. Member referred were done under what was called Mr. Labouchere's letter, which was a modification of the Relief Bill. According to the provisions of that Bill, the labourers were selected and paid by the relief committee, and the work was conducted under the superintendence either of the landlord (the hon. Gentleman himself in this instance) or his agent; and if they had taken part on the relief committee, in all probability the work would not have cost them more than had been expended on other works. It turned out that the overseer appointed by the relief committee was a small shopkeeper, and wholly incompetent to discharge the duty required of him. The inspector of the works remonstrated against his being employed; but the relief committee retained him until the officer of the Board of Works found that gentleman sitting down quietly under a hedge with all his labourers about him. If from the negligence and carelessness of the landed proprietors of Ireland these works were not efficiently and economically performed, the Board of Works could not be considered responsible, who had no power to control the relief committees, with whom rested the power to carry out the provisions of the Relief Bill.
 MR. URQUHART  asked the noble Lord at the head of the Government whether the Cabinet was aware that Admiral Parker had been sent for to Naples by the British Minister, when they stated to Parliament that he went there of his own accord. In answer to a question from himself in August last, and at the beginning of the Session, the noble Lord stated that Admiral Parker had taken the British fleet to Naples, not in reference to the transactions in Sicily, but in consequence of differences between Naples and England. But in the large blue book, just presented to Parliament, entituled, "Correspondence respecting the Affairs of Naples and Sicily," a statement the very reverse was made. It appeared, first, that there was no negotiation opened by Admiral Parker with the Government of Naples, and that Admiral Parker was sent
 328
 MR. E. B. DENISON  asked for information on a question respecting which much difference of opinion prevailed—namely, as to the number of ablebodied men in the distressed unions now receiving outdoor relief, and the number of acres of land lately in cultivation, and now lying uncultivated.
 MR. HORSMAN  explained. He had quoted from Captain Hamilton, because he was a Government inspector and a proprietor of land in the Ballina union. And he had said that he was unable to let one inch of the land he had reclaimed, and that he was convinced not one single proprietor in Ballina would take a sixpence of the Government loan.
 MR. HORSMAN  observed, that after the large sums which had been already advanced, it was probable that this extra half million would not do much harm to England, neither, seeing the large sums which had been wasted in Ireland, was it likely to do much good to that country. He concurred with the last speaker, that the Bill was not likely to be useful, either for present purposes or as laying the foundation of future improvement. But measures unimportant in themselves might be important in the principles involved in them; and in this case the House should consider whether this Bill was not the mere continuation of that blind, inconsistent, and ruinous system of tiding over difficulties for the moment, without caring for the future, which had been so long followed, or whether it was a part of a new and wiser system of policy. From the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer of the other night, he concluded that the Bill was of the former character. And that speech had gone far to confirm his fears that this new loan was of the same character, and would follow the same course as many others that had gone before it, and that it would go into that bottomless pit in which they had sunk. Ireland had larger claims probably on this country (suffering as she was at this time) than any efforts of ours could meet, And he believed that such was the feeling of the English people, that there were no efforts of humanity in their power which they were not prepared to make on behalf of their suffering fellow-subjects in the sister country. At the same time he could not admit that in considering this question, Parliament should throw over economical principles altogether. The system of loans began to be regarded in England as pernicious in principle and in its results, and as tending to create feelings of disaffection and alienation between the two countries. He did not conceive that the Chancellor of the Exchequer's arguments were at all satisfactory when compared with the facts as they stood. The right hon. Gentleman had said that having succeeded in arresting the progress of famine and preserving life by the former advance, now they should proceed to measures of permanent improvement. But if the measures of improvement were not to be more successful than those for the pre-
 338
 MR. HORSMAN (who shortly after entered the House)  said, he was sorry he was not in his place when the report of the Committee of Selection was read, stating that he had not returned an answer to the summons which was sent to him. It had always been the custom to send to each Member notice from the clerk, begging to know in what period of the Session it would be most convenient to attend these Committees. Every year before this he had had such a notice, and he had replied to it, and this arrangement had been conducive to the convenience of all parties. In the present Session the practice had been given up. ["No, no!"] Then he could only say he had been an unfortunate exception. He had received no information of the kind. If he had received notice, he should have stated that the week beginning the 14th of May was one in which it was impossible for him to pledge himself to attend the Committee, It was not his wish to shrink from the duty imposed upon him; but he thought that for the convenience, not only of Members generally, but of the public, this arrangement should not be departed from. From the course which had been adopted in this particular instance, a hardship had been imposed upon him by being reported for not attending.
 MR. P. FRENCH  could not anticipate any real advantage from either of these measures. He also called attention to the fact, that in every instance the Board of Works had materially exceeded the sums which had been agreed by the parties should be expended in these works, and contended that some control should be placed on the Board, and that they should not be left, as they now were, both the planners and paymasters of the improvements carried out under the advance. He considered that, owing to the peculiar circumstance of the districts which this Bill was designed to assist, that it would be, so far as they were concerned, inoperative. In the eastern and northern districts the proprietors would, no doubt, be most anxious to obtain the advantages which it offered; but it would not be so in the southern and western districts, where the landlords would scarcely be willing to involve themselves still farther than they were already. He objected to the Bill, because it would neither meet present purposes nor lay the foundation of future improvement. He believed that no sum of money which might be necessary to raise the condition, of the people of Ireland to an equality with themselves, would be grudged by the English people. What was required in the southern and western districts was railways to convey their produce to the markets. An advance of a million would open up four main trunk lines; and while it would do more, perhaps, than anything else towards future prosperity, it might be advanced under the most perfect security for repayment. He hoped that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would turn his attention, still further than he had done, to the condition of Ireland. The evidence before the Lords' Committee showed that in Connaught alone, there were 50,000 acres of the best land lying waste, the value of the produce of which, if brought into cultivation, had been estimated at not less than 2,500,00 l 337
 COLONEL DUNNE  could not agree with those hon. Members for Ireland who had so highly praised the Bill. He thought it a very faulty measure, and one which was entirely abrogating the law of the land. He did not think it wise or prudent to send into the country a board of commissioners with inquisitorial powers to search into the condition of any man upon whose property a debt might be secured, and whose creditor came before the board to demand a sale. He thought the plan unwise which would send into the market a large quantity of land at a moment when it was extremely difficult to find purchasers; and, above all, he should like to know who the com-missioners were to be. Upon that would
 346 l
 MR. TURNER  assented to the principle of the Bill, but objected to some of its provisions, particularly to the powers given to the commissioners. He thought they ought to be instructed to have regard to the interests of the first mortgagee. As the Bill now stood, the owner of an incumbered estate might apply for a sale, and compel the mortgagee to go into the market at a most unfavourable time, and when his interest would be sacrificed. He did not mean to say that the mortgagee ought to be protected against public policy, but, as far as might be, consistently with public policy. The commissioners were empowered to call upon the mortgagees of every estate in Ireland to produce their title, and, if he understood the Bill rightly, to overrule the decisions of the courts of equity. They were not to be restrained in any manner in the execution of the extensive powers conferred on them. He thought there were cases in which an injunction ought to be granted, and the means afforded to the owner of retaining his estate, when it could be done with justice to the mortgagee. He threw out the suggestion for the consideration of the hon. and learned Solicitor General.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  approved of the Bill; but he should impress upon the House that more was necessary, and unless they went to the root of the evil, and altered the poor-law, so as to make the purchasers secure against their property being swallowed up by poor-rates, it would be useless to bring lands into the market. Within the last few days three estates had been offered for sale in Dublin: two could find no purchasers, and the third was sold at 60 per cent under what was considered by the best judges as its real value. He recommended the Government to weigh well the plan suggested by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth. Estates could not be sold at present in Ireland with the clearest titles; and unless some inducement were held out to purchasers, how did they expect that purchasers could be found by merely making the clearing of titles more easy?
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  coincided in the views expressed by the hon. Member for Northamptonshire. The Government would accomplish a real benefit by having introduced the Bill, and the greatest good that could be conferred on Ireland would be to expedite its passage through the House.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, he had been obliged to read the clause twice over before he could believe that his hon. Colleague was serious. It now appeared, however, that it was no joke, and with the leave of the House he would explain the matter. In 1841 the corporation of Dublin was reformed. Perhaps he ought scarcely to say that it was reformed, for many of the privileges originally in the Bill were curtailed, and many provisions were added which only tended to embarrass the corporation. Among these was this case of compensation. One of the present claimants, Mr. Judkin Butler, then filled the office of city marshal. He was dismissed by the new corporation—he would not state on what grounds, but it was certainly not for his good behaviour. He claimed compensation under the Act, and the city of Dublin awarded him a compensation of 250 l l s d l 364 l l s d l s d s d
 MR. SADLEIR  said, that when the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Coventry objected to the Bill as interfering with the Court of Chancery in Ireland, he should remember that that court had already had ample opportunity of applying its machinery to the evil, and that it was because it had failed that this measure was introduced, having for its object an economical, speedy, facile, and advantageous sale of incumbered estates. Last year he moved for a return of the number of decrees pronounced by the courts of equity in Ireland within the last five years, with the view of seeing the amount of property decreed to be sold, and contrasting it with the amount actually sold;
 348 349 350 l l l 351
 MR. HENLEY  observed, that they were all agreed in this—that it would be desirable to let loose the incumbered land in Ireland. The question was, how was that to be done with justice to all parties, and with little shock to the feelings of all parties. He thought the Irish Gentlemen had just reason to complain of the Government in this matter. In 1847, he knew that a representation had been made to the Government by persons in this country interested in Irish estates, and who then pointed out the advantage of giving to purchasers a Parliamentary title. That was very much pressed upon Government, and it was refused by Government. The great object of public policy in the present state of Ireland should be to let loose the land; but were they not by the Bill going beyond what was necessary to effect that object? An hon. and learned Gentleman who had addressed the House to-night stated, that decrees for sale were easy enough to be obtained, but the difficulty was to effect the sale. And how did they think that such a Bill as this would tend to induce persons to buy land in Ireland? After agreeing to give a man a Parliamentary title to an estate, see what a condition they placed him in, and if it would be an inducement to him to lay out his money in land in Ireland. The return of interest upon the investment of money in land was small; and the reason why persons were induced to lay it out in land was on account of the nature of the security. There was an idea that, owing to the law of England, a man could not be easily divested of his land; and that was one great reason why persons in buying land were contented with a less amount of return for their capital. But if they introduced into Ireland a new scheme for dealing with the land, as the hon. Member for Carlow had told them, they must extend it—they would not be able to stop here with this Bill—they must give it an almost permanent operation. It was in fact to be a kind of roving commission. Look at the mortgagee—see how they would treat him. The only security which he had was his parchments. They had been told that many of those parchment securities had gone out of the country; and how many more did they think would yet go out if this Bill were passed
 355 ex parte
 MR. NAPIER  would not oppose the Bill in that stage; on the contrary, he would endeavour in Committee to make it more perfect; but he reserved to himself the right of accepting or rejecting it as a whole upon the third reading. He concurred with the Solicitor General that the multiplication of judgments and the delay of justice were great evils; but he main-
 361
 MR. B. OSBORNE  asked the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether he and Her Majesty's Government had received any information of the advance of the Russian army into the free and independent kingdom of Hungary? ["Oh, oh!"] It was very evident that hon. Gentlemen were not conversant with the history of Hungary. Secondly, he asked if there was any treaty in existence by which this country was bound to permit the entrance of the Russian troops into Hungary? and, lastly, whether Ministers had any intention to offer their mediation between the Emperor of Austria and the victorious people of Hungary?
 MR. W. KEOGH  would have contented himself with the expression of opinion which he gave on a previous occasion, had it not been for the observations which had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Coventry, observations calculated unnecessarily to alarm the English mortgagees, and thus assist in raising up a formidable opposition to the Bill. His own unbiassed and honest conviction was, that the Bill was calculated to confer the greatest possible advantage on all classes in Ireland; and if he was to select any particular class as likely to experience peculiar benefit, it would be that of the incumbered proprietor entirely disabled from discharging the duties or realising the advantages of his property. He did not think that the objections urged against the Bill by the hon. and learned Member for Coventry were
 352 353 354
 MR. W. KEOGH  said, that the hon. Member for Dublin had said, he would as soon give compensation to a parcel of highway robbers as to those cormorants of the Record Court, and at the same time he admitted that he had attempted to obtain compensation for them out of the Consolidated Fund. He had accompanied him (Mr. Keogh) to the Chancellor of the Exchequer to obtain compensation for them, yet he now called them cormorants of the Record Court, and said he would as soon think of giving compensation to a parcel of highway robbers. The former Member
 365
 MR. O. GORE  said, the right hon. Gentleman was perfectly correct in saying that the work in question was done under Mr. Labouchere's letter, and was arranged altogether without the knowledge of his (Mr.-
 335 l l l l l Quos Deus vult perdere prius dementat
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  wished to impress upon the House that this proposition of the Government would be wholly inadequate for the purpose of giving relief to Ireland. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had referred to some of the distressed districts as showing symptoms of prosperity. The reports of the last few days, however, had given an answer of a most unfavourable character to the anticipations of the right hon. Gentleman. From various unions the most disastrous accounts had been received, and he was more than ever convinced that the House would be acting under a delusion if they thought the Government proposition would be sufficient to relieve the distress of that country. The ejectments going on, in connexion with the starvation that prevailed, required some effectual remedy. What good effect resulted from the Bill of last year? It might give some amount of food to the poor ejected peasantry; but they were supplied with neither clothes nor lodging. If it had been intended to
 332 "We have long felt that the chief ground of hope, the main source of improvement, is the improved cultivation of the soil; and that the surest means of effecting this object is by affording security to the cultivator. That this security does not generally exist in Ireland, is admitted. On this point there is scarcely a second opinion among thinking men in this country. The laws which regulate the title to, and the conveyance of land, require to be changed, so as to give the utmost freedom to its sale and transfer—so as to pass those estates, whose proprietors are irretrievably ruined, into other hands—and to enable those who are partially encumbered to free themselves from their difficulties, by disposing of part
 333 334
 MR. GROGAN  also approved of the Bill, but it would be insufficient unless it were accompanied by an entire change in the poor-law system. There were already more estates in the market than could find purchasers. He knew of one estate that had been lately sold for between ten and eleven years' purchase, although the title was perfectly clear. But the fact was, they should ensure purchasers against the incalculable liabilities under the present poor-law.
 MR. GROGAN  then moved that the Bill be recommitted for the purpose of proposing his clause.
 MR. GROGAN  rose to propose a clause, which was to give compensation for the loss of their offices to Mr. Butler, the Marshal of the Record Court, and three sergeants-at-mace, who had held their offices, the youngest for fourteen and the eldest for thirty-two years. They had all been duly, legally, and regularly elected by the corporation of Dublin, and therefore they were entitled to compensation. In proof of this, he was proceeding to cite the analogous cases provided for in the Counties Courts Act, when
 SIR G. GREY  said, there was no occasion for the apprehensions expressed by the hon. Gentleman. The matter had arisen out of certain grants of land made by Governor Darling, with respect to which doubts had arisen whether or not these grants were valid. The Legislative Council had passed an Act for the purpose of removing those doubts, and confirming the grants; probably not reflecting that the power of doing so did not rest with them. When the Act came home for ratification, the legal advisers of the Crown gave their opinion that the act of Council was invalid, but that as the object was clearly a beneficial one, a Bill ought to be brought into
 363
 SIR G. GREY  said, that it was with considerable surprise he had listened to the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. And he was somewhat astonished to find, that whilst he said "those were the grounds upon which he opposed the Bill before the House," he had not concluded by moving as an Amendment that it be read a second time that day six months. He (Sir G. Grey) did not think it was a question which the House could treat with indifference. If he thought that the sum of 500,000 l l 343 l 344
 MR. S. MARTIN  admitted there was a good deal of truth in what had fallen from the hon. Member for Oxfordshire, when he said the Bill seemed to give a sort of roving commission. He thought there were some points in which it could be improved for the practical carrying out of the objects it proposed, and for the benefit of the country. He would propose to confine the power of the commission to the sale of land merely, and to hand over to the Court of Common Pleas the distribution of the funds arising from the sale—a court which would give universal satisfaction. He thought it would be found expedient
 356 357
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  could not give a satisfactory answer to either of the questions. By the returns he had, the total number receiving relief under the 2nd Section was 165,000, but in that would be included women and children. He would endeavour to procure the return as to ablebodied paupers. He had no means of informing his hon. Friend of the quantity of land lying waste.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE , in answer to
 327 l l
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  opposed the clause. It was a claim upon the corporation of Dublin, of which due notice ought to have been given.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON , in reply to the first question, had to state that Her Majesty's Government had to-day received information from the Chargé d'Affaires at Vienna, that application for military assistance in a war between Austria and Hungary was sent by Austria to the Russian Government, and the application had been assented to, and was going to be complied with; and, although no Russian troops had as yet entered, a Russian force was expected. As to the second question, there was no treaty that he was aware of that bore at all upon the question of the military assistance afforded by Russia to the Austrian Government. As to the third question, he had to state that Her Majesty's Government had taken no steps to offer their mediation between Austria and Hungary, and the Austrian Government had intimated no desire for such mediation.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : No official written communication has passed between this Government and the French Government on the subject. We have been made aware of the intentions of the French Government by verbal communications between the French Ambassador and myself.
 MR. S. WORT LEY  understood that the feeling of the House was, that he should not persevere in his Motion, and he would therefore withdraw it.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  asked whether the 500,000 l 427
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, that if he understood the right hon. Baronet correctly, the whole of the 300,000 l l
 MR. P. HOWAED  said, that there was a general wish that those who entered Parliament should be bound by one common oath, and he sincerely trusted that they might on that occasion come to such a decision as should realise that object.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  moved the Amendment of which he had given notice, for the omission of certain words in the clause. He could not understand why these words should be retained in the Protestant oath; for, with regard to Protestants, they appeared to he altogether superfluous. Then, with regard to the declaration, "that I will defend to the utmost of my power the settlement of property within these realms as established by law;" although something might be said in its defence as respected the Roman Catholic, he did not know to what it could refer as regarded the Protestants and the Jew. Then came the declaration which was to he abolished as far as the Jews were concerned, but which was retained as regarded all others, "I declare and promise all this on the true faith of a Christian." It was said by some hon. Gentleman, that the words "on the true faith of a Christian" were retained in order not to shock public feeling. He should be the last person to wish to shock public feeling when founded on just grounds; but in the present instance he thought that that House should rather lead than follow public feeling. The retention of the words "on the true faith of a Christian," as the law would stand after the passing of this Bill, appeared to him to be not only unnecessary but improper, because when there was such a variety of creeds in the House, it appeared to be a mockery to make a declaration on the faith of a creed. When hon. Gentlemen meant totally different things when they made this declaration—not only doctrinally, but when they could not even agree, in many instances, in the sense of the word "Christian"—he thought it would be more decorous to have the words expunged from the oath than to retain them. There would be something indecorous likewise in calling on the Jew to stop when he came to these words. He considered the Bill to be a clumsy contrivance, and not framed with the usual adroitness of his noble Friend, who had, however, too much to attend to to be able to devote much time to the details of such measures. With regard to the Roman Catholic Members, nothing could be more unseemly than the position in which they were put by the oath they were called on to take. The right hon. Gentleman the Master of the Mint, the hon. Member for Limerick, and the noble Lord the Member for Arundel, each following his own view of the oath, put a different construction on it. An hon. Gentleman of
 438 Hansard
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that his interpretation of the clause relative to the non-disturbance of property was this. The expression was originally put into the Roman Catholic oath, because it was known that church property originally belonged to the Roman Catholic Church, and it was the opinion of the members of that Church that they were still entitled to it; and it was thought necessary to raise a shield, so that members of that religion should not take advantage of having seats in that House to get the property of the Church restored to the Roman Catholics after the lapse of so many years. He did not believe that any hon. Member would feel himself bound not to vote on an Act of Parliament, relative to the settlement of property, which might come before them in the ordinary course of business. If the clause were to be so interpreted, it would fetter the House so as to prevent a large number of Members voting on every Act which came before them on questions relative to real property. He believed that that portion of the oath might be unnecessary.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the clause was originally found in the Roman Catholic oath, and he was giving the reason why it was so introduced. When it was proposed by the commissioners that there should be a general oath for all persons, it was proposed to put all matter that was not objected to on religious grounds, and which had been established by length of time, into one general oath; and they did not introduce the words which applied to Roman Catholics more than any other. If they made a general oath, it appeared desirable that it should not merely apply to one particular denomination, but that it should be of such a nature that those who might feel induced, if they were not restrained by an oath to undermine or
 450
 MR. GREENE  suggested that all the difficulties would be obviated by leaving out the word "hath" in the declaration that no foreign prince "hath" or ought to have jurisdiction in the country. The form would then run, that "no foreign prince ought to have jurisdiction."
 MR. VERNON SMITH  denied that he had said this proposed form was a clumsy contrivance of the noble Lord's. He certainly said it was a clumsy contrivance, not conceived with the noble Lord's usual adroitness; and the noble Lord had since proved the accuracy of his opinion, by stating that the clumsy contrivance was not his, but taken from the blue book of the Commissioners on Criminal Law. With regard to what had been said by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, if he thought his Amendment would endanger the success of the Bill elsewhere, he certainly would not press it; but he could not think that would be the case, and he was deeply impressed with the impropriety of the words used, as he thought it would be much bettor if one simple form of oath were substituted, which could be taken by
 460
 The CHAIRMAN  then read the clause of the oath beginning "and that I do not believe that the Pope of Rome," &c. "hath or ought to have any civil jurisdiction," &c, and said, the question he should put to the House was, that the words "and that I do not believe that" stand part of the Bill, as this way of putting it would allow Members cither to negative these, and with them the subsequent words of the clause; or, retaining these, to move what amendment they should think proper on the rest of the clause.
 The CHAIRMAN : The reason why I proposed to put the question upon the first words only was, to afford any hon. Member, as I have before said, an opportunity of proposing any amendment as I proceeded to put it; because, if the question were put upon the omission of the whole of the words, no amendment could be proposed.
 MR. LAW  said, as to the rejection of so much of the former oath as related to the disavowal of the belief that the Pope had any spiritual jurisdiction or ecclesiastical authority in this country, that he could not consent to part with these words of the oath, as he considered them to be a security even in the case of Protestants themselves.
 MR. LAW  wished to know distinctly what question was before the House, and how the Chairman was to put an Amendment which, abandoned by the Mover, had passed into the hands of the Government?
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he found a new term introduced in the Catholic oath, to this effect:—
 "I will defend, to the utmost of my power, the settlement of property within this realm as established by the laws:"—
 MR. S. WORTLEY  moved, that Orders of the Day have precedence of notices of Motions on Thursday, the 7th day of June next. Finding it impossible to get any day for the adjourned debate on the Marriage Bill before the 7th of June, and considering that this was a part of the Session in which all Thursdays were given to the Government, he did not think it unreasonable to ask for one Thursday for the adjourned debate.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  felt great objection to the Motion of the right hon. and learned Gentleman. He had proposed to the House, with a view to the more speedy and regular transaction of public business, that alternate Thursdays should be allowed for Orders of the Day and Special Orders of the
 391
 LORD J. RUSSELL  moved—
 "That there he sent a Message to the Lords, for a Copy of the Record in the House of Lords in the case of Smith O'Brien  v
 LORD J. RUSSELL  observed, that the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield having been so long absent from the House might account for his evincing a much keener appetite for an Irish debate than hon. Members who had been present from the commencement of the Session were likely to possess; and it was because their hunger was so much abated by the large supply of this kind of food with which they had been furnished, that they had not enjoyed the speech of the hon. and learned
 405 d 406
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The Bill which I introduced last year, as the right hon. Gentleman is aware, was a Bill which allowed the Jews to enter Parliament, which relieved them from the words which they object to in the oath, and likewise admitted them to civil offices. That Bill was rejected in the other House of Parliament. The Bill I have introduced this year is a Bill partly upon a different subject. It is a Bill applying, as its main object, to a regulation of the oaths to be taken by the Members of both Houses of Parliament. It provides for the oath to be taken by all the members of the Church, and by Protestant Dissenters, leaving the Roman Catholic oath as it stands; it likewise provides a declaration to be taken by the Quakers, and a form of oath or declaration to be taken by the Jews. I do not think in this Bill, which relates to a separate subject, that it would be possible to introduce any provision for giving the Jews civil office; but I consider that it does admit them to the highest privileges of the constitution, namely, the power of sitting in the two Houses of Parliament. And I cannot conceive, if this Bill pass, that there will be any difficulty or any objection in either House of Parliament to the carrying of a measure by which the Jews should enjoy the same privileges as the Protestant Dissenters and the Roman Catholics. I entirely agree with the right hon. Gentleman in thinking that they ought to have the same privileges; and I wished to show that opinion by the Bill which I introduced last year. I certainly do not wish to take the benefit of any hon. Member supposing that I do not intend to carry into effect the principle of that measure to its full extent, or that I do not intend to introduce, soon
 434
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, when I said the hon. and learned Member's speech had no immediate reference to this Bill, I spoke of his remarks as being applicable to the general measures which had been adopted for Ireland in the last four years alone; and I certainly surmised that, the House having heard many discussions on this subject, I could hardly obtain such a hearing as the hon. and learned Gentleman with seems to suppose if I entered with him into a general discussion with respect to what those measures had been, the events to which they had been applicable, and the general results of their application. The hon. and learned Gentleman, however, again repeats his question, and forces me to go somewhat into the consideration of this question; but I observe, with regard to him, as in an equal degree with regard to every Irish Member, that he attacks the Government in this way—he very much admits the evils with which we had to deal; but then he asks. Why did you not apply remedies? Why did you not make Ireland prosperous? But at the same time he never supposes the magnitude of the calamity with which we had to deal. I shall not ask whether it was wise in landlords of Ireland originally to give leases by which
 420 421 422 423 l l 424 Freeman's Journal 425 "While some of the contributors have withheld, as may be seen, their names, the truly Christian and patriotic sentiments to which they give utterance would not fail to read a humiliating lesson not only to Her Majesty's Ministers and other officials, by whom the sufferings of the people are looked on with the calmest indifference, but to those unfeeling disciples of the modern school of political economy, who would regulate all the impulses of benevolence, as well as all the duties of Christian morality, by mere arithmetical caculation." 426
 LORD J. RUSSELL  believed the words were originally introduced with a view to security with' respect to the Roman Catholics in Ireland, but not in reference to seats in Parliament, but with regard to certain places which they were allowed to hold in Ireland, it having been a general and current accusation against them that they wished to disturb the settlement of property, not only church property, but lay property, for the purpose of restoring it to those who held that property before the settlement was made by law. When the Roman Catholic Bill was introduced into the House, it was thought desirable to take the words of the former oath. It was also thought that it would not be desirable to have a different oath
 442
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Mr. Bernal, there were at present three classes of persons who took the oaths: first, the Protestants,
 439 440
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he stated the reason of the alteration when he introduced the Bill.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he thought he had never heard a question better debated. Speeches had been made by the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst, the right hon. Member for Tamworth, the hon. and learned Member for Oxford, and the hon. and learned Member for Newark, quite exhausting the subject, and therefore he submitted that there was no reason, after all this discussion, for the hon. Member for Warwickshire interrupting the Committee for some observations that he might wish to make.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, it was obvious, if the words to be put by Mr. Bernal to the House should be negatived, the rest of the clause would be lost; and if not, there was still opportunity for amendments.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that, as the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Newark had appealed to him to state his opinion in respect to this matter, he would give it to him in a few words. He had always taken the oath, understanding by it that the Pope had no authority or jurisdiction which could be enforced by any court or tribunal in this kingdom. This was his interpretation of the oath. But many persons—among others, two Peers of the realm, the Earl of Clancarty had Lord Grantley—were of a different opinion. They held that spiritual jurisdiction or authority meant such as was known to be exercised over persons in this country, and more particularly in Ireland. He (Lord J. Russell) did not agree with that interpretation; but he thought, when they were altering the oaths to relieve other parties, it would be fitting at the same time to make such an alteration as would enable those noble Lords to take their seats in the House of Lords. He wrote to Lord Clancarty, who had put his opinions in print, to ask him if he had any objections to the words of the Roman Catholic oath; and he replied that he would have no objection to take that oath. His object, therefore, was to take away words which were misunderstood by persons entitled to take their seats in Parliament. But the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Newark said, if these words were omitted, what would become of the common law? Now, he could not see that their omitting to take an oath would affect the common law one way or the other. The common law maintained its force with respect to many subjects on which it was not thought necessary by the Legislature to impose any oath whatever, either upon Members of Parliament or others. The
 459
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, objections have been made to almost all the parts of this oath. Some hon. Gentlemen who have objected to this oath might as well have objected to any oath at all, for they said it was not necessary to make an oath in respect to matters upon which persons were generally agreed; and certainly no Member of this House would object to take the oath of allegiance. But with respect to the words which my right hon. Friend proposes to omit, I must say that I took the whole words of the oath from the report of the commissioners; thinking it was better to use their language than to propose words of my own. I must admit, however, after the objections which have been made, that I do not think the words with regard to the "Pope of Rome," and the "settlement of property," are necessary. But I am asked whether I would not leave out those words besides, "And I do make this recognition, declaration, and promise, heartily, willingly, and truly, upon the true faith of a Christian." Now, it does not appear to me that those words ought to he omitted. I know it was stated by hon. Gentlemen, that it is almost a mockery to use these words, because the words "upon the true faith of a Christian," are differently understood by different sects of Christians. It appears to me that the only value of these words is the value originally attached to them—namely, as a sanction and imparting a certain solemnity to the other words of the oath. I imagine that this is the purpose for which those words were originally introduced, and I see no objection to retain them for that purpose. That form of swearing upon the New Testament, "and upon the holy contents of this book," might be said not to be a good form of oath, because many persons might not agree in their interpretation of the different texts of Scripture—there might be different opinions upon different texts, and, therefore, it might not be proper to swear all upon the same Testa-
 453
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The hon. Gentleman says that the Government are not prepared to come to any definitive conclusion upon the subject. Now, I have said, I believe, three times, and this will be the fourth, that after the discussion which has taken place, I am quite right in omitting the words with respect to the Pope of Rome, and the words with respect to the
 463
 MR. DISRAELI : My hon. Friend the Member for Warwickshire, when he said that the House had been taken by surprise, only meant to say that the House was surprised that the Government should have brought forward a form of oath which the Secretary of State had just informed the House no human being, in his opinion, could defend; and after having discussed the question, as I think, on the whole with very good temper, and twelve o'clock having arrived, I did not think that it was an unreasonable act on the part of my hon. Friend who moved this Amendment, to suggest that the noble Lord should print the form of the oath which he recommended to the House. I am very anxious to see no obstruction offered to the passage of this Bill, being a warm supporter of it—being as warm and perhaps a more fervent supporter than many hon. Gentlemen in this House—having laboured for the cause before they dreamt of it, and having supported it, not for those merely political reasons which some hon. Gentlemen do in this House; but really after the critical observations which have been made upon the Bill as brought before the House, to all of which Her Majesty's Government have assented, I cannot conceive that Her Majesty's Government should impute any desire to make a factious obstruction to the Bill, because my hon. Friend the Member for Warwickshire has, at this hour of the night, moved this Amendment, with a view to obtain further time for consideration on the proposed alterations. I am sure that my hon. Friend, and every one present must be anxious to proceed with the business, if the Government would only supply the House with accurate information as to their real intentions. I think the Government are not entitled to call upon the House at once to assent to a new form of oath on so important a subject, when they themselves are not prepared precisely to recommend any definitive course. I hope the Government will really consider these things in a better temper.
 MR. DISRAELI  thought it was hardly consistent with the importance of the subject to press it upon the House in this fragmentary form, as it was scarcely possible to understand the question.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, there were really two questions before the House; one part of the clause referred to the jurisdiction of the Pope, and the other to the settlement of property.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I do not think the explanation which has just been given by the hon. and learned Gentleman quite satisfactory. He endeavours to explain a general question by a particular application; and such explanation, I think, will not be quite satisfactory to the Committee. I apprehend—I speak under correction—that the first time the settlement of property was referred to in an oath, was in the first declaration made by the Prince of Orange, and that there could be then no doubt to what it referred. It included Woburn Abbey; and though the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown is, like the hon. Member for Kilmarnock, a younger son, I believe that is a settlement which even the noble Lord would not wish to disturb. I agree with the right hon. Member for the university of Cambridge, that it is not only unadvisable, but that it is impolitic and unnecessary, to destroy the old form of the oaths. But when we are called upon to consider a new oath, it is our duty severely to examine and analyse it. For myself, I have no doubt that the clause was originally intended to prevent the Roman Catholic party interfering with the settlement of the church property. It is easily understood, and why it was introduced. I now come to the present oath; and I cannot understand why the expression is introduced. If it is only intended for the Roman Catholics, nothing can be more preposterous than its introduction. The Government have framed an oath which the Members of the Government themselves cannot define. The idea of an oath which is to be restrictive only on one class of persons taking it, is preposterous. We see here that the Government have brought forward a new oath, and introduced a phrase which they cannot define,
 451
 MR. DISRAELI  begged to remind the House that the other night, at an early hour, the hon. Member for the West Riding might have brought forward the Motion, and declined doing so. After having liberally conceded to the Government the use of these days, he thought the matter should be left to the good sense and feeling of the Government.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I made an inquiry of Her Majesty's Government, some time back, whether, in consequence of the recurrence of hostilities between Denmark and Germany, they would have any objection to lay upon the table the negotiations that had taken place between these two Powers under our mediation. The noble Lord at the head of the Government then stated that, notwithstanding the recurrence of hostilities, negotiations were still pending under the mediation of Her Majesty's Government, for a definitive peace between the two Powers. I wish to take this opportunity, as some time has elapsed since that answer, of again inquiring from Her Majesty's Government whether those negotiations have been pursued under the mediation of the British Crown; whether any project has been proposed by Her Majesty's Government to Denmark and the Central Power of Germany; and whether that proposition, if one has been made by Her Majesty's Government, has been accepted by both or either of those Powers.
 MR. HAWES , in answer to his hon. Friend, begged to state that Hong-Kong was erected into a bishopric, and that the bishop was paid from the Colonial Bishoprics' Fund—a fund entirely private, and raised out of private contributions. The salary of the bishop, therefore, could be a matter of no importance whatever to the House, as no part of it was to be paid out of the public funds. [Mr. OSBORNE: Nor his outfit?] The Colonial Office had nothing to do with the outfit, and he knew nothing of it. It had, however, been the custom hitherto to pay the passage out of colonial bishops; and he had no reason to suppose the practice would be departed from in the present instance. Beyond that, the public would be put to no expense.
 MR. SPEAKER : I must inform the hon. and learned Gentleman that these expressions are quite unparliamentary.
 The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER  said, that the 900,000 l l l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The answer to that is, simply, that what the hon. Gentleman says ought to he done has been done. I stated the other evening, that a great part of the
 428 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  sincerely hoped, that the very few words he should offer to the House, would have the effect of putting an end to the debate that had arisen. He would not have risen but for the extraordinary remarks which had been made by the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, upon what had fallen from his noble Friend at the head of the Government. These remarks took him (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) altogether by surprise. When the hon. and learned Gentleman said that his noble Friend had added to the sneers against the Irish landlords, and immediately afterwards said, that he had on a previous occasion done full justice to their efforts to relieve the distress of the people, the two expressions contradicted one another. His noble Friend said, that he would not then undertake to defend them, because it was utterly unnecessary. "But," said the hon. and learned Gentleman, "he sneered with the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield about lengthy Irish debates." Why, was it not an appeal of his noble Friend against the hon. and learned Gentleman renewing debates upon subjects that had been already over and over again discussed? What he begged and prayed of the Irish Gentlemen was, that when they (the Government) were carrying plans for the benefit of their country and themselves, they would not occupy the time of the House with discussions upon matters that were altogether irrelevant. He did not by these observations mean to interfere in the slightest degree between the hon. Members for Sheffield and Athlone. They might fight their question out between themselves. But he certainly could not avoid saying that the hon. and learned Member for Athlone had made a most unnecessary and uncalled-for attack upon his noble Friend.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the definition of the word "owner" had been settled by the former Act, and this it was not proposed to alter. Whoever came into possession of an estate after the cessation of a limited interest, would have the benefit of the land being better drained than if the money had not been expended. As to the other case alluded to, where second assents were necessary in order to authorise a greater expenditure than 3 l
 The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER , in answer to Mr. Arkwright, said, he hoped to produce his financial statement within a month. l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : They have hot that power. I issued a circular not long ago, informing those gentlemen who did not choose to go on spending the money, that I should not grant them any more.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in answer to the question where the money was to come from, he would remind the hon. Gentleman that he had stated, last Session, that expenses had been incurred for the Kafir war, and other matters, which had been defrayed out of the moneys in the Exchequer, and which it was necessary to replace. For that purpose, two millions had been bor-
 430
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary had charged him with having brought an unfounded accusation against Her Majesty's Government, in having said that they had not laid out sixpence beyond what Parliament had granted, to relieve the starving Irish people. What he had said was founded on what appeared in two letters, dated the 20th and 23rd of April, which were amongst the papers on the table of the House. In one of those letters, addressed to the right hon. Gentleman himself, it was stated that from 20,000 to 30,000 people were in danger of dying of starvation, unless some assistance were afforded them; and the right hon. Gentleman had allowed the observation to remain without any answer at all.
 MR. HORSMAN  took the opportunity of repeating what he had previously said, to which Her Majesty's Government had not replied. It was very easy to bring charges of ignorance, and of drawing upon imagination. His charge was this—that on the 23rd of April Mr. Nash wrote to say, that 20,000 people were left on the relief officers, who had not a shilling for their support; that those people had been without food for three days; that many of them had died from want and exposure; and that no notice had been taken of that letter. His knowledge of this fact was derived from the official documents laid on the table by the right hon. Baronet; and, if he wished to say he (Mr. Horsman) spoke in ignorance of the facts, he might do so. If his stating those facts was unpleasant to the right hon. Gentleman, his extreme
 416
 MR. HORSMAN  said, if he were irregular at all, it was the fault of the right hon. Gentleman, who had charged him with ignorance, and drawing upon his imagination when he could not rise to give any reply. The right hon. Gentleman then repeated those charges. He now asked him in what had he drawn upon his imagination? He had stated from the papers that the people had no relief and were dying, and likely to die in thousands; that during Friday, Saturday, and Sunday the poor in one union workhouse had no food; that the papers showed that there were no funds to be obtained in some of the unions. And he wanted to know why the Government had hesitated to ask Parliament for a grant of the means to relieve that urgent misery. He said it was a libel and a foul calumny upon the people of England to say that they (the Government) would not obtain any amount requisite for saving the people
 417
 MR. HORSMAN : Still, that is not the question. Have those gentlemen the power of keeping the money back as long as they like?
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he found it stated in the evidence that some proprietors had obtained these advances without intending to use the money. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had said the other night that that money was allocated—not expended, and that he had no further power over it. Now, if there was a certain number of proprietors who had taken this money, and were waiting to see how things turned out before they commenced their improvements, he wished to know if the House had not the power either to make them expend it within a certain time, or repay the advance, that the money might be lent to others, who would make good use of it. There certainly ought to be some limitation of time, as in Railway Bills.
 MR. HORSMAN  felt, and was sure the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, and every other Member of the House, must feel, that Ireland at the present moment had a strong claim upon our generosity. The people of this country had acknowledged that claim; and he had no fear that while the present awful destitution existed, the sources of well-regulated charity would be dried up. Hon. Members ought not to forget the fact that the imperial legislation of the past had tended to Ireland's ruin, and England's benefit; that the misfortune and burden of the connexion between the two countries had been borne by her, and that for years all the profit had been reaped by us; and if by a system of shortsighted and selfish policy we had destroyed her manufactures, annihilated her resources, impoverished and degraded the people, driven capital out of the country, rendered life and property insecure, and the people discontented and miserable, then they
 407 l l l l "In the case of Bantry union, the Commissioners have to acquaint their Lordships that a report from the temporary inspector has been this day received, stating that in consequence of the advances last week having been curtailed, to the amount of 47 l 408 "With respect to the Ennis union, the Commissioners desire to remark, that although they made application to their Lordships on the 25th ult., to place funds at their disposal to enable them to assist this union in case of emergency, no portion of the 6,000 l "The Commissioners now estimate that the sum of 12,000 l l 409
 MR. F. FRENCH  said, it was a mistake to suppose that every assistance to Ireland pressed unduly on the industry of this country. This assumed that Ireland was not fairly taxed; whereas he was prepared to show that she was more heavily taxed than this country.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that he would give no answer to the foul charge of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield—that Irish landlords had put their hands into the sacred fund for the relief of the poor, simply because his answer would not be Parliamentary. His speech was most unfair and most inaccurate. The poor-law might be fitted for an ordinary state of society, but it was wholly unfitted for the present condition of Ireland. Giving the Government credit for the best wishes towards that country, he could not but think they were most unfortunate in their choice of measures.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he was not going to make any observations on the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, but he would make a very brief remark on that part of the address of the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown, in which he accused the hon. Member for Cocker-
 414
 MR. BANKES  wished to ask a question of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He by no means joined in the feelings of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, or sympathised with the bitterness with which he had expressed his hostile feeling towards the Irish Members—their conduct, as it appeared to him, had not merited any such censure—but when the hon. and learned Member said that the population of England looked with considerable anxiety to these votes, he said nothing but the truth. The House was aware that there existed in this part of the united kingdom very great distress; and it therefore became their duty to inquire where this grant of money was to come from. It was very well to say that it was a loan, and would be honestly repaid; but they were to advance the money, and he wanted to know from the Chancellor of the Exchequer where it was to come from. When did the right hon. Gentleman intend to make his financial statement or budget? Already the Session had advanced to a period beyond which it would not formerly have been thought becoming to delay it. Looking at the distress which prevailed among the agricultural classes, and at the anticipated deficiency in the revenue—alleged to arise from the blockades in the North, and other causes—he thought he was doing nothing unreasonable in asking for answers to the questions he had put.
 MR. BANKES  said, the noble Lord at the head of the Government had told them with truth that the Bill now introduced had two objects: the one was to amend the oaths at present taken by all persons not being Roman Catholics, on entering the House; the other object of the Bill was to admit, for the first time, Jews to hold seats in Parliament. Now it had been said, with reference to admitting Jews to Parliament, that there was a smaller degree of numerical opposition to this Bill than was offered to the Bill of last year; but this circumstance was, perhaps, owing to the present Bill not being solely confined to the admission of the Jews, but also embracing the amendment of the oaths taken by all the Members of that House except Roman Catholics; and it was pretty generally allowed by all parties in the House, that the present oaths were now in many respects obsolete, and even in some degree ridiculous, such as in seeking to bind persons taking the oaths not to support the claims of parties who no longer existed. Now, although he (Mr. Bankes) considered the part of the Bill for altering the existing oaths was not framed in the manner which he believed desirable or convenient, yet he would join in Committee in effecting their amendment; but as to that part of the Bill relating to the admission of the Jews, he would most certainly support the Amendment of which notice had been given by the hon. Member for West Surrey, viz., to exclude that portion of the measure alto-
 435 436
 MR. MOORE  regretted that the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield should have raised a debate in which he had exhibited the worst passions and the worst feelings that prevailed amongst the worst classes of the people of both countries against their fellow-subjects. The charge against the Irish was, that they might share amongst them as they pleased the causes of their ruin—idleness and improvidence on the part of the peasantry; mismanagement, extravagance, and incapacity on that of the landlords. That was the showing of the question by their opponents. It reminded him of the fable of the man and the lion, who stopped before the picture of a fight between a lion and a man, in which the man was depicted as slaying the lion. "Ah," said the lion, "had the painter been a lion, I have no doubt he would have given a different version of the story." And so with the present case. As a Connaught man, he felt bound to say that there never was an assertion more unfounded in fact, nor one more unjust, ungenerous, and untrue, than that in which all the English Members appeared to agree, as a fair conclusion, with regard to the causes of distress in the west of Ireland. To say that the people had become wretched because they were idle and improvident, was an assertion which was worse than a perversion of the truth. And as to the landlords, the motto seemed to be, "Hit them hard because they have no friends." That was the cry, and hit they were by every one, from the killing candour of the Minister to the melodramatic enmity of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield. He (Mr. Moore) did not mean to say they were faultless. But they had only gone on  pari passu 415
 SIR H. W. BARRON  would not follow the example of the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down, by entering into personalities, but he did regret that any English Member of Parliament should have shown such a bad spirit as the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield had done. But the hon. and learned Member had completely contradicted himself in the course of his speech. He told them that it was the duty of the landlords to undertake the drainage of their own property, and not come to this House for grants for the purpose. Now, as a general principle, that might perhaps be maintained; but the hon. and learned Member concluded by saying, that the Government ought to have organised the people for the purpose of improving the land and increasing the amount of human food: if the hon. and learned Member did not mean by that that Government ought to make grants for this purpose, he was at a loss to understand what the hon. and learned Gentleman could mean. But he begged to say that these were not grants at all. The House had maintained the principle, and acted upon it for the last twenty years, embodying it in Acts of Parliament still existing, with respect both to England and Scotland. By papers presented to Parliament within the last twenty years, it ap-
 404 l
 MR. GOULBURN  thought, that if Government acceded to the Motion, they would be setting a dangerous precedent. The House should lay down a general rule as to the days on which Notices and Orders should have precedence, and adhere to it.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that by the Bill of last year the same oath was to be taken by the Jews that was taken by the Roman Catholics. The oath taken by the latter contained a restriction with respect to the disturbance of property. By the present Bill, however, the case was altered, for they did not exact from the Jew the same pledge which they called on the Roman Catholic to make. He should like to know from the noble Lord what was the cause of the alteration, as he considered the pledge to be as requisite in the one case as in the other.
 MR. GOULBURN  considered it would certainly be unadvisable to do anything which, by altering the oath taken by Catholics, should have a tendency to disturb
 441
 MR. BRIGHT  desired to explain his position with regard to the measure, because he sat in that House as one of perhaps a small number who believed that the taking oaths at all was not effectual for any good or useful purpose, and was opposed, as he undoubtedly considered it to be, to the precepts of that very religion which was brought before the notice of the Gentlemen when they took their seats in that House. But he voted for the Bill on this simple ground. It did not increase the number of oaths to be taken; it did not adopt the principle of oaths where the principle did not previously operate; and it would open the door to a class of our fellow-countrymen for whom he felt great sympathy, and whose full liberty he hoped to see established as completely as the liberty of the sect to which he himself belonged, and of every other sect existing in this country. There had recently been an occasion in the House on which he thought the state of this question was shown to be absurd and ridiculous. On that occasion, not long ago, three Members of the House stood at the table on the same evening and at the same time to make the declaration or to take the oaths required of them prior to taking their seats. One of these Gentlemen was the noble Lord the Member for Horsham, a member of the Roman Catholic Church, the other two being Members for Leicester, one of whom belonged to the sect of which he (Mr. Bright) was a member. The noble Lord took the Roman Catholic oath; the one Member for Leicester took what might be specially called the Protestant oath, the other Member for Leicester took the declaration appointed for members of the Society of Friends. He could not exactly say, at the moment, how much this last differed from the oath, but it was not an oath at all. It appeared to him at the time, that, had a stranger watched the course taken by these three Members on the occasion, he would have come to a conclusion entirely different from that which the actual state of things in this country justified. He would have supposed that a great and bitter antagonism prevailed among the various classes of the community, and that three of those classes, represented by the three Members, were, by reason of this bitterness and hostility,
 447 448
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  must enter his protest against the inference that the Roman Catholic Members were under any peculiar restrictions.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  was very glad to hear the noble Lord say that: it was according to his interpretation of the Catholic oath. He found in the Catholic oath the following words: "I will defend, to the utmost of my power, the settlement of property within the realm as established by the laws;" and after that he found, "I solemnly abjure any intention to subvert the present Church Establishment as settled by law." What was the difference between" established by law, "and "settled by law?" He did not propose to subvert church property, but merely on the grounds of national justice, and because he was not an advocate for violent changes in the institutions of the country of any kind; and when people of a particular sect had the faith of the nation so long pledged to them, and got accustomed to a certain system, he would not advocate the violent abrogation of it; but there was nothing, he conceived, to prevent him from taking part in making any fresh settlement that might be expedient.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  desired to know what was the meaning of the words "settlement of property" in the oath? Could a Catholic, under the noble Lord's Bill for the sale of estates in Ireland, purchase lands now settled in the possession of Protestants?
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, as the noble Lord at the head of the Government had referred to the Archbishop of Tuam, he thought it his duty to state that that prelate, by his exertions, had secured an amount of subscriptions which had prevented great waste of life, and hundreds of persons owed their lives to him at this moment.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL : Sir, the thunderbolt has fallen, and we are not crushed. The storm with which we have been threatened for the last week in the newspapers, and which has been gathering over us with accumulated intensity, has at last come with all its fury upon us, and enforced with all the grimaces of a mountebank, and the spite of a viper.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL : And I confidently appeal to you. Sir, whether, on any occasion when it was my misfortune to fall under your rebuke, I did not bow to it at once; and I am now ready to withdraw the expression. But, at the same time, I must submit to you, that the hon. and learned Gentleman to whom I refer, used such expressions as these—he spoke of persons calling themselves gentlemen. That Member—whatever he may choose to call himself—has, indeed, given a terrible account of Ireland, and he has taken care to include all Irishmen in his denunciations. He has accused us of immorality. Immorality! If I were to enter upon that charge—and I will enter upon it, because it is not right the these taunts or insults upon
 402 403
 MR. PLUMPTRE  thought his hon. Friend the Member for Warwickshire had acted very properly in moving that the Chairman report progress. The House had been completely taken by surprise by the course just adopted by the Government. The noble Lord at the head of the Government, as well as the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, had first spoken against, and now declared that they were prepared to vote for, the Amendment. This was too important a question to be disposed of hastily. He thought that the noble Lord would not be doing justice to himself or to the House, if he would not consent to the Chairman reporting progress, and asking leave to sit again. Let the noble Lord state what course he meant to adopt, so that they might know distinctly what they were about. He would suggest the propriety of printing the oath in the form in which it was proposed, before proceeding further, because it was hardly possible to decide upon it in its present state.
 MR. ROEBUCK  thought the construction of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary would probably mislead many hon. Members. They should take the oath word by word. If they objected to a word, conceiving what it led to, they would vote against it; if looking at the word, and knowing to what it led, they would vote for it. If he said "No" to the word, let them say "Aye."
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that before Mr. Speaker left the chair, he wished to take the opportunity which, he believed, the forms of the House afforded to him, of expressing his opinion respecting the general policy—if, indeed, he could attach such a word to such proceedings—of Her Majesty's Government towards Ireland. Of this he was sure—having paid, as he had paid, great attention to the proceedings of the Government towards that unfortunate country, and having taken great pains to learn what the Government intended to do with respect to Ireland—the public money had already been expended there to a large amount. He had himself paid it, and they had all paid it, and now again they were called upon to expend money, through means of an appeal, that Ireland was in a state of distress. Ireland had been, he believed, in a state of distress of this sort for a period of three years. He did not speak of ordinary Irish distress, which was a thing that they had been always accustomed to; but he alluded to that remarkable description of distress which had arisen in Ireland in consequence of the failure of the potato crop. Some three years ago, the Government, he believed, of the right hon. Baronet opposite, the Member for Tamworth, had been informed that there was about to be a famine in Ireland, in consequence of the potato crop having failed, and of those who had lived on that root being no longer able to obtain subsistence. The right hon. Baronet, terrified at the prospect before him, proposed a repeal of the corn laws. He succeeded in that attempt, and if he had not done so, he (Mr. Roebuck) sincerely believed, that, instead of the peace and tranquillity which now reigned throughout this empire, and the comfort which was known in certain portions of the kingdom, they would have had to wade through those calamitous scenes of terror and revolution with which surrounding nations had been visited. After that providential proposal of the right hon. Baronet had been carried, the right hon. Baronet seceded from the post which he had then held, and the noble Lord the Member for the city of London succeeded to office? What did the noble Lord do? They should understand this clearly, for he had a right to enter upon it before his fellow-countrymen were compelled to pay an additional tax to a large amount out of their pockets. The noble Lord had a right to have considered the state of that country. What was that state, and how
 393 394 bonâ fide 395 l l l l l l l 396 397 l l 398 399 400 s s 401
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that certain gentlemen had recently been accused of "cooking a dividend;" he thought the right hon. Gentleman had been taking a leaf out of their book. He said the taxgatherer would not go round in consequence of this advance, because he had borrowed the money, and had in hand enough for the advance. But surely, like an honest man, he meant to pay his debts. Therefore, every farthing he had borrowed only went to postpone the pressure; and he was in reality, at the present moment, "cooking the public accounts."
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he hoped the Chairman would allow him to say a few words in explanation of the remarks he had made in a former part of the evening. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had evinced very good humour in the way in which he alluded to him; and he was sure he (Mr. Roebuck) felt much obliged to him for the way in which he put his allusion to his return to the House. He had not the least objection to the joke. But the noble Lord had not answered his observations. His charge was this—that three years ago distress was produced in Ireland—that the Government knew the causes of it—and that they were called on to prevent its recurrence. The distress arose from a famine in consequence of the sudden disappearance of the potato. Now, the noble Lord had not met that destitution by a bold and well-considered set of measures. He (Mr. Roebuck) had said so, and he repeated it—that the noble Lord was frightened—terrified he might say; that he had no system, was governed by no rule, had listened merely to his own sense and sensibility, and immediately had recourse to the large Treasury of England—that, having so had recourse to it, and employed many millions of money, he had left the people of Ireland worse off than he had found them. That was his charge; and his assertion was, that the noble Lord had employed those millions improperly—not improperly in any sense which could affect the noble Lord's character in any way, but in a way which he considered an un-statesmanlike proceeding. He knew the noble Lord's ability—he knew he was powerful in debate—that he possessed perspicacity and generosity; but he (Mr. Roebuck) might say, without any of that asperity—even of manner—which had been 80 often laid to his charge, that the noble Lord had not met those difficulties in the spirit of a statesman—that he had exhausted the resources of this country, and had not relieved the distress of Ireland. That charge the noble Lord answered. He said it had nothing to do with the Bill before the House. He (Mr. Roebuck) thought it had. He thought that at every step of giving money he had a right to ask what
 418 419
 MR. J. STUART  considered the suggestion of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Midhurst of great importance. The hon. and learned Member proposed words which seemed to him (Mr. Stuart) to be of great importance, as they would exclude the advice or interference of any foreign Power to induce the subjects of this realm to disobey the civil power in any matter whatever. He thought that was the most rational view to take, because there were many cases where a man might doubt whether it came under the head of the temporal or spiritual power. How would the question stand, as he had
 457
 MR. BROTHERTON  expressed a hope that the Chairman would be allowed to report progress, as it was impossible they could settle the question satisfactorily that night. The result of a division now would merely be to leave these words of the oath standing, "I do not believe."
 MR. HENLEY  could not say that the explanation given by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, in answer to the question of the hon. Member for Kilmarnock, was at all satisfactory. The noble Lord in his explanation referred to the re-
 449
 MR. HENLEY  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman was speaking of the Catholic oath, while his question referred to the Protestant oath.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that this was a question for the consideration of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, for they were in a backward state as to Motions of Supply. The miscellaneous estimates were not yet laid on the table. If the Government gave way to the allegation that the measure was of importance, the real business of the Government would be postponed  sine die
 MR. B. OSBORNE  begged to move an Amendment to the Motion of the right hon.
 390
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, that after the speech of the noble Lord, he should withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, he wished to put a question to the Under Secretary to the Colonies. He perceived by the  Gazette
 MR. B. OSBORNE  complained of the desultory nature of the discussion, and said, that reference to past grants was not apposite on that occasion. The past was gone by; and an hon. Gentleman was not justified, because he had been absent from the House some time, in coming down and renewing a discussion on the 10,000,000 l 429
 MR. COBDEN  said, that he was not called upon to bring on his Motion until a quarter past Eleven o'clock, after the hon. Member for Surrey had finished his de-bate; and he put it to the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, whether a quarter past Eleven was a proper time to bring forward a Motion on which a larger number of petitions had been presented this Session than upon any subject now before the House?
 MR. SPOONER  said, that it was not because the House had manifested its unwillingness to hear any observations on this
 461
 MR. SPOONER  moved that the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that he could assure the House he would not long trespass on its attention. He thought there were three great objects attained by the present oaths, which ought not to be given up or lost sight of. In the first place, they imposed a religious obligation for the proper performance and discharge of our duties; secondly, they tended to explain and inform us, as clearly as possible, what is meant by allegiance; and, thirdly, they gave, and were meant to give, some satisfaction or guarantee to the people of this country—that is to say, to the Protestant feeling of this country—that the Protestant Church and Protestant Establishment should not be interfered with. With regard to the first, he believed that the country were still prepared to continue to maintain that religious obligation; and as, in point of fact, they did retain it in all their courts of justice, he thought that the country would not desire to give it up when it was applied to the highest of all our courts—the high court of Parliament. With regard to the second, he wished to remind the House that the three oaths which were now taken by Members were the oath of allegiance, the oath of supremacy, and the oath of abjuration. If he understood the meaning of these three oaths, it was this: the oath of allegiance confesses the allegiance which we owe by birth, and bind ourselves to pay, to the Sovereign of the country for the time being; the oath of supremacy shows that this allegiance is an undivided allegiance; and the oath of abjuration continues allegiance to the heirs of the Sovereign, according to the Act of Settlement. Now, anybody who considered the nature and object of these three oaths would clearly see that the principle embodied in them was, first, allegiance; secondly, undivided allegiance; and, thirdly, a continuation of that allegiance according to the Act of Settlement. Therefore, he would vote for retaining the words which the right
 454
 MR. C. ANSTEY  remarked that when the hon. Member who had just sat down asserted that his constituents would have reason to complain, he would have acted more discreetly had he first inquired whether his constituents and himself had any understanding upon the matter. It did so happen that he (Mr. Anstey) had taken the earliest opportunity of making a declaration that he would never give a vote which would lead to the spoliation or the
 446
 MR. C. ANSTEY  observed, that the hon. and learned Member for Limerick seemed to him to confound two matters which in their own nature were perfectly distinct. The hon. and learned Gentleman had said that he might vote for the confiscation of any property in the country. But, even though he possessed the power so to vote, no one would say that he had any right to exercise that power; nor did the hon. and learned Member say so himself. On the contrary, he considered that the Roman Catholic Members of that House were bound to leave the succession to property as they found it. They had no right whatever to take a single farthing of property belonging to the Church, without making ample compensation for any loss which such appropriation might occasion. If the commissioners were to preclude the House by that portion of the report to which reference had been made, he considered that if they did so it must have the effect of forcing the House to adopt the whole of the report. It appeared to him that they ought to avail themselves of the present opportunity to revise all the oaths which Members of Parliament were called upon to take; and in the use of that opportunity he saw no reason why they
 443
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, that the speeches which had been delivered upon this subject were a striking illustration of the vanity of attempting to guide the conduct of men by oaths. The interpretations put upon the oath by the two hon. Members who spoke last, were exactly opposed to each other. If the hon. and learned Member for Limerick were correct, he would ask hon. Members opposite what it was that they contended so earnestly for? And what security had the present state of the Church Establishment in the words they were so anxious to preserve in the oaths taken by Roman Catholic Members of Parliament? If that interpretation were correct, they had no security whatever that the hon. and learned Member would not go the length of moving the abolition of that Church as a political establishment. If the hon. and learned Member for Youghal were correct in his interpretation, his constituents had a right to complain that their representative was debarred from touching a large and important subject, in which they, in common with the remainder of their fellow-subjects, were deeply interested. The hon. and learned Gentleman's constituents might say, "We sent you to Parliament to legislate on whatever concerns our well-being: we pay
 444 445 Richard the Third
 MR. W. KEOGH  hoped that as the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield had
 411 "Thrice the brindled cat hath mowed." 412 413
 MR. W. P. WOOD  trusted that the Government would not press the clause as it stood. They ought to remember who they were calling to witness when taking an oath, and use as few words as possible. However applicable the words might be in a Roman Catholic oath, could any one believe that Protestants thought "that the Pope of Rome, or any other foreign Prince, Prelate, State," &c, had any power in this kingdom, especially when only three lines before they had sworn allegiance to the Sovereign of the realm? The settlement of property had been explained to allude to the settlement of the tithe question, and also to have a bearing on the forfeited estates in Ireland. Could any one believe that Protestants wished to alter those laws; and if they did so, were they not entitled to bring them forward in that House? He begged to tell the noble Lord that they ought to be left free and unshackled in the performance of their duty. Could they forget that the head of the Legislature—George III.—had considered himself restricted by the oaths he had taken at his coronation to giving his consent to the admission of Roman Catholics to the Legislature? The head of the Legislature to whom he had alluded might have acted under a mistaken notion; but it was well known that that was the interpretation he put upon his oath. There could be no doubt that the words "true faith" had been meant to refer to those belonging to the Church, and the words were originally directed against those opposed to the Church, and who were supposed to act under peculiar errors. If that was the meaning of "true faith," why should an oath containing these words be imposed on parties who never held, and who were never suspected to have held, any doctrines adverse to the Church—especially as all parties who were sworn on the New Testament must swear on the faith of a Christian, if they believed in it at all. This oath was evidently not intended to apply to Jews, because there was another clause especially for their benefit. If these words were intended as a test, he should object to them, as he was sure the
 452
 MR. GROGAN  asked if a receiver would be appointed over the estates for the improvement of which these advances were made; also, as to the conditions on which the grants for drainage would be made,
 431
 SIR G. GREY  deprecated being led by the hon. Gentlaman into a long discussion upon various other Bills besides that before the Committee. The hon. Gentleman said, he would not be deterred by any fear of displeasing him (Sir G. Grey) from stating facts. But what he complained of was, that the hon. Gentleman did not state what were facts, but that he had drawn upon his imagination for charges against the Government that were unfounded. The hon. Gentleman charged the Government with dispensing grants of money in a way tending to do harm rather than good, and with spending double the amount that was necessary to do all that was effected. His (Sir G. Grey's) answer was, that they had applied the funds placed at their disposal by Parliament in the way they thought the destitution could best be relieved. They had done that which the hon. Gentleman said they had not done—they had expended the 50,000 l l l
 SIR G. GREY  said, he should remind the House that his noble Friend the First Lord of the Treasury had said, when the vote of the 50,000 l l l l l l
 SIR G. GREY  said, the hon. Gentleman began, as he did on Friday, by complaining of the system of grants, and he then complained in the next breath that the Government would not give a sixpence to relieve Irish distress. He would say, in answer to the first charge, that under the circumstances in which some of the unions of Ireland were placed, the Government did think it necessary, though they differed from the hon. Gentleman, to appeal to Parliament for a limited sum, in mitigation of that distress. In answer to the second charge, that the Government had received repeated applications for pecuniary assistance, and that they had not sent sixpence in return, he told the hon. Gentleman now, as he told him on Friday night, that he spoke in utter ignorance of the facts of the case, for he (Sir G. Grey) could not suppose, if the hon. Gentleman knew them, that he would indulge in such misinterpretations, anxious as he appeared to be to throw upon the Government the undivided responsibility for the Irish distress. The Government sent to Ireland the further sum which had been placed at their disposal by Parliament; and when they saw the indisposition, the not unnatural indisposition, of Parliament to vote any additional sums, they proposed a Bill in which they inserted a clause that would enable them immediately to advance 100,000 l 410
 SIR G. GREY  could not understand how the House had been taken by surprise on this matter. When the case was looked into, he must say that it was very difficult to find any arguments by which to defend the retention of the words in the oaths to be taken exclusively by Protestants, which words were intended to be taken as a security against Roman Catholics. The way in which the Chairman had put the question was very clear. If there were any hon. Gentlemen who thought that the oath, in the form in which it was now inserted in the Bill, ought to be retained, they, of course, would vote against the exclusion of these words, "And that I do not believe," &c. If they did not think it necessary to impose on Protestants any declaration about the Pope of Rome having temporal or civil jurisdiction in this
 462
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  would respectfully remind the Committee that they were not framing a new oath, but altering an old one, and that they were altering it, not for the realm at large, but for themselves, so that whatever they omitted now they would, in the judgment of their fellow-citizens, be held to have abandoned. But he must also add, that they were altering only for themselves—they were not altering for their fellow-subjects. The First Minister of the Crown could not take his place at the Council board without taking the very oath which here he proposed to nullify, or to reduce almost to nothing in the case of a Member who took his scat in that House. He objected also to the sudden manner in which, since the debate had commenced, the Government had proposed to relinquish certain clauses in that oath. He could not think this was a fair specimen of the way in which legislation ought to be conducted; and he trusted that the House, if it did not reinsert all the words of the old oath, would at least not agree to the form of oath which the noble Lord proposed to substitute for it.
 SIR R. PEEL  was glad the noble Lord had consented to omit the words "and that I will defend to the utmost of my power the settlement of property within this realm," and to relieve Protestants from the obligation which the oath would otherwise impose upon them. He had heard various accounts of the origin of the introduction of these words, but without being satisfied that they were correct. The words were originally inserted in the Roman Catholic oath at an early period in the
 455 456
 SIR R. PEEL , in explanation, said, the hon. and learned Gentleman completely mistook the view he (Sir R. Peel) took of the subject. He did not like the insertion of the words "temporal or civil," as proposed by the noble Lord. He had taken the oath, and with a safe conscience, that neither the Pope of Rome, nor any other foreign Power, prince, state, or potentate, had any power whatever, whether ecclesiastical or civil, temporal or civil, within these realms. If he were now to insert the words "temporal and civil," he would give rise to the presumption that he recognised the existence, on the part of the Pope of Rome, of a spiritual and ecclesiastical jurisdiction. Therefore he said, he would rather that the words calling upon them to disclaim the temporal and civil jurisdiction of the Pope were omitted altogether, lest it should by his silence appear as if he recognised the other kind of authority. He could, with a safe conscience, take the oath which excluded the spiritual and ecclesiastical authority of the Pope, in the same manner as many Roman Catholics did immediately after the Reformation; that was to say, he denied that the Pope had any spiritual or ecclesiastical authority of a co-active nature. He denied that he had any jurisdiction which a court of law in this country would enforce; but he did not deny that, if there were any persons in this country who did defer to the authority
 458
 SIR R. PEEL  rose, and said: Sir, I have a question to put to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, as to the effect of this Bill on the position of Her Majesty's subjects professing the Jewish religion. I had hoped that it was the intention of the Government to place the Jews on precisely the same footing, with respect both to Parliamentary and civil offices, on which all classes of Her Majesty's subjects, with that single exception, at present stand. The law has provided an oath to he taken by the Roman Catholic which qualifies him to take his seat in
 432 "I do solemnly and sincerely, in the presence of God, profess, testify, and declare, upon the true faith of a Christian, that I will never exercise any of the powers which this office may confer upon me, for the purpose of disturbing or injuring the Church as by law established." 433
 SIR R. PEEL  wished to explain that his previous observations about the Jew had reference to all civil and military offices under the Crown, in respect to which the declaration against transubstantiation was obliged to be made. They had no reference to municipal offices, because in 1845 the Jew was relieved from the oaths and placed on the same footing as other classes of Her Majesty's subjects; but this applied to municipal offices only.
 MR. W. MILES  rose and said, he did not wish to utter a word against the understanding of the Chairman, who had certainly put the question in a very intelligible way; but the only question for the House to consider was, whether a Bill of such importance, involving an alteration of the whole of the Parliamentary oath, should be assented to before the country had an opportunity of understanding it. After having in the first instance opposed the Amendment of the right hon. Member for Northampton, the Government now acceded to it, and proposed out of twelve lines to strike out eight lines of the oath. He therefore thought that it was but reasonable that the Chairman should report progress, and ask for leave to sit again, with the view of enabling the Government to print their alterations, and lay them on a future occasion in a definite shape before the House.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Her Majesty's Government, notwithstanding the renewal of hostilities between the two parties, felt it their duty to omit no effort that might, by possibility, effect either, in the first instance, the renewal of an armistice, and, in the second place, the conclusion of a peace between the two parties. Accordingly it became my duty to make to the two parties a fresh proposition, with a view to the establishment of an armistice. That proposition is still under consideration; and I am sure the House will feel it would not be fitting for me to go into particulars as to in what degree it may be likely to be accepted by one or both of the parties. But I can state so far, that not only is that proposition for a renewed armistice under the consideration of the two parties, but that also we are in communication with the two parties with a view to the final settlement and adjustment of the questions at issue between them. I feel that anything I might say with regard to holding out hopes is so likely to be misunderstood by persons whose commercial interests are concerned, or, if not misunderstood by them, so likely to be misrepre-
 389
 MR. GREENE  was sure the hon. Member would acquit him of any want of courtesy to him, or any wish to withhold information, if he declined answering the question in the form in which it was now put; because, in the course of a few days, there would be laid on the table of the House a statement, not only of all the expenses that had been incurred, but of all the probable expenses that might be incurred in
 495
 MR. GREENE  said, that the subject of ventilation was settled before he became a commissioner. It was arranged that Dr. Reid should have the ventilation of the House of Commons and the adjoining lobbies; he was not to have charge of the ventilation of the Committee rooms.
 MR. BOURKE  believed that the question of emigration was of paramount importance to the people of Ireland. It was a mistake to suppose that the boards of guardians would not be able to raise money on the security of the rates for the purpose of promoting emigration. His experience of parties who had money to lend was quite the contrary. It seemed surprising to him that there should be such disparity in the statements respecting the cost of emigration. He believed that the emigration from Ireland had cost under 5 l l s 532
 LORD J. RUSSELL  had seen his noble Friend the Colonial Secretary that morning, but no such petition had then been received, and whether any had arrived since four o'clock he was not aware. He had, however, seen in the newspapers some account of such a meeting being held as had been referred to by the hon. Gentleman.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  had to say, in reply, that the Governor General stated that on the 30th Montreal was tranquil. There had been some disturbances in the provinces, but he believed the provinces might also now be considered as tranquil.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : There certainly does not appear to me to be the least reason for sending additional forces to Canada at present. I believe there is quite sufficient force to protect the Governor General; though I am told that the civil force of Montreal consists of two constables only.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : With respect to the very serious events that have occurred at Montreal, I have to state in answer to the first question of the right hon. Gentleman, that a despatch has been received from the Governor General of Canada, directed to the Secretary of State for the Colonial Department; that despatch, however, was only received at four o'clock this day. I have not myself seen the despatch, but it is a public document containing an account of the disturbances at Montreal, and there will be no objection to laying it immediately upon the table of this House. With respect to the next question of the right hon. Gentleman, and with regard, likewise, to the question of the hon. Member who has spoken after him, I will only say that the Earl of Elgin has stated that it his intention to write by the next mail a despatch stating all the occurrences that have relation to the Bill for an. indemnity for losses; and that despatch, of course, may be expected by the next mail. I do not think—I would not be
 497
 LORD J. RUSSELL  could only repeat that he thought it would be much better to have the whole case, with the papers, before them before they entered into these questions.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I shall certainly decline entering further into this matter. As to the question put by the hon. Gentlemen the Member for Buckinghamshire, the answer given upon a former occasion by my hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies is perfectly correct in point of fact.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield had made an inquiry which he thought he would scarcely have done had he been in that House on the 22nd of March last. On that day the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies, in reply to two questions put to him by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford spoke as follows:—
 498 "In answer to the first question of the right hon. Gentleman he had to state that no instructions whatsoever were given to the noble Lord at the head of the Canadian Government with reference to the introduction of this Bill, or in contemplation of any such measures. His noble Friend (Earl Grey) had entire confidence in the noble Lord the Governor General's judgment and discretion, and was not in the habit of giving him instructions of that kind. With regard to the second question of the right hon. Gentleman, who had himself filled the office of Secretary of State for the Colonies, he had to state that all colonial laws—he believed universally—having passed through their formal stages, and received the assent of the Crown through Her Majesty's representative in the colony, came into immediate operation, unless they contained a suspending clause. This would apply, of course, to all Acts, whether they were for the appropriation of money or not." *
 MR. HAWES : I beg to say that I received the note of my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Sheffield, and I have to thank him for giving me notice of the question. I sent it to my noble Friend at the head of the Colonial Office, in order that my noble Friend at the head of the Government might be enabled to answer the question.
 MR. CHARLES PEARSON  moved for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire and report upon the practicability of establishing one uniform system of Prison Discipline, to be applied to all persons sentenced to imprisonment for crime. He said he asked for the appointment of the Committee upon various grounds, either of which would, he apprehended, entitle him to his Motion. The enormous expense of our present prisons, and present systems of prison discipline, demanded inquiry. Nearly 500,000 l 533 l l l l l l l l s 534 535 536 l l 537 538 539 540 541 542 l l 543 544 l l l s d 545 546 l l l 547 548 549 550 551 552
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  believed the proposal of the hon. Gentleman the Member for the county of Limerick, as explained by the right hon. Baronet, to be a practical delusion. He was inclined to think, with his hon. Friend the Member for the city of Limerick, that the expense of emigration would be 20 l l 528
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  said, the proposition of the hon. Member for the county of Limerick very much reminded him of the practice adopted by some persons to get rid of an old dog-that of sending him out to get lost. The parallel drawn between Connaught and Belgium was most defective, as in the latter country, after deducting the 600,000 employed in manufactures, there was still a larger proportionate number supported on the soil. The hon. Gentleman and his class were not averse to the expatriation of the poor; but they lamented over the departure of capital. The fact was, as the hon. Member for Manchester had stated, that Ireland was not half populated. The money locked up in the savings hanks amounted to 400,000 l 529
 MR. MOWATT  begged to ask the hon. Gentleman whether any satisfactory arrangement had yet been made with Dr. Reid with respect to the ventilation of the new Houses? Most hon. Members would agree with him that the question was one of much importance: even the experience of last night must have convinced some that hon. Gentlemen attending their duty there were exposed to considerable inconvenience, if not danger.
 MR. SCULLY  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. SCULLY  considered that emigration was a useless measure for Ireland as long as so much unproductive land remained at home which was capable of being brought into cultivation. He could bear testimony to the accuracy of the picture drawn by his hon. Friend the Member for the city of Limerick respecting the condition of the people in that county and in the neighbouring county of Tipperary. The fields were untilled, the lands were unstocked, and the roads were filled with men, women, and children, whose occupation was that of breaking stones. Emigration in connection with other measures might be useful; but the question to be decided at the present moment was a question of life and death, and he should therefore give his warmest support to the Amendment of his hon. Friend.
 MR. MOORE  observed, that it was with great pain he saw the two Motions which had been proposed by the hon. Members sent to that House from the same county to represent the people of Ireland. What hope could the people have that their representatives could have any weight in the House, when they saw one hon. Member bringing forward a Motion to counteract, neutralise, and frustrate a Motion of another hon. Member from the same county? With respect to the first paragraph of the Amendment, that emigration was a partial, tardy, and expensive remedy—a more ill-timed, ill-judged, and incongruous statement, one more inconsistent with itself and with the facts, he never heard. Why, all remedies for grave diseases must be partial, tardy, and expensive. It was only quacks, charlatans, and impostors who pretended to cure complaints of forty years' standing by nostrums which were to act at the moment. The people of Ireland were emigrating in the most disastrous way in which emigration could take place, for those who went took with them the capital of the country. If the hon. Member for Limerick were to try his hand at persuading a half-starved Connaught peasant
 521 "The nightmare Life-in-death."
 MR. BRIGHT  asked whether the Government had received such information as might lead them to hope that the disturbances had been put down?
 MR. FITZPATRICK  seconded the Motion.
 MR. HERRIES  wished to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government whether he had received any authentic information respecting the very grave events reported by the publie papers to have occurred in Canada—whether he was prepared to lay that information on the table—and also whether the Government were now in possession of extracts from the votes and proceedings of the Legislative
 496
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  had listened with great interest to the speech of the hon. Member, though he did not in all cases agree with him. He had given himself much unnecessary trouble in proving that the condition of the miserable Irish would be bettered if they were removed to our colonies—in proving the capabilities of the Irish to maintain themselves, and of their disposition to work—and also in proving that there were many places which were in absolute want of the labour of the industrious sons of Ireland. But let him tell the hon. Member one significant fact which went rather against his proposition. It was this, that private capital had not overlooked the points to which he had adverted; and if it had not flowed there, it was because the capitalists saw no rational ground for risking their property. But, after all, the practical question with regard to emigration was, Where was the money to come from? The money was the thing. The hon. Member had not stated how this large sum of money was to be obtained, nor how it was to be expended, nor what number of individuals it would be necessary to take out of Ireland. The next question was, If they had the money, could they not spend it better at home? They could not take out the population of Ireland at a less sum than 20 l 514 l l l l 515 "So far as regards felony cases, attacks upon property, cases of burglary, robbery, and offences of that description, they are unusually large. You have been for years attending as grand jurors of this county, and if you carry back your recollection for a few years you will be able to remember that cases of robbery formed but a very small portion of those which you had to investigate.
 516 * * * * * 517 Times l 518 "In losing their crop of potatoes they lost all, and sunk at once into helpless and hopeless pauperism. The small farmers still preserved hope. With great exertions, and submitting in many cases to extreme privations, they again cropped their ground. A second failure of the potatoes pauperised them also. Then came the increased poor-rates, heaviest in those districts which were least able to bear them—weighing down many who, without this last burden, might have stood their ground—alarming all by the unaccustomed pressure of an undefined taxation, and greatly reducing the small amount of capital applicable to the employment of labour. The landed proprietor, in order to provide for the payment of rates, has been obliged to leave much useful work undone—thus lessening the numbers of labourers employed. In many cases, his chief effort has been to diminish the population by a frightful system of wholesale evictions, and thus get rid of a tenantry who, under happier circumstances, would have been a source of wealth, but whom his inability to employ had converted into a heavy burden.…The paupers are merely kept alive, but their health is not maintained—their physical strength is weakened, their mental capacity is lowered, their moral character is degraded; they are hopeless themselves, and they offer no hope to their country, except in the prospect so abhorrent to humanity and Christian feeling, of their gradual extinction—by death. Many families are now suffering extreme distress, who, three years since, enjoyed the comforts and refinements of life, and administered to the necessities of those around them.…. That security to the cultivator of the soil does not generally exist in Ireland is admitted. Upon this point there is scarcely a second opinion—the laws which regulate the title to and the conveyance of land, require to be changed, so as to give the utmost freedom to its sale and transfer, so as to pass those estates whose
 519 520
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, the right hon. Baronet had misunderstood him in supposing he had said that the money contributed had been thrown away. He, on the contrary, admitted it had done much good; but he conceived it to be wholly inadequate to the occasion.
 MR. ROEBUCK  begged to add another question to these. The Bill of Indemnity was necessarily a Money Bill, and, therefore, the Earl of Elgin must, he supposed, have had instructions from the Home Government before any step was taken by the Parliament of Canada with respect to it. A message must have gone down from the Governor General to the Parliament, giving them authority to enter upon the consideration of the matter. Now, was the noble Lord cognisant of any instructions given to the Earl of Elgin to give that previous sanction to the Motion being made in the Parliament, thus showing that the Government at home and the Superior Government in Canada sanctioned this indemnity being given to the parties, before the Parliament of Canada could proceed upon the Bill?
 MR. ROEBUCK  had not asked the question from an idea that there had been any deviation either from the ordinary practice or from the orders that had been sent out. He merely wanted to ask the noble Lord whether he was cognisant of any such necessarily preceding recommendation as he had referred to, namely, that the Canadian Parliament could not, without a preceding suggestion or permission on the part of the Government, have taken any steps regarding this Bill; and that the Earl of Elgin must have previously received his instructions from the Colonial Office in a specific and distinct form. The noble Lord did not know, and therefore he (Mr. Roebuck) could not expect from him an answer; but such must have been the case, and all he had asked was whether the noble Lord was cognisant of the circumstance.
 MR. ROEBUCK  had not put this question to the Under Secretary for the Colonies, because he was not in his place, and he concluded that hon. Gentleman had not received a letter which he had sent him in the course of the day. As the hon. Gentleman had now taken his seat, however—[ Mr. Hawes had entered just before * 499 Cries of
 SIR J. YOUNG  said, the hon. Gentleman, according to his own account, had predicted everything that occurred for the last four years; but if he were a prophet, he had certainly never been believed in his own country. He (Sir J. Young) denied that the evils of Ireland were at all attributable to free trade; instead of an injury, it had been a great benefit to Ireland, more than to any other part of the empire. The only product of the soil which had yielded the best return was flax, and that had not been protected. Nevertheless, the county he represented (Cavan), was in a state of the greatest distress; but this was mainly attributable to the loss of the potato, many of the farmers having lost three-fourths of their produce. The evil had been aggravated by the commercial depression in this country, and by the disturbed state of the Continent. The distress of Cavan had not been caused by the poor-laws; the rates, varying from 3 s s 531
 MR. BROTHERTON  moved the adjournment of the debate, as it was after twelve o'clock, and the subject could not possibly be concluded that night.
 MR. P. HOWARD : Is it the intention of Her Majesty's Government to increase the forces in Canada? For instance, to send out the Guards, or some of the other troops? Is it intended to strengthen the hands of the Executive, and to secure the
 500
 MR. OSBORNE  seconded the Motion.
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  said, that though he had no connexion with Reading gaol beyond that which arose from the circumstance of his belonging to the general body of the county magistrates, yet, as that establishment had been very much attacked by the hon. Gentleman who brought forward the present Motion, he would state in a few words the view he took on the subject. With respect to Mr. Merry, who had been alluded to, he was most zealous in the discharge of his duty as a magistrate, and he expressed a wish for the fullest inquiry into the circumstances of Reading gaol, stating that there was not a record or an account which would not bear the strictest investigation. He (Mr. Palmer) apprehended that the great distinction of this new system was the separation of prisoners from one another; and when Reading gaol was fust built, and that system was proposed to be carried out, he had great doubts whether it would answer; but, having carried on the system now for some time in Reading gaol, he believed that those who opposed it the most when first introduced, were now inclined to believe that it had effected considerable good. The chaplain of Reading gaol could not be too highly praised for his zeal, and for his attention to the prisoners under his charge; and he stated, that greater effect was produced on the prisoners under the new system than under the old. Under the old system twelve or fifteen prisoners were locked up in a ward without any one to overlook them, and the consequence was, they were at liberty to concoct any sort of mischief. Now they were placed in separate cells. And it must be observed there was great difference between separate and solitary confinement. The latter was almost the greatest punishment that could be inflicted; the former, one under which the prisoners could have frequent visits from those who could afford them instruction. He could not but think
 560 l
 MR. MONSELL  then proceeded to call the attention of the House to the importance of encouraging emigration from Ireland. He rose, certainly not without considerable embarrassment, to address the House on this subject, as connected with Irish interests, and as a means essential to the relief of Irish distress. On the one hand, he was well aware of the difficulties which he should have to encounter in dealing with so large a question; on the other, he felt that protracted and, he was afraid he must add, fruitless debates had indisposed the House to the consideration of Irish questions. He threw himself, however, confidently on the indulgence of the House, and would endeavour to merit that indulgence by compressing all that he thought it necessary to say into the smallest possible compass; and, first, he declared his cordial agreement with the opinion expressed by the Solicitor General on the preceding evening, that what was wanted for Ireland was a series of beneficial measures. He quite admitted that the suggestions he was about to make, if carried out, would not avail towards relieving the miseries of some of the worst districts of Ireland, where, on account of the omission of such measures, the population was already reduced by death, and those that remained were enfeebled by disease. He knew also that in almost every place the remedy of emigration would require the assistance of other concurrent remedies. He took, for instance, the Incumbered Estates Bill. He believed that that measure attacked the malady in its source and ultimate cause. He should utterly fail in recommending his views to the House, if he did not prove that they would assist the objects and promote the changes which his hon. and learned Friend desired to effect by that Bill; but his hon. and learned Friend's Bill would not work without purchasers. He must take care, lest haply the estates submitted for sale under his commission, should meet with the fate of those put up
 501 â priori 502 "I am sorry to say that having in my perambulations around the world had occasion to see humanity in most of the latitudes and longitudes, including the aboriginal races in North and South America and the South Sea Islands, and in New Zealand and Australia, I have not found anywhere else men subject to misery of such an aggravated character as the Irish peasantry of the western unions were. The famine described by Sismondi, in Tuscany, in 1846, 1847, 1848, is nothing to be compared with what came under my own observation in Ireland." 503 s l 504 505 l 506 "We are of opinion a great deal of this poverty is attributable to the emigration of that class of farmers holding from ten to twenty acres of land, who, on their leaving, have disposed of their farms to a class who were desirous of obtaining possession; such have given their entire capital, leaving themselves unable to stock the land, or to pay either the rates or rent, for proof of which there were entered with the clerk of the peace for the last quarter-sessions, in this division alone, 186 ejectment cases; also the loss of the potato, which has affected men of every degree, for we may say the rent was chiefly paid by means of feeding pigs on the refuse of that esculent." 507 "I think the English emigrant the best, and the Irish next, and that the descendants of the Irish make excellent settlers." "There was then no indisposition on the part of the Irish labourers to support themselves by honest industry?—On the contrary, every man who was able to carry a spade went to work, and although the commission of emigration commenced its operations in May, and those persons were authorised by law to demand assistance from them whenever they were unable to take care of themselves, there were no instances of applications from ablebodied men for admission to the institutions of the commissioners until the winter set in, which greatly diminished outdoor labour, and at no time were there chargeable to the commissioners more than 300 ablebodied men. "Out of the enormous number that came?—Out of the emigration of 60,000 Irish, and 160,000 of all nations. "It also produces very good effects to the people, who themselves emigrate into the country?—Surprising effects. In America they imbibe the spirit of the country. The Irish, who are said to be unwilling to work at home, are industrious in the United States. I have scarce ever known an ablebodied Irishman unwilling to work. I can speak with great confidence with regard to their indefatigable industry and willingness to work, and that they do not seek assistance when they can obtain labour." 508 Western World s d 509 510 s l 511 l 512
 SIR G. GREY  gave every credit to the hon. Gentleman for the attention and pains which he for many years had bestowed upon this subject; and he hoped the hon. Gentleman would not suppose, because he did not assent to the Motion without requiring the hon. Gentleman to make a speech, that he at all undervalued its importance. With many of the opinions which the hon. Gentleman had expressed, he (Sir G. Grey) perfectly agreed, and he had no doubt they would meet with the concurrence of all persons who had had their attention called to prison discipline; but from many other opinions delivered by the hon. Gentleman he entirely disagreed. If the House were to enter upon an inquiry according to the terms of the resolution, the Session would expire long before their investigation could be brought to a close. If any inquiry were to be instituted into the existing system of prison discipline, it ought to be of a much more limited and specific character than that now proposed. It was true, by the important alteration which the hon. Gentleman had just made, he excluded from his inquiry the prisons at Millbank, Pentonville, and Portland, and also the hulks, which were appro-
 553 l 554 Moral Philosophy 555 556 557 "I will first disprove the statement by correcting the table given by Mr. Pearson, and then by referring to some facts which contradict the representations made. In the eighth page of the Synopsis we have a table which gives the number of commitments during eight years; and, taking the average of the first five years, we observe 1,078 under the old system—taking the four succeeding years under the separate system, the average is 990. But from the last number must be subtracted 65 convicts, committed from different parts of the kingdom, and sent by Government to be subjected to the discipline of the
 558 "On the general subject of recommitals, it may be remarked, that the present mode of ascertaining the proportion of recommitted prisoners is very unsatisfactory; and, moreover, that this proportion, even if correctly ascertained, affords but little indication, unless others be also taken into account, of the comparative efficacy of the system of discipline in different prisons, in reforming offenders, or deterring from crime. At present, some of the worst prisons have the fewest recommitments." 559
 SIR G. GREY  would admit that there was something worthy of consideration in the Motion of the hon. Member for the county of Limerick, and thanked that hon. Gentleman for the manner in which he had brought his Motion forward. He conceived that the hon. Member for the city of Limerick had not dealt fairly with the view of his hon. Friend, who had brought forward this Motion, when he represented him as asserting that the only remedy for the evils of Ireland was emigration on a large scale, and that the national resources should be devoted to that object only. He admitted that there were parts of Ireland
 522 l 523 s d 524 525 526 527
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  wished to ask Mr. Greene what was the gross amount of the estimates sent in by Mr. Barry, the architect, for the completion of the Houses of Parliament, and all works relating thereto; and whether the commission (of which Mr. Greene is a member) has any legal authority to sanction or to alter the amount of such estimates?
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  asked whether in the despatch which the noble Lord had mentioned, there was any reference to a petition from a large and respectable assemblage at Montreal, praying that the Earl of Elgin should be recalled, and that the Queen should withhold Her assent from the Indemnity Bill? Also whether any petitions to the same effect had been received from other parts of Canada?
 SIB G. GREY : I should regret if any further discussion were to arise upon this subject, with the imperfect information that we necessarily possess upon the details of these transactions. I do not rise myself to continue the discussion. I only wish to state that I did not consider the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Sheffield to deny the right of this House to interfere. [Mr. ROEBUCK: Hear, hear!] I agree with the right hon. Gentleman in thinking that right is unquestionable. The power which the Crown has of disallowing any colonial act, after it has
 569
 MR. MILES  considered that the amendment would place the tenant in tail, in many cases, in very great difficulty; and therefore he should oppose it.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the necessary effect of this would be, that each party would name a partisan, and the selection of the umpire would be left to chance. By the following clause the award was to be made a rule of court; consequently, it might be set aside on any informality, and all the complicated legal machinery of awards would be introduced into the agreements between landlord and tenant. Attorneys would necessarily be employed to draw up the awards, and great expense would be incurred. He hoped these most dangerous clauses would not be pressed, for their necessary consequence would be to shake all confidence between landlords and tenants.
 SIR J. Y. BULLER  expressed a fear that it would operate injuriously towards the incoming tenant to be obliged to pay the money immediately on the making of the award.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, his objection had been from a sincere desire to improve the Bill; he thought the omission of these clauses would be a decided improvement. He suggested the addition of two or three words to another clause, declaring that the compensation should be awarded as was usual in such cases.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the proviso would destroy the whole effect of the Bill, for nobody would of course lay out a considerable sum in the improvement of land, if he was only allowed compensation for two years.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  thought the clause altogether objectionable. He could not admit that the tenant for life should have power to authorise the erection of whatever buildings he pleased. He could imagine many cases in which such a power would operate injuriously. He knew instances in which a tenant for life would perhaps be disposed to empower the tenant in occupation to erect buildings in front of a mansion.
 MR. S. HERBERT  observed, that if there were such customs in the hon. Baronet's county, there would be no reason to enter into such special agreement. The agreement was not compulsory.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he had moved that the record of the judgment in the case of William Smith O'Brien be printed; on Friday he should move that it be taken into consideration, and that William Smith O'Brien be expelled that House.
 MR. HAWES : Sir, I think it would be extremely inconvenient to raise, at this moment, any general discussion upon the subject adverted to by my hon. and learned Friend. The Government have taken the very earliest opportunity to lay the papers relating to Canada on the table of the House. I have only to-day been enabled to bring up a despatch from the Earl of Elgin, which it is intended should be circulated with the other papers having immediate reference to the events which have lately occurred in Canada; and I, therefore, think that it would not be fair to enter into a general discussion until hon. Members have had an opportunity of reading those papers, which, of course, I have had an opportunity of reading, but which they have not yet had time to peruse. Under these circumstances I hope that my hon. and learned Friend will not think I am acting discourteously towards him if I express my opinion that the House ought to wait until all these papers shall have been circulated, before they call upon Her Majesty's Government to enter into a full explanation of the recent events.
 MR. HAWES  appeared at the bar, and, by Her Majesty's command, presented papers relative to the affairs of Canada.
 MR. ADDERLEY  moved that To-morrow, being Ascension Day, no Committee do meet and proceed with business before two o'clock. He said he saw no reason why the same rule as existed with respect to Ash Wednesday should not be applied to Ascension Day. He was utterly at a loss to see why any distinction should be made between the two days. He trusted, therefore, no opposition would be offered to the proposition.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  thought the tenant for life should not have the power to deal with the interests of his successor in the way proposed.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  hoped the House would not proceed without information. The question was between those who had defended the connexion between Canada and this country, and those who had sought to destroy that connexion. The hon. and learned Member for Sheffield had given M. Papineau's version of the division, and he wished to guard the House against it.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he was willing to extend the time. He would consent to extend it to compensation for four years, though he confessed he thought two years' compensation was the proper proportion.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  proposed to add to the end of the clause the following proviso:—
 "Provided always, That no owner of any farm, of which he is not possessed in fee-simple, shall have power, under this Act, by agreement with the tenant of such farm, to render any future owner of such farm liable for any principal sum, by way of compensation for improvements, which shall exceed two years' rent of such farm, according to the annual value thereof at the time of making such agreement: Provided also, that no tenant of such farm shall have power, under this Act, to recover, by virtue of any such agreement, from any future owner, any such principal sum, by way of compensation for improvements, except by seven equal annual instalments; and at the time of the payment of each annual instalment, interest at the rate of 5 l
 Mr. NEWDEGATE  considered that malversation would take place if the Bill did not contain such restricting proviso as that which he proposed.
 Mr. NEWDEGATE  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman appeared only to object
 577
 MR. PACKE  moved the insertion of the words "after obtaining the consent of the landlord in writing."
 MR. SPEAKER  said, there was a question before the House, namely, whether the
 564
 MR. BRIGHT  was afraid he must disappoint the hon. Gentleman in his expectation that his Motion would meet with unanimous approval, for he felt himself bound to oppose it. He would be glad to know where these interruptions to the business of Parliament were to end. Last year they proposed to adjourn, and did adjourn, over the Derby day; and the anniversary of the day on which an unfortunate monarch had been beheaded had often caused an adjournment of the House. This last was intended to allow Members to go to Church, though he believed very few went—he meant on that day. He hoped all Members of the House were disposed to regard the momentous event which Ascension day was understood to commemorate with proper feelings; but he could see no reason why the House should suspend its business on that day. The hon. Gentleman interfered on behalf of Committees. He (Mr. Bright) was on one—a most important one, the Irish Poor Law Committee, and he knew that there were now some gentlemen in town from Dublin to be examined before that Committee, and who would probably be detained here over Sunday if the business of the Committee were interfered with. But he opposed this Motion chiefly on the ground that he did not know where these propositions would end. Different sects had different days which were held important. Next year they might have some other hon. Member proposing some other day as sacred, and on which the House should not sit. The Irish Gentlemen might claim an adjournment for some of their numerous saints, and, for aught he knew, Wales might put in a claim for its patron saint. He should
 571
 MR. BRIGHT  suggested that the matter should be left to the Committees themselves. He denied having attempted the analogy alluded to by the hon. Member; he had merely mentioned the cases, to show how the number of holidays was increasing. Ascension day was not generally observed as a holiday.
 MR. J. E. DENISON  said that the hon. and learned Member did not appear to know the nature of the measure. If a tenant laid out 1,000 l
 MR. J. E. DENISON  thanked the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield for having given the House information which tended to calm the feelings of the country upon this matter. He had also warned the House against any rash and inconsiderate proceedings. This he (Mr. Deni-son) thought was likely to give an impression to the country that something had occurred in the House which showed a disposition to act in that manner. That would be a very false impression; for nothing
 570
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, the analysis he had given was of the names as they had voted.
 MR. ROEBUCK  accordingly resumed. His desire was to relieve the public anxiety, which he knew was very great; and he would at once close the remarks which he wished to make if it was the desire of the House that he should do so, for he did not wish to throw any obstacle in the way of hon. Members proceeding with their Bills; but he did assure the House that this was a much larger question than they imagined, and that they ought to take the first opportunity of obtaining all the information that was required to settle the public mind on the subject. He would confine himself as much as he could to a simple explanation of how the matter stood at present; and he hoped that in doing so he should not be supposed to be taking up unnecessarily the time of the House. He believed, then, that when the hon. Member for Berkshire interrupted him, he (Mr. Roebuck) was explaining that the parties who were chiefly responsible for bringing forward this subject were the Ministry of Canada. He could not imagine that the Colonial Office were not cognisant of all the facts of the case: they must have been aware of the state of things in Canada before the appearance of the papers which his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies had sent round to hon. Members that morning, and which of themselves showed that the groundwork of this proposition was perfectly well known to the Colonial Office, and that it had their sanction and approval. He (Mr. Roebuck) could not now enter into a discussion whether this Compensation Bill was a right or a wrong measure. When the proper time came he should be quite prepared to justify the conduct of the head of the Colonial Office on that subject; but he did entreat the House to be cautious how they interfered in this matter against the determination and the natural and properly constituted expression of the feelings of the Canadian people. He hoped that the Legislature of this country would not interfere in such a way as to make this question what it was not—a question of
 565
 MR. ROEBUCK  rose and said, he hoped in what he was about to do he should receive the pardon of the House, for the matter was of very great importance. The country had naturally been very much excited by the statements that had appeared in the public journals of the previous day; and he, in common with others, was startled by the intelligence. He had since received private information from a gentleman living in Canada, which might relieve in a great measure the anxiety of people who felt that a great colony was interested in the matter; and he hoped he should be excused for bringing that information before the House. The riot, it was well known, arose in consequence of a Bill which had passed both Houses of the Canadian Legislature for compensating persons who had incurred losses during the disturbances in 1837, and subsequently. It was known, also, that there being two sets of population, English and French, returning members to the same house, attempts had been constantly making to lead England to believe that all the questions in dispute were questions not simply of party, but of country or of race, between the French and English. He had in his hand a letter, which, with the permission of the House, he would read, and he had a statement of the divisions in the House of Assembly, and they ought to set at rest any doubt
 562
 MR. ROEBUCK  thought it a most dangerous principle that a tenant for life should be allowed to bind his successor for perhaps twelve years, when the incoming landlord might not find his finances in such a state as to warrant those extra expenses. He was fearful that the consequence of such a measure would be unceasing litigation.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, there was evidently every desire on the part of the
 574
 MR. SIMEON  said, he had made up his mind to attend divine service on Ascension day. Members of Railway Committees had conflicting duties, and he called upon the House to reconcile them. He denied that there was any analogy between Ascension day and any day devoted to amusement, or even one consecrated to any human being, however holy he might have been. If the House acceded to the Motion of his hon. Friend, he should be happy to sit on his Committee until six o'clock, if it were necessary.
 MR. HENLEY  supported the introduction of the words proposed, as being calculated to deal in the most satisfactory way with a most difficult question.
 MR. HENLEY  moved some verbal amendments, the effect of which was, that the tenant should not be entitled to compensation for drainage improvements, unless they were proved to be good and efficient in the judgment of the valuers to be appointed under the Act.
 MR. HENLEY  thought, unless these clauses were withdrawn, to report progress was the only alternative. The clauses were not those of the Committee of last year, but of the year preceding; and they had been embodied in a Bill which was thrown out by the House. If the hon. Member withdrew the clauses for consideration, he would also have to consider the bankruptcy laws, as he did not state whether, in case of bankruptcy, the assignee would have to pay the landlord as the landlord now had to pay the assignee.
 MR. P. HOWARD  was opposed to the reference to the courts, and suggested that Mr. Blamire, the Tithe Commissioner, should have a final decision in disputed cases.
 MR. PUSEY  said, he did not attach any undue importance to this Bill, but knowing the difficulties under which tenants laboured, and the importance of encouraging the application of capital to land, he could not consent to withdraw the clauses, or postpone the Committee for another month. He hoped the learned Attorney General would suggest some mode of meeting the difficulty, and not throw on
 578
 MR. PUSEY  was willing to adopt this alteration, and withdraw the 5th and 6th Clauses.
 MR. PUSEY  hoped his hon. Friend would not press the proviso, which seemed to be based on a misconception that the farmers were so desirous to invest their capital in land that it was necessary to restrain them in every way. That was quite contrary to his experience.
 MR. PUSEY  felt bound to oppose the amendment, and said that in the Isle of Wight, where the Lincolnshire system had been introduced, the period had been extended to ten years, and as that had been
 576
 MR. PUSEY  objected to the amendment, thinking it better to adhere to the recommendation of the Select Committee.
 MR. PUSEY  considered that the present system was open to great abuse, which the clauses in question would remove. There appeared to be no objection to any part of the provision except that which made the award a rule of court.
 MR. PUSEY  said, the arbitration clause had been very fully considered and unanimously approved by the Committee of a former Session. He could not withdraw the clause without overturning the decision of that Committee.
 MR. PUSEY  referred the hon. and learned Member to the sixth clause of the Bill, where such a case as he had referred to was specially provided for.
 MR. PUSEY  said that when the tenants had a right, by custom, to compensation for manures and dressings, they would have no claim under this Bill.
 MR. PUSEY  said, that he believed the hon. Member objected merely to the form in which the provision was worded, but that he agreed in the principle. He considered this to be a most important provision, and in fact that it was the very corner-stone of the Bill. A power of increasing the quantity of meat produced on a farm, would have the effect of adding millions of quarters of corn to the produce of the country, as all who were familiar with farming proceedings must be aware of. He wished to treat landlords as men of common sense, and he had no fear of leaving it to them and their agents to enter into proper and reasonable arrangements with their tenants. He had adopted the suggestion thrown out on the last day by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, to the effect that only such articles of food and manure should be allowed for as were included in the original agreement. He begged therefore to move an Amendment to that effect.
 MR. PUSEY  rose to order. He exceedingly regretted to interrupt his hon. and learned Friend; but Wednesday being devoted to the business of independent Members, inconvenience would be caused if a debate arose upon Government measures before the first Order of the Day. This question would, probably, draw observations from other hon. Members, who were at issue with his hon. and learned Friend, and so a discussion would spring up which must necessarily occupy much time.
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  repeated his conviction that the clause, even as proposed to be amended, would still leave it in the power of the occupier to deceive his landlord.
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  said, he should object to the words in the clause giving the tenant compensation for the purchase of food for cattle or sheep. The effect of the clause, if adopted, would be to give a facility to the tenant to injure or deceive his landlord if he wished to do so. For
 572
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  seconded the Motion.
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  proposed, that the third valuer should be appointed by the other two, not by the Inclosure Commissioners.
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  moved another amendment, in effect to allow compensation for farm-buildings for fourteen years. His amendment would be in line 5, after the word "fences," to insert the words, "or by the erection of substantial farm buildings;" and in line 10, to strike out the word "twelve," and instead thereof to insert the words, "as regards such buildings as aforesaid fourteen years, and as regards any such other improvements as aforesaid seven."
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  then moved that "nine" years be substituted for "twelve" in line 10, which would have the effect of limiting the compensation to be given for improvements on entailed estates to a period of nine instead of twelve years. The object of the clause was to extend to other parts of the country the custom existing in Lincolnshire; but that custom limited the period to seven years, and in proposing nine years he went further than was customary in Lincolnshire.
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman in reference to this clause. He considered it to be open to great abuse.
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  doubted whether the limitation of the liability proposed was a valuable provision in general cases, but he thought it might be desirable to introduce some such proviso in respect of glebe farms.
 MR. GLADSTONE : I entirely concur, both in the letter and in the spirit, with what has fallen from the hon. Gentleman opposite, the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies; but I am sorry to say that the remarks which fell from the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Sheffield are of that nature which I do not think it consistent with my duty to pass over altogether. I do not dispute the rectitude of the intentions of the hon. and learned Gentleman, nor do I deny at all the wisdom of endeavouring to calm the public mind of this country, and to warn individuals, and this House itself, against premature interference either in the affairs of Canada, or in any other public affairs whatever. But I am sorry to say that the hon. and learned Gentleman, whilst he has attempted to dissuade the House from such interference, and warned us against undertaking it, has himself, perhaps unconsciously, done much to prejudge the question—upon which he admits, and which I also feel, we are as yet imperfectly informed. I confess, when the first intelligence of these transactions reached this country, my mind, like that of many others, was deeply interested and deeply excited by it; but a review of that intelligence, imperfect
 566 567 568
 MR. GLADSTONE : If I said the hon. and learned Gentleman denied the right of Parliament to interfere, I am not aware of it; but if I did so, I did him an injustice. The hon. and learned Gentleman did not deny the right of this House to interfere. What I meant was, that I did not look to any abstract doctrine he laid down, but to the reason he gave for not interfering, that this was the money of the colony, and that, therefore, they had, upon that ground a right to spend it as they thought proper.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the hon. Member's proposition was originally for an adjournment over to Friday; but he (Sir G. Grey) had told him that Government would oppose it. He had then suggested to the hon. Member the plan taken with regard to Ash Wednesday, which would enable hon. Members who were so inclined to attend divine service. He had added, with respect to the private Committees, that if no inconvenience was expected from the detention of witnesses, Government would offer no opposition to the Motion.
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  said, it was quite clear the tenantry of England had had a narrow escape of getting into the Queen's Bench, and they were to be placed in a worse position by the 12th Clause, which referred matters in dispute to the Court of Chancery. He thought the best plan would be for the Chairman to report progress, with a view to the clauses being remodelled.
 SIB H. VERNEY  said, he considered that this clause would only lead to litigation, and that Clause 0 contained everything that was necessary. He therefore moved that it be struck out.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, the doubt thrown out by the hon. Member for Warwickshire was a doubt with regard to the principle of the Bill, and that was not the time to discuss the principle. He confessed he had doubts about the principle, and if the Bill had been to be compulsory, he would have opposed it. He should wait to see what the Bill was when perfected by the Committee, and he should reserve himself as to how he should vote on the third reading. He could not assent to the amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Warwickshire.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he thought the words which he had suggested were an improvement, and he could see no objection to their adoption after the principle of the Bill had been once agreed to. He had objected to the words "artificial manures," because it was doubted whether that would include such an article as lime, though it was well known that the greatest improvements were effected in some parts of the country by the use of lime as manure. In the same way with regard to the purchase of food for cattle and sheep, he believed it was admitted that one of the greatest elements in the improvement of agriculture consisted in increasing the number of cattle or sheep fed upon a farm. Supposing that the landlord and tenant were mutually anxious for the improvement
 573
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that the hon. and learned Member's objection was to the principle of the Bill, which had been already agreed to. They were now in Committee, endeavouring to make the Bill as perfect as possible.
 SIE W. JOLLIFFE  objected to the engrafting on the leases or agreements in Kent, Surrey, and other counties, all these various kinds of manures, in addition to the dressings for which the incoming tenants were now liable by a custom which had all the force of law. This proposal was wholly inapplicable to his part of the country.
 MR. W. MILES  thought it would be better for the arbitration to be conducted by the umpire jointly appointed, or appointed by the Tithe Commissioners, if the parties could not agree.
 MR. WADDINGTON  said, it was his most painful duty to have to follow the hon. Member for Sunderland, and he would do so briefly in the observations which he had to address to the House. He should not have thought it necessary to address them if he had not thought some explanation was due from him. In that petition he was charged with being a party to deceiving the shareholders with respect to something like nine millions of money. He availed himself of this opportunity of first calling the attention of the House for one moment as to how those statements made their appearance. They appeared from the report of the investigation committee; and his object in rising was to claim the indulgence of the House to detail a few of the proceedings of that investigation committee as regarded himself, inasmuch as the House had an interest in his character, and in defending him from statements to which he was not a party. He had, however, alluded to this on a former occasion, when a committee of the shareholders made a charge against him, and which a committee of that House was appointed to investigate. He wished now to allude to it, inasmuch as when he recently addressed the shareholders he charged the committee of investigation with having inserted a clause which many of their body looked upon as expunged, and which was obviously incorrect. He, therefore, called upon the House to bear in mind the evidence given before the committee, inasmuch as he had not the opportunity of correcting any statement which might have been made before it. With respect to what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman the Member
 588
 MR. VERNON SMITH  thought it rather singular that all the discussion which had taken place on the subject before the House should have turned upon omissions in the Bill. His remarks would bear upon what was in the Bill—upon what he thought a novel and important principle introduced into it. He could not agree with the hon. Member for Middlesex in his censure upon the Government. He thought that the country was indebted to them for the first introduction of the poor-law, as opening up for consideration the entire question of relief to the poor; for some of the reports of the Commissioners had fully exposed the rotten social condition of Ireland. He looked for the report of the Committee now sitting on the subject with the greatest possible interest; but if, as everybody said, that Committee would come to no decision, he thought that the Government deserved praise for having come forward with an opinion of their own. He had not heard anything from Irish Members upon this maximum rate. Upon that, it seemed, they were all agreed. ["No, no!"] Then he was still more astonished that not one of them had mentioned a subject which to English ears had rather a formidable sound. An hon. Member had said, that what was good for England was good for Ireland; but a maximum rate had never been thought good. There was a silence in the Bill as to what the ultimate consequences of this measure would be; and he should like to know when this maximum rate had been expended, from what source the money would then come. Was it to be a national rate. The question was most important, for the present funds not only could be exhausted, but it was known that they were nearly exhausted. He thought that the hon. Member for Kerry was mistaken with respect to the objection
 602
 MR. M. O'CONNBLL  begged to remind the House of the proverb, "While doctors differs, the patient dies." Ireland at present was in the condition of a patient suffering under fever and great depression. He considered the present Bill was an improvement on the existing law, and therefore he should support the second reading, reserving for the Committee his observations on any amendments which he might think necessary. He was an advocate for a reduction of the area of taxation; but at present he would not offer any arguments in support of what he considered to be the only useful amendment of the poor-law in Ireland. He had opposed the poor-law from the first, and every year would more and more demonstrate its unfitness for that country, and the necessity of legislating for Ireland in Ireland itself.
 SIR D. J. NORREYS  observed, that many evictions had been made by the landlords from an apprehension that a change would be made in the extent of the area of taxation, and he declared it to be his Opinion that if that change took place, the number of evictions would be greater than ever.
 MR. CLEMENTS , considering the difference of opinion which existed amongst Irish Members, regretted that some one had not opposed the second reading of the
 626 s s s s 627
 MR. CHARTERIS  said, that he also had a petition to present, signed by sixty shareholders of the Eastern Counties Railway, complaining generally of the mismanagement of the affairs of the company, stating that that mismanagement had commenced almost immediately after Mr. Hudson had become chairman, and Mr. Waddington, also a Member of the House, had become deputy-chairman, and while Mr. Bagshaw, also a Member of the House, had been one of the board of directors. The petitioners prayed for the institution of a searching inquiry into the affairs of the company. The hon. Gentleman added, that he presented the petition without expressing any opinion upon the allegations which it contained. offered offered
 LORD J. RUSSELL  moved that this Bill be read a Second Time.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, his right hon. Friend who had just sat down had asked a very natural question, to which he would endeavour to give a reply, and he would also take that opportunity of addressing the House upon two or three of the points which had been urged in the course of the present discussion. The question of his right hon. Friend was this—How, considering that there was no maximum rate imposed upon England, but that it was now proposed to levy one upon Ireland, and avoiding all discussion at the present moment with respect to the incidence of rating in the electoral division or union—how, after this maximum rate had been exhausted, the poor of Ireland were to be relieved? Now, if it were the case that the poor of Ireland had been relieved by rates amounting to 8 s s s s 603 l l s d. s s s s d s d s s 604 l l s l l l s s s 605 s 606 607
 MR. STAFFORD  congratulated the adherents of a small area of taxation, and the poor of Ireland, on the speech of the hon. Member for Rochdale. He trusted it would have weight with the Government when a gentleman known as an excellent landlord, and as having devoted his time to the interests of the poor, came forward to declare his conviction that unless the area was reduced, all other ameliorations of the poor-law would be vain. No one denied the difficulty of the question, or that any arrangement of the electoral divisions must be accomplished after strict scrutiny and with due regard to particular circumstances and claims. He regretted that the noble Lord at the head of the Government had not answered plainly the question put to him by the right hon. Member for Northampton, when he asked where, when the maximum had been reached, the remainder of the funds necessary was to come from. He wished very much the noble Lord had answered that question, and the more so, as the history of the Irish poor-law in the matter of liability was quite anomalous. The I and 2 Vic, dedicated the whole of the property in Ireland to the maintenance of the poor; but now Government, as if convinced their course at that time had been wrong, proposed to let them off
 631 s s
 MR. CALLAGHAN  did not rise to offer any opposition to the Bill, but merely to make a suggestion, which he had been asked to do by several individuals who felt themselves aggrieved. It would be in the recollection of the House, that the former Poor Law Bill exempted the occupiers of Crown property in Ireland from the payment of poor-rates; but he humbly submitted that this exemption should now be done away with, and that the occupiers in question should be made to contribute their fair proportion towards the relief of distress.
 MR. DIVETT  rose to present a petition, signed by thirty-one of the shareholders of
 582
 MR. HORSMAN : The measure before
 608 609 610 611 s s 612 613
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, the hon. Member for Middlesex had asked why the present Bill should be pressed through the House while there was a Committee sitting upstairs to inquire into the operation of poor-law in Ireland? He (Colonel Dunne) could answer the question. He believed that that Committee would not submit a report, and that they were doing nothing. It was composed, amongst others, of the hon. Member for Manchester, who, he was convinced, would do mischief—and who had the Committee completely under his influence. He confessed candidly that he had no confidence in the Committee, and he knew of his own knowledge that many witnesses had been examined by them on subjects which were totally irrelevant to the Irish poor-law. He should not oppose the second reading of the present Bill, because it contained several provisions of which he highly approved; but he was convinced that in itself it would be perfectly futile. It left the root of the evil untouched. It did not affect the expensive administration of the poor-law—a law which had aggravated the miseries of the sister country, and which so long as it remained unchanged, would not afford adequate relief to the suffering masses. He would oppose those clauses which introduced a principle that was contrary to common sense and justice—he alluded to the power they conferred of selling lands in satisfaction of the poor-rates. It was said that such a power already existed; but the House should recollect that it had never been exercised. In the first clause, which recognised the principle of establishing a maximum
 597
 LORD G. HAMILTON  complained of an omission in the Bill of all reference to the question of settlement, and called upon the Government to take that most important subject into their consideration, and to legislate upon it while the present measure was passing through Committee.
 MR. HUDSON : Sir, I felt it my duty, though labouring under considerable difficulty in consequence of domestic affliction, to attend in my place immediately on receiving a copy of these petitions. I am sure I shall have the kind indulgence of the House while I offer my explanations and observations with reference to these
 583 s s "That, so far has this system prevailed, that, although in July, 1845, the half-yearly dividend declared was 3 s s s s s s s s d s d s d d s d l l s 584 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 585 l l l l 586 l 587 l
 MR. HUDSON  hoped he would be allowed one word of explanation with reference to a matter which he had forgotten to mention. He was merely going to show the incorrectness of the committee's report respecting the amount of money stated to have been carried over from revenue to capital. The committee had forgotten that 27,000 l l
 SIR H. W. BARRON  was strongly opposed to the principle of a rate in aid, which was contained in the second clause of the Bill. In his opinion, it was so injurious to Irish interests, that he should think it his duty, even if only one Member went into the same lobby with him, to divide the House against the 2 s 628
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, the state of Ireland with regard to the poor-law was such that it could not be worse. For that reason he should oppose no obstacle in the way of the second reading of this measure, in the hope that in Committee it would be so amended as to be effective for some good. Union rating was the main principle of the Bill, as it was the most important principle of the poor-law: but it was attempted to be introduced in a roundabout and mischievous mode, which would render necessary more grants from the imperial treasury, or the people would die, as they were now dying, of starvation. He called upon the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland to state why the area of taxation in England, in its parishes, should average 2,000 acres, whilst in Ireland it averaged over 9,800 acres, including Ulster, where the parishes were smaller? Taking Ulster away, the average size was 11,000 acres. It was these extensive areas of taxation which caused the undoubted failure of the poor-law in many districts which would otherwise have supported themselves. The poor-law, as administered, had totally destroyed all energy in Ireland. On the 8th of May there were 3,282 indoor paupers in the union in which he lived, which was called a prosperous district, maintaining its own poor. There were also 9,700 paupers receiving outdoor relief, making a total of nearly 13,000 persons. Within three weeks ago the deaths were at the rate of 1 per cent per week; but they had since increased to the rate of 1½ per cent per week; and by the last return he found there had been fifty-two deaths in one week out of 3,280 persons. This was in a prosperous union, as it was called—a union which required no money assistance; and he found that in the same union there had been collected, in thirteen months, in one electoral division 14 s s s s 598 l l
 MR. BAGSHAW : Sir, I belong to the Northern and Eastern Board, and it is so stated in the committee's report. One-third being shareholders in the Eastern Counties, there were six gentlemen sitting on the Eastern Counties board who hold shares in this company. I am one of those; but as we owe no allegiance to the sixty gentlemen who have signed this petion out of 14,000 shareholders—though we owe no allegiance to these gentlemen, we owe a great deference to the opinion of
 589
 MR. NAPIER  felt, that after the eloquent address of the hon. Member who just sat down, it would be unnecessary for him to dwell at any great length on the measure now under the consideration of the House. Undoubtedly the amendment of the poor-law had been looked for with the greatest anxiety on the part of persons in Ireland before the Parliamentary Session began; and undoubtedly the principal matter contained in the Bill under discussion was that connected with the maximum of rating. And it had this singular peculiarity about it, that the principle of a maximum rating was in contravention of the advice of every man examined before the Committee except one, and that man certainly had been rewarded for the advice he had given. When he looked to the law of 1838, he found a provision in that law of a totally contradictory character to the present proposition. By the law of 1838, a power was given to the commissioners to reduce the electoral divisions according to circumstances, because it was felt that it was impossible for Parliament to define the extent of the electoral division; whereas, under the present law, the electoral division for the purposes of a union rating was to be irrevocably fixed. He would refer to a case that occurred in the union of Ken-mare, to which he had alluded on a former occasion. In consequence of the redundant population on the property of the Marquess of Lansdowne, the poundage would come to 16 s 623 "For the best port wine,—per dozen; the best sherry wine,—per dozen; the best arrowroot,
 624 s s s bonâ fide 625 s s
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  thought that the provisions of the Bill could be
 592 593 594 s
 MR. B. OSBORNE  would not detain the House for any length of time at that stage of the proceedings; but he thought it would be necessary and right that some Member of the Government should inform them why, when a Committee was sitting upstairs to inquire into the Irish poor-law, the noble Lord had brought in a Bill upon the subject before the Committee had made its report. He thought it rather an extraordinary proceeding on the part of the Government. Why did the noble Lord go through the farce of sending a number of Gentlemen upstairs at the beginning of the Session, to whom he paid no attention at all? He thought the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland should come forward, break through his habitual reserve, and say whether he was a Member of the Government at all or not, and give some reason for the Irish Government being so utterly neglectful. He (Mr. Osborne) did not oppose the second reading of the Bill, because he probably entertained peculiar opinions upon the subject. He thought it was utterly impossible to struggle to reduce the amount of destitution in Ireland under the present system of peddling legislation. A rate upon the land of Ireland would be altogether incompetent to afford any relief at all commensurate with the destitution existing there. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Stroud had talked about the ablebodied poor of Ireland; but there were no ablebodied poor there. He (Mr. Osborne) regretted to be obliged to say that such a class did not exist. There were no ablebodied poor men, except those who were employed by particular proprietors, who kept them in regular work and wages. And when he spoke of 8 s s 595 s s s
 MR. MONSELL  wished to call the attention of the Government to one or two points in the Bill which required explanation. First, no change was proposed at present in the existing law of chargeability, which inflicted great injustice upon the towns in Ireland. In Limerick, the number of paupers had exceedingly increased, and the ratepayers suffered much injury from the present operation of the law. If a pauper was turned off from the rural districts, and resided six months in the electoral division of Limerick, he became chargeable upon the union at large, and the city was rated at one-third of the rate of the whole union. He believed that this was among the main causes of the number of evictions. He next called the attention of the Government to the 7th Clause of the Bill, by which it was, proposed that the occupier should not deduct from the rent more than half the rate paid. Admitting the importance of every person in the union connected with the operation of the poor-law having a direct interest in the diminution of taxation, he thought he could suggest the means by which that object could be accomplished without the injustice which would be inflicted by this clause. It appeared by the report of the Committee on
 629
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  said, he felt the force of the objections to this Bill, and that it would be delusive to suppose it could provide for the poor in Ireland
 630
 MR. GROGAN  would not oppose the second reading of the Bill, the importance of which could not be denied; but he begged to offer a few suggestions, in no hostile spirit, with respect to some of its provisions. He thought it had been prematurely prepared, and that the Government should have waited for the reports of the Committees appointed to inquire into the subject, and also for the opinions of the authorities in Ireland, who were conversant with the state of that country. The first provision of the Bill was the limitation of the rate to 5 s s 590 s s s s s s s s l l s s s s s s 591
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, the hon. Gentlemen the Member for Middlesex was rather inconsistent in the charge he had made with respect to the Committee. In proposing that Committee, he (Sir W. Somerville) remembered being told that it was the duty of Government to take the responsibility of proposing a measure at once, without waiting for the Committee's report. Now, when a Committee had been appointed, the Government would have been guilty of a breach of faith if they had not proposed its reappointment. But if the Government had waited for their report, which could not be presented before the conclusion of the Session, it
 599 600 601
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that possibly a middle course might be the best to take, and he would therefore suggest that the words "adjudged guilty" should be substituted for "convicted."
 "Resolved
 The CHAIRMAN : Strangers must withdraw.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  moved that they should be re-admitted.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  then gave notice that he should bring the subject before the House, in order to provide against a similar occurrence for the future.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, that one way of proclaiming uniformity was by making things alike good, and another by making them alike bad. The Roman Catholic oath had always been complained of by the Catholics as an enormous evil and injustice, because it was continually made the pretext for a charge of perjury against them when they voted on any subject where ecclesiastical matters were concerned. Was it intended that Protestant Dissenters were to consent to take the same bad oath, and was it intended they should be charged with perjury the first time any of them mentioned church
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, the true point to which change should be directed, would be to make all the oaths alike by reducing them all to a simple declaration of allegiance to the existing occupant of the Throne.
 The EARL of ARUNDEL AND SURREY  said, he had no intention of continuing this discussion, and he extremely regretted the exclusion of the public from the gallery; for though their rule on that subject was, no doubt, a useful one to preserve, he had never known it exercised more than once during the last twelve years. On the present occasion he particularly regretted that it had been put in operation, as the public would have no opportunity of reading one of the most useful debates he had ever heard on the opinions which were held on the subject before the House. For his own part he had, on a former occasion, expressed his opinion on a Motion similar to that now proposed by the hon. Member for Dundalk. He did not consider himself at liberty to do away with the Roman Catholic oath; but, at the same time, he should take it as a boon if the House itself would do away with the necessity of Catholics taking that oath. It was, however, impossible for him to sit down without offering his thanks to the hon. Member for Dundalk, who, as a member of the Church of England, had taken this opportunity of proposing the abolition of that which he considered was objectionable in the eyes of his Catholic fellow-subjects.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, that in 1829, the state of the case on this subject was this—that Protestants and others were obliged to take three separate oaths, whilst the oath then instituted for Roman Catholics was, on the whole, to their comparative advantage, and they took all that was required of them in one oath. But how did the question stand in 1849? They had brought in a Bill which, at least incidentally, admitted the Jews to Parliament,
 680
 MR. LAW  objected to proceeding with the measure with so thin an attendance of Members, and especially after the exclusion of strangers from the previous portion of the discussions. But if the Committee determined upon proceeding at this moment, he would now content himself with stating, that upon the occasion of the third reading of the Bill he should do all in his power to exclude that provision from it which enabled Jews to sit in Parliament.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  then moved—
 "That Mr. Speaker do issue his warrant to the Clerk of the Crown to issue a new writ for the county of Limerick, in the room of William Smith O'Brien."
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I now move, Mr. Speaker, that the record in the case of William Smith O'Brien be now entered as read.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I have now to move, Sir, that it appears by the said record that William Smith O'Brien, a Member of this House, has been convicted of high treason. I will state the course I propose to take upon this occasion, which is, I believe, without a precedent, but being without a precedent, it is a case which will relieve me from any necessity of dwelling upon the heinousness of the offence, or of showing this House that it is an offence which necessarily incapacitates a person who has hitherto been a Member of this House from continuing to hold a seat in it. Sir, the precedents which are upon our journals which can at all have any reference to this case are of two kinds. The first has respect to cases of high treason; and on this point the first case that I will mention is that of Mr. Forster, in 1715. On the 10th of May, 1715, I find the following entry on the journals:—
 "That T. Forster, Esq., a Member of this House, having been taken in open rebellion, bear
 668 "The House being informed that J. Carnegie, Esq., who is returned a Member of this House for the shire of Forfar, had been in arms in Scotland on the part of the rebels during the late rebellion, and that there were two persons at the door who could prove the same, they were called in and examined at the bar, and gave the House an account that they had seen the said Mr. Carnegie in arms at Perth on the part of the rebels; and it was resolved mem.  con 669 "That it appears, by the Record communicated from the House of Lords, that William Smith O'Brien has been convicted of high treason."
 LORD J. RUSSELL  had very little more to say on the subject. He had no wish to make the oaths less simple, or to raise fresh obstructions against those now admitted to Parliament, or fresh enemies by the alteration of the Roman Catholic oath; and he should, therefore, vote against the Amendment.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  then proceeded to expose the weakness of the expectation, that an oath which had always been bitterly complained of by the Catholics, and which others had only consented to impose upon them under the impression of a strong necessity, should be voluntarily submitted to by Protestant Dissenters, with no strong necessity at all.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, his noble Friend, so far as he recollected, had stated that there was at the time a negotiation being carried on with the  de facto de facto
 MR. HAWES  replied, that it was the wish of the Government to send to Van Diemen's Land as few convicts as possible, and those only at right and proper times, under strict regulations; but he could give no pledge as to the intentions of the Government to cease sending them. With regard to the question relative to any despatches from the Governor, indicating that there was no more room for convicts there, none had been received to which such an interpretation could be given; but as he was about to lay upon the table a fresh collection of papers relative to transportation, his hon. Friend and the House would be able to put their own construction upon them.—Subject at an end.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  begged to be allowed, for a moment, to call the attention of the House to what had just been passing. The hon. Member for Limerick had revived the debate at the commencement of which he had himself moved that strangers should withdraw, and had taken the opportunity of referring to the arguments which had been used in the speeches of several hon. Members, whose remarks, owing to his own exclusion from the gallery of those through whose means they reached the public, could no be reported. Indeed, he now got up and gave a one-sided and falsified  resume 679 resume
 MR. SPEAKER  put the question, and the record was ordered to be entered as read.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  lamented that he should ever have heard in that House a Chancery barrister—he might say, he believed, a distinguished Chancery barrister—but a Chancery barrister, of all the men in the world—designate an oath, a solemn appeal to the majesty of Almighty God, as "rubbish."
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  said, that, after seeing the resolution as it originally stood,
 670 " Ordered
 SIR F. THESIGER  wished to state a single objection with regard to the wording of the resolution. The words were—"that William Smith O'Brien has been convicted of high treason." Now, the noble Lord might be aware that attainder did not follow on conviction, but on the judgment which followed; and he would therefore beg to suggest that the words of the resolution should be altered into "attainted of high treason." He thought the noble Lord could not proceed with the second resolution, which implied that William Smith O'Brien was civilly dead, unless the word "attainted" were introduced into the first resolution.
 MR. BANKES  brought forward his proposal that the oath to be taken by Members of Parliament should be made uniform by the Protestant Members making the same declaration of allegiance or non-resistance to the Established Church which has been required from Roman Catholics. He urged the impossibility that any Dissenters who made no objection to making a declaration of allegiance to the Queen, should object to making the proposed declaration in respect of the Ecclesiastical Establishment, inasmuch as it was notorious that one was as much a part of the law and the constitution as the other. And he enlarged upon the benefits of uniformity, and the advantages which would arise from thus sinking all differenees be-
 671
 MR. BANKES  said, he had given notice to the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs that he would put two questions to him to-day respecting certain transactions relative to Sicilian affairs; but as the noble Lord was not in his place, he would ask it from the noble Lord at the head of the Government. In answer to a former question which he (Mr. Bankes) had put, the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs stated that the united Cabinet of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland recognised the separate Government of Sicily, independent of the Government of the King of the Two Sicilies. He now wished to know from the noble Lord whether the Cabinet still recognised an independent Sicilian Government—that was, a Government independent of the Government of the King of the Two Sicilies?
 MR. BANKES  said, the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs having arrived in his place, he would put another question to him. It was, whether the noble Lord was aware that, as the result of the permission given by him to transport ordnance from Her Majesty's stores for the avowed use of the Sicilian insurgents, and of the encouragement given to those parties who formed the insurgent Government, the following circumstances had arisen. A British officer, who had formerly held a command in Sicily when the late Lord William Bentinck was there, and afterwards been engaged in active service during the Peninsular war, understanding that guns had been furnished from the Ordnance stores at Woolwich, and observing also other encouragement given to the Sicilians, accepted a command under the Sicilian Government. He undertook a commission to this country to raise troops, and to procure arms for the Sicilians. Those arms and troops were partially embarked in a steamer in the Thames. Two steamers were engaged, one to sail from the Thames, and the other to sail from Liverpool. The steamer engaged to sail from the Thames was detained by order of the Board of Customs. A question arose concerning the seizure, and the matter was referred to the Treasury. The Treasury, after duly considering the subject, and after having (as he understood) had communications with the noble Lord—the noble Lord having had communications, as it had been stated to him, but he might be mistaken in that respect, as he had received no information from the Minister of the King of the Two Sicilies, though, as he believed, communications were made by the noble Lord to the Minister of the King of the Two Sicilies, to the effect of that detention of the vessels—declined to interfere. The vessel, so far as related to any act of Government, was now at liberty to proceed to Palermo. The other vessel, from Liverpool, proceeded to Palermo. She reached that port just at the critical period when it suited the Minister of War there, and the Sicilian Government, whom the noble Lord had recognised, got on board with some of their coadjutors, and sailed to Marseilles. When they reached Marseilles, the Ministry of France, taking a different view from that of the noble Lord, with respect to the claims of the King of the Two Sicilies, detained the vessel, and she was now at Marseilles. He asked the noble Lord whether he was
 665
 MR. WYLD  complained that the Irish Members had taken advantage of this Bill to introduce a question which the people of England had long since thought settled. They were doing little good for the cause they had in view. He highly approved of the Bill.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL,  at considerable length, called attention to certain portions of the Catholic oath, with a view to show the absurdity of that oath in the shape in which it now stood. First, there were the
 678
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  opposed the Motion.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL,  directing his attention towards the reporters' gallery, said: I perceive, Sir, that there are strangers in that gallery.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL : Mr. Speaker. I beg to give a notice upon a matter concerning the privileges of this House, connected with the last discussion upon the Parliamentary Oaths Bill. In consequence of having seen in the  Times 663
 MR. SPOONER  considered the speech of the right hon. Member a very useful one for the opponents of the Bill, and he trusted that it would open the eyes of the House to its true character. According to the right hon. Gentleman it was but another step towards the total abandonment of all the safeguards of the constitution of Church and State.
 MR. ANSTEY  wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, whether he would lay on the table of the House the copy of a letter of the 22nd November, 1848, addressed by Under Secretary Lord Eddisbury to Mrs. Castellari, stating that an Englishwoman by her marriage with a foreigner adopts the nationality of her husband, and even after widowhood loses all claim by light to the assistance of Her Majesty's Consul in the place where her husband died, in recovering or ascertaining the state of his property there? And whether he would also lay on the table the instructions which determine the conduct of Her Majesty's Consuls in such cases? He also wished the noble to state whether he had any objection to lay on the table a letter from a Mr. Paget to Lord Ponsonby, with respect to grievances sustained by his wife, Mrs. Paget, she being a Hungarian, and not naturalised?
 MR. W. FAGAN  said, it was most humiliating for the Catholics to take the oath as now proposed, and peculiarly so after the way in which the proposal of the hon. and learned Member for Dorsetshire had been treated that night. Why should Catholic Members of that House be required to take a form of oath which the Protestant Dissenters did not take? The oath had been made an instrument for insulting the Catholics, and he had experienced something of this kind himself when, having brought before the House a Motion on the subject of ministers' money in Ireland, he was taunted by the hon. Member for Warwickshire with having forgotten the oath he had taken at the table. He would do nothing to injure either the Protestant Church or the Protestant religion, but, at the same time, he must say he thought that he might interfere with the temporalities of the Church Establishment without injuring it—indeed, he was of opinion that to do so would be rather to benefit than to injure that Church. He felt that, by pressing the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Dundalk, now, they might be interfering with the passing of what was, after all, the main feature of the Bill, namely, the emancipation of the Jews from their present disabilities; and if he was assured that such would be the effect of this Amendment, he would oppose it. On the whole, however, he did not think that it would have that effect, and he would therefore give it his support.
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  moved the omission of the clause. The effect of such omission would be that Catholics and Protestants would in future take the same oath, regarding th meaning of which, as now settled by the Bill, there could be
 674 675 676 677 "That the 6th Clause be struck out of the Bill, in order that all Members of the House should, henceforth, be enabled to take one and the same oath or affirmation, as the case may be,"
 MR. W. P. WOOD  felt that the oaths taken by Roman Catholics were highly objectionable; and if the Amendment were pressed to a division he should vote for it. It was most desirable that there should be no distinction between Roman Catholics and Protestants. He objected to the restrictions imposed upon Roman Catholics on religious grounds as well as political. No security was gained to the Established Church by the miserable rubbish of their oaths. The Church, as far as it was an establishment, must depend on public opinion. The House represented the commons of England; and if the commons of England were all in favour of a change—if they represented truly the people, they ought to be unfettered as to any particular form of establishment. He would, however, be the last in the world to say that the
 681
 MR. W. P. WOOD  said, he thought no one else in the House would have misunderstood what he had said. All he asserted was, that reliance on any particular form of oath was rubbish.
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  asked the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies, whether it was the intention of the Government to send any more convicts to Van Diemen's Land? Also whether any despatches had been received from the Governor of that colony to the effect that there was no more room for convicts there? If so, would there be any objection to lay them upon the table?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  had no objection to lay the letters on the table of the House. The subject had been fully considered, and had been brought before the Consul, and it had been decided that there was no right, according to usage and practice, on the part of the British Consul, to take any cognisance of the property of the individual in the case alluded to. Instructions had been sent to communicate that fact to the widow, and that the British Government had no right to interfere in the matter, as her claim must fall under the cognisance of the court of the country of which her husband was a native. With regard to the second case, that of Mr. Paget, he would look and see if there was any such letter in his office, and, if there was, he should have no objection to produce it. But that case was essentially
 667
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The hon. and learned Gentleman, under the guise of asking me a question, has given myself and the House almost as much information as if he had been "our own correspondent." I am not able to follow the hon. and learned Gentleman through the whole of the details regarding what the French Government has done at Marseilles. I do not know whether my noble Friend stated, in answer to the first question, that the persons who composed the Provisional Government at Palermo, have all quitted Palermo, and according to the last accounts there was no organised Government; but the population were in possession of arms, and were intending to defend themselves against the Neapolitans. The Neapolitan general had got within a very short distance from the town; and I imagine that some communication would be the result. In answer to the question with regard to the guns—first of all, I shall afford, I am sure, great satisfaction to the hon. and learned Gentleman by informing him that I have ascertained what has become of those guns. I find they had been sent to Syracuse, where they were not used at all, and they are there now in the possession of the King of the Two Sicilies. Next, with regard to the officer in question, the hon. and learned Gentleman says that, in consequence of these guns going off, and in consequence of divers other acts and misdeeds of Her Majesty's Government, a British officer had been induced to come to this country for the purpose of raising men. It is quite true, as he states, that Colonel Aubrey was sent to this country for the purpose of raising men; but I believe I have good reason to say no men were raised by him, and that his commission was an entire failure. With regard to the vessels, it is true that one steamer did leave from Liverpool, and that it arrived at Palermo. With regard to the vessel that was fitting out in the Thames, the  Bombay 666 Bombay Bombay
 MR. SHAFTO ADAIR  said, even if Her Majesty's Government should decline to reply to the question put by the hon. and learned Member for Newark, still he should consider that the failure of the Incumbered Estates Bill of last year was a sufficient justification for the present measure, and that such a delegation of powers as was here proposed was not only absolutely necessary, but that it would prove highly beneficial. The course they had pursued on the last occasion was sufficient to convince him that an adherence to existing forms, in such a case as the present, would be exceedingly inconvenient. The intentions of the Government with respect to the Bill, he thought, were abundantly plain, if it were true, as he had heard, that they proposed to send over Sir Edward Sugden as one of the commissioners under this measure—a gentleman whose high legal knowledge and experience in the Irish Court of Chancery would be sufficient to ensure for the working of this Bill the confidence and support of the Irish people.
 The CHAIRMAN  suggested that it was very desirable to take the clauses  seriatim
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, it was intended to give a salary of 3,000 l l
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he could not state the exact amount. As for travelling expenses, he believed there would
 770
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  defended the clause, observing that power was given to alter the rules from time to time, as the commissioners should think right.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that it was thought necessary that the commissioners should have the assistance of counsel, and hence they were invested with the powers of a court of equity.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the commissioners would have power to decide between conflicting titles. They were not to be bound by mere assertion, or their powers would be nullified in every instance. They would have the power of sending issues for trial, and also of submitting cases to the courts of law, where the questions raised were such as they could not determine. Without such power, it would be impossible to secure the working of the Bill.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  had considered the clause proposed by the hon. Gentleman, and feared it was inadmissible; for it would have this effect, that any person might create an incumbrance on his estate, and get it sold by the commission, or sell it almost without incumbrance. This would open a door to fraud, as it might he done by parties having defective titles. Should it afterwards appear, on the working of the Bill, that it might be extended beneficially to other parties, there would be no objection to doing so. As to the interests for terms, such as church leases for twenty-one years, he would consider the proposition of the hon. Gentleman before the third reading of the Bill.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, it was not contemplated to make any alteration in the law as it stood in this respect. The next clause, the 17th, clearly defined what was "being subject to any incumbrance."
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  promised to consider the suggestion.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  hoped this suggestion would not be adopted, as it would involve the necessity of a previous inquiry as to the respective values of the estate and the incumbrances, which in the depressed state of landed property in Ireland, was perhaps now not worth more than half its amount when the mortgages were effected. The necessary result would be to prevent sales in a great many cases. It would be the duty of the commissioners to look something beyond the technical law in these cases, and to regard what might be morally due; hence they ought to have a very large discretion.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  apprehended that in such a case the commissioners would have the power to refuse the application, with costs; hut not to inflict costs as a penalty.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that such was the object of the clause; but if that meaning was not clear enough from the words as they stood, he would un-
 774
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  really thought that the plan suggested by his hon. Friend was not quite consistent with the scope and object of the Bill. The scope and object of the Bill was to sell estates on application; and his hon. Friend proposed that they should make an exception to that rule in the particular cases of suits in the Court of Chancery, where application had already been made for a sale under that court. He did not feel that they could make such an exception. He believed there were very few suits instituted in the Court of Chancery where there was not some person who desired a sale as speedily as possible, and that person had the power to apply to the commis-
 775
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  would endeavour to introduce some words to meet the objection of the hon. Gentleman.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the
 776
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that no doubt it would be very desirable to facilitate the partition of estates, and there was a clause to that effect in the Bill, when the estate was encumbered. He was, however, of opinion, that the present Bill should be confined to incumbered estates, though hereafter he hoped to see the principle now introduced extended to other cases.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, if
 777
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  admitted that such a case was possible, though it was hardly probable, and there might be a hardship in it; but the House should take care, in order to provide against a merely possible case, not to injure and incumber the whole Act.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the real question was, whether the state of Ireland was such as to demand some extraordinary remedy for the purpose of securing the sale of land, and putting estates that were greatly incumbered into the hands of other persons, who would be enabled not only to do their duty to the land, but also to the persons upon the land. If the House were dealing with an ordinary state of circumstances, he would admit the justice of the remarks that had been made by the hon. Baronet: he would admit that it might be well, either to leave the matter in the hands of the Court of Chancery, as at present constituted, or to make such amendments in that court as to render it more fit for the exercise of its powers. But, as the House bad already decided, on the second reading of this Bill, that there was a state of circumstances in Ireland at present requiring an extraordinary remedy, he must say, that, in his opinion, the question for the House to consider in Committee was—not whether they should reject altogether the principle of the Bill, and leave the matter in the hands of the Court of Chancery; but whether the machinery for carrying into effect the views of the House, and the rules and modes of proceeding proposed, were either sufficiently strong, or were more arbitrary than was necessary,
 765
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, before I move the postponement of two Orders of the Day that stand on the Paper for to-night, I think it right, in order to allay public apprehension, to say that, a statement having been made in some of the newspapers of Saturday evening that a treasonable attempt had been made against the life of Her Majesty, I can state, that although it is unfortunately true that a pistol was discharged at the Queen when Her Majesty was passing on Her return home to Buckingham Palace, it has been found that there is no reason to accuse the person who discharged the pistol of a treasonable attempt, and that it is a crime more remarkable for its baseness than its atrocity. I have only further to state that I am sure if it had been an attempt of another kind I should have had the cordial assent of this House to an address to Her Majesty congratulating Her on the preservation of a life so valuable. I may add, that Her Majesty on this occasion, which might have been one of a most serious nature, acted with Her usual intrepidity and self-possession. The noble Lord then moved that the Committee on the Poor Relief (Ireland) Bill be postponed till the
 760
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  considered that the Bill would be detrimental both to land-land and tenant, and would therefore oppose it  in toto
 MR. PAGE WOOD  said, the objection applied to the principle of the Bill, rather than to this particular clause. He would remind the House that an appeal to the House of Lords often required a period of two years to have it settled; and if such an appeal were to be given in this instance, where he would ask, would be the use of the Bill at all? There could be no question but that if any reasonable doubt were raised before the commissioners, they would be most ready, as any judge would be in a similar case, to grant an appeal.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  could assure the hon. Gentleman that the Government did not underrate the value of the proposal made, but there were several other Bills in contemplation, which it was exceedingly desirable to have introduced and passed, in some of which the point might be more regularly introduced.
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  opposed such a proposition altogether, as inconsistent with the principle of the Bill, the object of which was to get rid of the Court of Chancery, which his hon. and gallant Friend now sought to bring into play under the Bill.
 MR. F. FRENCH  had been opposed to the measure when it was first introduced; but had found then, as since, that the opposition of Irish Members was always ineffectual when brought into competition with English prejudices. The objection he entertained to this measure was the same as he had stated in regard to that of last year—that it would injuriously affect the proprietors of land, and those who were otherwise dependent on the property, by bringing it into the market at a time when it would not realise anything approximating to its real value, nor sufficient to pay off the incumbrances. The Bill professed to be based on the groundwork laid down in the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth. But the proposition of the right hon. Baronet was not for the mere purpose of forcing estates into the market, without providing for the interests of all parties, which this did; and herein consisted the difference between the two measures.
 COLONEL DUNNE  designated the Bill a sweeping measure, inasmuch as it entrusted to a commission a very arbitrary power over every estate in the country which was indebted in almost the smallest amount. He thought the House ought to know who the commissioners were to be; and if his views met with the concurrence of his countrymen, he would move, at once, that the House do adjourn upon the 1st Clause;
 766
 COLONEL DUNNE  moved that the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again. He confessed that he had not sufficient confidence in the Government to leave the nomination of the commissioners exclusively in their hands, and that his object
 769
 COLONEL DUNNE  would bow to the decision of the Chairman, and postpone any observations he had to make upon the clauses until they severally came before the House. But he must again object to the injustice of the Bill, and deny that the present circumstances of Ireland afforded any justification for its enactment. Land could not now be sold in the sister country except at a price considerably under its real value, although a sale under the Court of Chancery conferred as safe and good a title as any that could be granted by Parliament. The difficulty in Ireland, was not as to the title, but as to the registry of judgments and deeds. He begged to remind the House that there was a court of equity exchequer in Ireland, the cost of which was 15,000 l
 COLONEL DUNNE  moved that the Court of Chancery he substituted for the Privy Council.
 COLONEL DUNNE  knew that the power existed; but it was exercised by those who had a knowledge of law, and were governed by strict rules. He knew nothing of the particular case mentioned by the hon. Gentleman; but it appeared that the hon. Gentleman and the Master in Chancery were at issue as to the proper course to be pursued. The discretionary power of postponement was very often exercised most beneficially.
 COLONEL DUNNE  withdrew his Amendment.
 COLONEL DUNNE  complained of the limited right of appeal given.
 MR. TURNER  would accede to the recoramondation
 773
 MR. TURNER  said, that in these cases the right of appeal was now for the first time entirely taken away.
 MR. TURNER  wished it to be under-stood that though he had not opposed the second reading of this Bill, he did not agree to all its provisions. It was certainly an improvement upon the Bill of last year, but there were several clauses which, he thought, would require to be modified in Committee.
 MR. TURNER  moved a proviso to the effect that no order of sale should be made on the application of any owner or incumbrancer the value of whose interest was not equal to the amount of the incumbrance; nor unless the whole of the incumbrances amounted to two-thirds the value of the estate.
 MR. TURNER  did not think the observations of the hon. and learned Solicitor General had at all weakened the grounds for adopting this proviso; but he (Mr. Turner) would entirely leave it to the House to deal with his proposition as it thought St.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, that so far as he had been able to ascertain, Ireland was decidedly in favour of the present measure. He felt surprise that any Irish Member should oppose a measure which was likely to effect such general benefit in the sister country.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  hoped it would not be considered an intrusion if he said, that, heavy as were the misfortunes of Ireland, it would be regarded as an aggravation of those misfortunes that the dastardly miscreant who had committed this outrage was an Irishman. He would say, however, that he believed amidst the greatest excitement that prevailed in Ireland last year, there would not have been found one among the fiercest, the wildest, the most unruly who took part in those unhappy events, who would have harboured a feeling of personal insult towards Her Majesty. And even now, although the misfortunes of Ireland were absorbing the attention of every one in that country, he might say that they would all be in a moment forgotten in one general burst of congratulation and fervent joy that our beloved Sovereign had escaped unhurt from this outrage upon Her person.
 COLONEL RAWDON  thought it only just to the Government to read a short letter he had received that day from Dublin from a gentleman having great experience in such matters, and in the management of property by the Court of Chancery in Ireland. That letter stated "the Bill for the sale of incumbered estates in Ireland will be one of the most beneficial measures for that country which has been yet introduced. It is prepared with such wonderful clearness, and the provisions of it are so
 762
 MR. SADLEIR  said, that, in his opinion, the master had no discretion at all; and he believed that it was the intention of the Lord Chancellor and the Barons of the Exchequer to alter that practice.
 MR. SADLEIR  said, that the Lord Chancellor and the Barons of the Exchequer had quite as large powers of sale as any that were given to the proposed commissioners; but in the Master's office the sale was frequently postponed, to the great detriment of the estate. He knew one case in which the inheritor had obtained a postponement of the sale six several times, on the ground of an expected letter from Lord Gough, promising to purchase the estate when he came to Ireland.
 MR. SADLEIR  feared that great obstruction would be offered to the sale of estates, by including certain interests in the Bill, and excluding others. In purchasing an estate parties would not like to deal with the commission for the fee-simple, and then have to settle with a number of middlemen for their interests.
 MR. SADLEIR  said, he did not think that it would be possible to effect sales under this commission, except in large parcels, and to joint-stock companies. [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: Why?] One reason was the large size of the unions—of itself sufficient to prevent individuals of moderate means from investing their capital in land. Then the
 771
 MR. SADLEIR  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman argued the question as if no person could be interested in the sale of an incumbered estate but the creditors and nominal proprietor. He did not think there could be an objection to introduce a few words into the clause for the purpose of effecting that which would be a great improvement—namely, to sell the bankrupt estates in Ireland. There were many cases in which the creditors on the property, the inheritor, and solicitor, were all interested in continuing the property in the Court of Chancery, though no other person was interested in keeping it there. On the contrary, the tenants on the property, and the tenants on adjacent estates, and all persons interested in the improvement of the country, must be desirous to see those incumbered estates brought under the operation of the commission. As no reason had been stated to show that those bankrupt estates in the Court of Chancery should not be brought under the commission, he hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would introduce words into the clause to meet the difficulty.
 MR. SADLEIR  was sorry to see, from the hon. and learned Gentleman's answer, that there seemed to be a disposition to hold out a bonus to Irish proprietors to incumber their estates, as otherwise they could not enjoy the facilities which this Bill was calculated to afford.
 MR. SADLEIR  was sorry to hear that the receiver was to be continued after the proceedings for the sale had been instituted, because he thought the commissioners should be enabled to bring the property to sale under the most advantageous circumstances. Nothing could be more deteriorating to a property than to keep it in the miserable condition which an estate must exhibit as long as one of the court receivers was managing it.
 MR. J. STUART  complained that no answer had been given to the objections he had made to this Bill. The Irish Members all supported this Bill; but so they supported a Bill of last year, which had proved a total failure; but when he had objected to that Bill the Irish Members were not disposed to listen to his objections. In point of principle, however, this Bill was more objectionable than the Bill of last year. English Members should, however, attend to this, that it was proposed to have the commissioners under this Bill paid out of the English Exchequer, and that the commissioners so paid were to exercise the powers now exercised by the Lord Chancellor. If the commissioners performed part of the duties of the Lord Chancellor, why not perform the whole of them? The Lord Chancellor ought to point out where it was that the law was defective in supplying those powers which would enable him, by his own act and decision, to facilitate the sale of incumbered estates in Ireland. An hon. Friend of his had observed that the Court of Chancery in that country was a nuisance; and that the most fatal thing that could occur was for an estate to be subject to a receiver of that court; but, if it were so, where, he asked, was the Lord Chancellor, and why did the Court of Chan-
 761
 MR. HENLEY  thought, if the clause could be considered as coming within the title of the Bill, his hon. Friend opposite would himself admit that it was not an unjust clause, or one that was not needed. And as the title of the Bill was very wide in its scope, he saw no reason why it should not be fairly considered as coming within its scope.
 MR HENLEY  said, it would be desirable to know the aggregate amount. Would there not be travelling expenses?
 MR. MULLINGS  moved the insertion of the additional clauses of which he had given notice.
 MR. MULLINGS  then moved the insertion of the following Clause:—
 "That in case the growing crops of the tenant of any farm shall be seized and sold by any sheriff or other officer, by virtue of any writ of  fieri facias
 MR. PUSEY  would leave this clause to the judgment of Members more competent than himself to judge of it. He could not see what it had to do with a Bill to regulate the relations between landlord and tenant.
 MR. PUSEY  thought it would be very inexpedient to make any such addition to the Bill as that proposed by the hon. Member; but, acknowledging the importance of the principle which the hon. Member wished to establish, suggested that he should
 778
 MR. MONSELL  remarked, that there was extreme difficulty in Ireland in obtaining writs of partition, and the proceedings were extremely cumbersome. He thought it would be advisable to facilitate the division of unincumbered estates, and the exchange of properties, in a cheaper way than those proceedings can now be effected, and that, both parties consenting, the division or exchange of property might be effected under this Bill, even where properties were not incumbered. The principle had been already adopted in this country in the Commons Inclosure Act; and he thought it would be most useful if proprietors in Ireland whose estates were not incumbered should be allowed facilities for making exchanges and for the division of properties.
 MR. MONSELL  was afraid, that unless the provisions of the 38th Clause were extended, the object of the Bill would be defeated. His hon. and learned Friend proposed to appoint a commission for the purpose of facilitating the sale of incumbered estates, and proposed also to leave the Court of Chancery the same power it had at present over those estates. His hon. and learned Friend proposed that in case a suit should have been commenced in the Court of Chancery, and the incumbrancer therereby signified a wish that the estate should be sold, the commissioners should not have the power to take the initiative, but that initiative must he taken by the incumbrancer or owner for the sale. It would be important to allow the commissioners to take the initiative, or to suspend the power of the Court of Chancery so far as related to the sale of incumbered estates. It was not an answer to his objection to say, that self-interest would induce parties to go before the commission, instead of before the Court of Chancery. He would take the case of the only incumbrancer being a solicitor—as a solicitor he would prefer the most expensive court, the Court of Chancery; and the owner of the estate, being anxious to stick to it as long as he could, would not go before the commissioners. In that case, though they had a cheap tribunal established in the country, it would be the real interest of the incumbrancer—he being a solicitor—and it would be the supposed interest of the owner, to defeat the object of the Bill.
 Sir A. BROOKE  inquired if this Bill would give any power to landowners to sell and discharge their incumbrances, still reserving the rights over their estates which this Bill secured to those coming under the commission?
 MR. GROGAN  would strongly recommend the hon. and learned Gentleman to alter the latter part of the proviso so as to limit the powers of the commissioners, of ordering sales, to cases where the incumbrances did not exceed one-half the entire value of the estate. As the proviso now stood, two-thirds of the value was the limit, and he wished one-half to be substituted in its place.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he had intended to move that the rules be subjected to the revision of the Judges.
 MR. GROGAN  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman who opened the discussion that evening had placed the subject in a clear and intelligible manner before the House when he alleged that it was unconstitutional to appoint three commissioners under the Bill. He (Mr. Grogan) admitted, with the noble Lord at the head of the Government, that the state of Ireland was extraordinary, and that it called for extraor-
 767
 MR. GROGAN  conceived it was obvious that the strong powers given under this Act might, by a litigious party, he misapplied, to annoy a co-inheritor or co-proprietor in his estate. He wished to know if the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Solicitor General) would introduce a provision that in such case the commissioners should have power to give penalty costs?
 MR. GROGAN  hoped the hon. and learned Solictor General would reconsider the question, and consent to the insertion of the proviso, which would operate as a due protection to the rights of parties interested in the property, without seriously clogging the working of the measure.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  said, he observed one object of this Bill was to increase the business of the county courts. Now it was already matter of complaint that the judges and officers of these courts were underpaid, and that even their travelling expenses were not allowed them. He was determined to raise this question on every stage of the present Bill, till the matter was finally settled. The county courts were giving great satisfaction throughout the country, and that satisfaction was every day increasing. Debts were now got in with great facility, cheap justice was brought to every man's door, and therefore he contended that the Government ought to place the officers of these courts in a position commensurate with their great utility and increasing business.
 SIR J. B. WALSH  did not anticipate any great benefits to result from this measure. The Bill of last Session was ineffectual; and this Bill, he believed, would
 763 764
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  thought the Bill was an improvement upon that of last year, and for the improvement they had to thank the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth. But still he thought they should be informed who were the commissioners about to be appointed. He would be satisfied with the Lord Chancellor, or the Master of the Rolls. But he would unite with his hon. and gallant Friend opposite, if he divided the House upon any stage of the Bill, unless they were in-
 768
 MR. S. MARTIN  could not see how the proviso of his hon. and learned Friend could have the effect mentioned by his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General. He thought the proviso would have the effect of preventing fraud on the one hand, and on the other hand of preventing the sale of estates per force.
 MR. S. MARTIN  thought it would be necessary to introduce a clause for the purpose of preventing parties having titles
 772
 MR. S. MARTIN  hoped that some means would be taken for securing a due consideration of hostile claims to ownership, where such were well founded.
 MR. S. MARTIN  said, he supposed the case of a party who was absent, and therefore unable to make out his title. If the sale were hurried over, and the proceeds divided, such a person would be defrauded in consequence of having no power of appealing.
 MR. S. MARTIN  said, he wished to know how his hon. and learned Friend meant to deal with the case of leases created after the incumbrance where the estate was not sufficient to meet all the demands upon it. In that case the incumbrance would over-ride the tenancies on lease created subsequent to it. That would be a great hardship in the case of  bonâ fide
 MR. S. MARTIN  wished to know how the hon. and learned Gentleman would deal with the case of a man whose estate was sold against his will and interest?
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  was proceeding, pursuant to notice, to move the adjournment of the House over this day, when
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  said, that in submitting to the House the Motion of which he had given notice, he should need but few words to explain its object. Gentleman who did not usually attend race courses were yet aware that to-morrow was "The Derby Day." He submitted his I Motion for adjournment with full confidence, because it had been the custom of that House from time immemorial. Why, it had been carried in the previous year by a majority of thirteen, a majority in which the Prime Minister voted. He regretted that he did not then see the noble Lord in his place. The noble Lord had supported the Motion of last year on the ground that the Derby was a grand national fête, and he (the Marquess of Granby) now repeated it on similar grounds. Epsom Downs were open to all ranks, rich and poor, where they met once a year—he wished they did so much oftener—for a common purpose, namely, to enjoy the fresh air, and participate in a great national sport. Perhaps he might add, that although the House had usually two holidays in the Session, they had this year, in consequence of Her Majesty's birthday falling on Saturday, been deprived of one. He would wish to submit to hon. Members who were inclined to oppose the Motion, that they thereby prevented, not only themselves from attending, but those who were not able to act otherwise than as the House decided—namely, its officers.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART : I rise, Sir, to second the Motion that has been made by my right hon. Friend. I consider this subject, Sir, one of the most important that can be discussed by this House, and I am well satisfied that it is one which the people out of doors feel a desire shall be discussed and carried. This is a subject which has claimed the attention of the House on former occasions, and one on which the House has heard many able arguments. But, perhaps, it has never been discussed precisely under the same circumstances, and therefore there is room to hope that, although it has not been carried formerly, it may now find favour with the House; and I am sure that the House by passing it into a law would find favour with the country at large. Upon former occasions when this question was brought forward—and it has been brought forward again and again ever since the Septennial Act passed, previous to the time when the Reform Bill was enacted—it was said and felt, that by shortening the duration of Parliament, and repeating the frequency of the appeal to the people, constituted as Parliament then was, was to do nothing but to make a reference to an oligarchy; and, since the great Parliamentary Reform Bill has been carried, whenever it was proposed to enact short Parliaments, we were always met by the appeal that a great change has just been made, give it time to work, give it a fair trial, and do not produce any additional alteration. That argument cannot be used now. I admit that it was an argument immediately after the passing of the Reform Bill. I felt it so much, that when my right hon. Friend first brought forward this question, I did not vote with him; I remained absent, and gave no vote, because I thought I would wait to see what would be the effect of that great measure of reform on the country. But now sixteen or seventeen years have passed away since that great measure—that great and peaceful revolution in the country—was carried. I ask hon. Members, do you think that the people are satisfied with the system under which we now live? Do you think that system is so perfect that there is no objection to it, and that it is looked upon by the people at large with entire satisfaction? I do not know what may be thought of it in the saloons and ball rooms
 854 "The Bill is a plausible panegyric on this Parliament for its funeral oration;" 855 "I believe they (the Lords) thought not ill of this House; for only a good House will consent to such a Bill." "It is objected 'that it came from the Lords.' A good thing sometimes may come. We are told 'this is not a proper time,' but I think, that in so good a reign such a good law is to be obtained." "It is no objection that this Bill comes from the Lords. I tear not a good thing from them. We have had none a long while, The Lords prescribe us times when to meet, and when to be dissolved. St. Paul desired to be dissolved, but if any of his friends had set him a day he would not have taken it well of them. As for the disobligation to the people, good Parliaments they desire, and I never saw long Parliaments good ones. A picture new drawn may be like the person it represents, but in time the colours will fade, and it so alters from itself that no one can tell what it represents. If we would have a picture like, it must be new drawn." 856 857 l l l 858 859 860 861 862 863
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, I consider that, in fact, this is a Motion for shortening the duration of Parliament to a term of three years. My right hon. Friend, in introducing his Motion, stated that such was his intention. He said, also, that if the Government would propose a measure for limiting the duration of Parliament to five years, he would accept that proposition; but that, for himself, he would not descend from the position he had taken, as he considered that on ancient constitutional grounds the people of this country I were entitled to triennial Parliaments, Sir, I see no reason why this question: should not be calmly discussed. My right hon. Friend says that there is not much agitation in the public mind on this subject; and my noble Friend who spoke last says that persons who are to be found in omnibuses, steamboats, and other modes of public conveyance, give expression to their feelings on this subject; but I doubt whether those persons are to be very often found desiring to shorten the duration of Parliament, or believing that any public grievance can be remedied by adopting that course. With respect to the general expression of discontent referred to, I am not inclined to attach much importance to the usual expression which we hear, that "there is much to be found fault with, and much which requires amendment." I remember a person of considerable talent—an Englishman, who had passed much of his life abroad—once saying, that if a man came to this country shutting his eyes and opening his cars, he would consider this the most miserable nation in existence; but that, if he took the other course, of shutting his ears and opening his eyes, he would consider it the happiest. Such, I think, is the general disposition in this country; such is the disposition from which much amendment flows. My right hon. Friend says that, owing to the want of general excitement with respect to this particular subject, he has not made the Motion for the last twelve years, and implied a sort of threat that if this Motion were rejected he would not again bring it forward for a similar period. I confess I think he takes a very prudent and wise course, and, trusting, as I do, that he will not be in the majority to-night, I hope he will allow twelve years to pass before he brings it, calmly and ably as he has done, under the consideration of the House. My
 864 865 866 867 868 869
 MR. TENNYSON D'EYNCOURT  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill for shortening the duration of Parliaments. In doing so, he said it might be objected that there was no great number of petitions calling for the measure he was about to propose; but if hon. Gentlemen would turn their attention to what was passing out of doors, they would see that not a public meeting was held where the proceedings of the House were discussed at which the duration of Parliament and the increasing the responsibility of Members of the House of Commons were not made subjects of recommendation. He trusted he would not be charged with impropriety if, instead of waiting for the result of the agitation, or for any ebullition of public feeling, he at once brought the matter forward. It was declared in the Bill of Rights to be one of the rights of the people of this country that Parliament should meet as frequently as possible. In the year 1694, a sort of definition was put upon the term of their duration by the passing of the Triennial Act. But, of the ten Parliaments which followed the passing of that Act, nine averaged only about nine months each. He had suffered two entire Parliaments to pass since he last brought the subject forward, because the people had not presented petitions to the House upon the subject, and because they did not believe, nor indeed did he himself believe, from the constitution and complexion of those Parliaments, there was much disposition in them to give the question a fair and calm consideration. What the constitution and disposition of the present House were they should shortly see. But, at all
 849 "Whereas by the ancient law and statutes of this kingdom frequent Parliaments ought to be held, and frequent and new Parliaments tend very much to the happy union and good agreement of the King and the people, be it enacted, that Parliaments in future shall only last for the term of three years." 850 coup d'état "I cannot but take notice of some particulars in which, perhaps, this measure will be considered by many to be defective. In the first place, there is no provision for the shorter duration of Parliaments. That subject has been considered by His Majesty's Ministers; but, upon the whole, we
 851 852 853
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that it had always been the practice of the House to entertain Motions for the adjournment of the House before entering into the ordinary Motions of the day.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he was determined to take the opinion of the House on this question. He knew no reason why the Derby should take precedence of public business, and as he had a very important Bill standing for to-morrow, the Copyhold Enfranchisement Bill, he was determined, if possible, to persevere with it.
 MR. AGLIONBY  would not oppose the Motion, although he was very much inclined to ask where the difference lay between the transaction of private and public business upon the Derby day. He wished hon. Gentlemen opposite joy of the previous Motion which had been carried, but he would have been much better pleased at their triumph if they had allowed him to work upon the following day, and if they had gone themselves to the Derby. He hoped a Motion would be submitted that on every Derby day in every future year, the House should be adjourned. Hon. Gentlemen would then know what they were doing. For his own part, after the
 848
 MR. LABOUCHERE  did not think that he was bound to answer the question of the hon. Member for Cockermouth further than to state that he had voted against the adjournment of the House upon the Derby day. As that adjournment, however, had been carried, he thought now that the private Committees should sit in order to save the expenses of private parties.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  expressed a hope that the carrying of the Motion would not have the effect of preventing the private Committees from sitting on the following day, because it would be a great hardship and inconvenience to those who were in attendance upon the Committees if they should have to incur additional expense in consequence of all business being suspended upon the Derby day. He thought it extremely desirable that the Committee on Private Bills should at all events be afforded an opportunity of sitting on the following day, if they should feel so inclined, and he would propose a Motion to that effect.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, it was not his intention to oppose the Motion, provided he got a favourable answer to a question which he wished to ask the noble Lord at
 845
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  said, that, seeing his hon. Friend the Member for South Wiltshire in his place, he wished to ask him the question of which he had given notice, whether the Bill on Friendly Societies, which he had introduced, would have the effect which was apprehended in some parts of the country, of depriving all societies of the management of their own affairs, and of taking possession of their funds for the use of the Government? His object in asking the question was simply to allay a most unfounded and absurd alarm which prevailed among some of the members of friendly societies, and which he understood had already induced some of them to withdraw their funds from the savings banks in which they had been lodged.
 MR. SLANEY  then rose to move for the appointment of a Standing Committee or unpaid Commission, to consider and report from time to time on practical measures (unconnected with political changes), likely to improve the condition of the working classes, to encourage their industry, and increase their contentment. He said this subject was one which he was sure would receive the consideration of Gentlemen of all parties, and he was bound to make out a strong case to induce the Government to accede to his Motion. What he had to fear was not an opposition of argument, but rather hon. Gentlemen's quietly withdrawing from the House to go to their dinners, and, by a process often resorted to, leaving him an auditory of such diminished and diminishing numbers, as would very soon subject him to a "count out." If such should be the case, he would not make use of any harsh words, but only say that he trusted good temper and a good cause would gain him a hearing on a future occasion on a question which he believed to be of vital consequence to the best interests of the great mass of the people. He wished to show the House, if it would only lend him its kind indulgence for a brief space, that whilst the rich and middle classes of this country had been going on improving, the condition of the humbler and most numerous orders of the population had undergone no corresponding amelioration. He would
 872 873 874
 MR. C. ANSTEY  suggested to the hon. and learned Member for Cockermouth that it would be only wasting the time of the House to press his opposition to a division. The hon. and learned Member was mistaken if he supposed there would be a House, as the majority of Members opposite, however they might vote on this question, would go to the Derby, and the Members on that (the Opposition) side would, unquestionably, be all there. The only object which the hon. and learned Gentleman could attain by his opposition would, therefore, be to bring down Mr. Speaker at twelve o'clock, and oblige him to wait until four o'clock to declare that there was no House.
 MR. SOTHERON  said, he was very much obliged to his hon. Friend for putting the question, because he happened to know that a most groundless alarm existed in some parts of the country, to the effect that the Bill which he had introduced would tend to deprive these societies of the management of their own affairs. He had been told that because the actuary of the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt was mentioned in one of the clauses, it was supposed that the intention was to take away from the parties the management of their own money, in order to apply it to the reduction of the national debt. As he knew that the persons who conducted the affairs of these friendly societies in many parts of the country were uneducated, and very little accustomed to read Acts of Parliament, he was glad to have this opportunity of stating that the object of the Bill was to enable the members of friendly societies to ascertain for themselves their real condition, and if they
 843
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  rose and begged to ask Mr. Speaker what was the rule of the House relative to notices of Motion, and whether there was anything in the noble Marquess's Motion to take it out of its turn?
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  said, he felt it to be his duty to support the hon. and learned Member for Cockermouth in opposition to this Motion. He found that there were six Bills on the Votes for tomorrow, and he thought it would not be creditable to the House to adjourn with so much public business before them. He denied that it was an immemorial custom, or one of more than a few years' standing, to adjourn over the Derby day.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  said, that in discussing this question it was right to know what the constitution was—whether that House was to represent the people. If that was the constitution, then this House ought to be under the control of the people. But the people complained that this House did not fairly represent their wishes and feelings, and one of the causes why it did not was owing to the duration of Parliament. He did not deny that evils might arise and did arise from all forms of government; but the question they had to determine was, whether the public good would be best promoted by keeping the House of Commons under the control of the people. He maintained that it could not be under their control as long as Parliaments continued for seven years. It had been observed that this measure had not excited any strong popular feeling out of doors. The reason of that was, that this was but one of a series of measures which the people believed to be necessary for the amelioration of their condition. The principal of these measures was the extension of the suffrage, which they looked upon as the prime means of placing the House in the position of their real representatives. It was said, that the frequency
 870
 SIR G. GREY  said, the question was one on which the House should rather express its own opinion than call for one on
 844
 MR. H. BERKELEY : Sir, in consequence of a resolution passed last Session, I now have the honour of presenting myself to the House to ask their leave to bring in a Bill to give the electors of Great Britain and Ireland the protection of the ballot, in aid of their solemn and bounden duty to return fit and proper Members to serve in Parliament. I hope I may not be told. Sir, that the House was surprised or entrapped into passing such a resolution; the charge would be unjust! My notice stood for full three months on the votes and proceedings, the journals of this House, before I could obtain a hearing; and when delays took place over which I had no control, I addressed a letter to the editor of the  Times 908 in limine Hansard 909 vade mecum 910 viva voce 911 912 garrula lingua nocet 913 914 "That among the instances of the beneficial effects of secrecy of voting, one of the most striking is afforded by the electoral history of the United States of North America. That in these States the independent condition of the electors renders them generally indifferent to the concealment of their votes. That they are nevertheless so well aware of the protective power of the ballot that they have almost universally adopted it, and maintained it; and that it has been (as your petitioners are informed) proposed in the slaveholding States to abrogate it, with the avowed purpose of deterring the abolitionists from the honest exercise of their elective franchise." l s d 915 "The main obstacle in Parliamentary Reform is a feeling of conservatism inherent in a prudent and cautious people, who, admiring the institutions along with which they have waxed in prosperity, are willing to bear long with the evils that may be seen to accompany these institutions, rather than to rush into the uncertain sea of extensive change. When this conservative feeling leads to the preservation and furtherance of the principles on which the national institutions are founded, then it claims for itself the appellation of a provident and sure philosophy. When it overlooks these organic principles, and clings pertinaciously to mere outward forms, it degenerates into ignorant and imperilling bigotry." "Before the ballot vanish corruption and bribery, the great or rich man's power to punish or reward an elector for his vote. Treatings, ill-disguised bribery under the garb of hospitality, expenses allowed to voters, the electors' fear of voting at all, and the intimidation of electors while proceeding to the poll, and all occasions of riot and disorder during the electoral operations. Intrigues of agents, the indirect bribery of candidates, induced to spend large sums of money with particular tradespeople; to promise employment to hungry multitudes, &c.; the impudent negotiations for, and sales of seats; the so frequent coming forward of candidates wholly unknown to the electors, except by the report of their long purses; the forced election of some landlord of the neighbourhood, of his witless scion or slavish nominee; and the expensive and vexatious Committees sitting on contested elections." l 916 Times
 CAPTAIN BERKELEY  said, he never rose to address the House under more painful feelings. He should be extremely sorry to make that House an arena for family quarrels; but a sense of what was due to one who was absent, and not there to defend himself, alone induced him to trespass very briefly on its attention; and when he should have concluded, he was sure the House would see how wholly at variance with the facts of the case were the statements which had been made. Allusion had been made to a tenant of the Earl of Fitzhardinge, who had been dismissed by his Lordship, not on account of any political opinion, but because, first, he refused to live in Lord Fitzhardinge's house, and had been told he should leave the farm unless he did so; and, secondly, because he had been convicted before a magistrate of lopping timber. Another accusation against Lord Fitzhardinge was, that he had coerced his tenantry with a view to their not remaining in the troop of yeomanry. He bad a letter in his pocket
 922
 MR. M'GREGOR  was delighted that the old pernicious system of protection was to be abandoned in regard to the West India islands, believing, as he did, that they would be more prosperous without than with that fallacious prop to industry. He did not agree with the plan of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, as far as it would apply to Canada. He considered that it would be most unwise and unjust to interfere with the power of self-government which had been given to that and the lower provinces of British America; in all which, for some time at least, their prosperity had been as great as the circumstances of civil liberty, religious freedom, and fair natural advantages would probably admit of, while they continued to be cramped by navigation laws, commercial restrictions, and the fallacy of protective duties. In his opinion, if anything had tended to prevent the progress of New Brunswick, it had been the protection to the timber trade, which had drawn the minds of the people from the cultivation of the soil. Nova Scotia, with a much worse climate, and far inferior natural ad-vantages than New Brunswick, was in a much more satisfactory state. Our North American colonies now possessed all the advantage of responsible government, together with perfect free trade with the united kingdom, and with all countries where the navigation laws were repealed. He
 952
 MR. VERNON SMITH  thought the reasons adduced by the noble Lord were conclusive as to the necessity of opposing the introduction of the Bill. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford had stated, in opposition to the remark of the noble Lord, that if the measure had been small, he would have resisted it; but as it was large, he would vote for its introduction. He (Mr. V. Smith) must say that this was a very extraordinary announcement to proceed from one who had held the office of a Minister of the Crown. The right hon. Gentleman asserted, moreover, that the effect of allowing the Bill to lie on the table, so far from being prejudicial, would be favourable. He (Mr. V. Smith) was surprised to hear such an opinion. Did not the right hon. Gentleman know the jealousy which existed among the colonists as to every kind of legislation which had a bearing upon their concerns; and was it not contemplated by the Bill sought to be introduced, to compel certain federal arrangements to be carried out? Had the right hon. Gentleman held the office of Colonial Secretary, and had he consented to the introduction of such a Bill, he (Mr. V. Smith) would have said that he had adopted a course altogether unworthy of him. He congratulated the House upon the absence of abuse of the Colonial Office which had marked this discussion of colonial matters, and which, he thought, was calculated rather to retard than to advance their progress towards useful colonial reform. He thanked the hon. and learned Gentleman for having brought forward this Motion; and, although he agreed with his noble Friend as to the views he had stated respecting the bringing in of the proposed Bill at the present time, he was glad that the subject had been introduced, as public attention would be drawn towards it, both in this country and in the colonies.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  observed, that he thought the House owed it to itself to inquire whether its reputation was not involved in the maintenance of a rule by which strangers could be excluded on the Motion of a single Member. He was utterly at a loss for any reason which could be assigned for keeping up this regulation, and should be glad if any hon. Member, with greater Parliamentary experience than himself, would point out any case in which the abrogation of the rule could lead to inconvenience.
 966
 MR. W. PAGAN  seconded the Motion.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  in reply, said, he could assure the House that he would not detain them a minute. He would say nothing in answer to the arguments which had been adduced against his Motion; he would content himself with leaving it to hon. Members to say how far it was respectful in the Government to let the question go to a vote with one Member of the Government speaking upon it.
 MR. GRANTLEY BERKELEY  said, that though he, at least, of all others, had suffered most from that species of intimidation and unconstitutional interference to which the hon. Gentleman who seconded the Motion had referred, so long a time had intervened, he returned to the fact without one particle of personal animosity towards the parties who had so far forgotten what was duo to themselves, to their station, and to the fair exercise of the franchise. He had in his hand extracts from numerous letters of tenant farmers, declaring that they would have recorded their votes in his favour at his last election hut for the intimidation and coercion which had been resorted to against them. One tenant farmer, in the Forest of Dean, in his letter, said he would rather he without his vote than be allowed to exercise it as at present. Another wrote, saying, "If we vote for the man we approve of, we have our bread taken from us by the lord of the manor." The reason Mr. Neels, one of these tenants, had been dismissed was, that he had not obeyed the order of his landlord; and the cause assigned for his dismissal, that the farm was worth 60 l 920 921
 LORD H. VANE  understood that his hon. and gallant Friend was willing to accede to the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman that this proposition should be referred to the consideration of a Committee, sitting under the immediate sanction of the right hon. Gentleman. [Sir G. GREY: NO, no.] His hon. and gallant Friend had shown the existence of a substantial grievance, and as he had brought forward a measure to remedy it, it was only fair that the proposition should be referred to the examination of a Committee.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, I should have risen to address the House before, had it been as full as it is at present, when my hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies addressed it. But I do think it necessary, in the present state of the House, to state shortly what I think are conclusive objections against the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Sheffield. I give him every credit for ability in the speech which he has made, and for the large and comprehensive outline which he gave of what he considered should be the system of government in the colonies. But when I come from that view to consider his actual proposal, and that it is by a Bill his statement is succeeded—that it is by an Act of Parliament he thinks we should lay down certain fixed rules, by which we are to govern all the colonies of this country, and dispose of forty or fifty settlements of various races, in various parts of the world, under one certain system—I own I cannot but
 955 956 957 958
 MR. HAWES  rose to say one word in explanation. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford had come late to the House that evening, and had not heard his (Mr. Hawes's) noble Friend. He, however, seemed to assume it as the principle of Government to oppose the federal principle. Now he (Mr. Hawes)
 962
 MR. HAWES : But at present Canada claimed the whole of this vast territory. And what district lay beyond? The Hudson's Bay Company's territory, or Rupert's Land. Did his hon. Friend propose to colonise this dreary territory? Why, the southernmost point of that great tract of land, the Red River settlement, had a mean temperature no higher than that of Iceland. Was it likely that any persons would go to those barren tracts, where, for half a year, their labour would be arrested by the rigour of the climate, and all occupation at an end, when they had far more tempting lands to go to? Again, as to the Hudson's Bay territory, there existed a charter of government; but he found no provision made by his hon. and learned Friend for the adjustment of the claims which must arise were his plan adopted. Then, as regarded New Zealand, his hon. and learned Friend had entirely left out of consideration the title of the natives, though the power of forming settlements there could only be obtained by a full acknowledgment of native rights. Those rights had of late been recognised with judgment and discretion; and there was reason to hope that the difficulties of the land question, so for the sake of brevity to describe it, were now nearly brought to a close. The necessity for preliminary negotiation with the natives, who possessed a right to land in any portion of our colonial territorities, was however left out of view in the scheme proposed by his hon. and learned Friend. He would now turn to the Cape.
 947 948 l 949
 MR. HAWES  said, his hon. and learned Friend, with his characteristic ability and straightforwardness, had explained to the House his views of colonial policy, and had given him (Mr. Hawes) and the public the advantage of more carefully and deliberately considering those views in the work which he had published on the subject, and which had been for some time before the public. The House, therefore, did not approach this subject as upon ordinary occasions; because, upon a matter of this great importance, had his hon. and learned Friend proposed to introduce a Bill without so full an exposition of his views as he had given in his speech and the work he had referred to, he should scarcely have been justified in saying that his hon. and learned Friend ought not to have the opportunity of bringing in the Bill, and giving the House the benefit of its perusal. But they were already in possession of the principles and details of his hon. and learned Friend's measure; and it would be inexcusable in him if he were not to say at once, that there were strong, and, he thought, decided, reasons against proceeding with it. He concurred with his hon. and learned Friend, that the highest and noblest function which a statesman could exercise, was to govern wisely and well the vast colonial empire we now possessed; but he did not take the same view as his hon. and learned Friend of the condition of our colonial possessions, nor did he think they could justly be considered a source of humiliation and disgrace, or that the  status 944
 MR. HAWES : But if the settlers were left to select the spot, and the Secretary of State was left to decide whether there should be a settlement or not, might not the same difficulty and the same alleged obstruction to colonisation arise which now existed. Then the land was to be surveyed—a work of time and great expense; and before that could be done, he believed that in many cases the combination of settlers
 945 946
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that the tone generally taken by the House in colonial debates, and on the absence of which they had been congratulated by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Northampton arose from the fact that the Colonial Office had always set itself in opposition to any plan of improvement. There was a feeling all over the country that great changes must take place in our present system; but whenever any one ventured to make them, they were met with the single reply. "Oh, Lord Grey is a very good Minister;" but that answer was not at all satisfactory. The measure proposed by the hon. and learned Gentleman appeared to be regarded as compulsory; but, as he (Mr. Adderley) understood it, the Bill was for the advantage of those colonies which chose to apply to the Colonial Secretary; and that any application of it would only be by the consent of the colonies themselves. The evil which the hon. and learned Gentleman sought to remedy was universally complained of—the uncertain condition of our colonies at this moment. The average duration of a Colonial Minister's stay in office seemed to be about triennial, so that it was a chance whether he could carry out any scheme he might have prepared. The evils of the system were especially felt now, as operating as a check upon emigration. He could not say that he thought the whole, or even the more essential part, of the scheme of the hon. and learned Gentleman as likely to be successful. In the first place, where did the plan come from? From the United States. There was a large party in the House who were, he thought, rather too apt just now to borrow plans from America; but if he took hints from that quarter at all, he would rather take them from their earlier than their present system. At the same time, if the proposal of the hon. and learned Gentleman was not exactly what was wanted, still it tended in the right direction; and he (Mr. Adderley) hoped the introduction of it at least would be allowed, in order that the House might see the manner in which the views of the hon. and learned Gentleman were intended to be carried out.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that when the state of the colonies under the government of Lord Stanley was compared with their state under that of Earl Grey, the former noble Lord would have no reason to fear the comparison; but he wished to allude to the able speech of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, who certainly
 953
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  moved as an Amendment that it be read a third time on that day six months.
 MR. BANKES  begged to repeat the questions which he had put to the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade the other day:—First, whether the Board of Trade would prepare the new Spanish Tariff, and lay it before the House in the same shape as the tariff of last year; and, secondly, he wished to know whether the articles now prohibited by the Spanish tariff were prohibited in the former tariff?
 MR. BANKES  said, he might, perhaps, be allowed to ask if there were any person now in Spain authorised to make remonstrances on the part of this country in case new prohibitions were laid on?
 MR. AGLIONBY  should be sorry to see
 967
 MR. AGLIONBY , who rose amidst cries of "Divide! divide!" was surprised that on a debate upon a question of such importance, so much impatience should be exhibited in the House by hon. Members whom he could point out who had only just come in for the first time that evening. The speech of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield was most comprehensive. The plan was most comprehensive, and he (Mr. Aglionby) should wish to see
 954
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the question was one rather for his noble Friend at the head of the Foreign Department than for him to answer, but he should imagine that the British Consul General would put any necessary question of the description alluded to by the hon. Gentleman to the Spanish Government.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman was probably aware that the papers to which he alluded had
 907
 MR. WYLD  congratulated the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield on having had the principle of his measure recognised and sanctioned by the Government; for, although the Under Secretary for the Colonies had felt it his duty to oppose the introduction of the hon. and learned Member's Bill, yet the measure which the hon. Under Secretary had announced it to be his intention to bring forward in the course of the present Session, was an acknowledgment of the principle advocated by the hon. and learned Gentleman. If ever there had been a scheme propounded for the benefit of the colonies, it was that which had been so ably opened before them by the hon. and learned Gentleman tonight; and it was peculiarly fortunate that the position of our colonies, more especially Canada, possessed singular facilities for carrying out that scheme.
 MR. WYLD  seconded the Motion.
 MR. ROEBUCK  then rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the better government of certain portions of our colonial possessions. The subject, he said, to which he was about to draw the attention of the House was not an attractive one, or one from which it was likely they would derive any amusement. He was about to ask the House to legislate with respect to large interests, but he was not about to deal with those interests in a manner which could excite personal animosity. He was not about to attack individuals or make charges; all that he had in view was the welfare of a portion of his fellow-countrymen. He had been told, however, that the measure he was about to propose to the House was not likely to meet with such a degree of attention that the Government would permit him to bring it forward in the shape of a Bill. He disclaimed any intention of taking the House by surprise, having already, as briefly as he could to the House, and in a printed form, stated his opinions on the matter, and the principles which he desired to have embodied in an Act of Parliament.
 929 930 931 932 933 934 935 936 937 938 939 940 941 942
 MR. ROEBUCK  explained that he proposed that the boundaries of Upper and Lower Canada should be accurately defined, and that settlements might be made beyond them.
 MR. ROEBUCK  explained that a discretion was to be left to the Secretary of State to determine whether or not a colony should be formed; but when he had determined that a colony should be formed, and the boundaries were defined, then the rest of the circumstances, to which his hon. Friend alluded, might come into action.
 MR. ROEBUCK , in reply, said, he thought that the noble Lord and the hon.
 963 964
 MR. J. WILLIAMS  seconded the Motion. He could assure the House that the trading classes were suffering persecution under the existing electoral system, and that they were compelled very often either to violate their consciences or to incur serious loss. He knew from observation
 917 918 919
 MR. PUSEY  moved the Third Reading of the Landlord and Tenant Bill.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, that a more complete, though at the same time, no doubt, a more unintentional misrepresentation he had never heard than that which his hon. Friend who had just sat down had given of the measure of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield. His hon. Friend's reasons for objecting to the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman were three. First, that it could not be adopted without an interference with the independence of the Canadian legislature; but, surely, until the Bill
 950 951
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that at an early period of the Session he voted with the Government against the appointment of a Committee on the affairs of the colonies, because his belief was that such a measure, if adopted, would not have been of any practical advantage; but, on the present occasion, he felt it to be his duty to give a vote in opposition to the noble Lord. The noble Lord had said, that if this had been a matter of indifference, or one that related to our own domestic affairs, he would not have felt indisposed to permit the Bill to be laid upon the table, reserving to himself the opportunity of forming a definitive judgment of its merits when he had become acquainted with its details. He (Mr. Gladstone) confessed he was inclined to invert the doctrine of the noble Lord. He fully agreed that when a Bill was of a nature to which it was clear that Parliament ought under no circumstances to accede, it was a sound rule at once to refuse leave to introduce the Bill; but with respect to the positive objections which the noble Lord had made to the Bill of the hon. and learned Gentleman, he thought they were not sufficient to justify the House in rejecting it, at all events in the present stage. The noble Lord had stated that the hon. and learned Gentleman proposed to interfere in various respects with privileges guaranteed by Act of Parliament to the colonies. He hardly thought the noble Lord correctly understood the
 959 960 961
 MR. W. J. FOX  scarcely expected the House would have been disposed to dismiss so summarily and almost with contempt a question which had already been sanctioned by a deliberate resolution of the House. He should support the Motion, but not without regret. He regretted that a proposition of this kind for an organic change should be brought forward separately, believing, as he did, that the mode of making the representation of the people a reality instead of a name must be by a judicious combination of measures, and that to carry the ballot while there were so many constituencies with so few voters, would only be to change retail for wholesale corruption. They were clearly told by the authors of the Reform Bill that no constituency was to contain less than 300 voters. Looking to the disparity that existed between the class that now enjoyed political distinction and the class that had none, called the slave class, he was decidedly of opinion that the ballot to be useful should be connected with a large extension of the suffrage. His second reluctance to the ballot by itself was, that it was unfit for the country at present. It was said that the ballot would be a shelter for falsehood. Such ought not to be the case, and the fault rested with those who
 923 924 925 926
 SIR G. GREY : The question which the hon. and gallant Gentleman had brought before the House was one of very considerable importance, and such as ought not to be briefly discussed at that hour of the night (near twelve o'clock). He was not at all prepared to say, that the time might not come when some of the rules of the House (and this among others) ought to be reconsidered and revised; but he certainly thought that the best way of doing that would be to make a full and deliberate inquiry—first, by a Special Committee, whoso duty it should be to consider what alterations were desirable. If the House thought that any change should take place, he thought that such would be the most prudent and judicious course. He hoped that his hon. and gallant Friend would not press his Motion, and that, at all events, if the matter was to be taken up, due notice would be given of bringing the matter on at an early period of the evening, so that there might be a larger attendance of Members than at the present moment, and that they might deliberately discuss the propriety of a rule of a very long standing which might not be any longer necessary, but which ought not to be hastily departed from.
 SIR H. VERNEY  said, that there was, in his opinion, nothing contemptuous in the mode in which the House had listened to that debate. It had been said that the elector may be injured, but may the Member of Parliament not suffer, too, by the votes which he may give in the House? He knew not upon what principle it could be contended that the electors should vote privately while the Member was required to vote publicly. He would rest his opposition to the Motion, on the ground that the exercise of the franchise was a public duty, and ought to be performed in the face of day.
 ADMIRAL DUNDAS  said, that with respect to the remarks made by the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Brighton on the relative ranks of lieutenants and masters, and as to the regulations respecting them, he could only reply, that it would be perfectly impossible to comply with the request which had been preferred. Lieutenants served five or six years before they got their promotion; masters, on the other hand, might be taken into the service almost immediately. It was perfectly useless to give masters the same rating as lieutenants. At the same time he must say, there was no more worthy or deserving class of officers in the service than the masters. Several of them had been appointed captains for distinguishing services, and he hoped would be so appointed in future. Captain Hall, for instance, had risen to the rank of post-captain entirely through his own merits. But no Board of Admiralty could place masters on a footing with lieutenants.
 SIR F. T. BARING  observed it was rather an invidious task to have to defend one's salary; but he had better explain to the House how the salaries of the Board of Admiralty had been fixed, and hoped he should satisfy them there was nothing peculiar in their case which entitled the hon. and gallant officer the Member for Lincoln to call for a reduction in
 993 l l l 994
 CAPTAIN BERKELEY  declared he would be quite happy to take the hon. Member for Warwickshire at his word with respect to the salaries of the Board. It so happened that while the salaries of every other department had been increased, those of that board were the same now as in 1770.
 SIR F. T. BARING  was afraid the hon. Gentleman misunderstood the statement in the accounts. The item to which he referred included what had been received from the sale of stores of all kinds. There could be no objection to furnishing the details.
 The CHAIRMAN : The hon. Gentleman will be kind enough to state some sum.
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO  would certainly except the Under Secretary from any decrease of salary. His duty was more severe than that of any other officer of Government, with the exception of the First Lord of the Admiralty, and the Secretary for the Home Department. [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: Mine are rather heavy.] Then perhaps he ought to add the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He had intimated to the First Lord of the Admiralty that it was his intention when the report was brought up to bring under the notice of the House the system of promotions. But, considering the short period during which the First Lord of the Admiralty had held that office, he should postpone his remarks on that subject; but he should avail himself of the opportunity to call attention to the position of the marines. The right hon. Gentleman had had ocular demonstration of the efficiency of that branch of the service, was prepared to do justice to it, and would be aware that whenever military operations had become necessary since the Peace, the marines had invariably been selected as part of the force. Such was the case when Sir C. Napier was sent to Syria; and the forces sent to Spain some years ago would have been defeated had it not been for the marines. The points to which he would direct attention were the age of the officers, the seniors having seen fifty-four years' service; the small share of honorary distinctions which fell to that branch of the service, there being no marines of the rank of K.C.B. or G.C.B., and while 100 naval officers held the rank of C.B., only six officers of marines had received that distinction; their exclusion from the benefits of military and naval asylums, no marine officer, he ventured to say, having been admitted either to Greenwich or Chelsea Hospital, or the perquisites of the Military Knights of Windsor. He left the matter in the hands of the First Lord of the Admiralty, confident that the right hon. Gentleman would not be indisposed to give a favourable consideration to the claims of a brave, honourable, and gallant corps.
 MR. FOX MAULE , having so fully entered into the whole subject of these estimates on a former occasion, did not consider it necessary to trouble the Committee with any further observations at present. He would, however, just say a few words in answer to the remarks of his hon. and gallant Friend who had last spoken. He (Mr. Fox Maule) could not agree with all that had fallen from his hon. and gallant Friend; but the whole subject was still under
 1000
 MR. FOX MAULE  believed the question with regard to the shell jackets had made more noise in the House than in the Army. He had heard no complaints that it had been adopted in the Army. It was adopted simply for this reason, because it was thought necessary that the officers, when employed in line, should be clothed in the same dress as the men.
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, the regulation was only to apply to the present year. Last year, all the yeomanry regiments were inspected by military officers, and the result proved highly creditable to the men and officers; so creditable, indeed, that it was thought, for the convenience of some of the regiments, that the inspection might be dispensed with this year. Such a course, it was found, would save the country 15,000 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l
 MR. FOX MAULE  replied, that as the office of assistant secretary had been abolished, it was necessary to continue the secretaryship so long as the board remained in existence. With regard to the second question, Mr. Neave had previously held the office of secretary for many,
 1007 l l
 MR. FOX MAULE  was not quite sure that it was not an inadequate sum; but certainly when the arrangement was made between the East India Company and the Chancellor of the Exchequer, it was considered quite inadequate. Taking into consideration the receipts of the East India Company, and the circumstances under which the sum was paid, he was by no means inclined to think that it was disproportionate to the non-effective branch of our military force that had been employed in India.
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, his authority was confined to the financial branch of the Army—that he had nothing whatever to do with the clothing, discipline, or command of the Army. The person alluded to had, it appeared, taken out a patent for a certain description of boot, which had been tried and approved of by some commanding officers and men. He then applied to have it made a "sealed pattern;" but the board of general officers refused to adopt it as the sealed pattern for the Army, though they stated that they saw no reason why soldiers should not be allowed to purchase these boots at their own private expense. That permission, he did not know why, had not been carried into effect, and he believed that it was of that which the petitioner complained.
 COLONEL LINDSAY  understood that the reason they did away with their bearskin cap was, that the price of bears had risen. l l l
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The noble Lord has heard other hon. Members ask whether I was prepared to say that no further grants would be asked for, for the relief of Irish distress. The hon. Gentleman who put that question to me did it with the view of protecting the public purse from any such grants; but on all the occasions on which I have been thus interrogated, I have uniformly refused to give any pledge whatever as to our intentions on the subject. Her Majesty's Government must act upon their own views of the circumstances occurring in Ireland.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  moved that the House, at its rising, do adjourn to Thursday next.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he had hoped that the miscellaneous estimates would have been in the hands of Members that day, and the Government had made their arrangements accordingly. It was well known that many of the miscellaneous estimates were the same from year to year, and where new votes were proposed, he would have no objection to allow them to stand over.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he had proposed taking the civil contingencies on Friday.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he could not give such an assurance, because the budget would depend a good deal on the miscellaneous estimates. He thought it was more important that public Bills should be proceeded with in the early part of the Session, than the budget, because it was not desirable that the House of Lords should complain, as they had just reason of doing last year, of important Bills being sent up to them near the close of the Session.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he always understood that there should be considerable progress made in the votes of supply before the financial statement of the year was made—that is, always supposing that there was no extraordinary circumstances which obliged the Government to bring forward the financial statement in the early part of the year. This year the miscellaneous estimates unfortunately formed a large item in the expenditure for the year.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, in answer to the question of the hon. Member for the county of Kerry, that he had not received any official statement with regard to the horrible occurrence which that hon. Member had mentioned; nor had he any reason to know that the fact had actually taken place. He should, however, feel it his duty to make immediate inquiry into the matter. With regard to the observations of the hon. Member for Stroud, as to the degree of responsibility that attached to the Government for the melancholy events that were occurring in Ireland, he could only say, that the hon. Gentleman must be aware of what had passed in the House at the beginning of the Session, when the Government asked for 50,000 l l l
 MR. B. COCHRANE  said, he was desirous
 992
 MR. DISRAELI  reminded the noble Lord that he had himself expressed an opinion last year that the financial statement ought not to be put off to a late period of the Session.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that the noble Lord made the budget contingent on the miscellaneous estimates, and as there was to be a delay in the latter, there would, he supposed, be a farther delay in the financial statement. He would be glad if the noble Lord could assure the House that the financial statement was not contingent on the miscellaneous estimates.
 MR. HAWES  thought that the hon. Gentleman, without understanding much of the subject on which he had spoken, had characterised the transaction in a manner that was utterly unjust and unjustifiable, if he meant to call the arrangement that had been made for the government of Malta a job. He did not know anything which the people of Malta had longer called for than the appointment of a civil
 1004 l
 MR. LUSHINGTON  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War whether he had any objection to express an opinion with regard to a petition presented to the House by a tradesman named Dowie, complaining that an unfavourable and erroneous construction had been placed by the Adjutant General on a report from the Clothing Board relative to the patent boot proposed by the petitioner for adoption in the Army? The petition had been referred to the Committee on the Army Estimates, but that Committee had discontinued its sittings during the present Session.
 MR. SPEAKER  inquired who seconded the Motion of the hon. Gentleman? No one replied, and the subject and the Motion dropped together.
 MR. SPEAKER  trusted that the hon. Gentleman would confine himself to the question of adjournment.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  begged to call the attention of the House to the Motion of which he had given notice, for the reduction of salaries in the Admiralty Office. He proposed to try the free-trade system a little in the Government offices. There were no fewer than six Lords of the Admiralty, though there was but one Commander-in-Chief; and, though he felt the highest respect for those gallant officers, he thought there was truth in the saying, "too many cooks spoil the broth." He hoped, therefore, that without impairing the efficiency of the service, the number might be reduced by two. The First Lord of the Admiralty had 4,500 l l l l l l l l 991 l l
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  thought it somewhat singular that when there were so many Gentlemen on the other side who were all for economy and retrenchment, not one of them was to he found in his place. He hoped the Motion would be a lesson to public officers in high stations, who ought to volunteer what he proposed. He would trust to their generosity; but,
 996
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  complained that the estimates were generally brought on in the Epsom week—on the night of a ball or a rout, or whenever some other flummery was going on. He did not see any of the First Ministers in their places, but he supposed they were busy elsewhere making up their books.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  did not wish to interrupt this discussion with respect to the lamentable question of Irish distress; but he should like to ask hon. Members who were conversant with the stale of Ireland, how far they thought free-trade measures had been the cause of distress in that country? He could feel for Ireland, but he could also feel for England; and he had every reason to apprehend, if they proceeded as they had hitherto done with the free-trade policy, that England would by and by suffer as much as Ireland.
 The CHANCELLOR OF the EXCHEQUER  did not think it expedient, on the present question, to enter upon a discussion on free trade. But he must say, that so far as Ireland was concerned, he was convinced that the free-trade principle had contributed very largely to the preservation of life in that country by cheapening the food which was imported. It had been said, that three halfpence or a penny a day would sustain life in that country. Let it be remembered that it was by the importation of Indian corn—the introduction of which was the result of free-trade measures—that life could be thus preserved in Ireland, and which could not otherwise have been done except at a very large additional expense. He wished, while bearing in mind what had fallen from the hon. Member for Cocker-mouth, to warn the House against being led into error by receiving as true the full extent of the statements that were sometimes made respecting the misery and destitution prevailing in Ireland. If he wanted an example to justify such a warning, he thought the statement made the other evening by the hon. Member for Limerick, would be a sufficient justification. A few
 984 l 985 l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the miscellaneous estimates would be in the hands of Members to-morrow morning. He had expected that they would have been delivered that day, but he was disappointed.
 MR. E. DENISON  said, it was very easy to say that a few thousand pounds would relieve the distress in Ireland; it was easy to say that the responsibility of every death rested upon the shoulders of the Government;
 987
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  said, the hon. Gentleman had misunderstood him. He did not mean to imply anything against his conduct as chairman of the Poor Law Committee, for in fact he knew nothing about it. What he alluded to was, a remark which the hon. Gentleman had made, when the Chancellor of the Exchequer was speaking, to the effect, that 860 persons, instead of being dead, were receiving relief in the Ballinasloe workhouse.
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  said, it was of great importance there should be no mistake as to the real facts respecting the Ballinasloe workhouse case. His hon. Friend the Member for Limerick had inadvertently said that 860 had died in that workhouse in one week. That was certainly wrong; but what was
 986
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he understood that the arrangement they were now about making was this, that they were not to have the budget until some time later than the middle of June, unless they made progress with the miscellaneous estimates immediately after the recess. Now, he understood the reason of that delay to be this, that until the Government knew what progress the House would make in the miscellaneous estimates, they would not feel themselves in a condition to make their financial statement. That implied a doubt as to the votes the House would agree to; and surely if there were ground for such doubts, it was right that the House should know what these estimates were to be before they were called upon to vote them. They had not, however, up to this moment, got the miscellaneous estimates, or even the usual abstract of them; and he hoped, therefore, that it would not be hereafter alleged that the House had imposed any delay in refusing to go into the miscellaneous estimates on first day after the recess.
 MR. HORSMAN  could not help adverting to what he considered to be a misapprehension on the part of the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown as to the disposition of the House on the subject of Irish distress. The noble Lord appeared to think that there would be an unwillingness on the part of the House to make any further advances for the relief of that distress; but he (Mr. Horsman) considered this to be a subject concerning which, for the sake of their own character, they ought at once to be clearly understood. When Government asked for the 50,000 l l l l 983 l
 COLONEL DUNNE  explained: He had opposed the rate in aid because it would aggravate Irish distress.
 MR. G. THOMPSON  protested against any additional burdens being thrown upon the impoverished people of India. l l l
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, that he wished to ask a question of the noble Lord at the head of the Government with regard to a horrible occurrence that was reported to have taken place in the western part of Ireland. It was stated that a corpse
 979
 MR. HERRIES  hoped that the Government would give some explanation as to the course which they intended to pursue after the adjournment with regard to the miscellaneous estimates.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  was happy to hear from the noble Lord that inquiries were to be made to ascertain the truth or exaggeration of the statement in the papers as to what had occurred in the neighbourhood of Ballinrobe. He (Mr. J. O'Connell) confessed he was particularly anxious on the subject, because on a recent occasion, when
 981 l s d l s d s d
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  again rose, and was met by loud cries of "Order!" and "Spoke!" He presumed that he would be perfectly in order if he moved the adjournment of the House.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  continued: The scale of relief administered in Ireland was too low—lower in fact than it was either in England or Scotland. The hon. Gentleman proceeded to charge the Government with a design of starving out the Irish people—a charge which he had already made, but which had never been answered.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  then proceeded to state that it was quite clear that there was no disposition on the part of the House to consider the question of Irish distress.
 MR. REYNOLDS  did not blame the Government, but it could not be denied that thousands were dying daily, and that within twelve hours' journey of the metropolis of the British empire—a metropolis famed for its great wealth. He was bound to say that it was quite unnecessary for the hon. Gentleman the chairman of the Poor Law Committee to enter into any defence of himself, for he (Mr. Reynolds) had never found any man display more humanity than the hon. Gentleman in conducting an inquiry into such a painful subject. He (Mr. Reynolds) would wish to know if any instructions had been given to put an end to the frightful state of things at present existing. The total number of deaths in the Ballinasloe union had been 1,150. It appeared that the population of the town, which was a small one, was 4,000; and that 4,700 of the population of the union were in the workhouse. Since a statement he had made on a former night had been denied, he must be permitted to say that the guardians, whom he charged with the grossest inhumanity, passed a resolution
 988
 SIR J. YOUNG  denied having attempted to diminish the amount of evil that existed in Ireland, or to represent the distress prevailing in that country to be less than it really was. With respect to the Ballinasloe union, the fact was, that great distress existed there, and in order to meet that distress, fourteen or fifteen additional houses were taken to receive the paupers. The cholera and dysentery occurred in the union, and some of those auxiliary houses were converted into hospitals, where the people afflicted with cholera were taken, and in a few days after died—not for want of sufficient relief, but from the disease with which they were afflicted before they entered the workhouse. The hon. Member for Limerick, however, and others, were certainly guilty of exaggeration, and he believed that, in the cases mentioned, the mortality had chiefly arisen from cholera, and that no efforts on the part of the Government could have arrested it.
 MR. HENLEY  thought this was the proper time to ask a question relative to an item of 60,000 l l
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  said, that before the noble Lord answered the question, he could not refrain from saying one word expressive of the strong conviction which pressed upon his mind with regard to the enormous responsibility which lay with that House, the Legislature, and, above all, with the Government, to prevent, as far as possible, the frightful destruction and waste of human life now going on in Ireland. The poor-law had been passed with the view of preventing such loss of life from taking place; but as at present administered it failed to do so. It was notorious to the world that at this moment hundreds were dying, and thousands were in daily expectation of death, in Ireland. The papers were filled with reports such as that to which the hon. Gentleman the Member for Kerry alluded. In one place twenty persons were found dead; in another, Westport, twenty-eight died in one week alone by famine. Mr. Ward, of Ballinrobe, stated that more than 700 families were wandering about the neighbourhood without a house to cover them, seeking shelter in the ditches at night, and dying there, and then buried without coffins, after being perhaps disfigured by rats and dogs. He would not harrow the House by going through the list of similar cases which he held in his hand; but he would ask, who was responsible for this frightful destruction of life, such as no country in the world professing to be civilised ever before exhibited, much less a country possessing the vast capital and wealth of this empire? Here people were enjoying themselves in luxury and plenty, spending night and day in amusement and recreation, while their fellow-subjects were thus perishing by wholesale of famine. But were not the people of England able and willing to provide at least the relief which the commissioners stated to be sufficient to maintain life in those wretched people—namely, three farthings a day per bead, until next harvest? He believed that the Government would experience no want of sympathy in this country, and no want of willingness on the part of that House, to pass any measures that they
 980
 MR. B. OSBORNE  remarked that some time ago it was recommended that the Civil Board of Chelsea Hospital should be abolished, and its duties transferred to the Horse Guards, but nevertheless he found it was still charged for in this estimate. Colonel Alderson, who held an office under the Railway Commission, and retained his pay as a lieutenant-colonel of engineers, appeared to be in the receipt of 700 l
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, it was not very encouraging, in so thin a House, for any hon. Member to enter into the discussion of questions affecting the expenditure of the country, because it appeared that, whenever that which, more than anything else fell within the peculiar business and province of the House, had to come on for consideration, hon. Gentlemen, and even the financial reformers themselves, deserted their posts, and left but a beggarly account of empty benches for any diligent advocate of economy and retrenchment to address his remarks to. The financial reformers of that House seemed to have sunk down to the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln, and the hon. Member for Warwickshire. He therefore did not propose at present to go into any lengthened details;
 997 l l l l l l l l 998 l l l s d l s d. l l 999 l l l l l
 MR. B. OSBORNE : As the trade of the population of Malta has increased under Mr. More O'Ferrall's management, I don't see why they should not pay for the civil governor themselves.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of War, with respect to the shell jacket now worn by some of the officers of Her Majesty's forces. Probably the right hon. Gentleman had not seen the unfortunate objects who were them, and who, in fact, were in the position of scarecrows. If he only saw some of the old officers who were put into this shell jacket, and saw the ridiculous objects it made of them, he was sure the right hon. Gentleman would agree in opinion with him on the subject. He conceived that the whole Army should be clothed alike, and that the same principle should be applied in London to the household brigade and to the regiments of the line. Why should the officers of the household brigade be allowed to go about in handsome blue frocks, while the officers of the line were clothed in an ugly red jacket? And he was not even allowed to wear it in the only place where it could effect a saving for him—at mess; while the officers of dragoons, generally belonging to a richer class, were allowed to mess in their stable jackets. He also wished to make an observation with respect to the bearskin caps, worn by the household troops. Having taken those caps from the Fusilier regiments, why keep them in the household brigade? If they wanted to make their Army frightful to their enemies, why not apply the same rule to the household brigade as to other regiments? Why not compel the hon. and gallant Member for 3Wigan to go about the metropolis in a shell jacket, as well as the officers in the country? When they took away this
 1003
 MR. COBDEN  said, that the House having voted the number of men before Easter, it would not be either consistent or logical to refuse the money necessary to clothe and pay them. He rose merely for the purpose of making a few observations on the manner in which the reduction of 10,000 men had been made. He found a reduction to that amount in the number of men; but, on turning to the number of officers, he found no corresponding reduction.
 1001 bonâ fide 1002
 MR. SPOONER  wished to know whether the hon. Member for Limerick had
 990
 MR. SPOONER  said, though it had been just asserted there was no case for reduction, he thought it would not be very difficult to make out a case. His hon. and gallant Friend's course of proceeding had been objected to as too individual in character; but he really did not see how the salaries of the great officers could be attacked unless they were taken one by one. He believed the salaries were fixed on an understanding that they should be all proportionately reduced if reduction was decided upon. As the free-trade principle appeared to he now applied to every thing, he thought its application ought to be extended to the salaries of the officers in public departments. He was quite aware that no amount of reduction which could be made consistently with the efficiency of the service, would afford any great relief to the country—so he would not hold out any hope that advantage could be derived from such a source; but he would put the question in this form—what would be the moral effect on the country? Now, the people were being told that, owing to the changes of policy and circumstances, every one must look to lose a portion of his income; every income must come down, and every one must submit to reductions. When the trader was told that his profits and property were reduced by the effects of foreign competition, he naturally inquired why the fixed salaries of Government officers were not also to be reduced in proportion. Let them reflect what would be the effect on the people's mind if it became known that Government were allowed to inflict sacrifices on all classes, and yet that they refused to take any share in those sacrifices, or to consent to reduction. [Sir J. GRAHAM: Put their salaries on the corn-rent principle.] That was not a bad plan. If we were determined to go back to old times and old prices, we ought to reduce everything in the same proportion. He was for all practical reduction, and should therefore give his vote for making the reductions proposed by his hon. and gallant Friend.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, it would be satisfactory if the House could know what was the connexion between the miscellaneous estimates and the budget. He thought there had been no year in which the budget had not been brought forward before any considerable progress had been made in the miscellaneous estimates.
 MR. W. LOCKHART  objected to the sum proposed to be voted for the expenses of the staff at Malta. He regretted to say there was not a single military man in the kingdom who would defend the propriety of having a civil governor in Malta. No man could say that a military post should be governed by a civil officer, or that the division which had taken place of the offices of the governor and commander of the forces should have been made. He wished to test the opinions of hon. Gentlemen, for the purpose of ascertaining who would favour a job, and who would not favour a job; and he would, therefore, move that the staff allowance of the lieutenant-general should be stopped after the 1st of September.
 MR. W. LOCKHART  begged to say
 1005
 MR. W. LOCKHART  said, the sum he proposed to take off was the staff pay of the lieutenant-general for six months, 779 l
 MR. MONSELL  said, that the Poor Law Committee had that day been engaged in the examination of a witness from West-port, and certainly a more dreadful account was never given of human suffering in any civilised portion of the globe. He agreed with the noble Lord at the head of the Government, that it was utterly impossible, by any human means, to stay the march of destitution in Ireland. He was quite sure that whatever was done must be comparatively trifling; but still more might have been accomplished. From the returns it appeared that in the week ending the 28th of April, 1849, there were in the several workhouses of Connaught and Munster no less than 122,369 inmates, and that the deaths in the course of one week were not less than 1,703, giving nearly an average of fourteen in every 1,000; whereas in this great metropolis, where there was a population approaching to two millions and a half of souls, according to the statement made by the Poor Law Commissioners, in the very worst week of the
 982
 SIR G. GREY  wished to correct an error into which several hon. Members appeared to have fallen, with reference to the statement which he had made, upon the authority of the Earl of Clancarty, with respect to the mortality in the Ballinasloe workhouse. The noble Lord had not informed him that the mortality in that workhouse had, in the week succeeding that during which it amounted to 490, fallen to an average of six per day. What he said was, that the highest degree of mortality was attained during the period at which the cholera was raging; that it then amounted to 490 a week; but so far from having increased from that amount to 860, it had very materially diminished. He (Sir G. Grey) had only further to add, that when a disposition was shown to reproach the people of this country with being unwilling
 989 l
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  concluded that the hon. and gallant Member was not serious in pressing such a Motion. He would, however, take advantage of it to make a few observations on a totally different subject, admitting, in the first place, that no department of the Government was so hardly worked and badly paid as the Admiralty. What he wished to call the attention of the Board and the House to, was the petition which had been presented by 331 of the 428 masters in the service, with respect to their rating and retirement—a most excellent body of men were placed in a most anomalous position. Nominally, the masters ranked with the lieutenants, but in reality they took rank after the junior lieutenants, and before the midshipmen. He really thought the Board should take some steps to place them in a better position, and to carry out the prayer of their petition. But he begged to call the attention of the Board to the regulations with respect to the retirement of lieutenants and commanders. A petition had been presented to the House by the former, stating that many had been removed from the list without receiving additional pay, and that the rest of the list was filled up by those who were called "commanders." It might be asked, from what fund adequate retirement for many of these excellent officers could be provided? He thought he could point out a source whence a large revenue was derivable. Their present system of freights was one which called loudly for change. Mexico complained that our ships were employed in smuggling specie, and had taken steps to prevent it, while the bondholders and others had undoubtedly been defrauded of their dividends in many instances. But what he complained of was, the sums paid as freightage to the admirals of the station and the captains of the ships. No less than 27,000 l l
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  had intended to call attention to the vote for naval stores; but what he wished at present to know was whether any portion of the amount of 484,788 l
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that the civil contingencies had been printed that morning, and there could be no objection to going on with them on Thursday.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that as the estimates were not in the hands of Members before the adjournment, it was not proper or reasonable that they should be pressed forward on the first day that the House again met.
 MR. W. MILES  could not allow the vote respecting the volunteer corps or yeomanry to pass without observing that a new regulation had recently been adopted, which was likely to reduce the efficiency of the corps. To keep up proper discipline it was absolutely necessary that the yeomanry of the country should be called out
 1006
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  wished to know the ultimatum of Her Majesty's Government upon this point—whether they were determined that no further amount of money was to be granted—under any circumstances which might occur—from the imperial treasury for the relief of Irish distress? The people of Ireland had a right to have a definite answer to this question, in order that they might know exactly on what tenure the union between the two countries was to rest.
 MR. COBDBN  seconded the Motion.
 MR. F. T. BARING  said, that in order to possess an efficient navy, it was requisite to keep up, at a considerable expense, stores of naval supplies in proportion. As to the steam navy, he admitted that it was very expensive, but he did not see how we could do without it; and if the hon. Gentleman looked to the steam navy of France, he would not think that our own was by any means too formidable. The hon. Gentleman had compared the expenditure of the present with that of former years. He (Sir F. Baring) admitted that the present vote was large; but it ought to be recollected that in various departments of the Navy, a higher and more skilled, and, therefore, a better paid, class of workmen were now required, than that which had formerly been employed. Reductions, however, had been made to the extent of upwards of 86,500L from the amount of the vote as it stood last year. Other measures of economic reform recommended by the Committee were gradually being carried out, more particularly in the case of our foreign dockyards; but they could not well be brought at once and immediately into play.
 SIR F. T. BARING  observed that Mr. Jeffery's invention had been brought under his observation, and that inquiries were now going on with a view to some settlement with that gentleman. He (Sir F. Baring) feared that the Admiralty did not value the invention so highly as did the inventor himself, but that was not at all an unusual occurrence.
 The CHANCELLOR OR THE EXCHEQUER  stated, that such charges as these were formerly paid from the civil list of the Sovereign of the country. A Committee, however, which had been appointed to inquire into the Civil List, recommended—and its recommendation was adopted by the House—that it should be confined to merely personal expenses, and that other charges, though not of great amount, should be defrayed by the public as before, though in a different shape.
 The CHAIRMAN  stated that the vote was for a sum of 50,000 l
 MR. B. OSBOENE  wished to have some explanation with respect to a sum of 2,500 l
 MR. BOUVERIE  objected to it as being altogether unnecessary. According to the ecclesiastical law there could not be a second ordination. A person might be restored as a clergyman without being re-ordained. All that the Bill did was to allow the suspension of a clergyman from the performance of his functions.
 MR. F. MAULE  observed that the complaint was one of old standing at the War Office, dating from the time when the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs was Secretary at War, and running down through his successors in office to the present. By that noble Lord the claim had been fully investigated, and, in his (Mr. F. Maule's) opinion, adjudicated on principles of right and justice. The fact was, the marriage of Colonel Uniacke took place in 1820, at which time he was seventy years of age; and it was a rule at the War Office not to grant pensions to the widows of half-pay officers who married after sixty years, as an inducement would be held out to officers in the last stage of existence to marry ladies in order to secure them pensions.
 The LORD ADVOCATE , as one of the commissioners, stated that the report was already in a forward state, and would shortly be laid upon the table of the House.
 MR. HAWES  was much obliged to the hon. Gentleman for putting the question. The papers relating to Canada—he spoke now of the first set—had been laid before the House in a printed state, and had been delivered to hon. Members next morning. On the second occasion it was intended that the same course should be pursued; but, upon inquiry, he found that the papers had not the next day been delivered to hon.
 1009
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, after the closest examination of these estimates, he had been unable to unravel the mysteries of some of them. In the miscellaneous estimates for civil services, other matters were mixed up which had no right to appear there. One was the item for the railway department. Whether railway companies flourished or not, he thought they ought to pay all their own expenses. Then there was an item of 2,000 l l l
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  wished to know—with respect to an item of 506 l s d
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in consequence of a fearful accident, attended with considerable loss of life, which had happened a short time since, occasioned by the falling in of a bridge over the river Dee, near Chester, it had been earnestly pressed upon the Government that some measures should be taken by the Government to ascertain precisely the strength of iron, not as regarded weight merely, but with respect to the concussion of such a body as a railway train passing over an iron bridge. A commission was accordingly appointed; and, after some investigation, they reported that it would be necessary to make some experiments upon a large scale, for the purpose of testing the power of iron in bearing strains in every direction. As it was necessary to have this question correctly ascertained, those experiments had been ordered to be made.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  repeated, that the present vote was for 50,000 l l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said the commission had been appointed to inquire whether the Mint might not be rendered much less expensive to the country; and the only object of the Government was to appoint persons most competent to conduct the inquiry. He did not think that a more proper person than Mr. Cotton could have been appointed; for many years he had given very particular attention to the subject of coinage. Colonel Forbes was a person of the greatest possible experience in this mater. After spending some time in visiting the principal Mints of Europe, he had been appointed head of the Mint in Calcutta, which he had conducted with the greatest success, and which paid its own expenses. The Government had, therefore, thought it very desirable to send for Colonel Forbes to this country, to have the benefit of his experience and knowledge. Sir Edward Coffin, another member of the commission, was a commissariat officer; he had been a considerable time in Mexico, and large quantities of coin had passed through his hands in that country; also in Scotland and Ireland. The result of the inquiry had satisfied the Government that they had made a good selection. As to the expense of the commission, it was well known that Mr. Cotton was not paid; the principal expense
 1019 l l l l l
 MR. F. FRENCH  also asked for explanation of the 221 l l l
 MR. SCULLY  moved that the case of Mrs. Uniacke should be taken into consideration by the Secretary at War. The lady in question was widow of the late Colonel Uniacke, and had received all
 1013
 MR. GOULBURN  thought the question before them had reference solely to the propriety of appointing a commission to discharge the duties which those commissioners had been directed to perform. His complaint was, that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had consoled himself for disturbing one job by making another—by making the office of the right hon. Gentleman opposite a sinecure, by giving him three commissioners to do what the right hon. Gentleman should do himself. When the right hon. Gentleman appointed a Master of the Mint, without any additional office, the public had a right to expect that his undivided attention would be given to the affairs of the Mint, and that he would have conducted an inquiry which he (Mr. Goulburn) did not deny was required. He must say that to send to India for a commissioner to place him in a situation of that kind in this country, appeared to him to be a degree of extravagance for which he could not account.
 MR. LABOUCHERE , having had the honour to be connected for some time with the Mint, felt it due to the officers of that establishment to express his conviction, that both in skill and integrity they were altogether deserving of the confidence that had been placed in them. As he had stated to the House on a former occasion, the system on which the Mint was conducted required improvement. It was one extravagant to the country and cumbrous in its operations; but it was quite consistent with the expression of that opinion to declare that, so far at he was aware, no blame could attach to the individuals engaged in that establishment. It was impossible for any gentleman in the position of his right hon. Friend, without the assistance of others having a practical knowledge of the operations of the Mint, to conduct the inquiry in a manner satisfactory to himself, or likely to be productive of satisfactory results to the public.
 MR. LACY  then proposed that the following proviso be added to the 7th Clause:—
 "And be it enacted. That it shall not be lawful for any archbishop or bishop of the United Church of England and Ireland to re-ordain, grant letters of orders to, or again admit to holy orders, any person so having been relieved by sentence of deposition from holy orders, as aforesaid."
 MR. WYLD  complained of the present arrangements of the British Museum, and the manner in which the map and chart department was conducted; and he would
 1026
 MR. HENLEY  thought that every one would agree in the principle just laid down by the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Admiralty with respect to practising every economy that was consistent
 1012 l l l l l l
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, that great expectations, in which, however, he had not joined, had been formed last year in consequence of the appointment of the Committee; but he certainly thought that neither the House nor the country had any reason to congratulate themselves on the altering or cutting down of these miscellaneous estimates. In one or two instances the report of the Committee had been attended to, but there had been a total absence of an principle on which to act. Indeed, he maintained that no Committee of that House could effect a reform in those estimates, and that the Executive Government alone had the opportunity or knowledge which would enable them to establish a fixed principle. He looked upon the Committee as an excuse to get rid of the question out of the House. As compared with 1848, there was a saving in the present estimate of 20,000 l 1014 l l l l l l l s d l l l l 1015 l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1016 l l l s l l l l l l l s l l l s l l s 1017
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said that No. 3 was for a sum of 100,000 l l
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, that the vote with regard to the expenses of the commission for inquiry into the management of the Mint had degenerated into a skirmish
 1024 l l l l
 MR. B. OSBORNE  moved that the vote be reduced to 30,000l.
 MR. COBDEN  observed, that there was a very large amount, namely, 4,875 l
 MR. COBDEN  wanted to know what we had to do with the President of Liberia, that the country was to give him 100 l
 MR. COBDEN  said, that as to the King of Mosquito, the United States regarded with jealousy any setting up of monarchical States on the coast of North America; and he considered it extremely injudicious on our part to be putting ourselves forward in such prominent connexion with this aboriginal savage as to fetch him over to Jamaica, crown him there, and then carry him back again, and instal him in his kingdom. There was another item for the charge of maintaining certain Mosquito Indians; were we to keep the subjects of the King of Mosquito as well as the king himself? There was an item for the payment of some advances or other to Moorish chiefs at Portendic, and another for arms, &c., given to the Sultan of Johanna. It appeared to him most improper to be expending the public money in arming these obscure savages.
 MR. SHEIL  said, he supposed the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford referred to a document furnished by Mr. Pistrucci, the chief medalist, and inserted in the report. He (Mr. Shell) had already expressed to Mr. Brande his regret that certain phrases should have been employed; but the commissioners had not stated that any of the officers accused were guilty of the charges brought against them. He thought Mr. Brande was too sensitive on the subject. The first allegation of Mr. Pistrucci, with regard to Mr. Brande, was, that though a chemist of the first eminence, he was not a good mechanist; the second allegation was, that Mr. Brande having an official control over the moneyers, his own son had been apprenticed to them, and that the salary thus insured to the son tended to create a partiality in favour of the moneyers on the part of Mr. Brande himself. There was a third allegation, to the effect that Mr. Brande did not work with his own hands. Now, the commissioners did not conceive that these charges amounted to a crimination of Mr. Brande; and, therefore, they had not called upon him for explanation. He had forgotten to state, that Mr. Pistrucci had also alleged that Mr. Brande was not skilled in the hardening of the dies, and that Mr. Wyon, the chief engraver, had alleged that a vast expenditure was unnecessarily incurred at the Mint on that account. It was the duty of the commissioners to suggest such alterations as would, in their opinion, prevent the recurrence of the evils mentioned by Mr. Pistrucci; but, in doing so, they had not said one word reflecting on Mr. Brande or any other officer of the Mint. Mr. Brande had written to him (Mr. Shell) in somewhat caustic terms, calling for investigation; but when asked, in reply, to point out what particular allegation he wished to have made the subject of inquiry, he stated that what he wanted was a general investigation. A general investigation would, under the circumstances, have been preposterous. It had been said, that the labours of the commission had not been productive of any public benefit. His answer was, that if the recommendations of the report
 1021 l l l l l l l l l l 1022
 MR. CHRISTOPHER , seeing the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonics in his place, wished to put a question to him. The papers relating to Canada which were placed in the hands of hon. Members only in the course of yesterday, had appeared in the  Times Times Times
 MR. SLANEY observed, that, some years ago, 10,000 l
 MR. MANGLES  defended the appointment of Colonel Forbes, and said that, in his opinion, there was no man in this or any other country who possessed so great a knowledge of the subject as that gentleman.
 MR. GLADSTONE  wished to offer a remark with reference to an observation made by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, the Master of the Mint. The right hon. Gentleman had expressed a hope that the Government would speedily act upon the recommendation of the commission. With regard to that part of the recommendation that had reference to the constitution of the Mint, he (Mr. Gladstone)
 1023 l l
 MR. GLADSTONE  thought it his duty to remark on one item, that of 2,500 l 1018
 MR. HAYTER  said, the sum of 10,000 l l l l
 SIR G. CLERK  had no fault to find with the commission for endeavouring to avail themselves of all the means in their power of acquiring information; but what he did complain of was, that evidence was received from persons not having any intimate connexion with the Mint. It appeared that the commission never communicated, either directly or indirectly, to the officers against whom charges were preferred, that any such charges were brought against them. Those persons were subsequently called before the commissioners, and examined as to the duties of their office, but not a hint was given to them that any charge of incompetence was preferred against them from any quarter. Those
 1020
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  thought that at present Government steamers were often used unnecessarily, and that by the adoption of a different system a considerable saving might be effected. He strongly urged the introduction of improvements in caulking, and recommended the use of "Jeffery's Marine Glue," on the ground of its superior qualities as well as of the economy which would attend its adoption.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  rose and said, he observed that there were numerous petitions upon the table of the House, calling for a reduction of taxation. He believed that there was but one way of accomplishing it, however, and that was by reducing the public expenditure; and if any attempt of the kind were to be made, this House was the place in which to make it; he had, therefore, entered into an examination of this vote, and he thought he was able to make out a strong  prima facie l l l l l l 1011 l
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  declined to press his Amendment.
 SIR J. TYRELL  begged to say a few words with regard to the mode in which the secretary of the commission was to be remunerated. It appeared that the secretary was to be rewarded in proportion to his labours, and he thought such a mode of paying his salary was a premium for swelling of blue books. There had been commission after commission to inquire into the subject, and blue book after blue book; but it was not shown that any improvement had taken place, notwithstanding the expense that had been incurred. He would be glad to know in detail how this sum of 2,500 l
 SIR J. TYRELL  said, that from what he could learn, all the information which Colonel Forbes possessed on the subject had been obtained from the Mint at home, and not from any similar establishment in other places. With regard to the Indian coinage, he believed that the people of this country would never be satisfied with coinage of so imperfect a character as that which was in circulation in India.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that as the Mosquito State had been under the protection of Great Britain for nearly two centuries, it was very unreasonable for the United States, whose origin was certainly not of the same antiquity, to find fault with the relations which had existed between the kingdom of Mosquito and this country for so many years before the
 1027
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  stated, that when a passage was given on board a ship of war, certain expenses were necessarily incurred for the maintenance of the party, and in such cases when a passage was given as a matter of courtesy, it was not usual for the captain of the vessel to send in his bill for the entertainments to the person so conveyed. The King of Mosquito was conveyed in a ship of war to Jamaica, where it was usual for the kings of that country to be crowned, and then sent back to their own territory. The expense charged was for so conveying the King of Mosquito.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  replied, that this was one of the charges which arose out of that interference which began with the last Government. It was for sums issued by our Minister at Monte Video, for the relief of British subjects who had been reduced by the contest carried on there to a state of destitution.
 VISCOUST PALMERSTON  said, that as the sum proposed on account of the expenses
 1025
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, before that question was answered, he wished to ask a question of the hon. Gentleman the Mem-
 1037
 MR. DRUMMOND  had paid great attention to all the discussions which had taken place last year, and during the present Session, on those questions of expenditure and estimates; and his deliberate conviction was that hon. Gentlemen had not succeeded in reducing useless expenditure so much as they might have done, because they had encumbered themselves with minute points of detail—in point of fact, making themselves the Executive, instead of leaving the Government to arrange the details of reduction in the best way they could. He was satisfied that the only effectual mode in which reductions could be properly made was by the Administration itself undertaking to effect them; and the only way for the House to secure that object was by agreeing to some such resolution as he (Mr. Drummond) had put on the Paper, the substance of which was that we could not afford to pay so much any longer; but whether it should be this person's or that person's salary that should be reduced, was a matter of perfect indifference to the country, and one that should be left for the Government
 1046
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, he did not see why, at the time when there was something like a national jubilee in consequence of their ceasing to pay a great deal more than was necessary for articles of consumption, Her Majesty's servants, of all men, should be excepted, and should give up their chance of a participation in the same. He could not agree to help to authenticate the principle advanced by the mover of the Amendment. The general diminution of prices had surely been a benefit to all, except those who had previously profited by the enhancement of prices; and if some had lost by the removal of the system, others had gained, and the general gains were more than the general losses. This was certainly nothing like a reason why they should begin by reducing the salaries of Her Majesty's servants, As had been said by the Cornish vicar on the occasion of a wreck, "Let us all start fair;" and let us not begin by an invidious attempt at reduction in one department alone. Wherever there was a feasible ground for reduction, he would be found voting for it; but not thinking this a just occasion, he hoped he should not be blamed if he voted against the Amendment.
 SIR F. T. BARING  was not prepared to say that the whole question ought again to be reopened; there were some cases, however, which the Board of Admiralty had thought it necessary to reconsider.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  strongly objected to it. When it was considered that this charge was made for a religious sect, which comprised only one-fifth of the population of Canada, he thought he had good ground for calling it an unjust vote, and he saw no reason why the people of this country should be saddled with the expense.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  was glad that he had elicited so satisfactory an answer.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  remarked that he saw an item of 600 l 1062
 MR. J. B. SMITH  objected to the payment of 710 l s
 MR. VERNON SMITH  observed that the Governor of Hong-Kong received 6,000 l l s l l
 MR. COBDBN  said, that this appeared to be a very similar case to that of the Falkland Islands. We took possession of a barren rock; assumed that there would be a large trade there; the trade did not come, but we planted an establishment there large enough for a great community. Here were the expenses—governor and commmander-in-chief, 2,000 l l l l l s d l s l l l s l l s d l d s l
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, that the statement made by the hon. Member for the West Riding was perfectly correct—that this was a specimen of the manner in which colonies were founded, without any knowledge of future expenses. An entertaining book had been written by Mr. Brooke, which was published, and read in all circles in this country, and the consequence was, that the Colonial Office took the opportunity of working out the colony of Labuan. He did not say that they did it unjustly, because they were pressed to it by a petition; but he thought they had a duty of resistance as well as of compliance to perform, and he had not heard of any sufficient advantages possessed by
 1067 l
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, that there was one reason for the facility of stirring up the north of England, which had not been given by the hon. Member for the West Riding, and that was, that mercantile men had great facility in making experiments when other people were to pay for them. Let the Chamber of Commerce be tried with a subscription to pay the expenses, and then we should see what was
 1072
 MR. LOCKHART  objected to proceeding with the measure at all, in the absence of so many Scotch Members as were now out of town.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, it was a very convenient practice for the House that not only this Bill, but, he believed, all Scotch Bills, should be shuffled out of the House, and referred to Committees upstairs. This practice had been adopted for the last two Sessions; and no doubt it was a very convenient one for the Government, which could select the majority of the Members of a Committee, and thus smother discussion.
 1079 quid pro quo
 MR. SCOTT : Colonial Office rules?
 MR. F. SCOTT  thought it was useless to pay an interpreter at the consulate of Canton 750 l l
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, he considered the House were very much indebted to the hon. Member for the West Riding for having brought this matter before them.
 MR. F. SCOTT  hoped, if the Colonial Office had adopted the system of assisting
 1074
 MR. F. SCOTT  agreed that they ought not to come to a hasty conclusion; still he was inclined to think that the Committee had not received that information as to the coal to which they were entitled. He saw that they had on the present Committee a
 1068
 MR. F. SCOTT  observed, that there was a charge of 1,500 l
 LORD J. RUSSELL  had seen the statements to which the right hon. Gentleman referred; but reminded him that many documents had appeared in the newspapers which had not been laid on the table, and of course the right hon. Gentleman was perfectly at liberty to attach whatever degree of authenticity to them he thought fit.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said: I am anxious to take this opportunity of answering a question which was put to me some short time before the holidays by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Kerry, in regard to an occurrence of a shocking and revolting nature, said to have taken place in Ireland, and which had been mentioned in a letter addressed to me. I stated, when the question was put to me, that I had received no official account of the circumstance, but I would make inquiry, and in-
 1033 "But, my Lord, I have yet other woes to mention, the recital of which may in future put an extinguisher on that niggardly policy which has produced such results. The tale I have now to toll is so horrifying as to render all that has yet occurred nothing in comparison." "In a neighbouring union a shipwrecked human body was cast on shore; a starving man extracted the heart and liver, and that was the maddening feast on which he regaled himself and perishing family." 1034
 MR. HENRY  supported the reduction, because he considered it unfair to reduce the salaries of the subordinate officers, and yet to leave the salaries of the higher officers of the Government to stand just as they were. For the same reason he must strongly condemn the report of the Committee on the Miscellaneous Estimates, who had not dealt with the higher salaries as they had done with the inferior ones.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  moved that this Bill be referred to a Select Committee upstairs.
 MR. HAWES : No, the rules and regulations of the colonies themselves.
 MR. HAWES  believed it to be a most valuable possession, and had reason to know that the party to whom the working of this coal had been leased for a time, had sent out a gentleman who would arrive at Labuan at the time he was speaking. From the calculations which he had seen, he had reason to believe that the Peninsular and Oriental Mail Company would obtain coal from one-fourth to one-half the cost at which they were now taken. From the same cause the public would receive considerable benefit, and he did not know whether it would not go to compensate the public for the expenses which had been incurred. He thought he was right in saying that the reduction of the price of coal would be very large, whenever the coal mines were brought into operation.
 MR. HAWES  said, that he was sur-
 1066 l
 MR. HAWES  asked the hon. Gentleman at all events to wait till next year.
 MR. HAWES  said, that some of the salaries had been reduced. It must be remembered, moreover, that the duties of the Governor of Hong-Kong were not merely confined to that settlement; but he was the superintendent of trade, and had to inspect the whole of the consular establishments of China, which rendered necessary the employment of a large and expensive staff; and, besides, he was our Plenipotentiary to the Chinese Government. It must be borne in mind also that the climate was an unhealthy one. In New Zealand the climate was singularly salubrious, but at Hong-Kong it was the reverse.
 MR. HAWES  did not think it expedient to enter into a discussion upon the question of assistance to free emigration. Assisted or free emigration was governed according to colonial rules.
 Mr. HAWES  replied, that the number of free passages depended upon the state of the colonial funds, which, in turn, depended upon the sales of land, or upon the amounts raised upon the security of land. If anything, the facilities for emigration would be increased this year. The hon. Gentleman, however, must bear in mind that the great bulk of emigration was not to our own colonies, but to the United States, for the reason that it cost at least 14 l l s
 MR. HAWES , in explanation, said, it was not in contemplation to reduce the establishment of the Emigration Commissioners. Although the business had increased, the establishment remained upon the scale of the last two or three years, and there was no present prospect of a reduction.
 MR. HAWES  replied that this item was for a steamer in which the governor visited the different ports of the colony, it being very important that he should have the means always at hand of doing so.
 MR. HAWES  could not say that this would be the case. The present charge on this country was owing to an arrangement which was made some years ago. At the same time he ought to inform the House, that the revenues of New Zealand were increasing so rapidly, that in a very short time he hoped the Government of New Zealand would take on itself its own charges.
 MR. HAWES  said, that the grant was for the lives of the present incumbents, and expired with them. The grants were made in consequence of a distinct contract entered into by a former Secretary of State.
 MR. HAWES  said, if we for commercial, and highly commercial considerations, took possession of Hong-Kong, and sent people out there, it was not unreasonable that we should provide for their moral and spiritual instruction.
 MR. HAWES  could not assure his hon. Friend that this estimate would be altered, though he thought that it would be reduced. The Falkland Islands were not held simply for colonial or commercial purposes; but there were political considerations also in the matter. They were most valuable as a place of call for British ships.
 MR. HAWES  did not know whether the colonial secretary had 600 l l l
 MR. HAWES  replied, that the governor of New Zealand resided at Auckland, in the north-eastern part of the island. It was thought desirable, therefore, that a lieutenant-governor should be appointed for the southern division of the colony. The island was about to be divided, in accordance with an Act of Parliament, which had been passed some time ago, into two provinces, for the purposes of representative government, and it was important that there should be a lieutenant-governor in one of them,
 MR. HAWES , in reply, said, that since the despatches which were received on the 25th of April, and laid upon the table of the House, the Government had only received the official  Gazettes l Gazettes l l 1030
 MR. HAWES , in reply, said, that all the votes and proceedings of the legislative assembly of Canada received by the Colonial Office had already been printed and laid before Parliament, and that the Government had no others to produce. He believed it had not been the custom to send the whole of the votes and proceedings of the colonial legislature to the Colonial Office until the close of the Session; but on this occasion the Governor had forwarded certain of those proceedings, which, as he had said, had been already produced.
 MR. HAWES  would, had his right hon. Friend given him notice of his question, have made the necessary inquiries in order to satisfy him. Having received notice of the question of the right hon. Gentleman
 1032
 MR. HINDLEY  thought Her Majesty's Government ought to give some assurance to the House of their intention to take up the question of emigration in a large and comprehensive manner. Nothing was of more importance to the industrious population of this country. The hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies should encourage the establishment of emigration clubs; and he (Mr. Hindley) suggested that the expense of sending honest labourers out should be defrayed, in the proportion of one-fourth each, by the emigration club of which the party was a member, the parish or union to which he belonged, the Government, and the colony. By such an arrangement all parties would be benefited, both at home, and in the colonies. Let the House not be frightened at any proposal to grant one or two millions for this purpose. He was satisfied that if the eight millions given to Ireland had been thus expended, that country would have been really benefited, whilst the interests of the people themselves would have been materially promoted.
 MR. HINDLEY  pointed out the inequalities in the salaries of different consuls at different places, and asked upon what principle they were fixed?
 MR. HINDLEY  inquired whether the noble Lord had received any intelligence of the arrival of Dr. Bowring at Canton, or of his reception there?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that according to the last accounts from China, two Europeans had lately been destroyed by pirates when passing from one port to another in a small craft.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that he did not think himself justified, in the present condition of
 1061
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, with regard to the first question of the hon. Gentleman, he believed that it would be possible to make considerable reductions in the coast guard. With regard to the second question, Her Ma-
 1036
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Not that I know of.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  observed, that in his examination before the Miscellaneous Estimates Committee last year, he had stated that these harbours had been constructed on the recommendation of the shipping interest, and that they had been approved of by that interest.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  observed that a certain sum had been voted for additional buildings; but that provision for the repairs of the old building could only be made by an annual vote. "That a sum, not exceeding 23,007 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said his hon. and gallant Friend had at last asked a question which puzzled him to answer. He could not tell what was to be done with the arch. It was quite clear it could not stand where it was, and where it was to be put he did not know.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  here intimated that he would postpone the main vote for the new palace at Westminster till certain papers were produced. l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  hoped the answer he had to give would be extremely satisfactory to his hon.
 1042
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, with regard to the expenditure on Windsor Castle, he would not enter into any defence of it, as his hon. and gallant Friend would admit, that, when they had a building, it was indispensably necessary, if they would save money, to keep it in repair. It was a remarkable fact that there was no drainage in Windsor Castle, nor was there any apparatus to supply it with fresh water. Neither did he suppose his hon. and gallant Friend would object to taking the ordinary precautions to prevent fire. With regard to the rest of the expenses, they were for ordinary repairs; and his hon. and gallant Friend must know, being himself a housekeeper, that it was bad economy not to keep a house in repair.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : That belongs to the Ordnance estimates.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply to an inquiry from Mr. Grogan, said, that the grant was towards the expenses of continuing excavations in Assyria, and the transport of antiquities to England.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  stated that measures had been taken to bring out the new coin, but it had been found necessary to have an Act of Parliament to legalise its issue, and he had placed a notice on the Paper for leave to bring in a Bill upon the subject.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  stated, that the subject was under consideration, but it was impossible to decide at once upon the subject.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the greater economy of the octavo form was disputed.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had thought the hon. Gentleman alluded to public servants generally. However, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) entertained the strongest feeling that the permanent servants of the public, in the different offices, speaking generally, were not an overpaid body of men; and he could not adduce a better proof of the assertion, than to mention the fact that parties were frequently tempted to leave the public ser-
 1048
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thanked the right hon. Gentleman for his kind mention of his Colleague. With respect to the reduction in the amount of the vote, all he could say was, that it had been resolved on after ample communication with those best qualified to form an opinion as to what would render the office efficient.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the salaries in question had been inquired into on two very recent occasions, and now stood at the amounts which two separate Committees of the House had fixed upon. In 1831, Lord Ashburton moved for and obtained a Committee on the salaries of the higher officers of the Government; and a considerable reduction was made at that time in the salaries of many officers. The same question was inquired into last Session by the Committee on the Miscellaneous Estimates, when a proposal was made to reduce the salaries of the First Lord of the Treasury and the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but the Motion was only supported by two votes, while there were eleven against it; and, strange to say, the hon. Member for Oxfordshire was himself among the number of those who opposed the reduction. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) agreed with what had been said the other night by the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire, namely, that he did not think that persons in the public service were generally overpaid—
 MR. CARDWELL  expressed his satisfaction at hearing that the colony of New Zealand was likely to obtain representative institutions, and also to pay its own expenses. He must say that no colony in
 1063
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  would ask what the people out of doors would say, when they saw that those who, like the hon. and gallant Gentleman who last spoke, were most enthusiastic on the public platform as financial reformers, were the first in that House to object to begin retrenchment by cutting down the salaries of Her Majesty's Ministers? In his (Mr. O'Connor's) opinion Her Majesty's Ministers were the fittest cases to commence the system with; and he should vote with all his heart with the hon. Member for Oxfordshire, to whom he felt bound to pay this just tribute of com-
 1047
 MR. F. FRENCH  objected to the item of about 63,000 l l l l l
 MR. SCULLY  rose to put a question to the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland with regard to the evictions that had recently taken place at Toomevara, where a most heartrending scene took place, 600 individuals having been dispossessed of their homes, in the midst of a dreadful storm of wind and rain. He had received accounts of this lamentable affair from an eye-witness, which fully bore out all that had appeared in the newspapers. He understood that the gentleman on whose estate these evictions had occurred, was a clergyman in the English Church, but who resided partly in England and partly in Ireland. He wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary for Ireland, as one of the Poor Law Commissioners for Ireland, whether the board of guardians in the Nenagh union, in which these evictions had occurred, had made any provision for this large and numerous body of poor wretched individuals, and whether they had taken any steps to provide them with shelter, for he had since been informed that hundreds of them subsequently died on the high roads, in ditches, under trees, or wherever they could find shelter? Such a state of things surely ought not to continue in a Christian country. He was the more anxious to put the question he had done, because some time ago there was a memorial, very numerously signed by the ratepayers in the Nenagh union, forwarded to the Poor Law Commissioners in Dublin, complaining that the guardians of the union had refused to give outdoor relief, and that in consequence the workhouse had become so crowded that upwards of 1,000 persons died in about four months.
 MR. ROBINSON , as chairman of Lloyd's, thanked the Government for constructing them.
 MR. G. SANDARS  wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs if he had heard of the fact of several British ships, with British property, sailing from the ports of Barth, having been seized by the Danish ships of war, and taken into Copenhagen, though the said port of Barth was not one of the ports which had been declared under blockade, or any steps taken to render it so?
 MR. G. SANDARS  wished to call the attention of the noble Lord to a letter he had received from Hamburgh, dated 29th May, containing the following telegraphic despatch from Cuxhaven of that date:—
 "The English steamer  Rob Roy Rob Roy
 MR. G. SANDARS  begged to call the noble Lord's attention to a further fact.
 1039 "The commanders of Her Majesty's steamers  Hecate Sphynx
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that about a week or ten days ago a number of papers was laid on the table of the House, detailing the effects of the earthquake that had been felt in New Zealand. Since that time several statements had appeared in the newspapers on the same subject, which, he had reason to believe, from the private letters he had received, were very much exaggerated; he wished to put the following question to the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies—Whether any further accounts have been received from New Zealand, on the subject of the earthquake that had been felt there; and whether the extent and amount of damage is known?
 MR. GOULBURN  objected to the principle upon which the reductions in this vote had been made, contending that no real economy could be effected by reducing the salaries of the superior officers. In the present instance, such a curtailment could only tend to impair the efficiency of the department. Whilst on this subject, he could not refrain from drawing attention to an act of generosity on the part of a Member of Her Majesty's Government. By a Parliamentary paper, which had been
 1045 quasi l
 MR. GOULBURN  observed that the hon. Gentleman who proposed this reduction said he did so because a general reduction of prices to the extent of 25 per cent having taken place, the salaries of gentlemen in office ought to be somewhat proportionately reduced. If such a reduction in prices really had taken place, he (Mr. Goulburn) could only say for himself that he had not yet experienced the benefits of it. But how had this reduction been effected? Why, by taking off the duties on articles of general consumption, and imposing an income tax on other classes of the community. Therefore it should be remembered that if the persons receiving salaries now wished to be reduced had benefited by the reduced prices, they had had, at the same time, to pay an income tax as compensation for these low prices; and it would not be fair to overlook that circumstance when proposals for reducing their salaries were brought forward.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that his attention had not been especially drawn to the item in question, but he conceived that the newspapers supplied were those railway journals the contents of which were expedient, if not absolutely necessary, for the administration of the department. As to the vote itself, it exhibited a very material reduction upon that of the previous year, which was 10,600 l l
 MR. LABOUCHERE  stated, that the result of the investigation which had been made by Captain Denham had established the necessity of the Board of Trade exercising its power to limit the number of passengers carried in the steamers trading between Ireland and England; but before carrying that power into effect, he was desirous that the report should be printed, in order that the steamboat proprietors might be made acquainted with what was proposed to be done.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  expressed his surprise at the manner in which the hon. Member for the West Riding had treated the Manchester Chamber of Commerce, and called the attention of the Committee to the memorial presented by that body to the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, then First Minister of the Crown, with the view of showing that they took a much more serious view of the appropriation of Labuan than the hon. Member for the West Riding would lead hon. Members to suppose. That chamber was hardly, he should think, composed of gentlemen who would be likely to be induced merely by a person going about among them, as the hon. Member had represented, to address the First Minister in such terms as they then used. Nothing could be more precise or less vague than the statement they then made, which was couched in the language of men who had looked well into the subject. The right hon. Gentleman here quoted passages from the memorial, which were to the general effect—that the memorialists had heard with great satisfaction that an opportunity of obtaining a station off the coast of Borneo had presented itself to the British Government, and that they implored the head of the Government not to suffer any delay to take place in securing a port of such importance, and one in every way so desirable—that the station in question was most conveniently situated for the China trade—that it would be a refuge for our shipping in distress, a bulwark in war, and a central depot for trade—that the possession of Labuan would confer peculiar advantages on British interests; and the memorialists prayed that the settlement might be completed with the utmost possible despatch. Those were the sentiments expressed by the Manchester Chamber of Commerce; and with them he (Mr. Labouchere) entirely agreed. He was, also, of opinion, that it was the duty of the Government then in power not to forego the opportunity, the importance of which was thus pressed upon them, not by Manchester alone, but by Glasgow, and Liverpool, and London, and all the principal commercial towns in the kingdom. It was but right to make this settlement. Into the particulars of that settlement he would not
 1071
 MR. WYLD  thought the allowance for the salaries of medical officers was not sufficiently large. A sum of 150,000 l
 MR. HERRIES  said, he had several times asked the noble Lord, and other Members of the Government, for the production of the votes and proceedings of the legislative body of Canada, showing the progress of the Bill for granting compensation for losses sustained by reason of the Canadian rebellion, more especially for such extracts from those votes and proceedings as would lead to elucidate the intention of the colonial legislature in pass-
 1031
 MR. HERRIES : The hon. Gentleman must be aware that, though it was important that they should have the documents in question in an official shape, they were already in the hands of the public. They had been published in all the newspapers; and if the official papers were not produced by the hon. Gentleman, he apprehended they would be at liberty to look upon the newspaper accounts as authentic.
 MR. HERRIES  wanted to know whether any further information than what had been already produced had been received officially; or if not, whether the Colonial Office was in possession of any private letters containing the information he required; and whether, presuming such to be the case, they would be laid before Parliament?
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, that in the statement he had made with reference to the actual number of deaths in the Ballinasloe workhouse, he was misled by English as well as Irish newspapers. The deaths from cholera in these workhouses had, however, been very large, and that epidemic had been superinduced by want of food.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, there was a more important question behind the present, which it would be well if the House would address itself to, and that was, whether they ought not to interfere and put a stop to the fearful system of evictions which was now going on in Ireland. An excellent Act had been passed at the end of last Session, which provided that before parties were evicted notice should be given to the relieving officer; but it was very evident, from the deaths which had occurred in consequence of these evictions, that that Act had never been brought into operation. Doubts had been attempted to be cast upon some of the accessories of these scenes, but there could be no doubt of the atrocities themselves. He held in his hand an account of some other evictions at Kilnafinch, in the same county. He trusted the Government would inquire into these facts; and if the Irish Members were, as it was said, continually misrepresenting—continually asseverating things that did not exist—let that be proved. He, for one, should be very happy to learn that these atrocities had not been committed.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  thought that the effect of reducing the amount of the vote would be to throw an increased burden upon the poor-rates of Ireland, He should prefer, considering that they had paid for the constabulary, which was not exclusively employed as a police force in Ireland, upwards of 300,000 l
 MR. SIMEON  said, that it was not desirable that a question involving so important a consideration as general economy in the public expenditure should be brought forward in the spirit with which that Amendment had been introduced, and therefore he would vote against it. 1052 "That a sum, not exceeding 52,160 l
 MR. BROTHERTON , if he had any influence with Her Majesty's Government, would recommend them voluntarily to accept the proposed reduction. At the same time, if it were proposed that there should be a general reduction in the salaries of public servants, he would cordially vote for it; but he considered it unjust and invidious to pick out particular salaries, here and there, and subject them alone to reduction.
 MR. HENLEY  observed, that he had studiously avoided saying that any one class of public servants in particular were overpaid; but if he must give an opinion on the subject, he must say that he considered the Chief Lord of the Treasury, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the Chief Secretaries of State, were the worst paid of all Her Majesty's principal public servants. But still he considered his Motion one that was founded upon justice, and such as the public would generally approve of.
 MR. HENLEY  contended, that as the Legislature by its policy had cut down the prices of everything in this country, it was unjust to retain the present scale of salaries to officers of State. He moved the reduction of the vote by 5,040 l
 MR. HENLEY  called attention to the fact that the salaries of the inspectors cost the country 8,100 l l l l
 MR. HENLEY  said, he had endeavoured to express to the Committee that his object in making the Motion with regard to the Treasury, was to lay down a general principle. With respect to giving notice of his Motion, the miscellaneous estimates had come on much sooner than he had anticipated, or he should have given notice of his Amendment. He believed the principle laid down by him to be a just one; but of course he would not ask the Committee to divide on every item. That, however, would not preclude him, or any other Member, from again bringing forward the matter. l l l l l l l l l
 MR. HENLEY  observed an increase in the vote with respect to which he asked for an explanation. Where a sum of 103,000 l l
 MR. HENLEY  admitted, that the vote under this head was very satisfactorily decreased. It was rather out of curiosity
 1057 l
 MR. HENLEY  said, that it was difficult, in the present form of the estimates, to draw any correct opinion as to how far the expense incurred in the county gaols applied to persons under sentence of transportation. He also wished to advert to one item of 17,132 l
 MR. HENLEY  observed, that there was another extravagant item of 3,840 l
 MR. HENLEY  said, that some remarks had been made upon the management of this fund on the part of the Committee of Privy Council on Education. The hon. Gentleman who opposed the vote last year might probably raise the question again, as there was a feeling abroad that this grant was not fairly administered by the Government. He would not go more at length into the matter now, as he believed
 1060
 MR. HENLEY  said, that, at all events, they were getting some information. This island appeared to be prolific in establishments, if in nothing else. The hon. Under Secretary talked about prospective and future advantages, but not a word about present benefits; and he had not even said a word of the actual advantages now derived from the coal, notwithstanding the appeal that had been made to him. The hon. Member for Glasgow should tell the Committee what the real value of the coal was. It seemed very odd, that in this colony, with nobody living there, it would be necessary to have, not only a governor, but a vice-governor as well. Notwithstanding the explanation of the noble Foreign Secretary concerning the consulship, it appeared, at least, that the governor held another office elsewhere, so that he was obliged to have a lieutenant governor to do his work for him.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that in addition to the large salary of the chief superintendent, he perceived that 1000 l
 MR. HENLEY  repeated, that he thought a charge for an outfit to a consular officer likely to be converted into a very bad precedent.
 MR. HENLEY  said, it appeared they had not yet quite done with Hong-Kong, for in this vote was included a sort of supplementary estimate for 4,316 l l l l l
 MR. BUCK  would support the Motion, because he considered the general depression and discontent were never so great in the country as they were at the present moment. The period had therefore arrived when propositions like those of his hon. Friend the Member for Oxfordshire ought to receive the earliest attention of Parliament. As a representative of one of the largest counties in the kingdom, he was sure that the public would feel greatly indebted to the hon. Gentleman for introducing it.
 MR. BAINES  observed, that the increase from the sum of 103,000 l l 1054 l l l l
 MR. BAINES  stated the duties of the inspectors to be almost constantly travelling about the country, and he believed that the sum of 10,000 l
 MR. BAINES , in consequence of the hon. Member not having given notice of his questions, was unable to state the exact number of these schools. The attention of the Poor Law Commissioners had been drawn to the subject; and he was happy to say, that in some of the unions connected with the city of London persevering and energetic efforts were being made to bring about an improvement in the state of education in the pauper schools.
 MR. BAINES  stated, the expenses allowed were the actual expenses of the inspectors, and he had no doubt whatever but that the sum charged was correct.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, no man in the House had greater respect for the Sovereign of the country than himself. While he was sure he was only expressing the feeling of the House in saying, that he was most anxious that the Sovereign should be lodged in a way that would do credit to the country and the station She occupied in Europe; at the same time, he thought the House was bound to inquire into the system by which these enormous sums were, year after year, brought before the House of Commons for public palaces. He was sure the Sovereign would be the last individual in the country to wish that sys-
 1040 l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1041 l s
 MR. B. OSBORNE  asked if there was any estimate of the furniture wanted for the palace?
 MR. B. OSBORNE  was delighted to hear that. As he was on his legs, he might ask what was to be done with the marble arch? That arch had originally cost 80,000 l
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, the House, perhaps, was not aware that on these temporary buildings they had already spent 200,000 l l l l
 MR. COBDEN  wished to state the reasons why he should support the Amendment, inasmuch as they were not the same as those given by hon. Gentlemen opposite. Hon. Members opposite had supported it on the ground that a great reduction had taken place in the price of commodities, and they attributed that reduction to recent commercial legislation. He would remind the House that if recent commercial legislation had affected the price of corn, it had not affected the price of manufactures. Cotton and woollen goods were, previous to that legislation, sold cheaper here than in any country on the face of the earth; otherwise they could not have been exported to all parts of the world. The recent commercial legislation had been of very great advantage to the community which he represented, and had so far rendered them better able to pay these salaries. He wished to guard himself against being supposed to give a kind of vindictive vote against the Government. The tone of hon. Gentlemen opposite indicated that they wished to take revenge against the Government for their commercial policy; but for his own part, his vote would be given on the same grounds as it would have been five years ago. He was of opinion that the higher functionaries in the civil departments were paid more than they need be. He was not, indeed, for paying low salaries; nor was he one of those who thought that cheap bread meant low wages; but he must say that when a Minister received 5,000 l 1051 l l l l l l l l l l l
 MR. COBDEN  asked the hon. Member for Oxfordshire whether he meant to persevere in his proposal for reduction with regard to other departments? Had notice been given, many other hon. Members would, he believed, have supported the hon. Member. It would evidently be useless to propose reductions then; but he would suggest that a Motion should be brought forward embracing all departments.
 MR. COBDEN : I beg your pardon. I was speaking of the officers of the Army and Navy, and I said that those on active service were not overpaid, but that we had too many of them.
 MR. COBDEN  said, he would prove the economy he had stated before a Committee, if the right hon. Gentleman would give him one for a fortnight.
 MR. COBDEN  asked whether there would be any objection to change the form of the blue books from folio to octavo. The change would be to the infinite convenience of every person who had to handle the volumes, and he was prepared to show that there would be a saving of from 20 to 30 per cent effected by the alteration. There was already before them one blue book in the octavo form, a report of the Sanitary Commission, which distinctly illustrated the greater convenience of that form. As to statistical tables, they could be given just as well in the octavo as in the folio form; this was proved by the ela-
 1058
 MR. COBDEN  objected to it as a most enormous charge. He should like the Under Secretary for the Colonies to inform them what was the population of the Falkland Islands. Was he exaggerating when he said it did not exceed 200? [Mr. HAWES: No.] Then here was a colony with a population of 200 souls, or he believed he should be nearer the mark if he said 160, costing 5,700 l l
 MR. COBDEN  said, he understood, however, that British ships never did call there. He could not refrain from reading over the manner in which the money was expended in the government of those islands. There was a governor, 800 l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1064
 MR. COBDEN  said, that what he quarrelled with was, that this was a most extravagant and profligate establishment. His objections had not at all been answered. The Chamber of Commerce would echo his objections against this establishment. They had people paid ten times as much as the merchants of Manchester would pay. They had set an example of profligate extravagance. He hoped that every commercial community in England would take warning by this, and would bear in mind, if they encouraged settlements, that it was merely to find places, and jobs, and pensions for those who were the friends of Government.
 MR. COBDEN  said, that the pirates never attacked square-rigged vsssels; all they did was to prey upon the savage inhabitants of the  quasi
 MR. COBDEN , with reference to the cases mentioned by the hon. Member for Guildford, begged to say that his (Mr. Cobden's) remark applied to the state of matters at present, and not to the state of matters some years ago. Besides, it appeared that the parties were not attacked on that occasion, but merely frightened.
 MR. COBDEN  said, that the question was not whether it was necessary to protect commerce, but whether it was necessary to send more ships to Rajah Brooke for that purpose.
 MR. COBDEN  said, that the hon. Gentleman had stated that a memorial had been sent up from the north of England in favour of occupying this island. He believed that, as far as regarded several places in the north, the Glasgow and Manchester Chambers of Commerce had memoralised Government in favour of this island, which was seven miles long; but the gentlemen of the Chambers of Commerce of Manchester and Glasgow were too much men of business to send establishments until they ascertained whether the island was of any use. He did not believe that ten white people were living on the island. He must tell the hon. Gentleman that there was not so much disinterestedness about the origin of the settlement as he would lead the House to suppose. He knew the whole history of the origin of this settlement; he was not going to state all he knew, but this he did know, that there was not so much disinterestedness as the hon. Gentleman supposed. There was an emissary from London, who went through the north of England to excite the memorialists. Nothing was so easy, if a gentleman had a motive, than for him to go through the north of England to raise expectations—to hold out promises—of some new market in Borneo or Japan, or pro-
 1069
 MR. COBDEN : It is stated in the estimate that he is to reside at Sarawak.
 MR. SPOONER  wished to know whether it was the intention of the Government to act upon the recommendations contained in the report of the Committee on the subject of the management of the Mint?
 MR. SPOONER  begged to make a remark with reference to the observation of
 1050
 MR. SPOONER  moved the reduction of the vote by the sum of 1,226 l
 MR. SLANEY  did not think the present scale of prices would be of permanent duration; and, therefore, he thought it would be better to wait some time longer before they thought of adjusting the salaries of the officers of the Government to a standard of prices which they did not know would continue. Besides, considering the greatly increased work which Her Majesty's servants had now to perform, he did not think they were paid a farthing too much.
 MR. SLANEY  had been told by an eminent engineer, that the drainage in Windsor Castle was absolutely necessary, and that the inhabitants of Windsor were much interested in its being executed.
 MR. SLANEY  wished to know the number of industrial schools established in connexion with the poor-law unions?
 MR. MANGLES  said, that the hon. Member was quite mistaken in supposing that British commerce did not require the protection of the Navy even at present in that quarter of the world.
 MR. MANGLES  said, that the danger from these pirates ought not to be made light of, for it was real, and much alarm existed. The commerce from Singapore came into those seas in the small vessels
 1073
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, that these Chinese consuls, as they were called, were, in point of fact, diplomatic agents, and also judges, having both criminal and civil jurisdiction. Among a people who were so sensitive of affronts as the Chinese, the manner in which these functions were carried into operation was calculated to lead to incessant dissatisfaction and annoyance; and he hoped the noble Lord would take it
 1078
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that these courts had been established by treaty, but in consequence of the recent line taken by Government with respect to the slave trade, they had nothing to do. The greatest portion of that trade was carried on under the Brazilian flag; and as we had recently decided that all ships found slave-trading under that flag were amenable to British jurisdiction, the courts of mixed commission had become useless. He should be glad to hear from his noble Friend at the head of the Foreign Office whether any cases had recently been tried before the mixed commission courts.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  asked, whether the return of vessels adjudicated upon by the mixed commission was, as the law required, regularly laid before Parliament?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  would like to know how our trade was benefited by the possession of Hong-Kong. He had heard it said that it was not of the slightest advantage to England, and he took it upon
 1065
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he wished clearly to understand whether these harbours were for military or commercial purposes. He had heard it doubted whether the works at Dover could be of any use to merchant vessels. Indeed, the French regarded them as military defences.
 MR. MITCHELL  suggested the reduction of the salaries to at least one half—of the governor, the colonial secretary and auditor, the treasurer, the surveyor general, and the harbour master, 1,100 l
 MR. MITCHELL  objected to two secretaries being maintained at Hong-Kong; the first having 1,500 l l
 ALDERMAN SIDNEY  did not think the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman, the Chief Poor Law Commissioner, was satisfactory with respect to the travelling expenses of the inspectors. If the whole of the thirteen inspectors had been engaged in travelling every day of the year, the amount allowed to them would be not less than 2 l s
 ALDERMAN SIDNEY  thought the Motion of the hon. Member for Oxfordshire went in the right direction, and should support it, as satisfactory to his own feelings, and only what was just to his constituents. The proposed reduction was perfectly justified by the reduced prices of articles of general consumption, such as tea, sugar, and other necessaries of life, which had fallen from 20 to 25 per cent, as the result of their recent legislation. Experience proved that low prices did not benefit any one class of the community; and he could speak from his own knowledge, that they were anything but advantageous to the commercial classes. They had increased local and national taxation to an extent rendering measures of economy and retrenchment indispensable for the relief of the country. The Government themselves ought certainly not to vote on a Motion like this, relating to their own salaries. It was entirely a question which the private Members of the House ought exclusively to be left to decide.
 MR. THORNELY  wished to know when it was the intention of the Government to issue the two-shilling pieces in the new silver coin, and which it was understood was to form a portion of the new system of decimal coinage?
 MR. GLADSTONE  would put a question with the view of clearing up this matter. The understanding was, that none of the votes and proceedings of the colonial legislature relative to the Rebellion Losses Bill had been laid on the table. So he understood it. But in the 9th page of the papers laid before Parliament early in the last month, there were certain proceedings of that legislature relative not to that Bill, but to the address of confidence which had been voted to the Governor after the riots at Montreal. He apprehended that the votes and proceedings to which his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies referred as having been produced, were those. If so, probably his hon. Friend would say whether any previous votes and proceeedings had not also been received, and if they had, whether there would be any objection to produce them.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  complained that the barracks at Windsor were in a' deplorable state with regard to drainage, though he had seen no item in the votes to remedy the defect.
 MR. GROGAN  observed, that a notice had just been issued that early in this month the Commissioners of Education would publish two volumes of poetry, which they had prepared, from Chaucer down to the latest period, for the use of pauper children. He thought that the money spent in this manner might have been more usefully employed. It might have been devoted to the establishment of agricultural schools, or in procuring schoolmistresses to teach the female children embroidery work, which was very beautiful, and found a ready sale.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he perceived that there was a very large sum charged for the consular establishment at Canton. He wished to know if any addition had been made to the expense of this establishment since the appointment of Dr. Bowring?
 MR. GROGAN  asked if it were intended to supply the same number of free passages to emigrants from Ireland this year as had been granted last year?
 SIE G. GREY  said, that a reduction had taken place this year in the expense of maintaining these lunatics; but there was a greater expense in taking the charge of criminal lunatics than of the lunatics confined at Hanwell. Many of those confined in Bethlem had committed very grave offences, and they required more care and more watchful superintendence than ordinary lunatics.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the difference in the form of the estimates arose from following out the recommendation of the Committee on Miscellaneous Estimates which sat last Session. Part of these expenses were set in the colonial estimates, and part in other estimates which did not afford the proper opportunity for reference
 1059 l l l
 SIR G. GREY  said, with regard to a question which had been put to him before the recess by the hon. Member for the city of Limerick, relative to the Ballinasloe union, he had received a letter from the Earl of Clancarty, the chairman of the board of guardians, which it was due to him to refer to in order to correct a statement that he (Sir Gr. Grey) had made as to the mortality in that union. He had stated, on that noble Lord's authority, that the mortality in the Ballinasloe workhouse was rapidly decreasing, and that on the last day to which he had received any information, it had been reduced to six. When the Earl of Clancarty returned home, he found that that statement was incorrect, and that that number of deaths had not been so low as six in any one day, though in two days taken together it had been eleven, so that substantially, after all, the statement was borne out. With regard to another question put by the hon. Member for the city of Dublin, with regard to the employment of the organist of the parish church to assist in compounding medicine for the poor, the Earl of Clancarty informed him that it was true the services of Mr. Norton, the organist—who had been a medical assistant—had been accepted to meet
 1035 "The great mortality which unhappily prevailed in the workhouses at Ballinasloe was occasioned by cholera, there having been no less than 1,077 cases of cholera in the workhouse between the 22nd of April and the 24th of May, of which 772 were fatal. It is a source of great unhappiness to me to find that, though diminishing, the mortality is still great. I am deeply sensible of the responsibility that attaches to guardians of the poor to do all that the law and the means at their command enable them for the relief especially of the sick poor; and I can truly say, that no pains have been spared by the board in this union to provide adequately for the emergency, or by individual guardians in visiting the sick wards and hospitals of the workhouses to support and encourage the officers in the performance of their duties; but I lament to add, that such is in general the emaciated state of the poor, who are often admitted to the House in an advanced state of sickness, that with constitutions worn out by three successive years of famine, they have little strength to aid the efforts of medical skill for their recovery.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  thought that the regulations respecting the distribution of medals required to be reconsidered.
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  was happy to say, that since the change which took place some few years ago, owing to the result of the inquiry in the Andover union, he had reason to believe a totally different system was adopted.
 SIR H. VERNEY  observed, that the objections made against Labuan might have been made against the foundation of Singapore, which had produced greater benefit to the commercial interests of this country than any establishment which had ever been founded. Singapore was founded on the recommendation of a man in whom this country could place confidence. He contended that they should not hastily give an opinion as to the establishment of this colony of Labuan. If it was worth while to extend our commercial relations in that quarter of the world, it was worth while to send out an eminent man; and to induce him to go, they must give him that sort of establishment which a governor ought to have.
 SIR J. TYRELL , as an old Member of the House, remembered that the cry for economy and retrenchment in 1831, which had been alluded to by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, was a mere party movement, and that the diminution of expenditure was the every-day stalking-horse of the noble Lord now at the head of the Government, who at that time sat at that (the Opposition) side of the House. With
 1049
 SIR J. TYRELL  wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether it was true that, in consequence of the great reduction in price that had taken place on provisions generally, and particularly in articles of French manufactures, Her Majesty's Government were contemplating, or had carried into execution, a reduction of the coast-guard service, and that the horses used in that service were sold, or were contemplated to be sold? He wished also to ask whether it was a fact that on the south coast of England French contractors were supplying some of the poor-law unions with provisions?
 SIR J. TYRELL : But I can assure you that they are.
 SIE J. TYRELL  asked if it were not true that the horses of the coast guard were now in the repositories of London for the purpose of being sold?
 SIR J. TYRELL  thought that the onus
 1043
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  said, that the lieutenant-governor had a salary of 800 l
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  inquired whether any vote was intended to be proposed for a building to contain the additional pictures, namely, the Vernon collection, which had lately been presented to the nation?
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  remarked, that there was an item of 1,245 l
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  thought, if Hong Kong was so insalubrious as the hon. Gentleman had stated, it would be easy to find some other place better adapted as regarded health for a settlement. He should like to hear some explanation with regard to the duties of the surveyor general, whose salary was very high, amounting to 2,050 l l
 Sir W. JOLLIFFE  could not help thanking the hon. Member for the West Riding for having been to a certain degree just to the agricultural interest. The whole of the country paid the charge for the extension of commerce, and there was a vast expenditure for this purpose. Of late years, if a bale of cotton was not protected in any part of the world, an outcry would be raised. He believed there was no part of the world in which the trade was less secure than on the coast of Borneo. A certain extent of security had been ensured by Governor Brooke, and the Government had properly bestowed honours on him. The charge, however, of this colony appeared to be excessive. The number of officers also appeared to be very great. There was a governor and commander-in-chief. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Northampton said that there were troops there; but he (Sir
 1070
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  said, this was the first of a class of votes to which he, for one, should give his decided opposition. The system we had pursued for the suppression of the slave trade had added to the cruelty of the traffic, whilst it had entirely failed in accomplishing the object in view. It cost this country at least a million a year, besides the wear and tear of ships, and the loss of life. So strongly did he feel upon it, that if any hon. Gentleman would move that this and the following vote be omitted, or that our squa-
 1075
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that additional labour had been thrown upon the commissioners during the last few years, which had rendered it necessary to increase the number of clerks employed in
 1055
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  begged to inform the hon. Member that the salaries of
 1056 l l "That a sum, not exceeding 210,000 l
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, he had received no official information on the subject. If he understood the statement of his hon. Friend aright, it was that the board of guardians of the Nenagh union had failed to provide for those who were evicted under the provisions of the Act of last Session. In that case the guardians of the union and not the Poor Law Commissioners were the responsible parties. With regard to the memorial referred to by his hon. Friend, having had no notice of the question, he could not give an answer respecting it.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  explained, that in the former arrangements with the Danish Government a certain number of post-office packets were named which should be allowed to pass through the blockade. It so happened that the Hull packets were not therein included. The Post Office had, however, since entered into contracts with those packets, and he had notified the fact to the Danish Government, and had applied for the same privileges; but no answer had as yet been received to the application. Under these circumstances it was very probable the Danish officer, not being aware of the circumstances, had acted in the manner described, as he only knew the  Bob Boy
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  replied, all he knew of the facts was, that representations had been addressed to him by parties interested in these vessels, and upon those representations he had directed inquiries to be instituted at Copenhagen to ascertain the circumstances of the ease.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  admitted the statement of the hon. Gentleman was perfectly true. A Government steamer had been despatched at the commencement of hostilities to examine the condition of the blockade, and reported it was effective, and that the Danish cruisers were in a position to enforce it; but it was also true that no blockade, particularly in such a river as the Elbe, could be rendered so effective as that vessels might not now and then break through it at night and other times.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that from time to time returns had been made to Parliament of all the ships captured from the period when the Act came into operation.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, it was quite true that a great portion of the slave trade was carried on under the Brazilian flag. But unfortunately it was also carried on to some extent under the Spanish and other flags; and if these courts were to cease, there would be no tribunal for adjudication. No doubt they were a source of expense to this country; but, acting upon a suggestion thrown out in that House last year, he had left vacant several appointments, which had caused a reduction in this year's estimates of 6,000. He was also in communication with the Government of Portugal, with a view to the reduction of the courts in Jamaica and the Cape do Verde Islands. His right hon. Friend and the House might be assured that whenever he found it possible to effect reductions in expenditure, consistently with maintaining the objects for which the courts had been established, he should not fail to avail himself of such opportunities.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, there had not been any addition made. It was quite true that these Chinese salaries had been originally arranged on a very high scale; but if the hon. Gentleman would compare the estimates for this year with those of former years, he would see that a gradual reduction had been going on. The high salaries had been fixed by the East India Company, and had been, he might say, inherited by the Government; but they were doing their utmost to reduce them.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the salary depended upon a variety of considerations, such as the importance of the duties to be performed, the rank of the officer to he employed, the expense of the place, the nature of the climate, and so on.
 1077
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  explained, that the first was employed in the business of registrar, which was extremely voluminous; and the other, in Chinese duties; and, under the circumstances, he did not see how any reduction could be made.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  replied, that the same individual performed the functions of governor of Hong-Kong and chief superintendent of the consular establishments in China, but he had no separate salary as superintendent of trade. He communicated diplomatically with the Chinese Government, discharged all the duties of governor, superintended trade, and held communications with all the consuls at the five ports. Canton, Amoy, Foo-chow-foo, Ningpo, and Shangai. These duties were extremely arduous, and he required the assistance of an establishment to enable him to perform them.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he believed that there was nothing more calculated to preserve peace between the two nations than this system of jurisprudence, as the hon. and learned Gentleman had called it. Any one who remembered the period prior to the Treaty of Nankin could not fail to recollect the constant disputes that arose in consequence of the impossibility of delivering up British offenders to he dealt with by the Chinese law, as they were sure to be subjected to a barbarous death. The system of giving judicial functions to the consuls in China, was a reason why their salaries should be larger than otherwise. He had only to add, that, so far from considering that an alteration ought to be made with regard to this arrangement, every year's experience tended to impress him more strongly with the wisdom and utility of the system.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the outfit allowed to the chief superintendent was according to the established regulation. Before drawing the comparison which the hon. Gentleman had made, he should have been prepared to show that a residence in China was as healthy and desirable as in the United States, and that the people of the United States spoke a language for which interpreters were as necessary as for the Chinese, and that they were as likely to give as much trouble in their mercantile dealings as the people of China.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that intelligence had been received of the Doctor's arrival at Hong-Kong; and no doubt when he reached Canton his reception would be such as his merits demanded.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON , in reply to a question from Mr. Newdegate, said, that those seas undoubtedly swarmed with pirates, and accounts had been recently received that a large force of them had been ravaging the shores of the rivers. Of course, it was a part of the duty of Sir J. Brooke to take such measures as were necessary for the repression of these outrages and for the prosperity of commerce. Not only our cruisers had been employed in that service, but the Spanish governor of the Philippine Islands had sent a large expedition to root out these pirates. There could be no doubt that, with the view not only of protecting our own commerce, but those who were our customers, it was necessary that this wholesale piracy should be put a stop to; and one of the functions of Sir J. Brooke was to put an end to these outrages.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Yes, consul residing at Sarawak. He is, however, not consul to himself, but to the Sultan of Borneo, to whom he is accredited.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  remarked, that Governor Brooke did not seek for this office. He was named consul to Borneo.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it was impossible to answer the question with certainty until he knew the nature of the claims of the several officers.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  replied, that the subject had been for a long time under consideration, and that the principal difficulty was with respect to the compensation to be granted to the officers.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  would not detain the House by entering into the minute details relating to this Bill, which had been gone into at considerable length by the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin, and the hon. Gentleman the Member for Carlow. He would only refer to the leading points to which they had drawn the attention of the House, and he thought that was the more satisfactory, because this Bill was carefully considered in Committee, and those little details with regard to the working of the measure were more fit to be discussed in Committee than on the third reading of this Bill. It appeared to him that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire had fallen into an error when he spoke of the inconsistency of the hon. Member for Carlow; for the objections he made to the Bill were directly opposite to those made by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin. The improvements suggested by the hon. Member for Carlow were such as he thought might be considered in a future Session with advantage. With respect to the hon. Member for Oxfordshire, he begged to differ with him in opinion with respect to the operation of this Bill: he (the Solicitor General) believed it to be strictly confined to incumbered estates. An objection had been raised to the measure, on the ground that it proposed to supersede the existing tribunals of the country; and his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the University of Dublin had asked why they could not reform the present Court of Chancery, and why the present Lord Chancellor of Ireland was not competent to carry the provisions of the Bill into effect? There was no person who could be found second to himself in praising that most excellent and learned Judge, or in believing that he would be fully competent to carry into effect any measure of this description; and it was a great satisfaction to him to consider that this Bill had the fullest sanction of that noble and learned Lord. With respect to reforming the Court of Chancery, his hon. and learned Friend had forgotten the difference which existed between attempting to reform an old established system, and attempting to carry into effect, by a new and temporary one, something which the established system had been found manifestly insufficient to perform. It was impossible to hear the details referred to by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, upon a
 1106 1107
 MR. J. B. SMITH  inquired whether there was any list of the dissenting clergymen who received these moneys?
 MR. J. B. SMITH  asked how much longer the descendants of Sir Thomas Clarges were to have 500 l
 MR. VERNON SMITH  observed that, as this was a new vote, it would be extremely desirable to have some information with respect to it. He would like to know whether the present was to be a permanent vote.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  thought the duties of the board were not defined with sufficient strictness. The last report they had issued related to the printing of the papers of that House—a very extraordinary subject, as it appeared to him, for such a board to interfere with. l
 MR. VERNON SMITH  observed, that this expense was essentially colonial, and ought to be thrown on the colony.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  excused himself for making an objection upon the report, which he had not offered in Committee of Supply, on the ground that the estimates had been so rapidly pushed through on the day immediately after the holidays, that a fair opportunity had not been afforded to him. There was a strong feeling abroad in favour of examination into those matters, and of economy, although it might not be participated in within the walls of that House; and he thought Her Majesty's Government would have done well to pay some deference to that feeling. This vote was one of the cases in which a complete disregard had been shown to the report of the Committee of last year, which was to the effect that
 "As the duties of the persons for whose salaries this vote was proposed, was confined to the
 1122
 MR. VERNON SMITH  would not press his proposition to a division. l
 MR. VERNON SMITH  wished to know whether the Government had made any better arrangement for the deposit of the pictures presented to the country by the late Mr. Vernon, than the cellar under the National Gallery, where the best pictures were hardly perceptible against the light; and could not in fact be seen at all, unless people went up quite close? Had the Government made any arrangement with the Royal Academy, or for the building of another National Gallery?
 MR. VERNON SMITH  agreed with the right hon. Gentleman, that a discussion of the proposed measure at that time would be premature; and he also agreed in almost all the other observations which that right hon. Gentleman had made. Certainly one very great difficulty was in the formation of the federal legislature; and it was a very momentous question whether it should consist of a single or double chamber. He believed that the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, in his book on the colonies, had given his decided opinion in favour of a double chamber, founding that opinion upon the experience of its good effect in America, and of the bad effect of a single chamber in France; and he (Mr. V. Smith) hoped that the Government would pause before they determined on establishing a single chamber in those colonies, and especially a mixed chamber, composed partly of representatives and partly of nominees, which wanted altogether the democratic principle of a single chamber. Indeed, he viewed with great apprehension the notion of a federal government at all; for he believed that the distances which it would be necessary to travel, and the difficulties of communication, would render it much less easy to work in Australia than it was in the united States. The right hon. Gentleman had not alluded to the proposed alteration as regarded the churches; but that was a considerable alteration in principle. The present principle was, to pay a stipend in proportion to the voluntary contributions of the different sects. [Mr. HAWES: Only in South Australia.] He understood it to be proposed now to divide the sum between them according to the last census; and
 1134 1135
 MR. M'GREGOR  considered the measure which had been brought forward by the Government the most liberal which had ever been offered to the colonies. With respect to their legislative powers, the colonists were, under the Bill, to have the whole management of the civil list, with the exception of the settlement of the judges' salaries and that of the governor. He considered that provision of the Bill so founded in wisdom that it would be impossible for the colonists not to accept it. With respect to the question of federal governments, the various colonies were to have separate local governments, excepting on matters which concerned the interests of all; and he believed that no difference would exist as to the policy of that provision. With respect to the tariff, he apprehended that each colony would have the power to regulate the scale of its own tariff, the federal government only interfering to see that the measures of one colony did not interfere with the interests of another. As a whole, he considered the measure most liberal and just; and, as such, he trusted it would be accepted by the House.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  thought this a most unpropitious time to propose new constitutions, when the minds of men throughout the world were so unsettled on these points, and that by submitting different forms of government for the option of the colonists, they were throwing an apple of discord amongst men who, from their habits and pursuits, had neither inclination nor leisure for their arguments. Ministers should have profited by their failure in New Zealand, and abstained from these crude experiments until a few years more of the development of these colonies would enable them to decide upon the best form of constitution.
 LORD D. STUART  begged to say, in reply, that he had not given any notice of a Motion with respect to the Palace Court hitherto. He had merely confined himself to moving for some returns with regard to that court. Those returns were not as yet laid upon the table, but he believed they would be forthcoming within a very short time. Not long ago he had put a question to the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General, inquiring whether it was the intention of the Government to bring in any measure for doing away with the Palace Court or not. The answer of his hon. and learned Friend was not very explicit. His hon. and learned Friend did, however, lead him (Lord D. Stuart) to expect that the Government had a measure of the sort in contemplation. If he should find, and he should do all in his power to ascertain the point, that the Government did not intend to bring in a Bill for the purpose in question,
 1094
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, in answer to the question of my hon. Friend, I beg to state that there is an Act of Parliament, passed some time ago, with regard to the price of land; and I conceive that it will not be in the power of the New South Wales, or any other colonial legislature, to alter an Act of Parliament. Whether or not they should get that power, may be a proper question for discussion when this Bill is farther advanced. I shall not discuss the measure at the present moment. I have heard with great interest the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford, making various suggestions; and I think it is better not to give a decided opinion upon those questions at the present moment, but to leave the whole of them for discussion afterwards. With regard to one point on which the right hon. Gentleman has laid considerable stress—a point certainly of considerable importance—whether there shall be one assembly, or whether there shall be a council and an assembly, as we have in our older colonies, I think the right hon. Gentleman has hardly laid sufficient weight on the objection which the people of New South Wales have made to the proposition of a council and assembly. The right hon. Gentleman says that in the United States the institution of the Senate is of the greatest importance, and is most valuable in maintaining harmony in the whole of the States, and in the general working of the constitution. I quite agree with him; and I think that if you could form such a senate as that of the United States, it could not fail to be of the greatest value; for I consider that the good working of the constitution of the United States is mainly owing to the particular form of the Senate. But those who hesitate to constitute such a body in New South Wales, say that the whole value of a senate or a council depends upon the elements
 1137
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that his right hon. Friend was not quite correct in saying that the estimates had been brought in on the first day after the recess, for, an objection having been made, they were not brought in until the day following. With respect to this vote, he had given the reason for it several times in that House; and it had been for several years under the consideration of Parliament, and approved of. The ground upon which he had always rested this vote was the reason stated to him by the late Archbishop of Canterbury, after the appointment of the Ecclesiastical Commission. He (Lord J. Russell) had pointed out to the Archbishop the example of Queen Anne's Bounty, the expense of which was defrayed out of the funds of that bounty; but the Archbishop represented, and truly represented, that when that bounty was given, funds belonging to the Crown were surrendered to the Church, and out of those funds the Church could well afford to defray the expense; but that in this case there was no proposition to increase the funds of the Church. What was now proposed was not to augment the funds of the Church, but to make a different distribution, which was thought to be better as concerned a number of congregations and the lay interests of the community. Such being the case, it appeared that the public should bear the expense, rather than the special funds of the Church. That had been the statement of the Archbishop, and upon that representation he (Lord J. Russell) had, in 1836, placed the votes upon the estimates for the year. As the case stood at present, the House would consider what the consequence would be of requiring this vote to be defrayed out of ecclesiastical funds. It would be, that,  pro tanto l 1123
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that at the commencement of every reign the Crown might retain the hereditary revenues, or consign them into the hands of Parliament. The sums now under consideration formed part of the charges settled on the Sovereign,
 1117 l l l
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, it would be hardly possible to give the names of the persons on whom this money was bestowed. In the case of private alms, the hon. Member for Manchester would surely not expect that lists should be published. A person in narrow circumstances might receive 5 l 1115
 LORD J. RUSSELL  observed, that the distributors of the money had no objection to furnish a list which might be referred to in private.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he could not give the assurance which the hon. Gentleman required, because, so far was this sum from being forced upon the Dissenters, that Dr. Rees and other gentlemen who had the distribution of it, stated that they had many applications for it, and that it was, in fact, accepted as a matter of charity. The grant began in the time of George I., who was graciously pleased to make it out of the civil list; and Parliament, after settling
 1112
 MAJOR BLACKALL  wished it to be understood that the institution was not entirely supported by Government money. An amount was raised from private sources nearly equal to the Parliamentary grant.
 MR. HAWES  said, that it was not his intention to occupy the time of the House at any length in introducing the Bill which he had now the honour to ask permission to bring in. Those Members of the House who had read the papers already laid on the table, would in a very great degree have mastered the details of the Bill which he had now to submit. That Bill was framed with the view of meeting the wishes of the colonists themselves, and, as far as possible, proceeded on the basis of the constitution which now existed in New South Wales. Some time ago, in 1847, his noble Friend at the head of the Colonial Department addressed a despatch to the Governor of New South Wales, raising the question of a new constitution for that colony, and holding out the constitution of New Zealand as a model. That despatch attracted much attention in the colony, and the opinion of the colonists was made known by resolutions adopted at public meetings, declaring that any change in the existing constitution would be unacceptable. His noble Friend, therefore, at once determined to abandon his own opinions—to defer to those of the colonists, and to frame a general constitution for the Australian colonies similar to that which now existed in New South Wales. That constitution consisted of a governor and legislative council of thirty-six, of which one-third were members appointed by the governor, and the remaining two-thirds elected by the people. This constitution had worked in a manner generally satisfactory to the colonists, as the papers on the table showed; and therefore, after much consideration, it was determined to adopt it as the basis of a future constitution for these colonies severally. The object of the present Bill was, therefore, to establish this constitution. In New South Wales a desire had long existed for a separation of a portion of that colony—the southern portion—Port Phillip, from the colony of New South Wales. The first object of the Bill was, therefore, to create Port Phillip a separate and distinct colony under the name of Victoria. The next object was to confer on all the Australian colonies, including New South Wales, Victoria, Van Diemen's Land, South Australia, and Western Australia—the latter conditionally—a constitution similar to that now existing in New South Wales. He said "conditionally" as regarded
 1126 l l 1127 l l l 1128
 MR. LUSHINGTON  had no doubt that the recipients of the money did not object to its receipt, but the dissenting body generally did object. He hoped that the Committee would draw a distinction between those persons and the conscientious body to which they professed to belong. Dr. Rees was an interested party; and therefore, making due allowance for the frailty of human nature, his evidence did not possess the weight which otherwise would have attached to it.
 Mr. LUSHINGTON  said that, early in the present Session, he had given notice of his intention to oppose so much of this vote as referred to the  Regium Donutn. 1111
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had promised the House last year that an inquiry should take place into the application of this grant, and that those who were able to earn their own subsistence should be struck off the list. That inquiry had been made, and several names had been struck off in consequence, other persons had withdrawn their names, no vacancies which occurred were filled up, and after the present year no portion of the grant would be given to any refugees under a certain age. It would be, however, a hard measure to strike off all the names and discontinue the vote; and, indeed, the fact was as to many of these refugees that they must either be maintained by the charity of the nation, or be relieved by the parish in which they had lived as casual poor. He thought it far better that they should be maintained by the former mode, and that the grant should be gradually reduced in amount, as circumstances permitted. In the year 1847 the grant was 11,000 l l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said there was not; but the hon. Gentleman would get all the information he desired if he would read the evidence given by Dr. Rees.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was understood to reply, that formerly it was customary to vote the gross amount without including the fees, and that in the case referred to the vote included them. l l l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the grant was originally payable out of the hereditary revenues of the Crown, which were clearly at the disposal of the Sovereign for the time then being. These hereditary revenues had since been given up to the public for a consideration, but given up with all charges upon them; and the descendants of Sir Thomas Clarges were as much entitled to their annuity as any Gentleman in the House to his estates. The same equally applied to the sum annually voted to the widows and children of poor refugee French clergymen. Upon the establishment in this country of a French Protestant Church, after the revocation of the edict of Nantes, provision was made by the Crown out of the hereditary revenues for the maintenance of the widows and children of the successive ministers of that Church.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  stated, that a portion of the vote was permanent, and that the other portion was an advance, to be repaid by the localities benefited.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the vote was brought forward in consequence of pre-existing arrangements; but an intimation had been given to the Governor of Canada that it would not be deemed fair to continue it beyond the 30th of April next year. l l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that he would be glad if better accommodation could be provided for the paintings; and the only reason why it was not so provided was, that it would occasion a greater outlay than in the present state of affairs he felt himself warranted in proposing.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  could hold out no such hope, as he was now taking steps to diminish the present grant as much as possible. l l l l l 1118 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained, that this vote was taken as a matter of precaution to meet expenses which might be requisite if the cholera should again break out; but it did not follow, because the vote was taken,
 1119
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained, that the established rule was not to put any charge under the head of "civil contingencies," which could possibly be foreseen.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that though he was afraid some unnecessary extravagance might have taken place in connexion with the construction of the Ambassador's residence, yet that now the most rigid orders had been sent out that no expense but what was absolutely requisite should be incurred; and he believed that building the house with stone would, in the end, be found an economical proceeding. l
 MR. F. FRENCH  said, this board was appointed under an Act of last year, which required the Irish Poor Law Commissioners to enforce by their officers the suggestions of the board. He believed, however, that the only step which had been taken had been the issue of a circular recommending the adoption of certain sanitary regulations in each poor-law union; but, except in Dublin, and one or two other large towns, no attention had been paid to those recommendations. The result had been that a great many cases of cholera had appeared, and, in the course of a very few months, no fewer than 5,000 persons perished from that disease in the city of Limerick. He did not think, however, that the Poor Law Commissioners were to blame. Between 300,000 l l l
 MR. F. FRENCH  said, he considered that the English Board had gone to work like men of business. They had found a total absence of all local preparations for the visitation of the cholera; but in consequence of the appointment of medical inspectors, and sending down officers to every locality where the disease appeared, not one half the expense had been incurred last year which was incurred in 1832.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he did not believe the Bill would effect any of its proposed objects. He denied that Ireland was so circumstanced as to call for so extraordinary a measure. So far from Ireland requiring facilities to sell land, the fact was that half the property in that country had changed hands twice over within a very short period. In France, a Bill very like the present was introduced under Louis Philippe by a very able lawyer, but was rejected by a large majority. A change of proprietary never could relieve agricultural distress. Mr. Longfield, one of the witnesses examined before the Committee, declared that the only difficulty in selling land in Ireland was caused by the Registration Act; while Mr. Butt, another witness, considered the great difficulty was want of purchasers. If the Court of Chancery was not fit for its business, why not
 1095
 MR. REPTON  said, he thought the time had come when, according to the promise of the Government, an end would be put to these Polish grants. After the speeches that had been made last Session, and the movement that was agitating the country in respect to financial reform, he was surprised that this vote should again appear in the estimates. When they looked at the prominent part the Poles had taken in the affairs of Europe, the impropriety of this vote became more glaringly perceptible. Every observer of the events of the day must have seen that no revolution had taken place in Europe in which the Poles had not taken a distinguished part—["Hear, hear!"]—he repeated, a very distinguished part, although he might differ from hon. Gentlemen opposite as to the estimate to be put upon their conduct. He did not deny but that there were many worthy and respectable men belonging to the Polish nation, and there was one in particular whose name ought always to be mentioned with respect in that House—a nobleman distinguished for his benevolent exertions in the sister country. But he thought the House had a right to know who were the persons who received the
 1110
 MR. REPTON , after this explanation, would not divide the House. l
 MR. KERSHAW  was quite of opinion that if the distribution answered to the description which had been given of it, it ought to be got rid of at once. The House, however, he hoped, would bear this fact in mind, that some of the religious denominations were in the habit of collecting from 50,000 l l s s
 MR. WYLD  said, that the Dissenters had not relaxed their efforts; but they felt that, as that House was at present constituted, they could make but very little way with their opposition to the vote. From the return which had been presented to the House, for the year 1847, the recipients were—166 Presbyterian ministers, 443 Independent ministers, and 461 Baptist ministers; making a total of 1,070 individuals, each of whom would receive, supposing the grant, 1,695 l s
 MR. WYLD  wished to ask the noble Lord whether he knew a single congregation of Dissenters which acknowledged that its minister had received any portion of this grant? Though he was, from conviction, a member of the Church of England himself, he constantly got letters from Dissenters complaining of this grant being made, and it was to be observed that only the Presbyterians, Baptists, and Independents, participated in it.
 MR. BRIGHT  thought the House would not be justified in assuming, because there were no petitions against this grant, that the opposition of the Dissenters thereto had been relaxed. He believed that there had not been the slightest change of opinion among them with regard to the grant; but after the discussion which had taken place last year, it was not probable that the Dissenters would come again to the House during the present Session. He thought it a most unconstitutional proceeding, and a grossly wrong course, that the Treasury should hand over 1,695 l 1113 s
 MR. BRIGHT  said, they had eight or nine names, certainly; but such things, as the House well knew, were always managed by one or two persons. It was always a hocus-pocus affair. As to that illustration about a gift of 5 l l l
 MR. J. E. DENISON  acknowledged the extreme importance of the measure, and trusted that full time would be given for its consideration before it was passed into a law. He was sorry to observe, from what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford, that great difference of opinion existed on the measure. He would not then enter upon the question of the establishment of a federal government, or whether there should be a single or double house of legislature, except to bear his testimony to the extreme importance attached to the double legislature in the United States. There were so many questions of importance in the measure, that he did not know whether those which had been alluded to, or those which had been omitted, were the most important. The hon. Gentleman who spoke last had said that the local legislatures were to have the management of the civil list. Now, he wished to
 1136 l
 MR. J. E. DENISON  explained, that he had not asked whether the colonial assemblies could override an Act of Parliament,
 1138
 MR. SADLEIR  said, he had given the Bill of last Session, on this subject, a qualified support, but had felt bound to resist
 1099 1100 1101 1102 1103
 MR. J. STUART  seconded the Motion.
 MR. TRELAWNY  said, he thought that if the House sanctioned this vote, they ought to go a step further, and pay the Roman Catholic priests of Ireland. The vote was clearly not one of religious principles; but it was a question whether it would not be advisable to make some effort to secure the allegiance of the priests, as the friends of order in Ireland, by paying them in the same way that other dissenting clergymen were paid. l
 MR. HENLEY : Then the vote ought to have been put under the head of "civil contingencies."
 MR. HENLEY  said, that some years ago there was a great call for church extension, and the plan adopted was to lay violent hands on the property of other people. Now, having robbed them, the proposition was to make them pay for the distribution of the plunder. Now, without going into the question whether the spoliation had been right or wrong, those who had committed, it had no right to complain of paying a small sum for the distribution of the spoil.
 MR. HENLEY  had expected that the hon. Gentleman who just sat down would conclude by moving that the Bill be recommitted, for though he had in the commencement of his speech stated that he intended to vote for the third reading, he seemed to have given every reason, both in detail and in gross, against the Bill. How any Gentleman could vote for the third reading of a Bill which he had so pulled to pieces, he (Mr. Henley) could not understand. He would now state the reasons
 1104 ex parte. ex parte
 MR. HENLEY  called attention to some items in the estimate for expenses contemplated under the Nuisances Prevention Act, and inquired whether it was necessary to appoint two superintending medical inspectors?
 MR. NAPIER  said, he felt bound, in justice to the constituency he represented, to state the grounds on which he thought the Bill should not pass. In many of its objects—such as affording facilities for sales of land as far as was consistent with the rights of property—he fully concurred; but he thought that, to carry the main object, two sets of machinery, one judicial and the other administrative, were required, and that some special administration should be directed to distressed properties, more particularly those in Chancery. Before the Consolidated Fund was saddled with this large additional expense, it was the bounden duty of the Government to explain why the Irish Court of Chancery was to be superseded. Admitting that the existing machinery of the Irish Court of Chancery required modification, he denied the justice or the expediency of sweeping it altogether away. The Bill proposed the continuance of three commissioners for five years, at an aggregate annual salary of 7,000 l 1096 1097 mandamus, certiorari 1098 l l l
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, that perhaps the hon. and learned Attorney General would have no objection to state when he would bring in his Bill for the abolition of this court?
 MR. B. OSBORNE  asked whether the Bill would be certainly brought in in the present Session?
 MR. B. OSBORNE  wished to put a question to the hon. Member for Marylebone upon a subject respecting which great anxiety was evinced out of doors. He desired to know what course the noble Lord meant to pursue about the Palace Court?
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that as this Bill would lead to considerable discussion in its progress though the House, it would be premature on that occasion to enter at length upon the subject; but he wished to offer one or two observations which occurred to him upon the statement of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies, the more so, as the observations which he had to make would be generally favourable to the principle of the Bill; for, in his opinion, both the Minute of the Privy Council and the Bill itself promised a considerable advancement in the principles of colonial legislation; and his object was to assist the hon. Gentleman in rendering the Bill as efficient as possible. Before, however, he adverted to the statement of the hon. Gentleman, he would allude to the state of the franchise in our Australian colonies, upon which the
 1129 res integra 1130 primâ facie 1131 1132 1133
 MR. EWART  trusted the Government would assent to the very reasonable proposition he had to make, which was—
 "That a statement be made by a Minister of the Crown of the appropriation and results of the sums voted for education, as well as of the sums voted for the promotion of literature, science, and art, on the introduction of the class of estimates especially devoted to those subjects."
 MR. W. FAGAN  asked whether the Government would give any undertaking that the assistance offered to this establishment would be extended to others accessible to persons of all religious opinions?
 MR. W. FAGAN  said, this establishment was of an exclusive nature, it being required that the children who were inmates should be instructed in the doctrines of the Established Church. Now, in Dublin the proportion of the Catholic to the Protestant population was 5 to 1, and throughout Ireland 8 to 1, and he therefore considered that the Irish Catholics had a fair claim to a portion of this fund. He did not object to the vote, for he believed the House would not be unwilling to increase it, but he contended for such a distribution as would admit Irish Catholics to a participation in the advantages of this or similar establishments.
 MR. W. J. FOX  observed, that this was the only grant of public money which seemed not to be acceptable to its nominal recipients. In his opinion, the money ought in the first instance to be offered to the known and acknowledged representatives of the Dissenting body, and no portion of it should be offered to any other class of persons; then it would be possible to ascertain whether the parties for whose benefit it was intended, were really disposed to receive it. He conceived that the present practice was open to very great abuse. Of course Dr. Pye Smith, and others with whom he was associated, were men altogether above and beyond all suspicion; but it was pretty well known that these votes were clearly open to abuse, and might at any time be rendered subservient to political purposes and undue influence. The money, instead of being given to aged or infirm ministers, was supposed upon pretty good grounds to reach the hands of youths who were only just entering on the ministry, or of men who, not possessing talent or information sufficient to procure them a good position as ministers, were obliged to
 1114
 MR. HAYTER  stated, that he did not intend to propose the vote which stood next on the Paper—1,000 l l
 MR. MONSELL  said, that the hon. Gentleman was mistaken in supposing that no precautionary measures were taken in Limerick in anticipation of the cholera. Every precaution was taken by the Poor Law Commissioners in Dublin, and by the Limerick board of guardians, and the deaths which ensued were not owing to their neglect, but to the reduced state of the population from destitution.
 MR. GROGAN  inquired whether there was any probability of any general measure being introduced during the present Session relating to the sanitary condition of Ireland?
 MR. GROGAN  felt it his duty to oppose the third reading. The amendments were not improvements, and in the course of his experience he never knew such an Algerine measure proposed in Parliament. No English Member would trust three unnamed commissioners with such extraordinary powers in England under any pretence whatever, and he thought they should hesitate before they consented to make such a precedent. In the present state of feeling he did not think it good policy to apply different legislation to the two countries.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that he held a document in his hand, giving an account of the expenditure of the vote for education upon schools and teachers. The information desired by the hon. Member was given in an abridged form in the Minutes of the Committee, but the items of detail would be too numerous to be given in the Votes. He had prepared a statement with regard to the last year's vote for education; but it was, in fact, only an abridgment of details which were given by the Committee of Council on Education; and the House would observe, that this made the great difference between this vote, and the votes for the Army, the Navy, and the Ordnance. There had been expended, for the
 1124 l l l l l l l l l
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  was quite aware of the difficulty of getting a suitable residence in a city like Constantinople; but if they did not take care there would be no end to the expense, as the Turks had the greatest faith in our ability to pay any sum that could be extorted.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  inquired what the whole cost would be of building this residence?
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. In the report of the Committee on the Miscellaneous Estimates which sat last Session,
 1109 l l l l
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  said, that unless he knew the names of the commissioners to be appointed under this Bill, he must, as a matter of duty to his constituents, move that it be read a third time that day six months.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, it was true the institution was exclusively confined to Protestants, but he believed this was the only vote of the kind which Parliament was asked to sanction. The grant bad been made for many years, and he thought it would be a great hardship to withdraw it. He might observe that the vote had been diminished by 200 l
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that the subject was of great importance; but the great difficulty was, that it was almost impossible to apply to Ireland an effectual sanitary measure on account of the extreme poverty of the population. Nevertheless, the matter was still under consideration, and he had not abandoned the hope that, during the present Session, he might be able to lay on the table of the House a general measure on the subject relating to Ireland. l l l
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, it was useless for that House to pass Acts, or any board in Dublin to frame regulations, unless the local boards throughout the country
 1120
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  stated that the original estimate was 40,000 l
 MR. H. BERKELEY , in rising to second the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, which he did with much pleasure, remarked that his hon. Friend had been received with a very self-satisfied, but ironical, cheer from hon. Gentlemen opposite, when he had made the frank admission that considerable difference of opinion had existed among reformers as to the points of reform contained in his Motion. For himself, during his political career, he was happy to say that he had no votes to swallow, no opinions to recant, and on this occasion he had no difference
 1172 1173 1174
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, the hon. Member for Nottingham, and some on that (the Ministerial) side of the House, must see whether they could not obtain more unity of action than had lately been the case; the reason being, that whenever any proposal was made which did not go the whole length of the proposal of the hon. Member for Nottingham, it was met without further consideration, by the argument that they might just as well go "the whole animal" with him. He was ready to admit that the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose was not brought before the House in altogether the most happy and fortunate manner; it did not appear to him a course of proceeding calculated to bring over to their side any great quantity of Ministerial support; and therefore he should be highly gratified, if on further consideration some signs should be given, that the men who were in truth the representatives of the authors of the greatest revolution that had ever taken place in the history of the world, were prepared to make some concessions, and to take the lead they ought to take in advancing the interests of this country, along with those of Europe in general. Every country, and particularly England, was seriously interested in the general success and extension of liberal principles in Europe; and it was sad and sorrowful that those whom nature had made to be the leaders, should not be found taking the place for which they were designed.
 MR. CAMPBELL  pointed to the weak and wretched equivocation of the Member for Montrose and his supporters, as to the mode in which their proposition was related to the proposition of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Nottingham. Would this reform, if granted, avert or precipitate the Charter, was a question which the House had a clear right to put to them, and to which they shrunk from giving any kind of satisfactory reply. Silence, however, upon such a point was affirmation, and it might be properly observed of them on this point— Dum tacent clament 1185 seriatim 1186 1187 1188
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, whatever I may think of the Motion before the House, yet I cannot enter upon the discussion of it without paying a tribute to the moderation and fairness, to the total absence of bitterness of language, which marked the speech of the hon. Member for Montrose in introducing it. For my part, I am happy to see him again amongst us in renovated health; and, although I differ in opinion from him, I can have no doubt that nothing but the most patriotic motives has induced him to bring the Motion under the consideration of the House, with a view to improve the representation and correct the defects of our institutions. But with respect to that Motion, I must say that if there was much doubt and obscurity both in the past year and in the present year in the views of the hon. Member for Montrose—if he came before the House telling us that he meant to give the franchise to all householders, but that who he meant by householders he was unable to tell us; and that the old understanding of the word "householder" as a man who held a house was not his definition of the word—if, I say, there was some obscurity about the proposal of the hon. Member for Montrose, the speech of the hon. Member for Manchester has cleared it of all ambiguity, and I think must have shown the House, that, whatever might be the wishes of the hon. Member for Montrose himself, whatever might be his respect for the ancient constitution of this House, and however he might reverence those forms
 1212 1213 s 1214 1215 An interruption 1216 1217 in commendam 1218 1219 "I see now what is the difference between your aristocracy and the ancient  noblesse 1220 l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1221 l "For my part, I do not know any one necessary of life upon which we have not some tax or another except water; and we can put no ingredient I know of into water, in order to make it palatable and cheerful, without paying a tax. We pay a tax for air, and for the light and heat of the sun in the daytime, by means of our tax upon windows; and for light and heat in the nighttime by means of our duties upon coals and candles; we pay a tax upon bread, meat, roots, and herbs of all kinds by means of our salt duty; we pay a tax upon small beer by means of the malt tax, and a heavy additional tax upon strong beer by way of excise. Nay, we cannot have any clean thing to put upon our backs, either of woollen or of linen, without paying a tax by means of the duty on soap, &c." 1222 1223 1224 1225
 MR. NEWDEGATE  could not help being struck with the difference of opinion which existed on this subject on the other side of the House. The hon. Member for East Surrey was prepared to go to an extent which might be half far enough for the hon. Member for the West Riding, but a great deal too far for the hon. Member for Cambridge, with whom he (Mr. Newdegate) entertained some fellow-feeling, when he deplored that the time of the House should be wasted in this discussion. He (Mr. Newdegate) regretted that the hon. Member for Montrose should think it worth while to try his own health—which
 1192 personnel l 1193 "We never should have advised the second attack upon the counties, unless, by past experience, we had felt justified in the policy of it; and, in order that you may judge of the success of that policy, I shall detain you four or five minutes longer, that you may know the results of our registration movements in the revision courts last October. The first county to which I shall refer is one over which the monopolists have sung their songs in triumph, as having defeated the League therein—North Warwickshire. Owing to casualties over which we can have no control, certain unfavourable results in some portions of the country attended the efforts of the League. All that can be said is, that the monopolists have had a narrow escape. The total county constituency of England is 445,630; the numbers of those attacked are 143,731, so that we have dealt with nearly one-third of the entire county constituency of England. These, then, are the labours which have occupied our attention during the last year, and I am persuaded that it is but a mere beginning." 1194 s 1195 s 1196
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  said, that if it had not been for the allusion which had been
 1182 1183 1184
 MR. BRIGHT  said: I consider myself fortunate. Sir, in having the opportunity of rising immediately after the hon. Gentleman who has just spoken, as I am personally acquainted with some of the facts which he has detailed, and can bear testimony to how far his statements are correct. There is one mistake which the hon. Gentleman has made, and, considering the great attention he has evidently paid to the subject, I must say that I am somewhat surprised at it. The hon. Member said, that the new mode of enfranchising the people to which he adverted, had sprung from Manchester, and was presided over by my excellent friend, Mr. George Wilson. Now, that is not precisely correct. It is true that the Manchester people did originally begin a system of qualifying voters for the purpose of carrying the repeal of the corn laws. But the present system is different, and has its origin in Birmingham, not Manchester. And a gentleman residing in Birmingham, with whom, if I mistake not, the hon. Gentleman has had some correspondence—Mr. J. Taylor—[Mr. NEWDEGATE: No!]—I judged from the newspapers that he had had some correspondence with that gentleman. [Mr. NEWDEGATE: I have never had any correspondence with any gentleman of that name, except a banker.] Well, be that as it may, that is the name of the gentleman who has the honour of being the discoverer of the system which has so raised the hon. Gentleman's wrath. He proposed that instead of sending fruitless petitions to this House, and asking Parliament to discuss what the House has already made up its mind upon, it would be desirable that as many as possible of the middle and labouring classes should be encouraged to save a portion of their earnings, and unite together in investing it in the purchase of land to such an extent as should qualify them to vote for the counties by becoming possessed of 40 s 1197 1198 1199 1200 1201 "We find, in connexion with the large earnings of this class, industrious habits of no common stamp, regulated and secured in great measure by the peculiar nature of their employment; and a degree of intelligence, already much in advance of other classes of the working people, and still growing with the general growth of popular education. It appears, also, that when in the enjoyment of prosperity, they avail themselves to a great extent of the advantages of provident institutions, and that partly through this, and partly through other circumstances, equally creditable to their character as a working people, they avoid almost altogether dependence upon poor-rates. On the occurrence of general distress, we find them neither a pauperised mass, nor readily admitting pauperism among them; but struggling against adversity, beating far and wide for employment, and in many cases leaving their country for foreign climates, rather than depend upon any other resources for subsistence than those of their own industry and skill. Those among them who have not been able or willing to leave a place where at present their labour is of little or no value, have been found enduring distress with patience, and abstaining, sometimes to the injury of health, from making any application for relief; while others, who have been driven reluctantly to that extremity, we have seen receiving a degree of relief sufficient only to support life, often with thankfulness and gratitude, and generally without murmur and complaint." "It is almost unnecessary for me to observe that we are perfectly peaceable, and that, in my opinion, no apprehension need be felt of future disturbances in this neighbourhood. I believe the working classes of these districts are too far advanced in knowledge and moral culture, and possess too clear a sense of what is really necessary to improve their condition, than to be made the dupes of Utopian dreamers, but, especially, to be drawn into any insane project or measure of the physical force kind. I think the observations here made are fully justified by the past and present praiseworthy forbearance of this suffering community, for so long a period, who have not only evinced fortitude to endure privations for which there was no remedy, but have also had the courage to resist all attempts to draw them into any act of insubordination and mischief. You are aware, Sir, that during the most critical period of the agitated state of these districts, latterly, my confidence in the integrity of the
 1202 1203 1204 1205 1206 1207 "It may be worth while to state, that, stimulated by the example and aided with the assistance of the Birmingham society, institutions of a similar kind have sprung up all over the country. In Wolverhampton, the society has 700 members; Dudley, 150; Stourbridge, 300; Coventry, 450; Worcester, 80; Stafford, 100; Derby, TOO; New-castle-on-Tyne, 450; Bradford, 140; Cheltenham, 200; Sheffield, 300; Shields, 200; and London, about 5,000. In Birmingham, Dudley, Wolverhampton, Stourbridge, and Coventry, 1,636 allotments will very speedily be made. Altogether there has been called into existence a body of between 10,000 and 11,000 men, who, by prudence and economy, have worked out their own political enfranchisement. With regard to the Birmingham society, it now numbers 1,500 members, subscribing for 2,000 shares. It has already given allotments to 215 members in North Staffordshire, on the estates the directors purchased at Hands-worth and Perry Barr; and having recently made another purchase at Bloomsbury, in North Warwickshire, they resolved to take advantage of these holiday times, walk in procession to the land, and place the members in formal possession. This estate is very pleasantly situated, commanding an extensive prospect, contains about thirteen acres, and has been divided into 231 allotments. Each allotment will thus contain about 300 square yards, with a frontage of from eighteen to twenty feet." "We recommend this motto to every other town throughout the kingdom, from the lips of Lord Chief Justice Tindal, one of their great constitutional Judges, to the effect that 'the object of increasing the number of freeholders at a county election is not an object in itself against law, or morality, or sound policy. There is nothing injurious
 1208 1209 1210 1211
 MR. HUME  said, he would not, at that late hour, refer to the arguments that had been used against his Motion, as they had been already ably answered, and he would freely leave the question upon its merits to the decision of the House.
 MR. HUME  said, that, in addressing himself to this important subject, he must beg the indulgence of the House, as he did not feel altogether in a situation to introduce the question in the manner that he could desire. As an old reformer, addressing a reformed House of Parliament, he could declare from experience how unsatisfactory it had generally been to address Parliament on the subject of reform. He had scarcely ever known an exception, except when the question had been made a party one, and there had been a struggle between the two great political bodies in the country. Then, indeed, the question had brought a full House; but on other occasions, when private Members had introduced the subject, it had been treated as one inopportune in point of time, and unfit for consideration. He had taken his full share in the reforms effected in 1831 and 1832, and no man had been more happy than he had been to see those reforms carried out. He looked back with satisfaction to the great reform effected at that period on the proposal of men who were anxious to promote the welfare of the country; and he believed that the effect had been to place this country in the enviable situation in which she now was as compared with the rest of the world. It was not that he undervalued what was done by the first Reform Parliament. He was not one of those who said that the reform effected at that period was a fallacy. It did not, indeed, lead to all that he and others, who were anxious on the subject, had been sanguine enough to expect, apt, as they were, perhaps hastily, to imagine that society would be immediately moulded by their own opinions; but it had, at any rate, put an end to the disgraceful borough-mongering which previously existed; and he believed that the opinion now prevailed very generally amongst those who were once opposed to reform, that it had been productive of great good to society, and had prevented many unhappy collisions. It was because he saw that reform had not been carried out to the extent that he had anticipated, and because he saw danger in refusing that which he considered a right belonging to the mass of the community—on
 1157 1158 "I take my stand against all reforms; I am for rotten boroughs; I wish to maintain them, because this country has enjoyed greater prosperity during their existence than the Continental countries. But," he added, "I go further. I have ever been ready to meet the circumstances of the times, and to adapt the laws and ordinances of the country to the requirements of the period, though, so long as I see reason to do so, I will defend Gatton and Old Sarum." 1159 Cheers 1160 l l l 1161 l l l l l l s s l 1162 l l l l l l 1163 1164 1165 1166 1167 "He had heard doubts thrown out whether these essays were the productions of the working classes. He had now, for the last eighteen years, been brought into such close contact—he might Bay in such close intimacy—with many of the working classes, that his experience enabled him
 1168 1169 l l
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, that in the course of the comprehensive and somewhat hypothetical speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down, he had expressed not only his own opinions, but, judging from the place (the Treasury bench) from which he had delivered them, the opinions of Her Majesty's Government. He doubted, however, very much whether he had expressed the opinions of the inhabitants
 1189 1190 l 1191 l l
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, he did not think it could have escaped the observation of hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House, and he was certain it would not escape the observation of the people of this great country, that the opposition to this Motion arose not—with a single exception—that it proceeded not from the hereditary enemies of all reform—but that it proceeded from hon. Gentlemen on their own side of the House, and from Gentlemen who had seats on the Ministerial and Treasury benches. He thought it was a most extraordinary thing that the opposition to the measure proceeded from men who had climbed into power on the shoulders of the hon. Member for Montrose, and other hon. Members, who were characterised as men of narrow and confined minds. He thought that it was a most
 1226 1227 Essay on the English Constitution "Forget the dunghills where they grew, And think themselves the Lord knows who." 1228
 MR. W. P. WOOD  said, he was glad that the Government considered this as a question worthy of discussion, for it excited considerable interest among a large portion of the people. He was glad the Government had respectfully treated the opinions of several millions of the population, whose existence, whether they petitioned the House or not, could not well be ignored; and had thought proper to discuss this important question calmly, temperately, and ably. It was very remarkable that nobody who had yet addressed the House in opposition to the Motion, had attempted to grapple with any one of its propositions. The artifice had been to represent this Motion as being identical with the Motion of the hon. Member for Nottingham; and the noble Lord at the head of the Government and the Secretary of State for the Home Department had severally assumed that every point of the hon. Member for Montrose's Motion was merely a point of the "People's Charter." Now, as he understood the two Motions, they were diametrically opposed to each other, and the very principles on which he would vote for the hon. Member for Montrose's Motion, would induce him to give his most decided opposition to the proposition of the hon. Member for Nottingham. The noble Lord had also attempted to distort the opinions of the hon. Member for Manchester, so as to have made them appear the same as those of the hon. Member for Nottingham; and had represented the hon. Member for Manchester as saying that he had no respect for the constitution of this country. Now what the hon. Member really did say, although he might have chosen better phraseology, was this—that he admired the constitution as composed of the Sovereign, the Peers, and the common people; but if they called that the constitution which enabled them to effect reforms only by violent jerks, threatening the destruc-of the whole machine, then he did not think very much of it. So that the two statements were entirely different; and the same language as the hon. Member for
 1229 "It was the fatality of this country that it would never move towards reformation until it was brought to the very brink of destruction, and feared that every man would take up a musket." 1230 1231 l 1232 1233
 SIR G. GREY  was rather surprised that the hon. Gentleman who seconded the Motion should have expressed himself with any uncertainty as to the course the Government would take on the present occasion; for the hon. Gentleman must recollect that this identical Motion—identical in substance, if not in terms—was brought forward in the last Session of Parliament by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose—that it was debated at great length, and with great ability, during two nights of the Session—that his noble Friend at the head of the Government did then argue the question—and that the arguments he addressed to the House, in common with other hon. Gentlemen, ended in the result, that, on the division, the House, by a large majority, refused to entertain the Motion of the hon. Gentleman. And even if his noble Friend did not on this occasion express his opinion on the subject, no one could forget the arguments which he had used when the question was previously before the House. They were, he admitted, somewhat differently situated this year. The hon. Gentlemen the Member for Montrose had alluded to the special circumstances under which he now brought forward the question. He had alluded to the absence of any petitions in support of the Motion; whereas last year he had introduced his Motion by referring to a number of petitions, which he claimed to be in support of his Motion, but which
 1175 1176 1177 "Mr. Williams explained why he preferred universal suffrage. There were large numbers of intelligent men who by household suffrage would be excluded from a participation in political privileges, He alluded to half-pay officers, clerks, tradesmen, and all who were lodgers, who, whatever their position in society might be, would not have the right of voting, simply because they were not householders, and for no other reason. If household suffrage were adopted, then all who were not householders would have no votes; whereas the occupier of a house, however humble, would have the power of voting. This, he conceived,
 1178 "He preferred taking a portion of the debt that was duo to the people, rather than to be without any part of it at all. The question of the suffrage was founded on the rights of man, and not on the accident of his being a householder. In the present state of parties, the mode of action intended to be adopted by the meeting was, probably, the shortest cut they could make in order to restore the full enjoyment of the rights of mankind. To him (Mr. Jones) it appeared quite unintelligible why it was possible to deny any man the suffrage if you granted him liberty; because he believed the suffrage was a necessary accompaniment of liberty. If a fellow-being was granted his liberty, how could that liberty be complete unless he was given the right of showing by his voice whether he consented to the measures and to the system under which and by which he was governed?" 1179 1180 1181
 MR. MOFFATT , in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, thought it the most judicious course to state, explicitly, that the measure now introduced was, in all its main principles, much the same as that which the House had fully discussed on a previous occasion. The principal alteration was, that it was proposed to place insolvents and bankrupts upon the same footing, and thereby to get rid of a very invidious distinction which existed between Members insolvent who were traders, and Members insolvent who were not traders. The opposition raised to the Bill in its previous form, and in nearly its final stage, had been raised solely upon constitutional grounds. The hon. Baronet the Member for the Tower Hamlets, for instance, was clearly of opinion that the Members of that House should be as amenable to the law for the payment of their just debts as any other men. The only difference which existed, was as to the mode in which the object they had in view in common should be carried out. He thought it quite impossible that a Member of Parliament, if annoyed by his tailor or his washerwoman, could pay that attention to his legislative duties which he otherwise would, or that he could expect to maintain that respect to which his position entitled him. It was said that tradesmen were very often induced to give credit to Members of Parliament because of the respectable position the latter held; but that was no reason why any obstacle should be thrown in the way of the recovery of just and lawful debts. One objection to the former Bill was, that it precluded an insolvent Member
 1237 1238
 MR. BERNAL  wished to point out that the distinction which some hon. Gentlemen wished to draw between the principle of this Bill and its details was far from being a practical or sound distinction. The principle of this measure was made up of the details, and the details involved the principle in every line of them. The question was not whether it was better that reprimands should be given at the bar sitting or standing; but whether they would lay it down that the length of an hon. Member's purse should constitute the standard by which to measure public morality and private purity. He was afraid those who thought so were too much disposed to measure respectability by the length of a man's purse, and that they and his hon. Friend the Member for Lymington were too ready to adopt the  argumentum ad crumenam 1244
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  considered the object of the measure to be a good and legitimate one; but he did not think the hon. Gentleman the Member for Dartmouth would arrive at his object by means of this Bill. He believed it would put greater power over the House into the hands of creditors than it would be safe for them to possess, and, instead of rendering Members liable to exclusion from the House for insolvency, he believed, if they were made liable to arrest during the recess up to a short time before the meeting of Parliament, no one would enter the House for the sake of protection from his debts.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  considered that due notice should be given to an unsuccessful
 1248
 MR. BERNAL : Do I understand the hon. Baronet to postpone the clause?
 VISCOUNT MAHON  hoped that the House would be prepared in the ensuing Session to institute an inquiry into the subject, by means of a Select Committee. He really thought the fact of bribery and treating depended much loss upon any positive enactment than upon the view taken of the matter by any particular Committee. He thought, for instance, there was a most important distinction in fact—and it might be doubtful whether there ought not to be a distinction in law—between refreshments honestly given to voters, and money and riotous entertainment supplied to voters in towns. He hoped that his hon. Friend would agree to the suggestion which had been made to have this. Bill recommitted; and he would also suggest that the title and preamble of the Bill should be modified. In his opinion they were both rather too comprehensive.
 MR. ARMSTRONG  considered that the clause was one of vital importance; and he thought no other alteration was required
 1250
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  was of opinion, that if by any accident the question had not been put, the House should allow the Speaker to put it now. Of course, nobody would think of dividing on the matter.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  considered, if there had been any inadvertence in this case, it was not a question which. touched the Gentleman who had charge of the Bill. The point was, as to the effect of an inadvertence in a mere formal question as to the title of the Bill. He had never seen a division on this question since he had been in Parliament. He would submit it to hon. Gentlemen who had opposed this Bill, whether they  bonâ fide
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  was anxious to state the reasons which would induce him to vote in favour of the second reading. In his opinion it would not be respectful to the commissioners who had inquired into the subject, not to attempt to
 1259
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it was because municipal boroughs could not make regulations for the prevention of smoke, that a general measure had been deemed necessary for the purpose. When the House remembered that the smoke clauses were taken out of the Public Health Bill, he hoped they would not consent to the rejection of this measure at the present stage. At that period there was almost an unanimous opinion that it was necessary to pass some measure, though great difficulty was felt in adjusting the details. All, however, which the present Bill affirmed was, that something should be done to prevent the unnecessary issue of opaque smoke after the year 1851. That was the principle of the measure, and it would be matter for future consideration whether its provisions should or should not he carried out by the municipal councils. Under these circumstances he trusted the House would assent to the second reading.
 MR. LAW  humbly submitted, that the question with respect to the title of the
 1254
 MR. LAW  observed that he would not press the matter further.
 MR. LAW  had submitted to the chair, that it was the duty of those who had charge of the Bill, to see that the question respecting the title was put as a substantive Motion. As a question of precedent, he would suggest to the House that it would be dangerous to omit any question on which a debate might arise, or the sense of the House could be taken.
 MR. LAW  said, that this was a measure which struck at the root of testimony given in a court of justice. It not only went to relieve tender consciences from giving genuine and true testimony, but it carried with it the expression of the opinion of the House of Commons, that evidence given under a less solemn sanction than that of an oath, was entitled to equal faith with testimony on oath. He was satisfied that those who were concerned in the administration of public justice would feel that this was a blow struck at the very root of that administration. He hoped that it would not be so: but this he knew, that the most hardened criminals had often shrunk from giving that testimony on oath which might have relieved their companions in the dock from the consequences of a conviction. He well knew the effect produced upon witnesses when they were reminded that they were speaking under the solemn obligation of an oath. He had himself frequently seen the difference of demeanour which such reminding had upon the witnesses in the box. If the person to be exempted from an oath were a Dissenter, a Separatist, or a Quaker, well and good; that was done, and could not now be undone; but here the person to be excused was a person professing to belong to the Church of England, who, if he consulted the pastor of his own church, would be told that it was not only not according to his duty, but that it positively was his duty, in matters affecting the discharge of public justice, to pledge his veracity upon the solemnity of an oath. What would be the practical effect of the measure? As often as a person thought he might be called as a witness, and that much might depend on his evidence, he could give it in a much looser manner than tinder the solemn obligation of an oath. He might be reminded that a man's life might be taken upon the affirmation of a Quaker; but this was no reason why persons professing the faith of the Protestant Church should be sheltered by a certificate. Depend upon it, if they passed this Bill, appeals would be made to juries to ask whether they could place the same reliance on evidence given under the protection of a certificate, and that given under the obligation of an oath.
 1252
 MR. LAW  said, that from information which he had received, he had been led to believe that there had been an irregularity in the passage of the Affirmation Bill to the House of Lords. He had been informed by one of the officers of the House that the title of the Bill had not been distinctly agreed to, nor put as a substantive question from the chair. The question, "That this be the title of the Bill," was necessary to be put, as he submitted, in order to perfect it. Other business had since been introduced, and as that question had not been audibly put at the time, the Bill had been irregularly sent up to the House of Lords.
 MR. LAW  said, that he should regret that the Bill should be said to have passed with his concurrence, as he believed its effect would be most injurious, and, if passed, they might as well shut up the courts of justice at once. In every civil case, the parties to any proceeding were entitled to have the best evidence they could get, given before the court on the most solemn veracity of the witness. If this measure were passed, any person might present himself who had possessed at one time a good character and a good half-crown, and deprive the parties of all the benefit of such evidence.
 MR. BOUVERIE  observed, that he was close to the chair at the time, and his own
 1255
 MR. T. D'EYNCOURT  said, that the usual course was, that the question could first be put, "That this be the title of the Bill;" and then the question that it be carried to the House of Lords. If this Bill had been actually taken to the House of Lords, there might be a difficulty; but the order of the House to that effect had not been yet obeyed, and the Bill was consequently still in the hands of the House.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  complained of the haste and absence of discussion which had marked the progress of this Bill. He did not wish that it should go forth to the public that the vote which had just been given should be considered as the deliberate act of a full House, but that, owing to accidental circumstances, the passing of this Bill had been facilitated in a manner most extraordinary. If the principle of such a Bill as this was good, it tended directly
 1251
 MR. NEWDEGATE  requested the hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich to reprint his Bill, as he now proposed to make a material alteration in a new clause, and there was considerable misapprehension on that side of the House as to what portion of the measure he intended to retain. Let the House have an opportunity of seeing the Bill in the shape in which the hon. Baronet intended to proceed with it.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that he recollected putting the question that the Bill be carried to the House of Lords by Mr. Wood, and his impression was that he had previously put the question relating to the title of the Bill; but if not, the title of the Bill might be added now, its omission would not vitiate prior proceedings.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that he understood the first question of the hon. and learned Member was, whether the title of the Bill would not be affected, as it had passed. He had replied that the last question had nothing to do with the title of the Bill. He really should have said, that his own impression was that he had put all the questions, and this was the opinion of the competent officers at the table. This question was almost a matter of course, and might have been put in a hurried manner. He recollected perfectly well putting the last question, as to the Bill being sent to the Lords, because he had the hon. and learned Member for Oxford in his eye at the time he put the question.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, if it was admitted that there had been some inadvertence as to putting the question as to the title of the Bill, the matter would stand thus: an hon. Member had been directed to take the Bill to the Lords, but it had not yet left the House, and it had not been signed by the clerk, therefore it was not too late to put the title to it. His own impression still was, that he had put the question.
 MR. E. H. BUNBURY , as a member of the Horsham Committee, begged to state that they believed they were bound by the existing state of the law to come to the decision at which they had arrived; it was their opinion, at the same time, that the state of the law was unsatisfactory, and he believed that was the opinion of every one who had carefully inquired into the subject. He hoped the hon. Baronet would not be induced to abandon the two principles of his clause, and that the clause would be retained, with the amendment suggested by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Cambridge University. He also considered that the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth was most valuable, and concurred in the propriety of removing all doubt, and settling the question.
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he thought that the suggestion of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton was deserving of great attention, that every district should be at liberty to decide whether its smoke was a nuisance or not. The only proper way for lessening the amount of smoke was by increasing the boiling room; but in a crowded town like Manchester that was impossible. Wherever there were manufactures of metals they must have smoke, and with regard to this class of works, he thought the provision in the eighth clause of this Bill much more objectionable than the preceding
 1263
 MR. TURNER  was not opposed to well-considered amendments of the law; as a proof of which, he might state, that if Her Majesty's Government did not take measures for the improvement of the Courts of Equity, he should think it his duty, next Session, to bring in a Bill for that purpose. He entertained very great objections to this Bill, however, and believed that nothing could be done by Parliament more prejudicial than to interfere, by means of commissioners, with the rights of property in this country. If there could be said to be any principle at all in the matter, he should say it was this, that the Legislature ought not to interfere unless a clear case of public necessity were made out. If such a case could, in the present instance, be said to exist, it must be considered equally to affect the landlord as the tenant; and, therefore, the proposed arrangement ought to be made compulsory, if made at all. As such a measure ought to rest upon general policy, he should not then enter into the details of the Bill, and should now confine himself to observing, that the measure before them left copyright tenure precisely in the same state in which it previously stood. He wished further to say, that in all cases of copyhold tenure, where mines and minerals existed, a great grievance was left unredressed. Upon these grounds, he thought it his duty to move, that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 MR. G. J. HEATHCOTE  said, that the Government, in whose blinds alone the measure should be placed, if at all, had already twice attempted to effect the object of the hon. Gentleman, and wholly failed, so complicated were the obstacles which in all directions presented themselves. The measure before the House presented the important objection, that it was a wholly one-sided legislation in relation to a species of tenure in which both parties connected with it were jointly interested. He did not himself desire to prevent the Bill from going into Committee; but he warned the Government and the House that there were exceeding difficulties in the way of dealing satisfactorily with this subject.
 MR. G. J. HEATHCOTE  said, that he was firmly of opinion that the system of giving refreshment tickets was one that was absolutely necessary, and impossible to be dispensed with. The people who came great distances to vote for a person, would think they were treated in a mean and inhospitable manner if those tickets were to be withheld. He did not see, either, that there could possibly be any corruption in so doing; as, if all the can-dates did the same thing, it could not operate unfairly to the interests of any one of them. He believed the system was nothing more than a little innocent harmless hospitality.
 MR. AGLIONBY , in moving the second reading of this Bill said, that he did not anticipate any serious opposition at that stage of the Bill, although several petitions had been presented against it; but these rather applied to the details to be considered in Committee, than to the principle of the measure. The Lord Chancellor had introduced, at the commencement of the last Session, a Bill very similar in its provisions to the present, but for some reason or other it had been allowed to drop without notice, and another measure was brought in, which also was not pressed. Why neither of these measures came down to that House, he could not say; but he referred to the matter with the view of showing that the Government had taken up the question last year. At the commencement of the present Session, he had asked whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce a measure on the subject during the present Session; and on
 1256 1257 1258
 MR. GOULBURN  opposed the clause, on the ground that it would subject an unsuccessful candidate to an inquiry into his conduct at the election, without his previously receiving notice that charges were intended to be brought against him.
 MR. WILLYAMS  said, he should give the most strenuous opposition in his power to this Bill, because he conceived it to be unnecessary and mischievous. It was also partial, inasmuch as it exposed certain manufactures to penalties, whilst it exempted others. He therefore, without further comment, moved that the Bill be read the second time that day six months.
 MR. BRIGHT  had, upon every occasion since he had been in Parliament, opposed the progress of all Bills under this denomination. Every Session confirmed his opinion that general legislation upon this subject was not practicable, and that if it were it could not be advantageous. He was pretty sure that the parties who had drawn up the Bill did not know much about the question, otherwise they would not have proposed it in its present shape. It included nobody but the manufacturers of the north of England. Collieries, ironworks, glass-houses, which produced infinitely more smoke than manufacturers' chimneys, were expressly excluded from its operation. But, if the Bill were necessary upon any general principle affecting the public health, it must be just as applicable to those establishments as to manufactories; and he had no sympathy with those legislators who, after having seen one deputation,
 1262
 MR. J. STUART  considered that their privileges formed a very important subject, securing as they did the independence of the votes of the Members of that House; and he held that that object could not be secured consistently with this Bill. For what was the principle of the measure? Why, to enable the creditor of any Member of that House to take steps in a summary way that might deprive that Member of his seat. And let them just conceive what would be the position of any Member liable to such proceedings by an individual creditor who wished to secure his vote on any particular question. He said, that anything more degrading than the situation of that Member whose independence might be thus struck at, it was impossible to conceive. That consideration of itself was sufficient to induce him to give his decided opposition to this Bill; for while he admitted that at present, in a sense, an injustice was done to the creditor, at the same time the paramount consideration he had mentioned ought not to be lost sight of. And he must say, that he was not aware of any case of practical inconvenience suffered by a creditor by reason of the privileges of Members of Parliament.
 MR. MULLINGS  would support the Bill, because he believed that persons who were not independent in their circumstances were destitute of one of the essential qualifications of a Member of that House. Bankrupt Members were not now allowed an immunity from the claims of their creditors; but with regard to insolvent Members there was an entire denial of justice to the creditor. The insolvent Member could dispose of his property without
 1245
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER , referring to the second Cheltenham Election Committee, last Session, said, that he had on that occasion been impressed with this consideration, that, whilst they were every Session endeavouring, by a sort of rambling legislation, to prevent bribery and corruption, they were wholly neglecting one important course of proceeding, by the adoption of which they might do much good, namely, that of settling by law those points in regard to bribery and treating which were constantly coming before them. He should be glad to see the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the actual state of the law on those subjects, and to see the points in which it required amendment. Last year, as was well known, two Committees came to different decisions on a question of this nature at the same time, and each Commit-tee by a casting vote. The clause before the House left this most important question just as much open as before; and it was possible that a candidate, being in a minority, and having, perhaps, only some thirty or forty votes, might, in the event of his opponent being unseated on the ground of bribery and treating, be declared the sitting Member in his place. If they left the law in the state in which it was, it would lead to endless petitions in future Parliaments. For his own part, he believed that the decision which had been come to in the Cheltenham case was the correct one, and that the decision in regard to the Horsham election was wrong. If he might offer a suggestion on this case before he sat down, he would say that they must decide this question in one of two ways—either declare that in no case should a Committee, pronouncing a Member disqualified
 1249
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  opposed the passing of the measure. He spoke after considerable experience in the police courts of the city, and he knew the great effect that the oath had upon the lower class of witnesses especially. In some of the city courts there were two Testaments, one with a cross upon the back, and one without, and he had found, in a vast number of instances, that Roman Catholics would give evidence upon the Testament without the cross, but refused to do so when the Testament with the cross was handed to them. Holding these opinions, he had twice recorded his opinion against the passing of this measure, and if any division now took place, he would adopt a similar course.
 MR. THORNELY  acknowledged that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Leamington had shown the greatest courtesy towards all parties who had made representations to him upon the subject of the measure. He (Mr. Thornely) had himself introduced to the hon. Member a deputation from South Staffordshire, upon whose representations he had agreed to exempt, in Committee, iron works, coal works, and glass works, from the operation of the Bill.
 1261
 MR. W. BROWN  said, that scientific men had failed to discover any effectual way for burning smoke. All the attempts that had as yet been made were deemed entire failures in the manufacturing districts; and until men of science could be found to agree among themselves on the matter, he did not think that the House ought to interfere.
 MR. MACKINNON  reminded the House that this identical measure had already gone twice through the House of Lords, and that during the last Session it passed the second reading in that House. The principle of it, therefore, had been affirmed by Parliament, and he did not think that upon examination it would be found so objectionable as the hon. Gentleman seemed to consider it.
 MR. MACKINNON : Sir, this is a question of considerable importance in its principle, and, feeling that importance, I will take the liberty of saying a few words on the reasons that will guide my vote on the occasion. If any one looks over the
 1241 Cessante ratione, cessat et ipsa lex 1242
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  stated, that the clause had his concurrence, but had been proposed by the hon. Member for Abingdon. The effect of the proviso would be to prevent the repetition of what had taken place last Session on more than one occasion,
 1247
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  announced, that it was his intention to withdraw the clause for the present, with a view of meeting the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Cambridge University; but he would bring up the clause in its amended form on the report.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON : I propose to postpone it to meet the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Cambridge University; but I will bring it for-ward again on the report.
 SIR T. COLEBROOKE  would suggest, that if it were desirable that such charges should be rebutted, it should be done in the same way as if it were done under a petition.
 SIR T. COLEBROOKE  would support the Bill, because he thought the reason for these privileges had ceased, and that if they were retained they ought not to be allowed to be exercised for discreditable purposes.
 SIR W. CLAY  moved, as an Amendment, that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. He gave the hon. Proposer full credit for the motives which had induced him to introduce the measure, but in his (Sir W. Clay's) opinion, it was objectionable alike in principle and details, and he felt it to be his duty to offer to its further progress a determined opposition. Since he had originally interfered to delay the passing of the Bill (and his first interference was in a great measure accidental), he had conversed with many hon. Friends to whose opinions he attached great weight, and the result of such and of his own reflection was, that the measure deserved fuller consideration than had yet been bestowed on it by the House. The objects of it were, that if any hon. Member should be indebted by the judgment of any court of record in any sum not secured by a lien on real property, his creditor might apply to the court to fix a peremptory time for the payment of the debt; the court might then fix a day for its payment, not less than 21 days distant; and if payment were not made in conformity with the order, the creditor might apply to the Insolvent Debtors' Court in England or Ireland, as the case might be, and serve on his debtor a copy of the affidavit and notice to pay; and the Insolvent Debtors' Court must order payment to be made in six months; and then if payment were not made, a certificate to that effect was to be transmitted to the Speaker, and the Member's seat would immediately become void. The adjudication would bring into operation all the stringent powers of the Insolvent
 1239 1240
 SIR W. CLAY , as chairman of the Cheltenham Election Committee, begged to make a few observations. The question had come before them as to whether it was competent for them to inquire into the alleged acts of previous bribery, and they were of opinion, after hearing counsel, that it was competent for them to do so, so that a man might be called upon to defend himself against a charge of bribery committed four or five years before. The clause before them would, he considered, obviate the difficulty, and he approved of the objects of it.
 MR. W. MILES  said, that the question depended upon what had fallen from the Speaker. If the title of the Bill had been put from the Chair, then there was an end of the matter; but if, unfortunately, by some inadvertence, this had not been done, then the point was as to whether or not a question had been omitted on which it was possible for the House to divide. It was desirable to know whether on the title of the Bill it was competent to take a division. He hoped, before the debate proceeded further, they would have the opinion of the Chair on this point.
 MR. DRUMMOND , before the Orders of the Day were read, craved permission of the House to make a statement in defence of the character of a constituent of his, who had been attacked, personally, on a former evening by the hon. Member for the city of Limerick. On that occasion he (Mr. Drummond) had deprecated the system of attacking individuals in their absence;
 1285 l l
 MR. GEATTAN  said, the simple question was this, that by the legislation of that House they had ruined Ireland. This was an answer to the right hon. Baronet's speech. The bad laws of England had made the Irish people bad. One class of the Irish people at this moment looked just as if they had come out of their graves, the other just as if they were going into them. He hoped hon. Gentlemen would consent to throw over the 4 l l l l s 1292 s
 MR. DRUMMOND  considered, that if anybody had acted wrongly in this matter, the law must take its course; that
 1295
 The CHAIRMAN  put the question in these words, "it shall not be lawful."
 MR. VERNON SMITH  had asked, on the second reading of the Bill, what would be the fund when the maximum rate was attained? The noble Lord at the head of the Government said, first come on the parish—then on the union—but, afterwards, there was a blank. The country was to be as it was before the poor-law, in other words, Irish poverty would have to come on English property. Against this, the noble Lord sets this, that capital would be encouraged to flow into Ireland; but what hopes were there of that? What said Mr. Aubrey de Vere—a very clear witness? The farmer would take no pains to keep down the maximum. The rate would jump up to that point at once. Estates would be taken accordingly, and pauperism would be where it was. He (Mr. V. Smith) protested against making bad laws to tempt capital into Ireland. In England all property is pledged to support the poor. Why not in Ireland? Another argument of Mr. de Vere was, that the variety of valuations in Ireland would make it still more uncertain which liabilities a farmer would incur. The measure would not introduce capital. It was merely an opinion—a theory of the noble Lord's, and would fail.
 MR. SHAFTO ADAIR  said, larger sums than 4 s d s d s
 MR. LAWLESS  hoped this discussion would not fail in bearing the best of fruits.
 1293
 MR. CLEMENTS  said, many Members were opposed to the maximum rate.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  apprehended that as the noble Lord desired to get this Bill through as soon as possible, it would be advisable to fix Monday.
 LORD C. HAMILTON  was as anxious as any one to go on. He thought the noble Lord should state when the subject would be renewed, as it was impossible to finish at that late hour.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, be should take the Parliamentary Oath Bill first, on Monday; and this Bill second, if not for Thursday.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the principal reason for the maximum rate was, that it would induce persons to occupy and cultivate land, giving greater means for sup-port of the poor. Nor was this theoretical;
 1322 s
 LORD J. RUSSELL  hoped the hon. Gentleman would go on with his objections to-night.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I rise to say only a few words on this subject, because, in fact, I have no objection to the proposal of the hon. Member for Middlesex, for an inquiry. I think the question is one of the highest importance. I think the evils referred to by the hon. Member for Middlesex, and so ably dwelt on by the hon. and learned Member who has just sat down, and who has brought his experience and knowledge of the law to bear upon the subject—I think those evils are such, that it is most desirable that, as far as we can, we should endeavour to apply a remedy to them. I should say, likewise, that the
 1315 1316
 LORD J. RUSSELL  thought Bills should be passed at once when the House had arrived at the third reading. He had agreed with other Members too on the subject. Besides, there were points in the poor-law still requiring amendment, He would rather adhere to the old arrangement.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, those who had argued the question had proceeded on the assumption that there was no call for money on the Consolidated Fund. Although the western unions were liable for the whole 40 s s s s s s s s s
 MAJOR BLACKALL  proposed to go on without further waste of time. On a matter of such vast importance, they ought to go on without the reporters. Whether it would be advisable to support a maximum rate at all, was a most important question.
 MR. STAFFORD  had meant yesterday to give notice to raise this question on the words "it shall not he lawful."
 MR. STAFFORD  could not but think there was one set of persons to whom the attention of the House had not been directed in reference to this subject. The county in which these scandalous occurrences took place was one where the famine had been very severe, and where the system of public works had been in the fullest operation. All the evils with which it pleased Heaven to visit Ireland, and which had been aggravated by the benevolent intentions but mischievous legislation of the House, had been there concentrated. It was one thing for a landlord with a competence, and another for a man who was engaged with his tenants in a struggle for life, to perpetrate such cruelty. There were districts in Ireland where there were landlords with whom it was not a question of the comforts, luxuries, or even decencies of life, but who were absolutely deprived of animal food, and depended for support solely on Indian corn. The law wisely compelled landlords to pay rates for tenants whose rents were under 4 l 1290
 MR. STAFFORD  thought it unfortunate that this Committee on the poor-law should begin at midnight, when it could not come on again till Monday night, owing to the arrangement of the Government. The noble Lord at the head of the Government said himself that this evening had not by any means been lost, as they had had a good debate. He (Mr. Stafford)
 1324 l s 1325
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  said, that the hon. Member for Northamptonshire had waxed very eloquent on the temptations to which he alleged that the legislation of that House had exposed the rich. When the hon. Member referred to the present horrible state of matters in Ireland, he rather stretched a point in attributing it to the want of a townland area of taxation. The House and the country were much obliged to the right hon. Baronet for the sympathy he had just expressed for the unfortunate people who had been evicted, but landlords must take proceedings to protect their families from destitution. He believed that much of the suffering under which Ireland now laboured, was owing to the poor-law, which had disheartened and driven out of the country those proprietors who would otherwise have found employment for the labouring poor. At present Ireland had a surplus population. There were four times the number of labouring poor in Ireland that there were in England. It was therefore necessary to have the colonisation principle resorted to, and the industrial resources called into action. Why not encourage railways? He rose principally to say, it was not by townland rating or a different system of poor-laws that the existing evils of Ireland were to be cured, but by the development of her industrial resources.
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  did not see why, if they were to proceed, they should not proceed at once. When every one complained of the poor-law, it was waste of time not to go on.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, the same gentleman said that this would not do without a diminished area of taxation.
 MR. F. FRENCH  explained. He never said that individuals should be relieved from the responsibility of their own acts. What he said was, that the right hon. Baronet should not have attempted to place upon individuals the consequences of a state of things which had resulted from his own legislation.
 MR. F. FRENCH  wished to call attention to the fact, that the question involved in the Motion of the hon. Member for Waterford had been entirely lost sight of in the discussion which had just taken place. It ought to be seen whether the statements made in support of that Motion were correct, or whether the allegations made bore out the statements put upon the Paper. He had no wish to detain the House, but he had heard the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth lay great stress on the report of the commissions, blaming the Irish landlords for the cruelty said to be practised in the eviction of tenants. He did not know that, such evictions had taken place. He had no evidence that they had, and that would not be the first time that the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth had quoted reports which afterwards turned out not to be true. He recollected evictions taking place which were laid upon the landlords, when in fact they were the result of a kind of Lynch law of the people. The neighbourhood had become infested with bad characters, and in order to get rid of them the houses were pulled down. That had been represented to be the work of the landlord. It was taken up by the hon. Member for Stroud, but excited little attention until the seal of the right hon. Member for Tamworth was put upon it, and a measure was introduced to put an end to such practices. It was not fair to attribute blame to the Irish landlords—the fact being that the blame was due to that House—to English statesmen who had forced a law upon Ireland (the poor-law) which her state was not fitted for. He
 1317
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, the question raised by his hon. Friend the Member for the city of Waterford was perfectly plain—namely, whether the property at present rated to the poor in Ireland was sufficient to support the poverty of the country. No one who had seen the returns laid before Parliament on the subject, could entertain a doubt that it was not sufficient. The sums collected, both in Ireland and in this country, from public and private sources, were enormous, but they had fallen short
 1304 s d 1305 l d l l
 COLONEL DUNNE , as an Irish landlord, expressed his abhorrence of these ejectments, which were as injudicious as they were cruel. He trusted that the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary for Ireland would institute an inquiry as to the names of the gentlemen who authorised those ejectments.
 COLONEL DUNNE  thought no progress could be made that evening.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, the expenditure
 1326 s s
 MR. SCULLY  would undertake to answer that question for the right hon. Gentleman. A very excellent committee was at present sitting in Dublin, called the General Relief Committee of Ireland, of which the Marquess of Kildare was the president, and he was sure these gentlemen would be very glad to receive the subscriptions of the charitably disposed in every quarter. Turning to the subject more immediately before the House, he believed that the middlemen in Ireland had caused much of the evil of ejectments, and regretted that that class had had so much to do with estates in Ireland. If the hoards of guardians had neglected their duty towards the unfortunate, still the Government was not on that account absolved from the obligation not to suffer the evicted families to perish. On the property of Lord Stanley in Ireland, there were eighty-nine families; and the middleman had allowed the arrears to accumulate to such an extent that it was found the people could not help themselves. The noble Lord had the people sent to Limerick, that they might be conveyed to America; and having seen that they were comfortably provided for, sent them 1 l
 SIR H. W. BARRON  explained that what he stated was, that the poor-law had failed in supporting the poor, and therefore crime had increased.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  brought forward the Motion of which he had given notice. He observed that the property in England rated to the poor was much underrated at 67,000,000 l l l l l l 1296 1297 1298 l l 1299 l l l l 1300 insouciant
 MR. GRATTAN  had long been a Member of the House, and he had never known a case where a Member, whoso speech for five minutes was not reported, should get up and deprive the public of the means of knowing what took place. He should move an adjournment in order to decide this question. When Mr. Wyndham was not reported, he did not act thus. He proceeded with his speeches. Why punish him who meant to make a good speech on that question? He confessed he was a young man, and vain, and wanted his speech reported. His (M. Grattan's) hon. Friend might not care. Don't let us make ourselves ridiculous in the eyes of the country.
 MR. GRATTAN  said, as to dividing, he would do what the House liked.
 MR. GRATTAN  begged pardon. He had moved to report progress.
 MR. H. HERBERT  remarked, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had affirmed that the question which was
 1291
 MR. H. HERBERT  thought the principle of a maximum rate would compensate for the vice of the Bill. There was nothing remedial in the Bill. There would be future calls on the imperial exchequer. 4 s d
 MR. H. HERBERT  had quoted from a public paper.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, it was of importance for the sake of others. If the House were satisfied, he could not help it. He complained of unfairness. He bad seen messengers of the gallery speaking with the reporters. It might be ludicrous; but he would stand up for the right of Members to be treated fairly. He feared he must deprive his Friend of the pleasure of seeing his speech in print.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL : Sir, after the specimen of fairness which I experienced when I was going to express my opinion on the poor-law just before the last division, there is but one course left me—either to insist upon the House enforcing justice to its Members, or by doing away with an absurd practice; and therefore, Sir, I see strangers present (waving his hat towards the reporters' gallery).
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, though the hon. Member for West Surrey was under a mistake in attributing the attack upon Mr. Dawson to him—the hon. Member for Tipperary having been the Member who made it—he would, nevertheless, take upon himself to reply to the hon. Member's statement. It would be perceived by the House that the facts were not denied by Mr. Dawson; he admitted, on the contrary, that 500 or 600 persons were turned out of their homes, and their houses levelled to the ground. It was an aggravation of the injury and wrong on the part of the rev. gentleman to call those poor people a nest of thieves and murderers. That was charitable in a minister of God. A great number of these poor people had got unstamped receipts for their rents from Mr. Dawson's agent, Mr. Richard Evers Wilson; and those who knew anything of Ireland knew very well that this circumstance enabled the landlord to eject them at a moment's notice. He (Mr. J. O'Connell) had no doubt that a great number of the poor of Ireland were driven to theft and the commission of crime; and he only wondered there were not more of them, such was their frightful misery. He held, however, in his hand the strongest testimony of the good conduct of the people more immediately in question from the clergyman of the district
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  begged to observe that his hon. Friend had understated the case, for not only had the 15,000 persons been evicted, but the 1,200 also. There was no future tense in the matter: it was already a  fait accompli
 MR. J. REYNOLDS  observed, that it would be difficult to exaggerate the evils of the present system of ejectment in Ireland. By a return dated the 19th of February, 1849, of the number of ejectments in the Courts of Queen's Bench and Exchequer in Ireland, in the three years from Hilary Term 1846, to Hilary Term 1849, both inclusive, the following ejectments took place;—
 MR. NAPIER  concurred in much that had been said by the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had just sat down. The evils which he had so well described were dragging Ireland down into the deepest abyss of miseryand degradation; and he (Mr. Napier) therefore implored the House not to suffer the present Session to close without passing some measure for their removal. He had ascertained, during the recent recess, that upwards of 2,000,000 l l l 1311 l l 1312 s l 1313 1314
 MR. P. SCROPE  begged to notice the report of Captain Kennedy, the inspector, respecting the Kilrush union; in which he said that within the last twelve months 15,000 persons had been driven from their houses by this horrid system of wholesale eviction, and that 1,200 more were in process of eviction; the result being the crowding together of several families into a single room, where death diminished their number in the course of a few weeks. Considering that the Government were in some degree responsible for the lives of the people, and seeing that the Eviction Act of last year had been almost wholly inoperative, he wished to be informed whether they would not feel it to be incumbent on them to introduce some measure to strengthen that law with a view to put an end to evictions which were a disgrace to this country in the eyes of Europe.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, the reasons which were given by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland for opposing the Amendment were, that that amendment, if carried, would have the effect of repealing the Irish Poor Law. If it had that effect, he would certainly give a still stronger support to the Amendment, and vote for it with a greater good-will than he could otherwise do. He was not opposed to a poor-law for Ireland, but opposed to the present law, as totally unsuited to the country—as opposed to the habits and prejudices of the Irish people. The poor-law was inefficient, inasmuch as it did not support the poor, but made them poor indeed. The right hon. Baronet (the Irish Secretary) said the people were suffering under a three years' famine; but he held out no hope that next year the famine would not appear in an aggravated form, or that suitable means would be taken to meet the calamity. Neither the House nor the Government had taken measures to counterbalance the effects of this dreadful calamity—not from any want of disposition, but from an ignorance of the social condition of the people, and the state of the country generally. The hon. Baronet the
 1306 l 1307 "All your measures for drainage, for local improvements, and for emigration, "will be ineffectual, unless you can cure this monster evil arising out of the condition of landed property in the Court of Chancery. If you could relieve those estates from the control of the Court of Chancery, you would do more for the advancement of Ireland than by any other measure you can adopt." Rem quocwnque modo rem 1308 l l v l s v 1309 l l Irish Jurist l l s 1310 l "The system of receivers is a disgrace to this country, and the country never can nor will prosper till the present receivers are removed root and branch, and the management placed under some public and responsible body."
 MR. SLANEY  thought hon. Gentlemen who ascribed the calamities of Ireland to the legislation of that House, ought to hear in mind that a great proportion of them were owing to a dispensation of Providence. A country where the land was so minutely divided and subdivided as was the case in Ireland, could not be expected to pass through the transition to a hotter state of culture under larger holdings without much individual suffering; and when the failure of the potato crop was superadded, he thought he had said enough to account for the present evils of Ireland. He wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland. At the present moment, notwithstanding the many previous advances and subscriptions made for the relief of Irish distress, he still believed that many persons in England would be willing to make a further effort to assist Ireland in her present extreme distress, if it were only known that there was in existence some regularly authorised body,
 1294
 MR. MONSELL  thought it would be advisable to take a discussion on the maximum rate on the first clause. He considered it likely that the discussion would be long, and therefore ought not to be proceeded with at so late an hour.
 SIR A. BROOKE  thought it would be better to recall the gallery.
 SIR G. GREY  was not surprised that the evictions which had taken place in the Kilrush union should have attracted the attention of the hon. Member for Stroud. When, however, the hon. Member said that the Act of last Session was inoperative, he should remember that it was not passed to prevent evictions in cases of breach of engagement or nonpayment of rent, but to check illegal evictions, and to
 1287
 SIR G. GREY  said, that he had received no information whatever of the proceedings of the late meeting of the National Society, except what was derived from the reports in the newspapers and from private sources of information. The hon. Member had given notice for the production of all the correspondence which had taken place on the subject, and as that would be laid upon the table on an early day, it would satisfactorily explain the positions occupied by the National Society and the Committee of the Privy Council on Education.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the questions had not yet come officially or otherwise before the Committee in Council, and that therefore he could not say what course the Committee in Council would take respecting any resolutions that might be transmitted to them by the Archbishop of Canterbury, as Chairman of the Committee of the National Society.
 SIR R. PEEL : I am quite aware of the difficulty of applying any legal remedy in these eases, but I think it is possible that the expressions of indignation on the part of the House of Commons may have some effect in checking the exercise of the power of legal ejectment. I must say, I do not think that the records of any country, civil or barbarous, present materials for such a picture as is set forth in the statement of Captain Kennedy. I presume that statement is correct, contained, as it is, in a public and official document, presented by the Executive Government by order of the Crown, for the consideration and guidance of Parliament in their proceedings, and emanating from a gentleman, an officer, I believe, in Her Majesty's service. That statement, therefore, I presume to be of unquestionable veracity. Captain Kennedy says, that in one union, at the time of the famine, and in one year, 15,000 persons had been driven from their homes; and he states that after the exercise of that power in one year, it would hardly be credited that within the last month there have been 1,200 additional cases. He then proceeds to give individual instances, and, in showing the consequences of these evictions, mentions three facts. And three such tragical instances I do not believe were ever presented
 1288
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that he could not silently acquiesce in the rebuke passed upon him by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Roscommon. All the regret he had to express was, that he had rather understated the case of parties in Ireland; for, on looking again at the reports, he found that he had painted it very faintly and feebly. When he believed the Irish landlords and gentlemen had injustice done to them, he had not been slow to vindicate them; but, in his opinion, the Irish Gentlemen themselves ought to be the first to disclaim any connexion with the acts to which reference had been made in the early part of the evening. He assumed that the papers laid upon the table of that House were correct. He presumed that Her Majesty's Government would not lay-documents there for the guidance and conduct of hon. Members in legislation, without being themselves convinced that those documents had not been grossly exaggerated. Did he make any attacks on Irish landlords generally? Did he throw upon individuals a charge which might be justly attributable to legislation? He had indeed said, that there were particular instances cited by Captain Kennedy which should not be laid upon the table, and one day suffered to elapse without inquiring into them. It was easy to say the House of Commons was responsible for these instances. Let others do what they would, all the blame was charged upon the House of Commons; but was legislation, or any particular body, responsible for the acts he was going to mention? Was the House of Commons responsible for the following-act mentioned in Captain Kennedy's report?—
 "In a cow-shed, adjoining this wretched cabin, I found 'Ellen Lynch,' lying in an almost hopeless state of dysentery. She had been carried thither by her son, when 'thrown out' of her miserable lodging, and was threatened with momentary expulsion from even this refuge by the philanthropic owner of it; her only safety rested in the fears of all but her son to approach her." 1318 "While inspecting a stone-breaking depot, a few days since, I observed one of the men take off his remnant of a pair of shoes and start across the fields; I followed him with my eye; and, at a distance, saw the blaze of a fire in the bog. I sent a boy to inquire the cause of it, and the man running from his work, and was told, that his house had been levelled the day before—that he had erected a temporary hut on the lands, and, while his wife and children were gathering shellfish on the strand, and he breaking stones, the bailiff, or 'driver,' fired it." "I need not enter upon the financial condition of the union, which the estimates forwarded will sufficiently explain. I need only remark, that I anticipate a respectable collection this week, and for some weeks to come: but certainly not sufficient to meet more than half the current expenses of the union for food alone." 1319
 MR. W. MILES  said, that seeing the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department in his place, he wished to know whether his attention had been called to the report of the annual meeting the other day of the National Society, at which the management clauses came under discussion? The Arch-bishop of Canterbury presided, and, after eight hours' debate, certain resolutions, upon which he would found a question,
 1284 "That this meeting acknowledges the care and attention of the committee in conducting the correspondence pending with the Committee of the Privy Council on Education, and regrets to find that a satisfactory conclusion has not yet been attained. Secondly, that while this meeting desires fully to co-oporate with the State in promoting the education of the people, it is under the necessity of declaring that no terms of co-operation can be satisfactory which shall not allow to the clergy and laity full freedom to constitute schools upon such principles and models as are both sanctioned and recommended by the order and the practice of the Church of England. Thirdly, that in particular they should desire to put the management of their schools solely in the hands of the clergy and bishops of the diocese."
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  had received a communication from the Nenagh board of
 1286
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  thought that his hon. Friend's conclusion was a  non sequitur 1303
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that it was quite unnecessary for his hon. Friend to make any apology to the House, for there was no Member of it who must not feel deeply interested in the present condition of Ireland; and certainly no Irish Member could feel indifferent to the unfortunate social prostration to which the industry of that country had been reduced. He did not know whether he should interpret the speech of his hon. Friend correctly, if he said that his hon. Friend's remarks went to the entire repeal of the Irish poor-law. His hon. Friend had drawn a lamentable picture of the social condition of Ireland. He had alluded to the distressed condition of the gentry, to the rapidly deteriorating resources of the farming population, and to the frightful state
 1301 1302
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  understood the hon. Gentleman's question to he, whether or not the Commissioners had had reason to change the instructions given in these circulars. He had only to reply, that the circulars had been issued after consulting the most eminent counsel—the Attorney General of Ireland and others; and he had never heard that there had been any ground for considering them to he inconsistent with the law.
 An HON. MEMBER : From what quarters?
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  said, he apprehended that courts of justice were not established for the benefit of judges and attorneys, but for the benefit of the public.
 MR. GORING  said, it appeared to him that hon. Gentlemen showed they knew nothing of the habits of the Jews by the arguments they had used in favour of the Bill. If a Jew came to the table of that House to take the oaths, and took it on the faith of a Christian, he would be held up to contempt before other hon. Members. They had been told that the circumstance of admitting' Jews to the franchise was a strong argument for the measure; but this was answered by the Bill itself; for it only proposed to do away with a portion of the oath for Members of Parliament, and it did not allow them accession to higher offices. It had been said that the Jews were only excluded accidentally: this might be a very fair argument for special pleading, but there was no reasonable ground for such an assumption. They had been told a great deal about Christian charity and toleration; but he conceived there was a duty he owed to God before that which he owed to his neighbour. He believed, by passing this Bill, they were doing an act by which they dishonoured God and our Saviour; he, therefore, should oppose its further progress.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  would not oppose the introduction of the Bill. He did not deny the grievance of which the noble Lord complained; but there were difficulties in the way of a settlement. There were six attorneys, four counsel, a judge, and sundry officers who had purchased their places at a considerable price, and to whom compensation, in the event of the court being abolished, would require to be given. He had had the circumstances connected with this court under consideration, and it was his intention to bring in a Bill to meet the exigencies of the case, but hitherto he had not found time or opportunity to do so. The best course would be to abolish the court. That was the object he had in view, but he had not yet been able to overcome the difficulties that lay in the way.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the Palace Court had been recognised in a variety of Acts of Parliament, and it might be urged that Parliament should not, therefore, treat it now as an illegal institution.
 MR. LAW : Sir, in rising to make the Motion of which I have given notice, that the Bill be read a third time this day three months, I bog to assure the House, that nothing but an urgent sense of duty would induce me to present myself on this the last stage of the proceeding, to the exhausted attention of hon. Members; but the important alterations the Bill has undergone in the Committee (if not at the instance, yet with the acquiescence of the noble Lord who introduced the measure), render it necessary on my part to explain the objections I feel as well to the amended form of oaths, as to the dangerous innovations comprehended in the principle of this Bill. Nor is this the less necessary from the unusual circumstance of the exclusion of strangers at that precise period when the construction of the form of oath to he substituted was the subject of earnest and animated discussion in a comparatively thin House. Nor can it be deemed of small importance to ascertain whether more than two hundred dissentients from a measure having the same object, and introduced by the noble Lord in the last Session of Parliament, are still animated with the same sentiments, and equally prepared to record their votes in opposition to this Bill. The main object, however, of the
 1374 1375 status "There is a portion (it is there stated) of the natural-born subjects of this nation whose case is in some respects peculiar. The Jews born within
 1376 status Judaica, or the History of the Jems in England; Judœi et omnia sua Regis sunt," 1377 venire facias sex probos et legales homines, et sex legales Judœos coram justiciariis nostris ad custodiam Judœorum assignatis: "The justices of the Jews were such persons as attended in a particular part of the Great Exchequer, called  Scaccarium Judœorum Judaismi History of the Exchequer supersedeas Secundum, legem et constitutionem Judaismi; "Notwithstanding the charter of privileges granted by King John to the Jews, he claimed an absolute property in them, and the right of discharging a debt due to the Jews as a debt due to himself."— Anglia Judaica Be Judaismo 1378 "Nullus Judæus implacitet, vel placitare possit per brevia nostia originatia de Cancellariâ, sed tantium coram Justiciarns nostris ad costodiam Judiæorum assignatis per Brevia Judaismi consueta et hactenus usitata." "And the King also grants that they may practise merchandise, or live by their labour, and for those purposes freely converse with Christians. Excepting that upon any pretence whatevcr they shall not be levant or couchant amongst them, nor on account of their merchandise, be in scots, lots, or talliage, with the other inhabitants of those cities or boroughs where they remain, seeing they are talliable to the King as his own vassals, and not otherwise." "Moreover the King grants that such as are unskilful in merchandise and can't labour, may take lands to farm for any term not exceeding ton years, provided no homage, fealty, or any such kind of service or advowson to Holy Church be belonging to them." locus standi 1379 De Judaismo "To His Highness the Lord Protector of the Commonwealth of England, Scotland, and Ireland," and entitled "The humble address of Manasseh Ben Israel, &c., in behalf of the Jewish nation, to grant us place in your country, that we may have our Synagogues and free exercise of our religion, &c. &c. as our brethren do in Italy, Germany, Poland, and many other places, &c." Then followed "A Declaration to the Commonwealth of England by Rabbi Manasseh Pen Israel, showing the motives of his coming into England." 1380 status l l 1381 dicta "But this is a bequest for the propagation of the Jewish religion, and though it is said that this is a part of our religion, yet the intent of this bequest must be taken to be in contradiction of the Christian religion, which is a part of the law of the land, which is so laid down by Lord Hale, and Lord Raymond: and it undoubtedly is so, for the constitution and policy of this nation is founded thereon." 1382 status 1383 Statutum Judaismo "Take away the religious difference, and there would be no more reason for treating the Jews as aliens, than any of the other races which compose the elements of our mixed population." "By giving your assent to this Bill you will be hastening the approach of the time when the veil shall be taken away from the eyes of the people for whose relief it is designed." 1384 History of the Jews "Refusing still to mingle their blood with any other race of mankind, they dwell in their distinct families and communities; and still maintain, though sometimes long and utterly unconnected with each other, the principle of national unity. Jews in the indelible features of the countenance, in mental character, in customs, usages and laws, in language and literature, above all in religion, in recollections of the past, and in the hopes of the future. Denizens everywhere, rarely citizens even in the countries in which they have been the longest and most firmly established, they appear to a certain degree strangers or sojourners; they dwell apart, though mingling with neighbours in many of the affairs of life." "For common purposes they adopt the language of the country they inhabit, hut the Hebrew  remains 1385
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  moved for leave to bring in a Bill for giving a person sued in the Palace Court, Westminster, a right of election to he sued in the county court of the district in which he resided. The evils of the Palace Court were so notorious, that it would be unnecessary for him to make more than a few observations in order to point them out to the House. He hoped it was not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to offer any opposition to this Motion. If there were any any benefit greater than another which a Government could confer on the inhabitants of a country, it was that of bringing cheap justice home to every man's door. Now, the Palace Court prevented that from being done. It exposed those who were engaged in litigation to enormous and most disastrous consequences. The fees which were charged in that court were ten times as large as those charged in any other of the courts that took cognisance of similar causes. The consequence was, that being a court for adjudication of cases in whtch the demands were of small amount, those wretched persons who were dragged into it, were frequently reduced to absolute ruin. It was quite enough for a plaintiff to bring his cause into the Palace Court to insure to himself a verdict. The defendant had only to consent at once to what was demanded of him; because it was notorious that the verdict was always in favour of the plaintiff. So much was this known to be the case, that the court was commonly called "The Plaintiffs' Court." The public had been made familiar with the case of the celebrated writer Jacob Omnium, who in a case with a horse-dealer involving a sum of only 2 l s l 1435
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said: Before this House goes to a division upon this last occasion upon which they will have to divide on this Bill, I wish to take notice of some of the arguments that have been used in this debate. In the first place, I should notice that which does not concern the admission of the Jews, but was used as an argument by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge, that if this Bill passed, Roman Catholics would take advantage of that part of it which allowed another oath to which they had no objection to be taken, and would not take the oath prescribed by law for Roman Catholics. I cannot believe that such would be the case. In the first place, you have, according to this Bill, all the penalties entailed on those who, professing the Roman Catholic religion, should omit to take the oath prescribed for those who are Roman Catholics, and your penalties will subject
 1428 1429 1430
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I cannot correctly answer the right hon. Gentleman's question as to what has taken place in another House of Parliament; but what I have heard from Earl Grey is this—that Lord Elgin is generally in the habit of transmitting to him newspapers of any interest relating to Canadian affairs, and that he has received newspapers from Lord Elgin on this occasion, but without any reference, official or private, to them as containing correct accounts of what passed in the Canadian Assembly. I certainly should object to lay on the table a vast mass of reports of debates. I am told the persons who endeavour to give accurate reports in the House of Lords do not always succeed in doing so, owing to the difficulty of ascertaining correctly what passes there; and I do not think this House would adopt a very wise
 1373
 LORD J. RUSSELL  was aware that the former question of the right hon. Gentleman certainly did relate to Motions that had been entered properly on the journals of the House of Assembly. He did not know whether any of them could be taken from the Canadian newspapers, but would inquire.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  then moved the third reading of the Parliamentary Oaths Bill.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that though the Attorney General had not moved the first reading of the Bill, he had fixed it for consideration before the other orders that day se'nnight. At the same time he must say, though he concurred in the general objects of the Bill, that there was yet a great deal too much matter of a complicated kind in the Bill and in its arrangements and details to enable him (Lord J. Russell) to say that the Government would take it up with all possible expedition. He hoped, however, the House might he enabled to pass the Bill in its general principles and arrangements in the course of the present Session. He understood certain representations had been sent up to the House of Lords as to the appointments and salaries under the Bill, to which their Lordships were bound to give attention. He should much regret to see the House obliged to appoint a Committee to inquire into claims and salaries after the Bill had been passed; and it appeared much better that the House should appoint a Committee previous to the passing of the Bill, than after it had become an Act of Parliament.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : As far as I am concerned, I have had no notice whatever of the hon. Member's question, and I did
 1369
 MR. RAPHAEL , in seconding the Amendment, said, that though this new Bill, instead of being called "The Jews' Bill," came to them under the more refined appellation of "The Parliamentary Oaths Bill," the object of both measures was the same—namely, the introduction of Jews to Parliament—homage being thus paid to Mammon. He had always been a staunch supporter of Her Majesty's Government, and whether he received their smiles or their frowns they would always find him in their hour of need; but having opposed this Bill silently hitherto, he felt that it now behoved him to say a few words. He had heard nothing new in favour of this Bill, except what had fallen from the hon. Member for Leominster, whose first speech had not only justified, but even exceeded, the expectations of the House and the public. Great as was his admiration for that hon. Gentleman's talents, he must confess that he had not been proselyted. His main objection was unremoved; and as other hon. Gentlemen had repeated their line of argument, he would briefly repeat his own. This was a Christian country, having a Christian Monarch, a Christian constitution, and a Christian House of Commons. Although hon. Members might differ on minor points, they all hoped to be saved by and through the merits of one Lord and Saviour; and this
 1386 Koran á fortiori vi et armis
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down, being a Roman Catholic, had rebuked the hon. Member for St. Albans, because, being also a Roman Catholic, he would preserve the Christian character of that House. He (Mr. Newdegate) confessed that it appeared to him to be rather anomalous that Roman Catholics—who belonged to the most exclusive of all Christian sects—should appear as the advocates of the most ultra liberalism in matters of religious opinion in that House. Was it that they were so exclusive in their Christianity as to despise Christianity in every form except that of their own exclusive Church? Were they liberal elsewhere? How was it that these ultra liberals were themselves opposed to the foundation of constitutional liberty at Rome, the very centre, as it were, of their religion? How did it happen that those who considered constitutional liberty incompatible with religion at Rome—so exclusive would they have the dominion of their form of Christianity at its centre—appeared in that House as the advocates of a lax morality? He had risen, however, principally for the purpose of recalling to the recollection of the noble Lord the Member for London the words which he had used on the occasion of the introduction of this Bill. The noble Lord, on that occasion, had said that—
 "On this subject he must again maintain that they had no right to exclude from that House any subjects of this realm who should be elected, except on the ground that some of their doctrines and opinions were such as to render them unfit to be Members of the House, or incompetent to discharge its duties." 1389 "But, with regard to the Talmud, if any man pretended to say it was a work of perfection, and contained nothing but what was perfectly good, believe him not. If any pretended to say that the Talmud was a work of utter reprobation, that it contained nothing but what was reprehensive, believe him not. If any man pretended to say that the doctrines which the Talmud inculcated—the doctrines which are received and acted upon, and have been received and acted upon for centuries by the house of Israel—are unsocial or immoral, tell him plainly it is not true; and if he should point out to some out of the way opinion, some unsocial expression, turn upon him and ask, him, 'Is this opinion received and recognised by the synagogue? Does it form part of the laws which the Jews obey, or is it merely recorded in the minutes as something that was said, as something that was done?' " Entdecktes Judenthum "1. The Jews are by law required to exact usury from the uncircumcised, or non-Jews, with whom they may happen to have money dealings; to do them all possible injury, and to lend them no helping hand in cases of need and emergency. This law of doing mischief to the non-Jew is as positive and binding to the non-Jew as that of abstaining from doing that to the Jew.—Maimondes, 'Sepher Hamizwoth' (Book of the Positive Laws), fol. 74 col. 4. Ibid. 'Yad Hazakah' (Powerful Hand), sect. Judges, chap. v. "2. A non-Jew is not held as a competent witness in matters of any dispute or monetary transactions in a Jewish court.—' Choshen Mishpot' (Grand Code of Civil Law), fol. 40, sec. 19. "3. The Jew is prohibited, by pain of excommunication, from bearing witness in a court of justice against a brother Jew who is sued by a non-Jew for the restoration of property or repayment of money lent.—' Shulchan Aaruch Choshen Mishpot' (Epitome of the Grand Code of Civil Law) sec. 25. Maimonides, Yad Hazakah,' part
 1390 1; ' "4. The marriage of a non-Jew is considered null and void, and no crime of adultery is therefore committed with the wife of the same.— ' " 5. There is a positive dogma laid down that more attention is to be paid by the Jews to the words of the rabbins, than to even those of the law (Moses), and that he who slights the former is not considered a Jew, and is sure to go to hell.—Tractat ' Baveh Meziah' (Law about Things Lost and Found, fol. 33, col. 1), Massechteh Sophrinoth (sec. Books and Authors, chap. 15, fol. 13): Tractat ' Eruvin' (Laws about the Eves of Festivals), fol. 21, col. 2; Tractat 'Haguayah' (Festivals), fol. 10, col. 1. "6. On the eve of the grand fast festival, or atonement day, the congregation is solemnly absolved by the high priest and the elders, by a solemn prayer before the altar in the synagogue, from all vows, oaths, promises,  &c &c.)" 1391 1392 1393 1394 ultra-montane 1395
 MR. GOULBURN  was not surprised that the right hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House, from which he had been himself some time excluded, should sympathise with those who, under differ-ent circumstances, were placed in a similar situation. But the right hon. Gentleman would give him leave to say, that he presumed the noble Lord who introduced this Bill was anxious to give him the benefit of a continued sympathy, as he had carefully omitted from his Bill the elevation of the excluded class to an official position in the country. He retained the obstruction which prevented the admission of Jews to office; and, therefore, when he gave the right hon. Gentleman the opportunity of rejoicing at their admission into Parliament, he left him the greater blessing of sympathising with their afflictions in their exclusion from office. He (Mr. Goulburn) was prepared to resist this measure as one which altered the character of Parliament, and, therefore, affected the hold which Parliament had on the affections of the country. That was the great objection which he felt to the Bill before the House. But he knew that other object-
 1410 1411 1412 in 1413 1414 1415 1416
 MR. HERRIES  was not asking for de-hates, hut for extracts from the proceedings of the House of Assembly, such as had been laid on the table of the other House.
 MR. HERRIES  said, that, in the absence of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of the Colonics, he took the liberty of applying to the noble Lord at the head of the Government on the subject of those extracts from papers of which, on several occasions, he had to ask the production. He did so in consequence of a question which had been addressed to the noble Earl at the head of the Colonial Department in another place. The noble Earl, in reply to that question, stated that the information which he had on that subject was derived from the Canadian newspapers, and that Lord Elgin, in a private letter, referred to the reports that appeared in various newspapers of the debates, and said that information would be derived from them. Now, on a former occasion, he (Mr. Herries) had suggested that possibly these extracts with respect to the Legislative
 1372
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  asked whether the views of the British Government, as explained by the noble Lord, were quite consistent with the principles professed by them, of not intermeddling in the affairs of foreign countries; and whether the noble Lord was aware of any want of sincerity on the part of his Holiness the Pope with regard to the giving of those institutions?
 MR. PLUMPTRE  said, in reference to the remarks of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield and others, that it did appear to him to be a very questionable way for any man to show his love for the great Author of our religion, by endeavouring to introduce parties into that House who said that he was a deceiver and an impostor. The hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, too, had used the strong expression, that there was excitement prevalent among the people of this country, in favour of this Bill. He (Mr. Plumptre) begged, however, to say, in contradiction of that statement, that the people were not excited at all upon the subject; and that the hon. and learned Member had given them no proof of anything of the sort. It was true, that a portion of the citizens of London had returned a gentleman of the Jewish persuasion, as one of their representatives; but, if that circumstance was to be held forth as a proof that the people of this country were in favour of this measure, he must deny it altogether, and maintain, that the desire of the people for this Bill, was not shown by their petitions to that House. He asserted, without fear of contradiction, that the most reflecting and sober-minded of the people of this country, were exceedingly opposed to this measure, and considered that it would be an injury to Christianity, if Jews were admitted to Parliament, and, that those who proposed and passed such measures as these, were undertaking a very deep and serious responsibility.
 MR. REYNOLDS  rejoiced that his noble Friend had taken up this question, and he hoped that the House would also consent to abolish the twin sister of this court—he meant the Record Court in Dublin, and that the public would not hear of any unjust provisions for giving compensation to parties connected with it. There could be no nuisance abolished at the present day without an outcry being raised for giving some parties or other compensation.
 MR. ROEBUCK  hoped the House would be kind enough to excuse him if he entered into the discussion of this question on the third reading of the Bill before the House. The example had been set him by Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House; and, in consequence of that example, he would also enter into this discussion now. However, if this had been a measure of what was called a democratic character, such as a question brought in by the hon. Member for Montrose, respecting the alteration of the constitution of that House, and had been negatived once, and its supporters were again twice, or even thrice, to bring it before the House for discussion, he thought they would very soon have been met by hon. Gentlemen opposite saying—" Why, we have discussed this matter already—it has already occupied the attention of Parliament once this Session—why should you want us to discuss it over again, when this House has already deliberately considered and rejected it? "Such an argument as that would have been very forcibly used if the question had been such an one as he had just supposed. But though the House had, he believed, already discussed this question three times, hon. Gentlemen opposite were not satisfied, but dug up their old arguments, and attempted to galvanise them with new life, with the view, he imagined, of influencing the decision of the other House of Parliament. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge had spoken of the fate of this Bill in the other House, which he had been pleased to describe as composed of persons more likely to listen to arguments drawn from religious considerations, and as an assembly in which questions of theology and religious belief could be more authoritatively stated than they could be in this House, giving them altogether to understand that the House of Lords could better judge of what was fitted for the religious government of this country than could the representatives of the people. He (Mr. Roebuck) had every possible respect for the other House of Parliament, but could not concur in thinking it composed of a class whose religious character or ability was superior to that of any other section of the community. In his experience it was not in that class
 1417 1418 1419 1420 1421 Provincial Letters á priori 1422 1423 1424
 MR. SADLEIR  was in favour of the Bill, not, however, from the desire to work out the conversion of the Jews, which appeared to be the feeling which inspired the
 1399 1400 1401 1402
 MR. J. STUART  asked if it was the intention of Government to proceed without delay with the Bankruptcy Bill, which
 1371
 MR. HUME : But Rome is mentioned specially in the message as one of the objects of policy in which we approved of the policy of France.
 MR. HUME  said, that seeing the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs now in his place, he begged to know whether he had rightly understood him to say, on a former occasion, that the French Minister had communicated to him the intention of the French Government previous to the expedition to Civita Vecchia; and, if so, whether that communication included the march of the French to Rome? He would also be glad to know if the noble Lord approved or disapproved of what happened subsequently to the expedition to Civita Vecchia?
 MR. HUME : What answer did you give?
 MR. HUME  further inquired whether any intimation had been made to the noble Lord of the intention of the French Government to go to Rome, or to attempt to take possession of Rome?
 MR. HUME  said, he had requested the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, to be in his place, as he intended to ask him a question with respect to the proceedings of the French against Rome. It was alleged publicly, in the French President's message, that this country agreed in all the proceedings the French had been carrying on against Rome, and as, in his (Mr. Hume's) view of those proceedings, they had been of a most objectionable nature—considering that the Government of this country depended on the will of the people as well as the Government of France and the Government of Rome, it was with regret he saw we were involved in the speech of the President in such a matter at all. He wished to ask, therefore, in what way we were connected with those proceedings, and how far our connexion extended?
 MR. NAPIER  fully agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down that the question ought not to be decided on personal grounds. He thought, however, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had proved too much; for if his argument was good for anything, it went to show that oaths ought to be totally abolished, and pecuniary qualification also, if it was to rest merely on the opinion of a large constituency who were fit to be Members of that House. The real question before them was, whether Christianity was the basis of the constitution? and if it were so, he would ask where was the man who would deny the fairness of excluding from the House persons opposed to that principle of religion? The Bill of the present Session was different to that of last year; and though the noble Lord at the head of the Government had omitted the oath of supremacy with regard to the Catholics, he had retained in the oath, "on the true faith of a Christian:" now, if the noble Lord did not think it necessary that Christianity should be the basis on which parties were admitted to that House, why were those words retained? Supposing a
 1425
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, he wondered that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General was not aware that under the 7th and 8th of Victoria, cap. 106, compensation had been already given to the parties to whom he had alluded. Many of these persons had already received much larger sums than they had paid for their privileges. The House had already paid 5,000 l 1436 l
 MR. CROWDER  said, that it was not his intention to have addressed the House, and he would not have done so had it not been for the remarkable statement made by the hon. Member who had just resumed his seat. Until he heard the quotations of the hon. Member from those documents which he had searched, in order to ascertain the laws by which the Jewish body were guided, he (Mr. Crowder) confessed he was utterly ignorant of the fact that the Jews held themselves absolved from the performance of any obligations into which they might have entered. And he was the more astonished that this doctrine should have been broached by an hon. Member who opposed the omission from the Parliamentary oath of the words "upon the true faith of a Christian," because he believed those words to be efficacious in excluding the Jews from Parliament. Was it to be believed that a body of persons whose conscientious scruples had prevented them from entering that House, because they would not take the prescribed oath, in which was language that they were unable to utter, being contrary to their conscience—was it to be believed that the Jews, as a body, or any honest, conscientious, or upright Jew, so doing, would hold themselves absolved from the obligation of an oath? It was the first time he had ever heard that doctrine; and it certainly appeared to him so inconsistent with the conduct of men who had abstained from taking an oath by which they might have held their seats in that House, that he could not believe they recognised it. The ground upon which he (Mr. Crowder) should give his vote in favour of this measure was, that in his opinion it was most unjust, and inconsistent with the general principles of the constitution, that any man, or set of men, should be excluded from the enjoyment of civil rights and political privileges on account of peculiar religious opinions. It was upon that ground that he should give his vote in favour of the Bill, because it appeared to him that, unless those religious opinions were such that those who entertained them were induced, in conformity with those opinions, to act in a manner inconsistent with the well-being of the State, it was contrary to the principles of the British constitution that they should be either proscribed
 1396 1397 " I must say, that if any question affecting the interests of the Church is to be discussed in the other House of Parliament, I, for one, should greatly prefer that it should be submitted to the decision of a Jew rather than a Dissenter. On a common principle of human nature, I conceive that a Dissenter must be subject to a much stronger bias on such a question, and must be much more hostilely disposed towards the Church of England than a Jew can possibly be." 1398 l
 MR. SHEIL : Sir, the title of this Bill refutes the allegations of the hon. Member for Warwickshire. It is "a Bill to alter the Oaths to be taken by Members of the two Houses of Parliament, not professing the Roman Catholic Religion." The sixth section of the Bill especially provides that nothing in the Act contained shall be applicable to Roman Catholics. It runs thus:—
 " That nothing in this Act contained shall extend or be applicable to any Peer or Member of the House of Commons, professing the Roman Catholic religion, or be held to alter or affect the provisions of an Act passed in the tenth year of King George the Fourth, intituled ' An Act for the Relief of His Majesty's Roman Catholic Subjects,' requiring the oath thereby appointed and set forth to be taken and subscribed by a Peer, or Member of the House of Commons, professing the Roman Catholic religion, as a qualification for sitting and voting in either House of Parliament, or the penalties, forfeitures, and disabilities to which any person professing the Roman Catholic religion sitting or voting in either House of Parliament without taking and subscribing such oath is by such Act made subject." 1407 1408 1409
 MR. SPOONER  said, if his vote were to be regulated by the respect in which he held many gentlemen belonging to the Jewish nation—if it were to be regulated by the deep sense which he entertained of the liberality and even munificence of such men as the hon. Gentleman alluded to, or Sir Isaac Lyon Goldsmidt, and Sir Moses Montefiore—if he gave his vote according to the high estimation in which those gentlemen were generally held, he must necessarily support the measure of the noble Lord at the head of the Government. If this vote were to be regulated by the interest which he felt, and which every Bible reader must feel, not only in the past history but in the future prospect of the Jews—if that were to guide his vote, he should certainly support the Bill; but such, he thought, were not the principles which ought to guide that House. He could not concur with the hon. Member for Carlow in the opinion that the religious questions which arose in that House were insignificant as compared with questions of a different character. [Mr. SADLEIR explained. He had not said so. He had said they were numerically insignificant.] They might be so; but their importance immeasurably transcended that of all other questions. By the coronation oath the Sovereign was bound to maintain not only the Christian religion, but the Protestant faith, as laid down by the doctrines of the Established Church. The same duty devolved on the Legislature; and was he to be told that a man who was so circumstanced as to find it impossible to vote conscientiously in favour of Christianity and Protestantism, ought to be admitted into that House, simply because he might be qualified to legislate well on a question of finance or colonial government? The hon. Member for Carlow had begged the question when he said the Jew ought to be admitted, if it could be done without lowering the Christian character of that House. It was precisely at that point they were at issue. He (Mr. Spooner) most emphatically denied that the Jew could be admitted without such a result. The hon. and learned Member for Liskeard had tauntingly asked what was meant by saying the House would be unchristianised?
 1403 1404 1405 1406
 MR. W. KEOGH  was sure that the hon. Member for St. Albans, who had just addressed the House, had acted in a manner for which the Jewish population of the country must feel deeply indebted to him. He had made the extremely honest pro-
 1387 1388
 MR. W. P. WOOD  said, that the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down, had protested against this measure as being one by which they were about to part with the last badge of Christianity; but he (Mr. Wood), on the contrary, hailed the measure with the hope that he was for the last time entering his protest against the last badge of an unchristian and persecuting spirit. He would enter upon the subject by saying, that it was as a Christian, no less than as a politician, he gave his decided support to the measure before the House. Hon. Gentlemen opposite delighted in these oaths and declarations, and would probably be pleased to hear the facts he was about to mention. By the Act that repealed the Test and Corporation Acts, every person holding office under the Crown was obliged to make a declaration that he would not use that
 1426
 SIR G. GREY  hoped that it would be understood that his hon. and learned Friend had not alluded to the subject of compensation as a matter of right towards these parties.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that Her Majesty's Government had received an intimation from various quarters that their concurrence in the proceedings about to be adopted at Civita Vecchia would be well received.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : From Austria, Naples, France, and the Nuncio at Paris. The Government declined taking any part whatever in them, seeing that, considering the geographical position of England, and the particular nature of the British constitution, they did not think we had the same motives either in these respects or in a religious point of view for joining in them. But they did make known to the Nuncio, by a written despatch through the Marquess of Normanby in Paris, precisely the sentiments he had just expressed as those which were entertained by Her Majesty's Government on the matter.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : No such thing.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The answer we gave was this—that it was not
 1370
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that the communication to which he referred on the occasion he alluded to, did not relate to anything further than the intention which the French Government had conceived in the end of November or beginning of December last of sending an expedition to Civita Vecchia; but there was no mention of what ulterior proceedings that expedition might undertake; and, speaking from recollection, he did not remember any particular communication respecting the sailing of that expedition lately.
 MR. FORBES MACKENZIE  said he should object to the consideration of the Amendments.
 MR. SPEAKER  informed the hon. Member that it was not competent for him to make such a Motion upon that stage of the Bill. It was competent for him to move the recommittal of the Bill; if a Motion of that kind were not made, the Amendments would be considered, and the next question would be upon the third reading of the Bill.
 MR. FORBES MACKENZIE  having declined to move the recommittal of the Bill, the Amendments were considered.
 MR. FORBES MACKENZIE  then rose for the purpose of opposing the further progress of the measure. He thought that Scotch Members, and the people of Scotland generally, had great reason to complain of the conduct of Government with respect to the management of this Bill. It had been read a second time  pro formâ 4 l 5
 MR. ELLIOT  said, that as reference had been made to the refusal on the part of the Committee to hear other than legal evidence upon the state of the law of marriage in Scotland, he would state that the grounds upon which he considered such evidence ought to have been rejected were, that the Committee had been appointed expressly to consider the state of the law with respect to marriages in Scotland, and that being the case, he thought that a quantity of contradictory evidence with respect to the feelings and opinions of the people of Scotland, would not have served in the least the object of the Committee, and would, even if it had been received, have been of no sort of value to the House, when it came to consider the state of the law with respect to the subject with which it had to deal. It was under that conviction that he had moved in the Select Committee that the remaining evidence should be confined to persons of the legal profession. With respect to the law of marriage as it now existed in Scotland, he believed with Lord Brougham that it would be a disgrace to any semi-barbarous nation. In answer to a statement made by the hon. Member for Peebleshire, that irregular marriages were of very rare occurrence in Scotland, he would only state that not long since it was stated in the  Scotsman 6
 SIR G. GLERK  said, that although not a Scotch Member himself, still possessing as he did an intimate knowledge of the opinions of the people of Scotland on the subject, he felt desirous of stating his reasons why he objected to the further progress of this measure. He contended that in order to have arrived at an accurate conclusion with respect to the state of the law as regarded marriages in Scotland, it was necessary for the Committee not only to have considered the existing state of the law, but also to have ascertained, from the evidence of persons connected with the subject, the feelings and opinions of the people of Scotland with respect to the evils, if any, arising out of the present state of things, and the remedies which might be most effectual for their removal. He believed that by the exclusion of evidence as to the feelings and opinions of the people of Scotland, they had in reality shut out what would have been the most valuable part of their inquiry. It had been said with regard to the present defective state of the marriage law in Scotland, that the time of the House of Lords was almost exclusively occupied by hearing appeals arising out of questions connected with the law of marriage in that country. So far from that being the case, he found by a return lately presented to Parliament, that there had been only four cases before them for the last five years. The law of marriage in Scotland had been denounced as one fit only for a semi-barbarous country. In answer to that statement, he begged to state that the law now existing in Scotland was almost precisely the same as it existed in England previous to the passing of Lord Hardwicke's Act in the reign of George II., which was then considered as an unnecessary innovation of the law as it then existed. By the present law of Scotland, there was only one regular mode of contracting marriages, and any marriage contracted without the intervention of a clergyman, after the proclamation of banns as required by law, subjected the parties who entered into it to a fine, if the Lord Advocate in his discretion should sue for it;
 7 8 9
 The LORD ADVOCATE  begged to remind the House that the present measures were not new to the House. Measures substantially the same as these had been brought in by him in 1847. They were then read a second time, and a full statement of their nature was made by him in withdrawing them for that Session. In 1848 they were introduced into the House of Lords, where they underwent the fullest discussion, having been referred to the consideration of a Select Committee, consisting mainly of noble Lords connected with Scotland. Several amendments were made by the Committee on those Bills, and in that state they passed the House of Lords with scarcely a dissentient voice. They were then brought down to the House of Commons, and read a second time; but owing to the late period of the Session, and a desire upon the part of Her Majesty's Government that the people of Scotland
 10 11 12 13 14 l 15 16 17 18
 MR. M'NEILL   * * 19 20 21 22 "I really hardly know any difference between the law of Scotland, as to the constitution of marriage, and the law of England, anterior to Lord Hardwicke's Marriage Act. I apprehend them to be as nearly as possible the same thing." 23 ipsum matrimonium 24 "It may be according to the law of Scotland that it is a complete marriage, and so it may be by the law of God; but if the woman is put to prove that marriage after the birth of children, of that she is or may be without any proof." 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37
 The LORD ADVOCATE  explained. What he had said was, that as a proof to be relied on of a general feeling throughout Scotland, they were worthless and insignificant.
 MR. M'NEILL  would presently show the extent to which the petitions might be regarded as indicative of the opinions and feelings of the public in Scotland; but he might now assume that to the extent to which they did go—as exponents of the opinions of at least certain classes and districts—they were admitted to be neither worthless nor insignificant. His right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate had treated those petitions as if they had proceeded altogether from clergymen of the established and other ecclesiastical bodies. But how did the fact stand? An opportunity bad been afforded to the counties of Scotland to take the measure into consideration at their annual meetings on the 30th April. They had done so, and all the counties in Scotland, with a very few exceptions, had sent up petitions against the measure.
 MR. FOX MAULE : These petitions were also against the Registration Bill—against the two Bills conjointly.
 MR. M'NEILL : But against this Bill—and if they were directed against this Bill in connexion with the Registration Bill, they were necessarily, and most pointedly, against it in its present form; for he had already shown, and he repeated, that this Bill in effect adopted and embodied into it the Registration Bill. It could not stand by itself. It depended on the Registration Bill being passed, and all who were opposed to the Registration Bill must resist the present Bill. The counties of Scotland, then, with very few exceptions, had petitioned against this measure, and of those that had not actually petitioned this year, some had petitioned last year, and some had contented themselves this year with reiterating, in resolutions passed at public meetings, their continued dissatisfaction with the measure. The county which he had the honour to represent had not sent up a petition; but they had at a public meeting passed resolutions, temperately yet firmly expressed, in reference both to the Marriage Bill and the Registration Bill. They were not opposed to an improved system of registration, though they deprecated a complex and expensive system. They were opposed to interfering
 38 39 40 41
 Mr. FOX MAULE  said, that considering the importance of this question, he could not allow it to go to a vote without expressing shortly his inducement for voting for the measure before the House. If the best thing that could happen to Scotland was to be to encourage clandestine marriages, then the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite was right; but if the House saw the evil of those marriages, and determined to put an end to concealed marriages, then it would accept of the measure proposed by his right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate to put an end to the evil that must inevitably arise from clandestine marriages. The hon. and learned Gentleman seemed not to attempt to convince the House, but to win the votes of hon. Members first by stating that the Committee of the House had shrunk from a full inquiry into this subject, and next by saying that any person who voted for the Marriage Bill must pledge himself to vote for the Registration Bill. The House must recollect that the Committee referred to by the hon. and learned Gentleman was not a Committee appointed to inquire into the general state of the law in Scotland, but only a Committee which was to inquire into the details of this Bill; and as the hon. and learned Gentleman had expressed such strong feelings on the present occasion, he (Mr. F. Maule) should have liked to have seen his opinions recorded upon the report of that Committee. But, let him ask, who was it who had introduced a law to put an end to clandestine marriages in England. It was no less an individual than Lord Hardwicke; and surely his authority ought to be of some weight in attempting to carry that same law a step further—namely, into Scotland. To his mind there could be no doubt that the moral condition of any people must be advanced by a law requiring that marriages should be made public, and clandestine marriages put an end to. The hon. and learned Gentleman had complained that his right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate had treated slightingly the petitions which had been sent up against this Bill. He had, on the contrary, expressed his highest respect for the petitioners themselves, but he had protested against those petitions being taken
 42
 MR. M'NEILL  explained: When it was suggested in the Committee that his right hon. and learned Friend and himself might be examined as to the law, he had stated, that although it was no doubt competent for Members of the Committee to give evidence, he thought such a course—where there was no necessity for it—had better be avoided; and that as plenty of other witnesses to the law were accessible, he thought it would, on the whole, be better that those Gentlemen who were afterwards to deliberate and decide on the evidence, should not themselves be wit-
 43
 MR. HUME  said, that he believed they had shrunk from the proof of their case, when they refused to receive the evidence of those respectable persons whom it had been proposed to call as witnesses against the Bill. With respect to the conduct of the Government as regarded this Bill, he thought they had learned this important lesson, that Scotch business ought to be better treated than it was. This was the first four hours during the whole Session that had been devoted to a consideration of the affairs of Scotland. With regard to the Bill itself, he believed that the opinion of the people of Scotland was most decidedly opposed to it. He had himself presented petitions from Leith, Perth, and numerous other places against the Bill. He was perfectly prepared to vote with the Government in favour of a measure for the abolition of Gretna-green marriages, and he believed the people of Scotland would generally be favourable to such a measure. He regretted to find the noble Lord at the head of the Government so determined to proceed with this Bill, against the unanimous feeling of the people. It had been said that the law of marriage in Scotland was worthy only of a semi-barbarous country. He denied that such was the case. As countries became civilised, institutions changed and accommodated themselves to the improvements which were constantly being made. There was nothing in the morality of Scotland to show that there was anything barbarous in its institutions. On the contrary, a comparison between the two countries would show a decided advantage in favour of Scotland. It had been said, as one reason for passing this Bill, that it had been sent down by the House of Lords three times. He hoped it would be sent down thirty times. The very fact of its having been sent down so often proved that it was utterly worthless, for there never was a Bill that was worth anything treated in such a manner. He trusted either that the House would reject the Bill, or that the Government would withdraw it, in order to prevent its rejection by the House.
 MR. GLADSTONE  expressed his hope that, after the division which had just taken place, the right hon. and learned Lord would not press the Bill further this Session. Though not a Scotch Member himself, yet, from his connexion with Scotland, he knew well the state of feeling in that country with regard to this Bill; and he wished to point out to the right hon. and learned Lord that his case, viewed as a Parliamentary one, had virtually been abandoned by him. He put it to the right hon. and learned Lord whether, when he or the Committee went so far as to admit the necessity of taking evidence on this Bill, and then refused to take evidence beyond a certain point, they were justified in 80 doing, if they intended to press the Bill this Session? On that ground the case for the Bill was not a good one. Every one who had heard the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Argyllshire, must have felt that he had urged with resistless force the claims of the people of Scotland, and the necessity for fuller inquiry into a matter so closely connected with their feelings, before they proceeded to legislate upon it. He hoped, therefore, that after what they had seen of the sense of the House in connexion with the sense of the people of Scotland, no further attempt would be made to proceed with the measure, and that the time of the House would not be further wasted with discussions regarding it.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  could not admit that the time of the House had been wasted by a Motion which had afforded an opportunity for the important speech of the hon. and learned Member for Argyllshire, in which he had stated his reasons against the Bill. After hearing the debate they had just had, all he would now do was to ask the House to allow him a certain time to decide on the course the Government should adopt. He did not wish for any long time, and would fix the Bill for Thursday, when the Government would be prepared to announce whether they would proceed with it or not.
 Mr. ORMSBY GORE  concurred with the hon. Member for Montrose in the view which that hon. Gentleman had taken of the subject. With regard to what had fallen from the right hon. Member for Cambridge University, he begged to say, that the railway did not pass through Mr. Martin's property; it went through the best and most productive part of the county of Galway, as fine a district for a railway as any in the empire. Again, the right hon. Gentleman spoke of a competing railway; but there was nothing of the sort. There was not a railway in the whole province of Connaught, and this would pass through the very contre of that province,
 66
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  hoped the House would not be induced to consent to the introduction of the clause, which would not have the effect of facilitating the operation of the Irish Poor Law. If there were one thing upon which the guardians were more jealous than another, it was the appointment and control of their officers, and although it was true the chaplains were appointed by the commissioners, and not by the guardians, still the greatest care had been taken to keep these appointments independent of the bishops. He doubted very much whether the clause, as it was at present worded, would apply to Catholic clergymen at all. He knew, however, that especial care was taken by the Poor Law Commissioners to consult, as far as possible, and in a respectful manner, the wishes of the Roman Catholic bishops or archbishops, who were the ecclesiastical superiors of the clergy about to be appointed. But, if this were carried further, there would be two distinct authorities in every workhouse in Ireland. The Poor Law Commissioners had laid down certain rules respecting the performance of the duties of chaplains, and the clergy must submit to some authority—that proper authority clearly being the commissioners. The hon. Member had alluded to a case in the Tuam workhouse, and had, on a previous occasion, moved for the papers connected therewith; but the hon. Member had not moved, as he (Sir W. Somerville) wished he had, that those papers should be printed. In that case, as in others, the Poor Law Commissioners had not departed from their ordinary mode of proceeding. One of the Poor Law Commissioners (Mr. Redington) was a Catholic, and he would be the last man to do anything disrespectful to the Church of which he was a member.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, his objection was not founded on the fact of two of
 79
 MR. STAFFORD  inquired who was to be the authority to decide what questions were "purely civil" if the clause were adopted? He was aware that there would have been great difficulties with regard to the conduct of chaplains in the part of Ireland with which he was connected, were it not that the Roman Catholics there were presided over by so estimable a man as Dr. Ryan. He begged to take the opportunity, while referring to this subject, to thank the noble Lord at the head of the Government for the excellent appointment which he had recently made to the see of Limerick.
 MR. SCULLY  wished to know if the commissioners claimed a power to remove a chaplain for carrying out his own religious views and those of his bishop?
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, the commissioners had laid down certain rules for the guidance of the chaplains, and he considered that it was for the commissioners to decide whether these rules were neglected or otherwise.
 Mr. M. J. O'CONNELL  hoped his hon. Friend would not press for a division, as the sense of the House was so clearly against him. He should be exceedingly sorry to give a vote apparently in opposition to the authorities of the Church to which he belonged, and to his hon. Friend; but still he should feel bound to vote against the latter part of the clause. There would be a great difficulty in drawing a line between civil and religious matters; as, for instance, the celebration of divine service was a purely religious question, and still, if a chaplain neglected that duty without cause, it was clearly a case in which the commissioners ought to interfere.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  also hoped that the hon. Member would not divide, as the votes would be misunderstood in Ireland. He believed the word "ordinary" in the clause would not apply to Roman Catholic bishops. The House would not wish to leave the dismissal of the chaplains of workhouses in the hands of any bishops, whether Catholics or Protestants. He thought the present practice was found, upon the whole, to work conveniently. One case of dispute had indeed arisen in Tuam, but the House ought not to legislate for that single case. All that the House knew of that case was, that Dr. M'Hale had differed
 80
 MR. GROGAN  then moved a clause to enable justices of the peace, in cases where tenants of premises for a term not exceeding a month, at a rent not exceeding 1 l
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  supported the clause.
 Sir G. GREY  said, that the clause was totally foreign to the purpose of the Bill; the clause was to facilitate ejectment in certain cases, and had nothing to do with the relief of the poor. If the clause was added, the title of the Bill ought to be altered.
 MR. GROGAN  then moved a clause, which he contended was strictly within the purviews of the Bill, declaring that when a party in possession of more than a quarter of an acre of land applied for relief upon a certificate of the guardians to that effect, it should vitiate the tenure of his land.
 SIR G. GREY  called attention to the fact, that by the present law the poor-law guardians were prohibited from affording relief to any persons who were in the occupation of more than a quarter of an acre. To ask the guardians, therefore, to certify that they had given relief to persons in possession of more than a quarter of an acre, would be requiring from them a certificate that they had violated the law. That could not be expected of them, and therefore he must oppose the clause.
 CAPTAIN JONES  supported the clause,
 81
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  opposed the clause as an attempt to make still more stringent the provisions of a law which was too severe already.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  supported the clause, as he had known instances of laud being deserted by the occupiers who received relief, and when the landlords proceeded to cultivate the soil the same occupiers came forward to claim their land so cultivated, and said, here is our lease, and we have never been put legally out of possession.
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  was certain that the clause would not keep a tenant to his surrender, as assumed by the hon. Baronet. The clause would enable the landlord to come in, and over-ride the lease if he were so minded.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  said, his hon. Friends who had opposed the original clause saw the evils which that clause had produced, but they did not see the greater evils which that clause had prevented. He was satisfied that if an unlimited right to relief had been given, without requiring a surrender of land, the Consolidated Fund itself would not have satisfied the claims which would have been made. The doubts which had arisen respecting the working of the quarter-acre clause, as it was termed, had been brought before an eminent barrister, Mr. Henn, who gave it as his opinion that a legal surrender of the land was not necessary; that all that was required was cessation to occupy. But other doubts had since sprung up, and he thought it was the duty of the House now to clear them up. He hoped the Government would come forward and settle the law upon this subject.
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  said, this was a new ejectment clause. He thought the evil of the quarter-acre clause was that persons applying for relief were required to surrender the whole of the land they occupied, with the house they lived in: he did not think the operation of the law would be so much complained of if parties were only required to surrender the surplus of the land they held, and were allowed to retain their house and a quarter of an acre.
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  said, that the language which had been used in that House upon the subject of Ireland by the hon. Member
 82
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  said, with regard to the dispute between the hon. Member for Clare and the hon. Member for Stroud, he must say that though the hon. Member for Stroud might sometimes be misinformed, there was generally a strong foundation for his facts. All the evidence that had been laid before the Committee of which he was a Member confirmed this fact, that the wretched condition of the peasantry in the west of Ireland was to be attributed to the couduct of the Irish landlords—to their exaction of largo rents, which had reduced the peasantry to the lowest description of food, and that in the smallest quantities.
 SIR R. FERGUSON  said, it was clear that the clause would not meet the circumstances of the case.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the clause having been only that day printed, he had only just seen it. Now it appeared to him that it went much further than the
 83 l l l l l
 MR. NAPIER  then proposed a clause to alter the present deductions of poundage from tithe rent.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that there really was very great difficulty attending the subject. But it was not a new subject of consideration for the House. When the present existing Poor Law Amendment Act was passed in 1847, a proposition similar to that now made by the hon. and learned Gentleman was made. But, after considerable discussion, the House agreed, in preference, to adopt a proposition of his (Sir G. Grey's), to place the tithe-owners in Ireland upon precisely the same footing as they stood in England. A clause to that effect was agreed to, and it was even assented to by the right hon. Gentleman the Recorder of the city of Dublin, who then represented the University. But during the progress of the Bill through the House, after the clause had been seen in Ireland, the opinion of the clergy was collected, and they were decidedly against it. They preferred the law remaining as it stood, and the clause was accordingly withdrawn. So that it was upon the suggestion of the clergy themselves that the law upon that point remained unaltered. He (Sir G. Grey) was not prepared to say that the landlords did not in some cases obtain an unfair advantage under the law as it stood, but he did not think that the hon. and learned Gentleman's clause would cure the defect. He would be ready to attend to such a proposition as that which had been assented to by the hon. and learned Recorder of Dublin, namely, the placing of the tithe-owners in Ireland upon the same footing as those of England; but there were so many and so great objections to the clause proposed by the hon. and learned Gentleman that he could not assent to it.
 MR. NAPIER  could not accept the offer of the right hon. Gentleman. From the
 84 l
 MR. P. SCROPE  supported the clause, and thought the Irish landlords should vote for it, if they wished to do justice to the tenantry and the clergy.
 SIR J. YOUNG  did not mean to say that the clergy had not some grievance to complain of; but it fell very far short of the half-rate which the hon. and learned Member wished to deduct. If, therefore, he pressed his Motion, he (Sir J. Young) should feel hound to vote against it.
 MR. G. HAMILTON  said, his hon. Friend the Member for Cavan had endeavoured to establish an analogy between the clergy and a landlord in occupation, and he had argued, that because the landlord in occupation pays the entire poundage, it is therefore just that the entire poundage of the poor-rate should be deducted from the clergyman or other owner of tithe rent-charge. But he (Mr. Hamilton) must maintain that no such analogy exists. He had always understood that the principle on which the constitution of poor-rate in Ireland was settled in the original poor-
 85 l l s l s l s d l s d l s d l l s d 86
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  agreed that it was a hardship that this particular charge should be liable to a greater amount of rate than any other charge. If the hon. and learned Gentleman divided the House he would vote for the clause; but in case it were lost, he thought that they would do well to adopt the suggestion thrown out by the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary.
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  remarked that it was the friends of the Church who were always ripping up this subject. With respect to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Mallow, be believed that that hon. Gentleman was a tithe-owner himself, and he thought that he was now very much in the position of a man becoming his own counsel. The hon. and learned Gentleman proposed to take from the shoulders of the Church the poor-rate, and to place the burden on other parties, the consequence of which would be a great increase in the liabilities of the landowner and occupier. There was no property so much exempt from taxation or from other liability as the Irish Church.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said a few words in explanation.
 MR. STAFFORD  said the Bill was divided into two parts, the latter part coming strictly within the title which had been given to it, while the first part did not come within the title, being less calculated to amend the law than to introduce into it two new and vicious principles. Against the first clause of the Bill a majority of the Irish Members had recorded their strongest protest; and against the second clause a majority of two to one had also recorded their votes. Whatever there might be inhuman in the operation of the Bill, therefore, and however unjust and impolitic the second clause might be, for that inhumanity and injustice Irish Members were not responsible. He was not prepared to say that from the third clause to the end of the Bill considerable improvements had not boon introduced into the present poor-law; but he must say that the principle of the maximum rate had
 87 s s s s d d s s d s d s d s 88 s s s d
 Mr. BRIGHT  wished to say two or three words in reply to the hon. Member who had just sat down. He was obliged to plead guilty as to his absence while the measure was being discussed, and the chief reason why he had felt less disposed to take part in the discussions in the House was this—that, after having sat in the Committee, he was as much in the dark on the subject, if not more in the dark, than he was when the Committee commenced its sittings. If, then, he had voted on the various clauses, he must have voted in deference to authority on one side of the House or on the other; and under these circumstances he had not meddled with the Bill in the House. He had doubts so strong as to the propriety of a maximum rate, that had he been present he should certainly have voted against it, because the sum fixed by the Government was much smaller than in his opinion it was desirable to fix. If they were to have a poor-law on the principle of the one in England, then the principle of a maximum rate was a very hazardous one, and if tolerated at all it should be fixed so high that it would not be likely to be easily reached. He was willing, too, that it should be temporary in its duration, in order that it might not be made a precedent for the adoption of the same principle hereafter by other parts of the united kingdom. Had he been present, he would have voted with those who opposed the maximum rate. On the general question of the Bill itself, he was of opinion that the result would be nil, or next to nil, in Ireland. It would not remedy the complaints made relative to the poor-law; and indeed it was impossible by any shape of a poor-law whatever very materially to diminish the pressure which the pauperism existing in Ireland was bringing on the
 89
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  had one word to say to the hon. Gentleman. The hon. Gentleman he knew had paid great attention to the evidence; and he appealed to him, and challenged any other hon. Gentleman, to show one single sentence of the evidence in favour of the principle of a union rating. But English Members had forced upon Irish Members that principle of a union rating, though it had been admirably argued against by the English commissioner. It was a principle against which the most distinct evidence was given by Mr. Twisleton.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  asked how far the collection of rates had been proceeded with in those unions? Had payment been enforced?
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  was sure that if the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield had travelled through the distressed unions of Ireland, or if he credited the testimony of those who had seen them as to the misery existing there, he would cordially support this measure. He assured the House that no proposition ever introduced to their attention was of more consequence to the people than this; and the Government deserved the best thanks of the country for it. It would contribute to induce capitalists to invest in the country, and render most assistance to the operation of the Incumbered Estates Act. He hoped English Members would consent to look at this
 73
 MR. STAFFORD  asked the right hon. Gentleman whether he would lay upon the table a list of the unions which had been assisted; also, whether the Government would make the repayment of workhouse loans more stringent than they had been; and whether they were prepared to enter into further details with regard to the new workhouses?
 Mr. FREWEN  knew the country exceedingly well through which the railway was intended to pass, and he thought the estimate of the expense between Athlone and Galway an exceedingly safe one. He considered that the estimate of 500,000 l l l
 MR. NEWDEGATE  heartily rejoiced that the hon. Member for Montrose and the Chancellor of the Exchequer had at length found that the scheme of his noble and lamented Friend (Lord George Bentinck) was practicable, was applicable to the condition of Ireland, and would inflict no undue burden upon the resources of England. No one could say that England was now as prosperous as when his lamented Friend brought forward his plan; but when that plan was developed it was scouted
 70 travestie 71
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, if he had entertained any
 74
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could at once state the unions to which advances were made. There were twenty-three, and among them were Ballina, Ballinrobe, Bandon, Castlereagh, Castlebar, Carrick-on-Shannon, Innistimon, Ennis, Dingle, and Westport. The amount expended in these unions for the relief of distress in the week before last was 14,934 l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the collection had been enforced to the utmost practical extent in all the distressed unions. He could assure his hon. Friend there was no slackness in that respect.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that by the next resolution he should propose a further advance of money, in addition to that which the House had, upon a former occasion, sanctioned, for the relief of distress in the western unions of Ireland, to be secured upon the rate in aid. He had stated, upon a former occasion, that the demands for assistance would necessarily increase as the summer advanced, and that for the three months preceding the harvest they would extend. But destitution had increased in the west to such an extent that a larger sum than the 100,000 l l l l l l 76 l l l l l Res l
 The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER  said, that the object of the Motion which he was about to put into the hands of the Chairman was to enable the Government to make advances for the construction of a railway between the towns of Athlone and Galway. The Government had received applications from several parts of Ireland for advances of public money for the purpose of constructing or finishing lines of railway in Ireland. They had been asked to make advances in some instances because the lines were nearly finished, and in other cases because they had not been commenced; and in each case the parties no doubt thought they had adduced most excellent reasons. He admitted that it would be most advantageous for Ireland if some of these railways were completed; but, for the reasons which he had formerly explained, he did not think it was the duty of the Government to make advances, generally, for the construction or completion of lines of railway. In stating this, however, he felt bound to say, after the fullest consideration, that he thought a special case had been made out for an advance for the construction of a trunk line to the west of Ireland, on the same ground as that on which they formerly advanced a sum for the completion of a line to the south and south-west of Ireland. They had also taken into consideration the extreme distress which existed in the west of Ireland, and, with a view to the employment of the inhabitants of those parts, they felt that nothing could be better than to promote the opening of a direct line of railway between Dublin and Galway. The parts of the country which would be affected were known in that House as some of the most destitute unions, where the sufferings of the people were extremely great. A company had been formed in Ireland, and had obtained Acts to construct a line of railway from Dublin to Galway. A portion of this line was actually open, namely, from Dublin to Mullingar, a distance of nearly fifty miles; and not only was this existing line between Dublin and Mullingar reported of in the most favourable manner, but the company deserved every credit for the mode in
 47 l l l l 48 l l l l "In reply to your letter requesting to know my opinion as to the amount of good which the works of the company have done in the counties of Tipperary, Limerick, and Cork, I beg to state that the number of persons employed by Mr. Dargan alone, in the excavations and embankments, in the gravel-pits and quarries, and along the line, exclusive of masons, carpenters, and other mechanics, has exceeded 15,000 a day. These men had an average of 9 s 49 s s 50 l "Res. 1.—That the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury be authorised to direct Advances to be made out of the Consolidated Fund of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland to the Exchequer Loan Commissioners, to an amount not exceeding 500,000 l
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  rose, pursuant to notice, "to call the attention of the House to the necessity of securing the completion of trunk lines of railway throughout Ireland." He would not enter on the details of the Government measure, until the Bill by which it was to be carried out was in the hands of Members. To some of its provisions, as explained by his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer—for instance, the liabilities sought to be imposed on the counties—he was strongly opposed; they were unjust, and not to be defended on principle, and if carried, would be the foundation of bitter animosity and litigation between the railway proprietors and the landholders in the districts through which they were to be made. Still, on the whole, he was happy to be able to say that he regarded this proposition as one of the most statesmanlike measures that had emanated from the Government. It went in the right direction, though he thought not far enough. It was his opinion that the employment afforded by the railways in England had, far more than the new poor-law, tended to check pauperism here; and he was satisfied that the extension of railways in Ireland would tend to the same happy result there. There had hitherto been far too little done by the Government of this country in the promotion of railways, despite the admirable examples shown them by far less wealthy and commercial countries. In England, up to 1847, 109,000,000 l l l l l 51 l
 SIR H. W. BARRON  had an exact answer to the question. By a return lately laid upon the table of the House, the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield would find that no less a sum than 7,600,000 l l l Times l 72 l l l l
 MR. GOULBURN  said, he should take that opportunity of making a few observations on the question involved in the vote which they were asked to sanction, because
 61 l l 62 l 63 l 64
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, after the account of the punctual payment of interest upon loans to railway companies, he would call the attention of the noble Lord at the head of the Government to a memorial he had the honour to present to him lately. If the manner in which the present proposition had been received by the House, should encourage him to take the prayer of that memorial into consideration, he would confer a benefit upon a part of the country where it would be received with thankfulness.
 MR. ROEBUCK , in explanation, said, his argument was not against Irish landlords deriving benefit from this mischievous mode of proceeding. But he could very well understand the feeling of hon. Gentlemen who approved of one sort of legislation and not of another. As to what his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose said about this being a loan, and the security of Government, he (Mr. Roebuck) contended that if the name of the Government was necessary, the Government must incur some risk. If it were not necessary, what was to prevent private individuals from lending the money? The fact was that the Government lent the money because nobody else could be found to lend it. Why should they do so?
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, although the hon. Member for Montrose was, with him,
 67 Hansard "I do not like to see the State become a lender. If the parties have good security to offer, and if the speculation be a fair speculation, I have never known any difficulty in obtaining loans from private individuals." 68 l l l 69
 MR. HUME  said, it was altogether a mistake to suppose that any additional taxation would be caused by this grant. The credit of the Government would be pledged to enable certain individuals who had advanced, or who would advance, 1,100,000 l l s s d d d
 MR. HUME  said, as a general rule, he had been accustomed to look upon all advances by Government with jealousy, but on this occasion the vote had his entire approval. He understood that this advance was to be made by Exchequer Commissioners, and was made not for the purpose of giving the Government the entire management of the railway, but to assist a company in completing a line, in the making of which they had already expended 800,000 l l 65 l l l l l l l l
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  hoped the House would consider the present Motion as not involving any question between England and Ireland, but rather regard the whole proceeding as a sending out of capital from the centre to a remote part of the empire; it was a spreading of concentrated capital over the kingdom. He claimed, however for those parts, their proper share in the benefits of enterprise and industry. A fa-
 75
 Mr. PETO  supported the proposition, and begged the Government to accept his thanks for it, being convinced that it would prove of infinite benefit to Ireland. He begged to inform the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield that it would be altogether unnecessary to carry railway labourers from England to Ireland, for some of the best "navvies" employed in this country were Irishmen; and they were remarkable for their industry, temperance, and constant application to work. Irish labour needed development. Looking at the superior advantages of locomotion presented by railways, he hoped this would be only the beginning on the part of Her Majesty's Government of similar pledges of credit, where, having been well considered, they could be safely bestowed.
 SIR T. D. ACLAND  said, he had opposed the proposition of his late noble and lamented Friend for an advance of sixteen millions to assist Irish railways, because he thought it too large and unmanageable. But in the same year he supported a smaller advance for a similar purpose, because it was for a definite object—for an object as to which there were clear and distinct plans; and it was precisely because those conditions were fulfilled in the present case that he should support the proposition of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Englishmen could not be better employed than in lending a helping baud to the sister country; and though be had not, like the hon. Gentleman the Member for Shropshire, property in five Irish counties, or even in one, he felt the interests of the two countries were so much identified, that they should be treated in that House exactly alike. The benefit to be derived from this loan would not stop at Mullingar, at Galway, or at Dublin. It would extend to Liverpool and to London; for improvements in the moans of communication were not limited to the locality where they were effected. He hoped the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield would not be displeased with him, if he added, that if similar propositions were made to extend railway communication from Gal-way to Cork, Limerick, Belfast, and Derry, he should not oppose them. With the view, however, of putting an end to all doubt as to the security, he would put one question to his right hon. Friend. It was, whether there was one shilling due that had not been punctually paid upon the railway advances of 1847? If, as he apprehended, such was the case, notwithstanding the existence of very severe distress among all classes, it was idle to talk of risk. If the payments had been punctually made, how could the House say, upon the first occasion that presented it-Self, "We know you have fulfilled your engagements, but we will not trust you again?" Let the House trust them again, and he would answer for it the money would be repaid. Act liberally and kindly towards them; that was the road to the Irishman's heart.
 MR. PAGE WOOD  said, he wished briefly to explain the grounds upon which he meant to give his vote on the present question, as well as to offer one or two remarks on the speech which the House had just heard from his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Dublin. Although he was much pleased with no inconsiderable portion of that speech, yet his hon. Friend must permit him to take the liberty of saying that he bad not grappled with the real difficulties of the case. But before he proceeded to establish that proposition, he should say he was deeply convinced that there was much matter for congratulation in the fact that the Irish branch of the Established Church had at last shown some symptoms of awakening—that some life had at length been manifested in a body which had been so long dormant, and which had so deeply failed in its holy mission. But the members of that Church, it was well known, formed only a small portion of the Irish nation; and it was to be remembered that on that evening the House was discussing a great national question, and that it was one relating to a nation that had long been treated with indignity by a minority, which, without meaning anything offensive, might be pronounced a very small minority. To speak then of one or two pluralities being abolished in this Church of the minority, or the like, was a mode of dealing with the subject which he might designate
 162 163 164 l l l l l
 MR. PAGE WOOD  explained, He had never stated that there had been an express Act of Parliament for the purpose of establishing the Church of England in Ireland; but it was very certain that various Acts were passed for the purpose of imposing tests, and as the object of those tests was avowedly the exclusion of Roman Catholics from power, place, and emolument, he thought he was justified in saying that there had been legislative enactments for the formation and growth of the Establishment.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  said, the question at issue was not what was the old religion of Ireland, or who were the present descendants of the original bishops and clergy. At the time of Henry VIII. the clergy and bishops were not married, and how they could have any lineal descendants at all was a matter which he could not very clearly comprehend. But on that he would not dwell. The question they had to consider was, what was the religion at the present moment of the great masses of the Irish people. What was the religion of the great majority—the poor majority of the Irish people: what was the religion of that majority for whose use established churches had by all been defended? Certainly it was not the Protestant religion. But however desirable reform might be in this matter, he was for respecting the vested rights of the working clergy, yes, and of the laity too of the Protestant Church. But he certainly did think that great reductions might be made. It was hard to know what was the real revenue of the Church. In 1845, during the debate on the Appropriation Clause, the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth had estimated it at 450,000 l 168 l l l l 169
 MR. B. B. ROCHE  said, that the right hon. Baronet, while he bad totally abandoned the Church, had not at all succeeded in patching up Whig inconsistency. The right hon. Baronet had, however, raised a question from which he (Mr. Roche) felt bound to dissent. The right hon. Baronet admitted that the Church Establishment in Ireland was a great injustice; but be thought that that injustice could be done away with by planting another Church Establishment alongside the present. Now, instead of that being a countervailing advantage, it was obvious that when au impoverished country complained of the burden of a rich Church Establishment, the way to remedy the grievance was not by giving her two instead of one such establishment. Almost the only answer of the right hon. Baronet to the able and convincing speech of his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Middlesex, was comprised in the old argument that this was not the proper time—that the social state of Ireland was such as to render it inadmissible to deal with this question now, and that it must be postponed until that country was in a more prosperous and comfortable condition. It was, on the contrary, because Ireland had been disturbed, and because her social state demanded improvement, that the Government were now called upon to apply themselves to the removal of the greatest of those grievances which had caused Ireland to be disturbed. Everybody knew that the Church Establishment in Ireland was one of the main
 146 The Book of Common Prayer 147 "As long as Popish spade and scythe Shall dig, and cut the Sasenagh tythe, And Popish purses pay the tolls, On Heaven's road for Sasenagh souls; As long as millions shall kneel down, To ask of thousands for their own; While thousands proudly turn away, And to the millions answer 'Nay;' So long the merry reign shall be Of Captain Rock and his family." 148
 MR. BANKES  said, one of the first things to be considered in discussing this matter, was the separation of juvenile offenders, after their committal, from more hardened offenders. He had received a communication with respect to that subject from Dorchester, which he wished to lay before the House. It appeared that no less than fifteen prisoners, sentenced to transportation since the last July assizes, were still detained in the gaol of that place, and although a correspondence had been entered into with the Homo Secretary's Office, nothing of a satisfactory answer had been received. The county had proposed to add eighty new cells to the gaol, for which they could afford an expense of about 3,000 l l 106
 MR. GEORGE A. HAMILTON  said, * * 149 150 l
 MR. HAMILTON : He had taken down the words of the hon. and gallant Member: he had understood him to state that the income of the clergy was 680,826 l 151 l l s l s d 152 "A Royal Commission was appointed fifteen years ago, to inquire into the union of parishes, and to report on the fitness and practicability of dissolving them. A majority of the commissioners were laymen of high character and station. The result of their inquiries (which proceeded only as far as the province of Armagh) was, that, in regard to the unions in that portion of Ireland, 110 in number, there were forty-eight which it would be either impracticable, or unadvisable, to sever." 153 l l s d 
 
 Net income as above stilted £369,660 
 Deduct poor-rates, 2 s d 63,244 
 £306,416 
 Deduct stipends to stipendiary curates as set forth in return of Commissioners of Inquiry, 1835 56,708 
 Income of beneficed clergy £249,708 l l s d l l s d l s d l s d 154 l l l 155 l l l l l 156 l l l s d l s d l l l l l 157 l l l l l l l 158 "I believe that with respect to what some have proposed, namely, the destruction of the Protestant Church in Ireland, there could be no worse or more fatal measure sanctioned by Parliament. I believe that it would be politically injurious, because I believe that many of the most loyal in Ireland—many of those the most attached to the connexion with this country, would be alienated by the destruction of that Church to which they are fondly attached, I believe that, in a religious point of view, it would be the commencement of a religious war—that there would be that which does not at present prevail, the most violent and vehement attack upon the Roman catholic Church, and that the Roman Catholics themselves would be the first to complain of the destruction of the Protestant Church." * * 159
 MR. MOORE  said, on taking his seat in that House, he had bound himself by a solemn oath to do nothing to subvert the Church of these realms as by law established, and that he had been frequently reminded in the Session that in the opinion of many that oath imposed upon Roman Catholic Members a different obligation from that imposed upon Protestant representatives in the consideration of Church subjects. Now, a legal oath could, in no circumstances, amount to more than a simple recognition of that which, in the mind of the imposer, was an existing truth—an existing obligation. In a court of law, for example, the oath of a witness that he would tell the truth, and nothing but the truth, amounted to nothing more than a solemn recognition of the existing law of God, that we ought not to bear false witness against our neighbour. In no circumstances whatever did the law recognise a promise to do that which was in itself wrong. It was true that the law, by an oath, imposed an additional obligation and great additional responsibility; but it was not within its scope or power to make right wrong, or to make that criminal in an individual which it held to be innocent in itself. Therefore, the law could not impose upon him any further restraints than were held to be of moral obligation by every conscientious and right-thinking individual. No doubt there might be Roman Catholics who, on account of their oath, entertained objections to interfere with the Protestant Established Church; but he, who looked upon the Established Church as a matter of civil policy, saw nothing in the oath he took to place him in a different position from other Members of that House. He admitted that the Church of Ireland, the abuses of which he assailed, was a part
 130 131 132 133 134 135 Times 136 "The venerable and most respected Roman Catholic Bishop of Waterford had been assailed and pelted with stones. Another bishop had been protected solely by the interference of the sheriff, and this merely because he differed from the crowd on the subject of repeal. The Catholic Bishop of Kinshilla shared a similar fate, and the clergy in general were treated in the same way whenever they refused to lend themselves to the delusions of the people on the subject of repeal." 137
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  did not rise to allude to the subject-matter of debate, but simply to enter two protests. In the first place he protested against the inference that the Irish people were indifferent to the monstrous injustice of the Irish Church Establishment, because they had not for some time petitioned Parliament on the subject. The fact was, that even previous to the famine they had looked upon petitioning as useless, and looked to repeal of the Union as the preliminary step for redress of this, along with other grievances. The other protest he had to make, was against the principle laid down by the hon. Member for Mayo, namely, that it would be wise to endow the Catholic clergy. Speaking from his general knowledge of
 173
 MR. REYNOLDS  seconded the Motion. Motion made, and Question proposed—
 "That this House will resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House, to consider the present state of the Temporalities of the Church of Ireland."
 MR. REYNOLDS  explained that he had not the circumstance as a fact within his own knowledge. He had taken it from a public document, for the accuracy of which he begged to refer the hon. and gallant Member to the Stamp Office.
 MR. REYNOLDS  expressed his regret at the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, for until that moment he had thought that the hon. Gentleman was for relieving the people of Ireland from the incubus of an Established Church, and was not the more advocate of a tinkering system as regarded its temporalities. He had never heard until that evening that St. Patrick was a Protestant. He was a saint; and it had been said that he was a "gentleman"—and, not only that, it had been said that he "came of do-cent people" but certainly, until that evening, he had never heard that St. Patrick was a Protestant. There was once a very despotic king called Henry VIII., who had a quarrel with the Pope, and he superseded the Pope and made a Pope of himself, and he decided that no Irish bishop nor Irish rector should hold a benefice unless they acknowledged him as head of the church. The clergy repudiated his ecclesiastical authority, and the oaths were taken and the lands possessed by those of the new creed. He would not say a word disrespectful of his Protestant neighbours, but he begged leave to give the character of the Irish bishops, those loyal descendants of the Old Church, by Dean Swift, who said—
 "No blame rested with the Court for these appointments: excellent and moral men had been selected upon every occasion of a vacancy; but it unfortunately has uniformly happened that as these worthy divines crossed Hounslow-heath on their road to Ireland to take possession of their bishoprics, they have been regularly robbed and murdered by highwaymen, who seize upon their robes and croziers, come over to Ireland, and are consecrated in their stead." 170 l s d l Daily Reporter l s d.; l s d l l s d l l s d l l l l l l l l l l l 171 172
 MR. HENLEY  expressed a hope that the hon. Member for Pontefract, in addition to the valuable speech with which he had favoured the House, would go one step further, and bring forward the Bill of which he had given notice. He would render a most valuable service to the House by so doing, because, although the Bill could not pass into a law this year, it would be a useful contribution to the fund of knowledge on this subject. Many Members were not able to see their way in this matter, and they would be very thankful for any information which could be imparted to them. No opposition was offered to the Motion, and therefore he trusted that they would soon have the advantage of seeing the Bill printed.
 MR. HUME  said, he had been seldom so gratified with any speech on this subject as with the most convincing, satisfactory, and moderate speech of his hon. Friend the Member for Middlesex. Not one of the points noticed by his hon. Friend had been answered, whilst the time of the House had been taken up by the hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin, with matters which he never touched upon, such as sinecures, pluralities, and non-residence on the part of the clergy. Neither had the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary grappled with the points which had been brought forward by his hon. Friend. The hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin said, that the Church of Ireland was not so wealthy as was supposed. But it was not a question of wealth. It was the degradation which must be felt by the Roman Catholics of Ireland, who formed the great majority of the nation, at being called on to contribute to support the church of the minority. It was the placing that stamp of degradation on every Catholic, that proved such a social and moral injury to the whole country. He looked upon the Motion of his hon. Friend in a financial and social point of view, as one of the utmost importance. The right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary admitted that this was an evil and an abuse which did not exist in any other country in Europe; but he says the time had not yet come for doing away with it. This Church of Ireland, which was said to have taken root 300 years ago, had grown very badly; and if it had struck any root at all, he was afraid it would not grow better now than it did 300 years ago. His hon. Friend had shown that, in spite of all the degradation and oppression of the Roman Catholic Church, it had grown eightfold, whilst the Protestant had only increased twofold. Was it not time, then, that this country should have its eyes opened, and know that the Protestant Church, supported as it now was, cost them the maintenance of 50,000 men, besides the evils that arose from a disorganised state of society? Why should they not prevent such a state of things? What, he asked, could be more degrading to men than that they, the majority of the nation, should be forced to pay and support the clergy of a minority
 160 161
 MR. NAPIER : At this late hour I do not intend to detain the House with any lengthened observations. I am fully satisfied
 165 "There is something very singular in the ecclesiastical history of Ireland. The Chris-tian Church in that country, as founded by St. Patrick and his predecessors, existed for many ages free and unshackled. For above seven hundred years this Church maintained its independence. It had no connexion with England, and differed upon points of importance with Rome. The first work of Henry was to reduce the Church of Ireland to obedience to the Roman pontiff. Accordingly, he procured a council of the Irish clergy to be held at Cashel, in 1172, and the combined influence and intrigues of Henry and the Pope prevailed. This council put an end to the ancient Church of Ireland, and submitted it to the yoke of Rome. That ominous apostacy has been followed by a series of calamities hardly to be equalled in the world. From the days of St. Patrick to the Council of Cashel, was a bright and glorious era for Ireland. From the sitting of that council to our times, the lot of Ireland has been unmixed evil and all her history a tale of woe. 166 167
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, he felt the difficult position in which an independent Member of Parliament was placed who brought a subject of this nature before the House; but, although he regretted that they were deprived of the presence of an hon. Gentleman who had most ably brought the question under discussion on several former occasions, he thought that he (Mr. Osborne) could not be charged with any undue haste or presumption in now calling the attention of the House to this important subject. He had imagined, when the present Ministers came into office, that some one of those old and tried champions of civil and religious liberty—some one of those who formerly, taking this question at the flood, floated on with it to popularity and power—would have taken up the question, and would have endeavoured to effect some permanent settlement. He regretted to say that the tide had ebbed. Whether it was, that when Gentlemen were on the Opposition benches the aspect of Irish grievances seemed more rank and offensive, or that the Irish representatives as a body, were indifferent on the subject, he knew not; but the result was, that the question of the Irish Church, which was formerly the slogan of the present Ministerial Opposition—which was formerly the gathering war-cry of the Whigs—had, for the last few years, been entirely laid aside, and that instrument upon which so many harmonious notes had been struck to call the Whig supporters together, was now, like the fabulous harp of Tara, hanging up, mute, and remained unstrung. It would not, however, be his fault if, on the present occasion, he did not awake the memory
 108 Regium Donum de novo "You have an ecclesiastical establishment, which, though the religion of the Prince and most of the first class of landed proprietors, is not the religion of the major part of the people, consequently docs not answer to them any one purpose of a religious establishment. Many a fierce struggle has passed between the parties; the result is you cannot make the people Protestants, and they cannot shako off the Protestant establishment." History of England 109 —"Fuimus Troës, fuit Ilium, et ingens "Gloria Teucrûrn;" —"Ferus omnia Jupiter Argos "Transtulit." 110 * "There was a solemn compact between the Parliament of the United Kingdom and the people, given by the King, received by the Commons, and approved by the Lords, The state of Ireland has long been, and now is, a source of great embarrassment to every statesman of this country; there is no doubt that the moral as well as physical condition of the people is one of great degradation. The question I have to consider is their moral condition, and how far the Church Establishment in Ireland bears on that condition. You are not to tell us that you cannot listen to the well-founded grievances of Ireland, and are not prepared to do her justice, and yet insist on an adherence to the Legislative Union." * 111 * "The evils of Ireland are undisputed, and of great magnitude. Amongst the first was the state of the Church. He did not advocate Roman Catholic supremacy, but if he placed himself in the situation of the Roman Catholics of Ireland, he should find little difficulty in coming to similar conclusions which they had arrived at. They might look through all the countries of Europe—they would find in none of them was such an establishment maintained for the benefit of a small minority of the population. It was not for hon. Members on his (the Opposition) side to propose a remedy; it was the duty of the Government, as responsible parties, to originate a remedy for the evils complained of. The sound principle had been laid down—it was for Ministers, not for Members of an Opposition, to propose measures and provide a remedy for the evil." A laugh "Another great grievance of Ireland was the Established Church of the minority. He had heard it said that the Government would not reopen that question. He would ask the conservative and Christian gentlemen of England, if they were in the situation of the Irish, would they submit to it? "Would they not resent it? They would." "If they meant to have peace in Ireland, they must reform the Established Church—they must deal with the question of the property of the Protestant Church in Ireland." * † lb. pp. 871–72. ‡ Pp. 886–87. § P. 1008. 112 "With regard to the Irish Church, I am not now called upon to propose a plan; in my position (as Member of the Opposition) it would not be my place to do so. But any plan I should propose would be to follow the principle of equality with all its consequences." "When the Ministers of the Crown, now in office, shrink from the responsibility of maintaining the doctrines which they maintained when in Opposition, and of hazarding the peace of Ireland by a most flagrant violation of Parliamentary faith, I have no confidence to wait for other measures. With regard to the Irish Church, the system which I should be disposed to adopt would be one which should put the Established Church, as regards Roman Catholics and Protestants, on a footing of perfect equality." "It is impossible for any one who knows the feelings of human nature to suppose that the Irish people can look upon the present state of the ecclesiastical system in Ireland without the deepest dissatisfaction. It is not a mere question of money—it is one which concerns the feelings of a people. Though the question be beset with difficulty, I deny it to be a difficulty sufficient to deter a Minister of the Crown from dealing with it. On this subject I certainly entertain very strong feelings. This, I will say, nothing appears to me worse, nothing more hazardous, than for Parliament to declare they will not entertain the question of the Irish Church because it is beset with difficulties. The Union must be maintained, but a complete union never could be effected so long as the Established and Endowed Church of the minority exclusively existed." 113 "But it has been urged this is not the proper time. Not the time? When is it to arrive? Before the reformed Parliament it was not the time until Parliament was reformed; here is the reformed Parliament, and the time has not come. When will it? When the Whigs are in opposition? Are we to wait until their official convenience tallies with the rights of Ireland? We shall have to wait long indeed." 114 115 l 116 "Oh fortunati nimium! sua si bona nôrint." 117 "Waterford, March 24, 1849. "My Lord—I have perused your address to the Roman Catholic clergy and laity of the diocese of Limerick, recommending a collection in aid of His Holiness the Pope, with feelings of deep interest and sympathy for the position and sufferings of the Holy Father. So far as a Protestant may be permitted. I, to the utmost, acquiesce in the sentiments it embodies; and as a private and humble individual, beg to be allowed to contribute my mite to the fund about to be created for so laudable a purpose. And, my Lord, were it sanctioned by my Queen, I should be happy to raise a legion of Limerick and Tipperary "boys" in the cause of the persecuted Monarch. In such an enterprise, I venture to assert, that of the O'Donnells of the south, a thousand, at least, men who have "the will to do and the soul to dare"—would array themselves under my banner (inscribed as it is with the ancient motto of Christianity and their sept) to defend the sacred chair of St. Peter, and replace the holy, pious, and enlightened Pontiff who has been elected to occupy it.—I have the honour to be, with much consideration and respect, your lordship's most obedient and very humble servant, C. R. O'DONNELL, Colonel on the Staff, Commanding at Waterford." "This same Sir Charles O'Donnell did me the honour of calling upon mc to ascertain what number of Protestants in the town were ready to defend in arms their liberties, families, properties, life, and religion; and whether I would lend my aid and humble influence in organising them; that the Government would send arms to the barracks, which they afterwards did; that the Lord Lieutenant was fully aware, as well as himself, that he could only calculate upon the Protestants in any emergency, but still would not wish it to be known that the movement was to be exclusively Protestant. I. of course, told him I could put on no more faces than one, and if it was to be a Protestant organisation I could not consent to conceal the fact, and, moreover, that I had no influence except upon the ground of distinctive Protestantism, and neither would the Protestants of Clonmel array themselves in a motely mass, nor under other impulses than Protestantism." 118 "Nor is there any reason to believe (and upon this point I have collected information from various persons on whose judgment and local knowledge I could rely), that the recent orderly conduct of the people in the districts where disturbances prevailed, or were threatened, proceeds from any improved feeling as regards either the law or the Executive Government. The total absence of support of the authorities in their endeavours to suppress insurrection, the renewed attempt at rebellion in the vicinity of the town where the leaders of the movement were being brought to justice, and the disregard of proclamations requiring the surrender of arms, are facts which indicate that, however the failure of past attempts at insurrection may have weakened the confidence of the disaffected, the feeling which gave rise to, and encouraged, that movement still remains unchanged, and would again become active upon any occasion that appeared to offer even a distant prospect of success." 119 l regium donum 120 "My notion of a church establishment is, that it is not intended for the support of the offspring of the clergy in comfort and opulence, but for the instruction of the people." On the Influence of Authority in matters of Opinion "A Government cannot safely adopt any authority in ecclesiastical matters, or assume the exclusive truth of any one form of Christianity. It must look mainly to the numbers of each religious persuasion, in deciding the question of endowments for religious and educational purposes; and to the religion of parents in establishing the rules for determining the creed in which children incapable of judging for themselves are to be brought up. The most striking and decisive example is the case of the Irish Established Church, a complete system of exclusive endowment, founded on a territorial division of parishes; and yet, though it has existed since the Reformation, and has been assisted by active persecution and penal laws, it has never made any sensible impression on the Presbyterian and the Catholic portions of the community." "I request the reader to bear this always in mind, that the true end for which religion is established, is not to provide for the true faith, but for civil utility," &c. 121 "The question whether a church establishment was to be maintained or not, was only to be answered by another: namely, did it impede or did it promote the moral and spiritual improvement of the people?" 122 Political Anatomy of Ireland "Total number of inhabitants in Ireland he set down at 1,100,000. Of this number 800,000 were Roman Catholics, and 150,000 legal Protestants; the residue Nonconformists. Sir W. Petty says, 'One bishop in Ireland is more than thirty in England; to him he would give 2,500 l l 124 benefices with less than 20 Protestants 99 ditto with between 20 and 50 protestants. 41 without one single Protestant. Robinson's Almanac 
 
 Number of churches in diocese of Emly 12 
 Ditto of sittings 1,290 
 Rathroonan, diocese of Lismore, 100 sittings. 
 No Protestants. 123 
 
 Donoughmore diocese of Lismore,100 sittings, 
 No Protestants. 
 Outragh, diocese of Lismore, 100 sittings, 
 No Protestants. On the Church of Borne in Ireland in Relation to the State l s d l 124 l l l l l l l l l 125 "Thirty million Roman Catholics in France. Revenues—1,500,000 l l l l l 126 "There was no sort of analogy between church property and private property; the Church received its property for the performance of certain services, private property held it unconditionally. As well might the pay of the Army as the property of the Church be called inviolable, or private property." 127 "It may be asked, are compact and authority to be conclusive and decisive on this subject? If we are convinced that the social welfare of Ireland requires an alteration of the law, and a departure from the compact, are our legislative functions to be so bound up that the compact must be maintained in spite of our conviction? I, for one, am not prepared to contend for such a proposition." 128 l l "I concur in the plan propounded, as it is said, by Dr. Whatey, the Archbishop of Dublin, for making it a church of congregations, not parishes, as under the present system. I think the Protestant Church ought to be fully provided for, but I do not believe that anything like the amount at present allotted to it is necessary for the purpose. If you compare the amount allotted to the Irish Church with that of Scotland, and in most continental countries, you will say it is not necessary." "That it is the opinion of this Committee that any surplus that may remain, after fully providing for the spiritual instruction of the Protestants of Ireland should be applied locally to the education of all classes." 129
 MR. OSBORNE : No; I said 600,000 l
 MR. OSBORNE : Sir, I have no reason to regret the tone which this debate has assumed, or its upshot; but at the same time I cannot help thinking that we are present on a very melancholy occasion. We are present to witness the decease of another Whig principle. We have heard of the birth, parentage, and history of the famous Appropriation Clause, and we are now summoned to attend its obsequies—a melancholy occasion no doubt. The right, hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Homo Department acts as chief mourner, and sings the funeral dirge, and he is followed by all the hon. Gentlemen who from 1832 to 1845 voted in its favour, and who now bring up the  cortége 174
 MR. M. MILNES  would follow the advice of the hon. Gentleman opposite, and lay
 107
 MR. M. MILNES  rose, pursuant to notice, for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to the treatment and condition of juvenile offenders in this country. He observed, that as he had given his notice a considerable time ago, he should now content himself with making a few remarks upon the subject of juvenile offenders, although he might be compelled to proceed no further in the matter during the present Session of Parliament. He was the more induced to trouble the House with a few observations on the present occasion, inasmuch as he wished to impress on the Home Secretary, and on hon. Members generally, the great importance of the matter for which he desired to solicit their consideration. Amongst the various subjects which did and ought to occupy the time of the Legislature in this country, there was no one of the social questions more interesting to the philanthropist than the discipline and reformation of juvenile offenders. There was not one man in the country who gave the least attention to subjects of that class who would not be ready to admit that hero prevailed a great and crying abuse. It would be impossible for any one to visit the prisons of England without feeling that the juvenile offenders confined in them did not receive the attention which their cases deserved. Whether the question were placed on the highest or the lowest ground, there could not be a shadow of doubt respecting its importance in a moral and social point of view. When conviction took place, what was the condition of the young
 102 103
 MAJOR BERESFORD  said, that having heard the statement as to the probate duties paid by Irish archbishops and bishops, he thought it right to state, and he knew it from official documents, that all the statements made respecting the Archbishop of Tuam were as equally destitute of foundation as the present. It was said that the Archbishop of Tuam left property on which probate was paid to the amount of 250,000 l l l
 SIR G. GREY : Sir, I wish at once to relieve the apprehensions which seem to be entertained by the hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex, that I would, on the part of Her Majesty's Government, meet his Motion by moving the previous question. Looking not only to the inconvenience arising from the time at which he asks the House to go into Committee, but to the practical effects of the object which the hon. and gallant Gentleman has in view in the plan which he proposes, I must say that I am not prepared to go into the consideration of that plan at present, and I have therefore no objection to state at once to the hon. and gallant Gentleman that I will vote against his Motion. The hon. and gallant Gentleman warned the Government that they were not to congratulate themselves on the condition of Ireland, and that the condition of that country is not one for deep and unmingled satisfaction. I deeply regret feeling obliged to state that I concur with the hon. and gal-
 138 Hansard 139 140 "I am not prepared to deny, but affirm, that the existence of an exclusive Protestant Church in Ireland—the Protestant Episcopalians being a small minority only of the population—is an anomaly unjustifiable in its origin, and indefensible now. I know no other country in Europe in which the same experiment has been made—in which the same attempt has been carried out; and I am quite prepared to say that the wisdom and policy of the attempt in Ireland must be condemned by its results." * "I think it an unfortunate circumstance, materially affecting the peace of Ireland, and the efficacy of the Government, that the Roman Catholic clergy are dependent on those sources for their subsistence to which the hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex has referred. " "I very much agree with the hon. Member for Limerick in believing that the time would * 141 come—and I care not under what Ministry—when public opinion in this country, having altered through long experience, would enable a well-matured and well-considered plan to be brought forward, and procure for it the sanction of Parliament. I hope the hon. Member is not too sanguine in the expectation that that time is not far distant. I, for one, shall hail its arrival, and, whether in office or out of office, no one will be more ready than myself to concur in any practical plan for the accomplishment of what I believe would be a great benefit to Ireland." 142 143 de novo 144 145
 SIR G. GREY  hoped he might be allowed to say that he was ignorant of the facts just now stated to him by the hon. Member for Dorsetshire, but he would cause inquiry to be made into them.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that he should rather be disposed to accede at once to the Motion, if he believed that his hon. Friend had really a Bill in his possession. Everything in these matters depended, not on the expression of benevolent sentiments, in which he was quite sure that the House went along with his hon. Friend, but on the legal provisions which were necessary, and, at the same time, practicable, to give effect to those benevolent intentions. He agreed with his hon. Friend in much that that he had stated. He believed that much might be done with juvenile offenders, and he considered it to be the duty of the Government to keep in view the reformation of this class of offenders in a much greater degree than they were at liberty to do with criminals of a more advanced age. The two elements of punishment which ought to be kept constantly in view were the element which, by its deterring effect, repressed the commission of crime, and that which led to the reformation of those who were under punishment. It required a very nice hand to adjust the balance between those two principles; but
 104 105
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  expressed his regret that this question had been brought on at this late period of the Session, and with the object expressed by the hon. Member for Pontefract. He was rather surprised that the hon. Gentleman had concluded with a Motion for leave to introduce a Bill, as he expected the hon. Gentleman intended to move the appointment of a Committee on the subject. When the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department came into office he had some conversation with him on this subject, and he certainly had been in hope that the right hon. Baronet would ere this have introduced a Bill to authorise the construction of an establishment for the reformation of juvenile offenders. He did not know whether his right hon. Friend was aware that the lady already referred to, Miss Murray, had suggested that the old prison at Dartmoor might be applied to this purpose. He would suggest that it might be advisable next Session to have a Committee appointed to investigate the whole of this intricate subject.
 MR. SHAFTO ADAIR  recommended his right hon. Friend not to persevere with this Bill at the present late period of the Session, more especially as it had already been under the consideration of the House in conjunction with other measures, and had been negatived by implication. Subsequently to the passing of the Reform Bill, many measures were brought forward to improve the representation. Those measures were invariably postponed; but,
 175
 SIR G. GREY  entirely agreed with what had been said by his noble Friend at the head of the Government when the Motion was made for leave to bring in this Bill, that there did not exist in the country any practical discontent or dissatisfaction with regard to the duration of Parliaments. The right hon. Gentleman had been praised for having left a blank in his Bill; but, though such a course might be prudent, he did think that it would be very desirable that they should learn what the term was to be. The reduction to three years, for example, would, he thought, be attended with great practical inconvenience, because the first Session was one in which there were many new and inexperienced Members in Parliament; and the last Session was also one not calculated for the despatch of business, because Members were then naturally looking forward to the
 176
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the real answer to the noble Lord's speech was the division that followed upon it; because, notwithstanding the arguments which he used, and the appeal made to the House, the House decided that the Bill should be brought in; and he contended that it would not be treating the past proceedings of the House with respect if they were to decline now to discuss this measure calmly and in a manner becoming the importance of the subject. Let him observe, too, that these divisions were not quite accidental. Last Session there was a majority in favour of the ballot—oh, quite an accident! This Session, a majority for shortening the duration of Parliaments—again, it was said, a mere accident. But those majorities occurred in this way: Gentlemen were unwilling to record their votes against the extension of popular rights. Their absence was partly intentional, although he did not mean to say that they would not be pre-
 177 l 178
 MR. BERNAL  said, that being of that anomalous class to which his right hon. Friend had referred, he should certainly not record his vote on the present occasion. Being still of that hybrid class, he should go out without voting on the Motion then before the House. But having long-known his right hon. Friend both publicly and socially, he might be permitted to tell him in all kindliness that he wondered that a Gentleman of his ability and upright intentions should have taken up such a line of argument as he had that day pursued. How could his right hon. Friend talk of Members of that House having "a pull at the Treasury?" Would his right hon. Friend come forward, and in the face of truth and facts maintain that he had done justice to the Members of that House
 179
 MR. HUME  apprehended that the hon.
 180 181 182 s
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, that when an hon. Member opposite told the Ministers that they would certainly themselves if out of office carry another reform in Parliament, he must say that it was hardly a civil speech for him to make to his brother Whigs. Before the Reform Bill became law, he (Mr. Drummond) had been a supporter of triennial Parliaments, but he was now going to take an opposite line. He had voted for triennial Parliaments last year, but he should not do so on the present occasion, seeing the condition to which the House had been brought by the operation of the Reform Act, and he apprehended, in the present state of the representation, if they were to have triennial Parliaments, that the public business could not be transacted at all. He altogether objected to diminishing the duration of Parliaments, and expressed his belief that it would be better to have annual Parliaments at once. He could not help noticing the earnest and emphatic manner in which the
 183 respice finem. beau ideal Northern Star.
 MR. HUME  rose to deny altogether such an inference, and he challenged the hon. Member for Surrey to point out a single line which he had uttered in approval of such doctrines.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, that the hon. Member stated the other day in his debate ["Order, order!"]—well, the hon. Member on a certain occasion had used this expression, that all the world was in advance of ourselves; that we were formerly in advance of all the nations of Europe in representative institutions, but that now we were on the lowest step of the ladder, while France was on the highest.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that the last man to whom the term, "pulling at the Treasury bench," could apply, was the hon. Member for Rochester, who had got into so needless an excitement about the matter. His right hon. Colleague, however, was perfectly justified in the suggestion that the Treasury exercised a very important influence upon the House, in one way or another; not in direct bribery, he would admit, but in the distribution of favours and of honours which answered the purpose. It was not at all likely that the Treasury exercised the patronage of an expenditure of 60 millions per annum besides honorary distinctions, which, in the eyes of some were worth as much more, and of so large an amount of Church benefices of various kinds and degrees, without influencing a body whom it was so useful to a Government to influence as the House of Commons; and as a matter of fact, it was perfectly well known that this influence was exercised. It were equally futile to say that a Parliament of seven years gave no more occasion and opportunity for the exercise of this influence than a Parliament of shorter duration. In the year 1720, Swift, writing to Pope, laid down the principle that Parliament ought to imitate the wisdom of that gothic idea which made Parliaments annual. His right hon. Colleague had alluded to pledges; there could be no doubt that to give what was generally understood by pledges, was not wholly to be approved; but what he himself understood by hustings pledges was simply that the candidate therein expressed his conviction of the justice of particular principles, and his intentions to act up to them. If Parliament sat for seven years, it was additionally necessary for the constituencies to take this sort of inventory of their representatives' principles. But it was desirable and proper that the representatives of the people should not be shackled by what were generally called pledges. One thing was certain, that pledges did not answer the design of those who exacted them; there had been notable examples within the last few years of Members of that House turning round and voting in the very teeth of the principles they had started with. The security against such conduct as this was that Members should have to appear more frequently before their constituents. As it was, the system of influence in operation in that House had rendered it an appanage, a tool, to a large extent, of the influence predominant in the
 185
 MR. H. WILLYAMS  said, if the Bill was not encumbered with the clause relative to the time of three years, he would support it. He considered that the question of time should be discussed in Committee. He would not then go into the arguments in favour of shortening the duration of Parliaments, which he believed would be advantageous and necessary he did not approve of the Septennial Act, which threw an irresponsible power into the hands of representatives for a long period. He thought, also, that so far from frequent recourse to elections increasing bribery, it would have the effect of putting a check upon it.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  was surprised at the silence of hon. Gentlemen opposite on this question. During his Parliamentary experience, which extended over a period of upwards of twelve years, the leaders of the Opposition benches had been in the habit of taking part in the discussion on all important subjects brought under the notice of the House; but they now seemed to avoid this question he regretted that the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, whose opinions, from his great eloquence, and from his position as a great political leader, were entitled to serious attention on this as well as on other subjects, had just quitted his place. The opinion which he (Mr. Berkeley) had formed as to the advantages of triennial Parliaments, had been very much strengthened by some arguments urged by the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire on this question on a former occasion. He was not aware whether the hon. Gentleman was in the habit of eating his words—a vice prevalent in that House—but he trusted the hon. Gentleman had not abandoned his opinion as to "the good old fashion of triennial Parliaments." He had come across an address which the hon. Member had formerly put forth to the electors of Chipping Wycombe, in the course of which he laid the tar brush very unsparingly on Her Majesty's Ministers, as he was in the habit
 186
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  impugned the conduct of the Government for treating a question of this nature in the contemptuous manner they had done. Some day, however, the people would show their sense of this conduct, and he would tell them it was not safe to persevere in disregarding the wishes of the people. He would be glad to accept any modification of the system now in existence as an ininstalment. He thought that if this measure was carried, it would make them better Members of Parliament. Sooner or later the voice of the people would be heard, and then they would find out the very great mistake they had committed, and that it was not safe long to disregard the loudly-expressed wishes of the people. He knew that occasionally they awoke a
 187
 COLONEL SALWEY  had no hesitation in saying in his place in that House, that the contrast between the professions of the present Government out of office, and its progress in office, was painful in the extreme. In the most open and avowed manner they this year disavowed the principles which they professed the last, and they scrupled not to abandon the political principles upon which they had been placed in power. Much as he disliked toryism, he also detested that spurious kind of whiggery which was open and free when in opposition, hut when in power was careless and wasteful of the expenditure of the country, and took no part in carrying out the wishes of the people. Such was his opinion of the present Government, and he thought no honest Liberal ought to sit on that side of the House. If he was asked why he did not vote for the Motion of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire a few nights ago, he would answer—that hon. Member had attacked free trade, a measure in which he fully concurred, and to which he bad given his consent. But if the hon. Member had attacked the Government, he would have voted with the hon. Member. With regard to the Septennial
 188
 MR. KERSHAW  expressed his conviction that the opinions of the people were growing stronger and stronger in favour of the general principles of reform, and that the House could not much longer refuse to accede to their reasonable demands. He represented a constituency consisting, in round numbers, of 60,000 people, of whom only 1,300 were upon the registry; and he wished to know whether an electoral principle, of which that fact was an example, could be called justice and honesty to the people of England at large? Some ten years ago, he believed that the country was disposed to place confidence in those who now formed the Government; but now many of those who had been willing to support them would not cross the floor to serve them, believing that they had deserted their principles, and were one thing at one time and another at another. There had been a period when he thought that the Government had made some sacrifices for the principles they professed, and he was never more surprised than when, upon becoming a Member of that House, he found he could not rely upon them for the honest support of any one principle they had ever professed. He advised the House to assent to the principle of this Bill, and to leave the consideration of details to the Committee.
 MR. CAMPBELL  appealed to the dignity and justice of the House, as an adherent of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, to be permitted, as he best could, to defend him in his absence from the series of violent attacks which, for some time, had been delivered against his character and policy. The hon. and gallant Colonel the Member for Ludlow, the noble Lord the Member for Marylebone, and the Member for Montrose, had shown very little generosity and delicacy in the moment they selected for a declaration of their long accumulated wrath, and slowly ripening hostility. Had the noble Lord been present, he would certainly have hailed the opportunity of meeting these aggressive manifestoes with
 189 190
 MR. TENNYSON D'EYNCOCRT , in reply, said, that the question now before the House was not as the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Campbell) supposed, whether the duration of Parliaments should be three years, but whether it should or should not be less than seven years. The simple repeal of the Septennial Act would restore triennial Parliaments; but the form of the Bill before the House would leave the specific term of duration open
 191
 MR. FOSTER  hoped the House would not consent to go into Committee on the Bill. Some of the healthiest trees possible were to be found in St. Paul's Churchyard—a locality one would suppose extremely likely to be visited by smoke. The measure would tend to drive manufactures out of the country. Much had been done towards effecting that object already. There were the inspectors of factories, with their spies and informers, and there was the Ten Hours Bill, one of the most mischievous measures ever passed into a law. He regarded the noble Lord at the head of the Government as deeply responsible for that measure, inasmuch as it was entirely contrary to the commercial principles which he had ever professed. There was no end to such kind of legislation, and, if persevered in, there might, in time, be a Bill to prevent expectoration in the streets.
 MR. DUNCAN  said, that the measure was one which would overwhelm the manufacturers with ruin. The House had already hurt them severely by shortening the hours of labour; now they were about again to interfere with their liberty of action in a manner that would be hurtful to the master, hurtful to the poor, and consequently hurtful to the nation at large.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  observed, that if the clause were to stand, it would require amendment. Many hon. Gentlemen might desire to get at a definition of what constituted smoke, who could not vote for the clause in its present shape. He, for one, could not vote for the clause as it now stood. In fact, the clause and the Bill itself had been most inartistically drawn. It made smoke itself an offence. Whatever might be the difficulty in the way of defining opaque smoke, the present attempt at definition certainly made that difficulty greater; for it would necessitate
 205
 MR. C. W. WYNN  said, that the carrying into effect of the Bill did not depend upon the meaning which would be applied to its terms by the common sense of the magistrates, but upon that which the informer chose to attach to them. It was the informer who would come forward and say that he had seen opaque smoke. There should be a closer definition in an Act of Parliament than that which they had heard from the hon. Gentleman.
 MR. BANKES  said, he should vote for going into committee on the Bill, if his hon. Friend persevered. The object was one requiring their attention; and if the Bill was not perfect, they ought to go into committee to amend it as far as possible. He knew that society was impressed with the desire of having this great and growing nuisance put down. He heard with regret
 195
 MR. G. SANDARS  did not think that the opinion of the hon. Member for Manchester was in accordance with those of his constituents on this subject. He would beg leave to read a letter which he had received from an eminent scientific man, an engineer in Lancashire, in reference to this Bill. [The hon. Member read an extract from the letter, in which the writer stated his belief that it was quite practicable to consume the smoke in factories without the incurring of any great expense, and that the clause in the Manchester local Act worked well.] In his opinion, if manufacturers refused to consume their smoke, the Legislature was bound to compel them to do so.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that though the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Sheffield had proposed that this Bill should be postponed, at all events to a future Session, and though he was willing to admit that any opinion of his own on a matter of this scientific description was of very little weight, he had come to the conclusion, if the hon. Member for Lymington should think it worth while, at this period of the Session, to go into Committee on his Bill, of voting for his Motion to that effect. And he should do so on the ground of a report emanating, not from a Committee of that House, but from a commission appointed to inquire into this subject at the instance of the noble Earl the Member for Falkirk, when on the Woods and Forests, consisting of Sir Henry De la Beche and Dr. Lyon Playfair. He confessed that the opinion he was inclined to entertain was, that it would be practicable, without any great difficulty or very great expense, to oblige parties in a great degree to abate the nuisance of the production of smoke in such large quantities as was in many instances the case. At the
 200
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, it would be utterly impossible for any magistrate to decide upon the fact of whether the smoke were opaque or not, in the sense mentioned by the hon. Member for Lymington. He thought the definition should be left to the common sense of those who would have the carrying into effect of the Bill. But with regard to those persons who had been punished under the local Acts, he should say that they were usually old and known offenders.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  had stated that he did not concur in the views of the right hon. Baronet. On the contrary, founding his opinion on a public document which he believed ought to carry the greatest weight—he meant the report of the
 207
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that there were two or three reasons why he objected to this Bill. In the first place, the first clause was one which was worded in a manner which would prevent the Bill being of any use except to annoy those with whom it would interfere; and he asked the hon. and learned Attorney General to express his opinion on this point. If the hon. and learned Member would turn his attention to the last three lines of the first clause, he would find the word "opaque" mentioned, about which there was the greatest difference of opinion. He was not sure whether smoke being opaque or not might not depend on the colour of the sky beyond it, on the different circumstances of temperature, and on the different positions in which it was seen by an informer. The clause said, "that opaque smoke shall not be permitted to issue from any chimney of a furnace for any longer period of time than is  bonâ fide 197 198 199
 MR. BRIGHT  objected to the words "opaque smoke," and wished to have a definition of the term.
 MR. CARTER  said, that the Royal Agricultural Society, of which he was a member, and to which many hon. Gentlemen opposite no doubt belonged, strongly recommended the erection of stationary steam engines on farms; but if the Bill passed, these engines would be compelled to consume their own smoke, though it could be no nuisance. He knew a case where, in a purely agricultural district, a miller had recently erected a small engine, to be used on the occasional failure of the supply of water, and yet that man would be left at the mercy of any discarded servant who might choose to lay an information against him. He thought it unfair to apply the same rule to a country district, and to a locality like London with a quarter of a million of houses.
 MR. PARKER  thought his hon. Friend would save them a great deal of trouble if, after all that had been said against the Bill, he would consent to take another year to consider the objections that had been raised. His object in rising was principally to call attention to the fact that in the exemption clause there was actually no exemption, and he did not sec how any manufacturer in any town in England could escape under it as it now stood. Nobody liked smoke if it could be avoided; but it was absolutely necessary that they should carry on their manufactures. If any one could come forward and show that he had discovered a cheap and economic method of preventing smoke, the House would not be justified in refusing to adopt that method; but nobody could say that such a discovery had as yet been made. The gentlemen appointed on the commission were no doubt able scientific men, but they
 202
 MR. ROEBUCK  begged the Committee to remember that they were really about to do a very serious thing. They were about to pass an Act of Parliament the meaning of which wholly turned upon the meaning of this one word. His hon. Friend defined "opaque smoke" to be "smoke that you could not see through." But he (Mr. Roebuck) said that there was no such thing. There was no smoke of the kind. He had never seen smoke through which, however dense it was, he could not see the sky. But he had often seen volumes of very heavy smoke. Now, if they did not define their meaning accurately, there would be endless disputes and difficulties arising out of the construction of the Act. They had no gauge for smoke. It was not like heat, which could be measured by a thermometer. He considered the clause contrary to common sense.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he opposed the Bill on the ground that it would seriously interfere with the manufactures of this country. His objection to the measure was this, that the science of combustion was not in that state that they could legislate in the belief that in those manufactories, the subject now of complaint, they could dispose of their own smoke. The mere statement of the facts connected with the case was sufficient to show that they were utterly unable to do so. His hon. Friend the Member for Lymington said, only keep up a steady lire, and all that was consumable would be consumed; but he (Mr. Roebuck) knew otherwise he knew, that in the iron and steel manufactories of Sheffield, such was the process, requiring different degrees of heat, now low, and again suddenly increased, that it was quite impossible for them to keep up a steady fire, or to avoid raising a considerable amount of smoke. By the 8th Clause of the Bill, however, it was provided that in case of opaque smoke being seen issuing from any chimney for
 194
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, if his hon. Friend divided in favour of going into Committee he would vote with him, though at the same time there were many of the details of the Bill in which he could not concur. He believed that in Manchester, for instance, it was very possible materially to diminish the quantity of smoke without incurring much expense; but at the same time he thought it would be advisable to try whether science could not discover
 203
 MR. SPOONER  concurred in the suggestions of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton. In many instances it was ut-
 201
 MR. THORNELY  said, all regulations for the consumption of smoke ought to be left to the municipal authorities of each locality. The hon. Member for Lymington had, upon his recommendation, agreed to exempt iron works from the operation of the Bill; and it appeared he had also consented to exempt potteries. These exemptions, and the necessity for them, showed that the whole subject could only be safely left to local supervision. By that means the smoke would be consumed whore it could be; and where it could not, the parties would be left free. He suggested, therefore, that the Bill should be withdrawn for the present Session, and a measure introduced in the next, giving to local authorities the power of making such regulations as were suited to the particular district.
 MR. ALDERMAN COPELAND  said, the manufactory with which he was connected must be entirely shut up in case the Bill were allowed to pass. He opposed it from no desire to foil its object, for he had himself expended 1,200 l
 MR. CUBITT , having been referred to in this debate, thought it right to make a short explanation. His brother had the object of consuming smoke much at heart; he had laboured greatly at it, and certainly with some success, hut at a very great expense. Recently he had spent 400 l l
 MR. MACKINNON  really thought the word "opaque" was so easily understood that he could not supply a better. "Opaque" was that which was not transparent, and which was not pellucid—that which you cannot see through—that through which when you looked, you could not see the sky beyond, nor the light. Really, hon. Gentlemen might as well ask him to define what was good and what was
 204
 MR. MACKINNON  said, he had only a single observation to make. He certainly thought there was a good deal of truth in the observation of Sir Robert Walpole, that the country gentlemen will, like their own sheep, lie down to be fleeced, but if you touch the manufacturing interests they will yield nothing but grunts. The hon. Member read an extract from the report of the Committee that sat on the subject six years ago, and said that both it and the report of the commission left no doubt but that it was quite feasible to prevent smoke in all cases.
 MR. MACKINNON  consented to the Chairman reporting progress.
 SIR C. BURRELL  said, as some had spoken of the difficulty of effecting their object, he should instance in Mr. Cubitt's steam engine on the Grosvenor estate, which he saw in full action, without
 196
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  was well convinced that the smoke of manufactories in crowded towns was a great nuisance, which the manufacturers themselves were desirous of remedying, but had hitherto failed in doing. He recommended, however, as experiments were making for the purpose, that his hon. Friend should withdraw the Bill for the present Session, and bring it in next year, when the results of those experiments might be in a more satisfactory state.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that, had he been present on the occasion of the recent division on this Bill, he certainly should have voted with the minority against it. This was not a subject now for the first time brought under the consideration of Parliament. The hon. and learned Member for Sheffield had no doubt unadvisedly used the bold expression that this clause was contrary to common sense. Did the hon. and learned Member know whence this Bill had come? Much was the criticism expended in another place on the manner in which Bills were sent up to the other House. The hon. and learned Attorney General, however, had stated that, apart from the merits of the clause, its construction was so inartistic that it defeated its own purpose. The clause, as it had come down from the other House of Parliament, was directed  ad rem, non ad personam.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  continued, He said, that, having the character of the House very much at heart, on the whole he was sorry to hear that the original draft of this Bill emanated from a Committee of that House; and he was much more sorry that the hon. Member for Lymington, after the experience he had had on this question,
 206
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  gave the right hon. Gentleman great credit for the measure he had brought before the House, which no doubt had been dictated by a desire to benefit the mercantile marine; but there was one point which he had heard with extreme regret, and that was that it was intended to do away with the registry certificate.
 MR. BERNAL  wished to put a question to the right hon. Home Secretary relative to the sanitary state of London. Information had reached him (Mr. Bernal) that day that the disease termed "cholera" was certainly spreading its ravages in different parts of London. He was surprised that hon. Members could submit to the state of discomfort, increasing every day, caused by the nuisances round and about the house in which they were assembled from noon often until two o'clock the next morning. The smells, he was told, arising from the churchyard in the immediate neighbourhood and from the vaults of St. Margaret's Church, were found by persons in attendance on Committees to be so pungent and deleterious, that they were obliged to close the windows; and at the table where he often had to sit for some hours, he found odours arising of such a nature that he could not tell by what they were engendered, but this he could say, that such a state of things must infallibly act upon the health of Gentlemen who were discharging very onerous duties under such circumstances. But he would take the opportunity of inviting the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to the general condition of London. The sewers now
 249
 MR. HUME  appealed to the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown to allow
 262
 LORD J. RUSSELL  begged to remind the House that they had met that day—the 12th of July, and at a very late period of the Session—for the purpose of considering the Ordnance Estimates proposed to be voted for the year from the 5th of April last to the 5th of April next. He had certainly been in hopes that some time ago the Committee which had sat on the Ordnance and Army Estimates would have been able to make some report, However, the evidence and the consideration of that evidence had taken till the present time. The question put by his hon. Friend was whether, that being the case, he would not agree to put off the Ordnance Estimates till Monday next. Now, he must say it appeared to him that if there was to be a postponement at all, that would not be a fair time to postpone it to, because there ought to be sufficient time to enable the Board of Ordnance and the Government to consider the report, and to mature their judgment upon the various points connected with it. Now, that might require till the end of the present month or sometime in August, perhaps towards September, He certainly thought that were the hon. Member for Montrose and the other Members of the Committee, who had had several months to consider the points involved in the report, to avail themselves of their knowledge to press objections upon the Government, without the Government having had time to consider the report, and without their being able, therefore, to enter upon its discussion—that would be an unfair mode of discussing the report. It seemed to him, therefore, that they should either proceed to the consideration of the Ordnance Estimates for the present year then—of course listening to any objections that might be stated to them by hon. Members, but deferring the consideration of the views propounded by the Committee with regard to the preparation of the estimates for next year—or else postpone the consideration of the estimates for not less than a fortnight from that time. He submitted, that to postpone the consideration of the estimates till August, when there would necessarily be a thin House, would be a very unsatisfactory mode of proceeding; and that the better mode would be to
 263
 MR. HERRIES  said, he was quite sensible that this was the 12th of July, and that the Session was far advanced; but the House was in this position—in the early part of the Session the estimates had been referred to a Select Committee, in order that they might guide the House to a correct decision thereupon. That Committee had fully considered the subject, but their report was not yet in the hands of Members; and it was in those circumstances that they were invited to come to a decision upon the Ordnance Estimates without the knowledge of the important advice which was given to the House by the Committee. He would gladly avoid delay in the consideration of the estimates; but, undoubtedly, the House would be placed under great disadvantage in coming to a decision upon them unless time was afforded to Members to become acquainted with the advice of the Committee. [Lord J. RUSSELL: Why not the Government?] The noble Lord has mentioned two parties—the Committee and the Government. But he had apparently forgotten a third party—namely, the House, which wanted the information which the Government possessed already. He felt the disadvantages of delay, but, at the same time, admitted the validity of the objections of the hon. Member for Montrose. In fact, the whole position of the affair exhibited strongly the evil of referring the estimates to Committees. Exactly the same thing happened last year, and, after all, the estimates were voted without their having the report before them. He would not, however, divide in favour of the postponement.
 MR. COBDEN  concurred with his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose in requesting that the noble Lord would not press the estimates that evening. The noble Lord surely could not have understood the case put by his hon. Friend, or he would not have answered as he had done. On Tuesday afternoon the Committee completed their report. It would be printed and in the hands of the House on Saturday;
 264
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the hon. Gentleman who last spoke had entirely misrepresented what he (Lord J. Russell) had stated. In the first place, he must correct the hon. Member, when he said he (Lord J. Russell) had taken the House by surprise in the interval between the report being announced as ready, and its delivery to hon. Members. The course he really took was to inform the noble Chairman of the Committee that there was a period when the Government would have to go on with the estimates—that the Session was becoming late—and that he (Lord J. Russell) could not delay the estimates later than the 12th of July; at the same time asking the noble Chairman if the House would be in possession of the report before that period. The noble Chairman told him that, in his opinion, it would be laid before the House considerably before that day; and, having heard that opinion, he (Lord J. Russell) fixed the Ordnance Estimates for July 12, not on the supposition that the House would have to vote them in ignorance of the report, but, on the contrary, that they would be in possession of it. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stamford observed very fairly that it was not the Government nor the Committee that had to decide this question, but the House. At the same time, the right hon. Gentleman weuld not differ from him when he stated that the Government must be responsible for the proposition they made to the House, and that it would not do for them to say, "Here is a certain sum, but whether it is a proper amount, or whether it should be diminished or increased, we are unable to say." It
 265
 SIR J. GRAHAM  quite agreed with the opinion expressed by the right hon. Member for Stamford, that it was not for the Committee or the Government, but for that House, to decide upon the estimates. He was very sorry his noble Friend the Chairman of the Committee was not present. Every Member of the Committee would bear testimony to his noble Friend's exertions; and he believed that those exertions had been so great as to render it necessary for him to leave England for a milder climate. As to the report, it had been presented—it was, in fact, then on the table of the House, and would be in the hands of Members by Saturday. On Friday last he had himself proposed that an intimation should be made to the House, that it would not be expedient to postpone the estimates until the report was laid before it. As the hon. Member for Montrose was not then present, nothing was done; but at that time there was not an immediate prospect of the report being concluded. On Monday last considerable progress was
 266 267
 MR. HUME  contended, unless it were intended that the report of the Committee was to be a perfect farce, that they should not now proceed with the estimates. He had been detained in the House by the Scotch Bills, and he himself, though a Member of the Committee, actually did not know one of the conclusions to which they had come. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon thought it better for them to discuss these estimates in ignorance than in knowledge. He (Mr. Hume) did not at all agree with that view of the case. There were forty-one orders of the day upon the Paper; there was, therefore, plenty of business for the House to proceed with, and he once more called upon them to postpone the estimates until Monday. He wanted to show the immense sums of money that were wasted in the Ordnance Department, but that he could not do without the report. If he possibly could, he should prevent their proceeding with the estimates at this time, and he begged to move, therefore, that the Committee report progress, and obtain leave to sit again.
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, that last Friday the impression in the Committee was, that the report would not be ready by the Tuesday, and under that impression he proposed to the Committee that they should inform the House of the position in which the business stood before them, in order that it might judge whether it was expedient any longer to suspend the consideration of the estimates. On the Monday, however, business made greater progress, and in consequence, the report would be ready by Saturday. He begged to remind hon. Members that the Navy Estimates were considered in Committee of Supply, in the same manner as it was proposed to consider the Ordnance Estimates; and there could be no better guarantee to the House with regard to the manner in which the Government were disposed to attend to the recommendations of the Committee, than the manner in which they dealt with the report on the Navy Estimates, and gave effect to it during the period that Parliament was adjourned. He believed the same course would be taken now as to the Ordnance Estimates. It was; there-
 268
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was of opinion that the question really was whether by a postponement the House could be put in possession of the report and evidence, so as to become fully informed on the subject. But, to obtain due advantage from the labours of the Committee, sufficient time must be afforded to consider not only their recommendations, but the grounds on which these were based. Was it not the more advisable course to take the estimates on the responsibility of the Government, these estimates having been laid before the House, giving the Government an opportunity to avail themselves of the labours of the Committee by considering the report and evidence during the vacation, so that next Session they might be able to state what course they on their responsibility would be prepared to adopt? He agreed with his noble Friend, that reductions to be effectual must be made by the Executive Government after due deliberation. Before Monday, or any early day, they could not consider and digest the evidence, but they would have it in their power, early next Session, to state what were the reductions which, after due deliberation, they thought the circumstances of the country would enable them to adopt.
 MR. HERRIES  said, that one question of considerable importance, which had not been touched upon by the noble Lord or the right hon. Gentleman was this, were they to abandon all hope of effecting any reduction in the present year? If they were to be told by Government that notwithstanding the knowledge they possessed of what had been passing in the Committee, they were yet unprepared to adopt any of their suggestions, so as to effect in the current year any reduction of the estimates, then the House would know what conclusions to come to. But he understand that they were not prepared even
 269
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the right hon. Gentleman had inquired whether they were to abandon all hope of effecting any reductions within the present year? His answer to that was, Certainly not. When the report of the Committee should be seen and considered, it might turn out upon investigation that there were some reductions and changes which might be made in a very short time; but he certainly was astonished that the right hon. Gentleman, with all his knowledge of the mode of carrying on the public business, should expect that on Monday next, there being perhaps a proposal for a reduction of 100,000 l 270
 SIR W. MOLES WORTH  said, the noble Lord had observed that there was not one single reduction proposed by the Committee of which he was aware. He could inform the noble Lord of some reductions proposed for military works in the colonies. The Committee had unanimously agreed that certain military works in Bermuda, the Mauritius, and the Ionian Islands, should be suspended until the Government should have full time to consider the propriety of continuing those works. If the House read that report they would see that reduction recommended upon such evidence—Earl Grey's and others—that they would insist on the Government postponing these estimates.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  thought the right hon. Member for Stamford would agree with him that when once the House had sanctioned the amount of force, the expenditure had so far been determined. With respect to the Ordnance force, the House had already voted the number of men. The other branches of expenditure in that department immediately under control of the Executive Government with reference to economy were only two, stores and new works, which had each two subdivisions, according as they related to stores and new works at home, or stores and new works in the colonies. With respect to stores, it was hardly possible for the Government to come at once to a decision as to what for a peace establishment should be the permanent amount of stores to be maintained; and six months were not too much time to allow the Government to make up their minds on the subject. He had heard the evidence, and he should be sorry if any hasty decision were adopted. It was absolutely necessary that time should be given and taken. So also with respect to that most important and expensive branch, fortifications and works abroad, similar inquiry must be made; and the
 271 l
 MR. COBDEN  said, the right hon. Baronet had warned the House not to be rash or hasty in making reductions; and for that reason they advocated the postponement of the estimates till Monday. That would surely he less rash than voting them then. Let the House avail itself of the result of the Committee's inquiry; lot hon. Members have the report in their hands, and they would be in a better position to vote the money than when in perfect ignorance of it. It was said the report would not be sufficient without the evidence. He believed very few Members would ever read the evidence; probably not a large number would ever open the book. The report was a digest of the
 272
 COLONEL ANSON  agreed that the report was most ably drawn up; but as it contained references to the questions, hon. Members ought to be able to refer to the evidence also. He was extremely anxious there should be no further delay in passing these estimates, on account of the inconvenience which would thereby he caused, not only to the Ordnance Department, but to the public service generally. He hoped the hon. Member for Montrose would not persist in his Motion. Any objection that he might make to the votes, he (Col. Anson) was prepared to answer. As to the works at Mauritius, and other places, it would be extremely rash for the Government at once to say they would scratch these items out of the estimates. All they could do was to make the strictest inquiry, and to promote the views of the Committee, if, on due inquiry, they found it desirable to do so.
 MR. COBDEN , in explanation, stated that the report had been finished on Tuesday, sooner than was expected; and he had rather the House had voted these estimates without the report at all, than that the Committee should have been hurried in their report, and it should then not be brought before the House. To avoid any detriment to the public service, if any such could arise by postponing these estimates till Monday, or if money was wanted for paying the men, let the Government take a vote on account.
 MR. SPOONER  should support the hon. Member for Montrose, if he pressed his Motion to a division. After this Committee had sat two years, the estimates ought certainly not to be voted, in ignorance of their report. It seemed to him most astonishing that the noble Lord at the head of the Government should be in utter ignorance of the recommendations of the Committee. Even in the absence of the evidence, the report would be some guide in discussing the estimates; and it would be monstrous, after waiting till Thursday, not to wait two days longer.
 COLONEL RAWDON  advocated the proceeding at once to the consideration of the estimates, when hon. Members might take the sense of the Committee on any item to which they objected.
 MR. HILDYARD  said, if the Committee had been one in hostility to the Government, weight would have attached to the arguments of the noble Lord; but the Committee having been appointed by the Government, being in fact their own, it ought not to be assumed that their recommendations needed watching with so much suspicion. The Government having professed themselves ignorant of the Committee's recommendations, and being responsible for the estimates, they ought certainly to be made acquainted with this report of their own Committee before the estimates were discussed. It was not to be supposed that the House would be entirely led by the report of the Committee; hon. Members would doubtless exercise their own judgment. If the Committee had not suggested any great reductions, there was no harm in seeing the report; if it had, how should they stand with the country in thus slurring over the Committee's recommendations?
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the essence of the proposal of the hon. Member for Montrose was, that the report being issued on Saturday, the estimates should be dis-
 274 l l
 MR. HUME  said, he had never made use of the expression "large reductions to be made immediately." He had only stated, that a great increase had taken place in this department beyond what the resources of the country would justify. In his demand he considered he was reasonable in every point, and that Her Majesty's Government were unreasonable in every point.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he must vote against reporting progress. The question was, whether they would enter into those estimates now or on Monday, after the report was printed? They would only vote now, as they would do if the Committee had not sat at all. The report of the Committee referred to recommendations which they suggested should be taken into consideration during the recess, and it was absolutely impossible that they could be carried into practice now. There were only two votes which the Committee recommended to be suspended. With regard to these two, he hoped the Government would attend to the suggestions of the Committee. But with regard to the others, he thought that they might proceed with them now.
 MR. B. SMITH  did not think the noble Lord at all justified in urging on the vote, when there was other business which might be proceeded with, and when the report of the Committee was not yet in the hands of Members, He hoped the noble Lord would accede to so reasonable a request as the postponement of the vote. If the noble Lord persisted in going on with it, he should move that the Chairman quit the chair.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  had postponed this estimate from time to time, in the hope that the report would be presented to the House; but when the middle of July had
 275
 MR. HUME  said, there were other estimates which might be taken that night, and, therefore, no time need be lost. He should leave it to the country to judge who was right and who was wrong. What reason was there for pressing forward those estimates before the information contained in the report of the Committee with respect to them was in the possession of hon. Members? A vote had been taken of 100,000 l
 MR. HASTIE  wished the hon. Member for Montrose to state whether there was in the report any objection to the vote before the House? If there was, he should vote for postponement.
 MR. HUME  was glad his hon. Friend had asked the question. He appealed to the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon whether he had not in the Committee objected to the great increase in the artillery, and whether the right hon. Baronet had not stated that it was for the House, and not for the Committee, to decide as to the number of men? In 1828 the number of men voted for the artillery was only 8,200; now it was between 14,000 and 15,000.
 MR. AGLIONBY  thought there was something unreasonable in the noble Lord pressing this vote against so respectable a minority as forty-three, many of whom were the usual supporters of Government. He would suggest the adjournment
 276
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  was one of those who voted in the minority; but he was anxious not to offer any vexatious opposition to Her Majesty's Government. He had opposed the appointment of those Committees from the first; but he was now most ready to admit that they had been of great service. That upon the Navy had been conducted with the utmost fairness; and that being the case, their reports were valuable. He was decidedly in favour of postponing the discussion until the report was printed.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  admitted that at an earlier period of the Session this would be a fair and reasonable request; but it was the opinion of the Government that without the evidence the House would not be able to form a fair opinion upon the report, the Members of the Committee having been divided. The mere possession of the report would not really and truly give the House any information which would aid it in forming a proper judgment. If a postponement until Monday took place, it would lengthen the Session by a week.
 MR. HUME  said, that that argument only went to prove that they ought to have the evidence as well as the report before they voted this money. The right hon. Gentleman talked of the Session being prolonged, as if hon. Members were not there to do the business of the country, and to do it properly. If they consented to take the report without the evidence, the Government ought to be the last to find fault with so short a postponement for that purpose. The Government was treating the House as if it were nothing, and saying, in effect, that the five months' labour of the Committee in collecting information was thrown away. Why, deducting the Members of the Government, who could not vote as they pleased, and one or two Members of the late Government, he had a majority in favour of postponement.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he would not vote for postponement a second time, feeling that he was bound by the decision to which the House had already come.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the division which had just taken place showed clearly that it was the opinion of the House that they ought to go on with the estimates; and that the great majority of the House was against the vexatious opposition of the hon. Member for Montrose.
 MR. BAILLIE  said, that the noble Lord had no right to complain of the House dividing. He should be glad to know why they were to pass these estimates in such a hurry? Why were these estimates not brought forward before? Because they were waiting for the report of the Committee. They only asked for a few days to have the report in their hands, and the noble Lord accused them of vexatious obstruction. He was not one of those who thought that this report, when it was laid upon the table of the House, could make any great alteration this year; but he did not think they ought to be called upon to come to a decision upon the estimates until some information, which was upon the table of the House, should be in their possession.
 MR. COBDEN  had observed the exultation of some hon. Members when the hon. Member said that the report did not recommend an alteration in the estimates this year. If there was one thing which was more established than another, it was this, that no estimate had ever been altered in the lifetime of any person present after it had been presented to the House. These estimates, when once printed, were
 278
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The hon. Gentleman said that they were endeavouring to overcome opposition without reason, and by mere brute force. He thought they had given sufficient reasons. There were two important Members of the Committee who gave their reasons—the right hon. Member for Ripon, and the right hon. Member for Northampton—who both stated at some length their reasons, they being Members of the Committee, and having attended carefully to the Committee, being anxious for reduction and economy, that they ought to go into these estimates to-night, and not postpone them till Monday. The only Member who opposed this who had attended much to the Committee was the hon. Member for Yorkshire. The hon. Member for Montrose did not attend.
 MR. HUME  said, that he attended always until the last three days. The noble Lord was much in error in taking credit for the speeches of his two right hon. Friends. Their reasons were for delay, although their vote was against him. The reasons of the right hon. Gentlemen were such that any hon. Member would have expected that the noble Lord would have come to a different conclusion.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that he understood that all were agreed that these votes on the Ordnance Estimates, which were reported against unanimously by the Committee, should be postponed till the report of the Committee was before the House; but the noble Lord said, that if one single vote were postponed until after the report was printed—namely, till Monday next—they could not finish their supply on Friday, and another week was gone. There was no loss of time in postponing all the estimates beyond what would be lost in postponing one. Were they prepared to agree to a vote to-night, against which a Committee had unanimously reported? The right hon. Member for Ripon said, if he understood him correctly, that with regard to these particular votes, he thought there was ground for postponement, but they might go on with the rest. It appeared to him that the House had been proceeding upon something like a misunderstanding, because he was quite sure that the course which the majority of Members were willing to take was to postpone the votes which were reported against by the Committee. If it was not, there was no meaning in the question put by the hon. Member for Paisley. If the Government
 280
 MR. HUME  protested against the course pursued by the Government. There were other estimates, such as the militia, on which no information was expected from the report, and with which the Committee might proceed, if the saving of time was an object. If Government had determined on the course they were now taking, why had they delayed their estimates so long? If they had brought them forward in ordinary course, the House might have discussed them item by item; but they had been delayed for this report, and now it was ready, the House was not to see it. If the Government had not intended to take the House by surprise, they would never have acted in such a manner. Last year they made large reductions without any report, and took credit for so doing, and their altered conduct on the present occasion proved that the economical course was to be followed no longer. He held in his hand a statement of the expenses of 1825, 1835, and 1848, and it afforded such a frightful picture of increase as fully to justify the House in refusing to pass the present estimates without the most ample
 281 l l
 MR. BROTHERTON  did not think that the hon. Member for Montrose was taking the best mode of accomplishing the object he had in view. He had much rather that they had been allowed time to
 282
 SIR R. PRICE  deprecated these fruitless divisions, and suggested that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose, if he felt so strongly on the matter, should leave the House, and so protest against a course which he found he could not prevent.
 MR. BRIGHT  confessed that the speeches of those hon. Members who had spoken in favour of the Government were not sufficient to induce him to vote against the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose. The hon. Member for Salford was a firm ally of the Government, and sometimes he appeared in danger of forgetting the large number of persons he represented down in Lancashire. Personal partialities influenced many hon. Members at times, and those partialities at present seemed to have their effect upon the hon. Member for Salford. The case before the House was a very simple one. The Ordnance Estimates had been postponed for five months, and now the Government were refusing the delay of a day or two in order that the report might be printed and circulated. Now, he would ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government to recollect that within the last fortnight he had granted two days for the discussion of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire's Motion on the state of the nation, and that there had been some evenings during the Session entirely lost. He believed that there had been less obstruction offered to Her Majesty's Government in the present Session than since the Government had assumed the reins of office. Take the debates. There had been a debate on the Motion of the hon. Member for the West Riding for going back to the expenditure of 1835. It was not discussed for more than a night, because the free-traders were desirous of not throwing any obstacle in the way of the Administration. Then, there was the Motion of the hon. Member for
 283
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, he had been for
 284
 MR. COBDEN  said, that they were beside the question in introducing personalities. The hon. Member for Manchester had spoken in a kindly spirit to the Government and the hon. Member for Salford; and now he (Mr. Cobden) desired to recall attention to this point. They were going to vote 2,600,000 l l Cheers. l
 COLONEL ANSON  said, that as the hon. Member for the West Riding had referred to the Ionian Islands, he (Colonel Anson) must just point out to the House the very gross misrepresentation that he had made with respect to the money spent upon them.
 285 l l l l l l l
 MR. COBDEN  asked whether what he said was not that 450,000 l
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO  wished to know whether on a question of fortification the authority of a civilian could be put in competition with that of the most intelligent engineers serving under the British Queen. Neither the past nor the present Government had exacted from the Ionians the full amount that had been expended in fortifications, &c, in that country; they owed this country not less than 125,000 l l l 286
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Mr. Bernal, I cannot allow this debate to close after the imputations which have been cast upon me by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester, without making a few observations. The hon. Gentleman is exceedingly dissatisfied, it appears, with the hon. Member for Salford, because he says he speaks in a kindly manner of everybody, and is disposed to place confidence in the Government when they make statements in the House. Having postponed the matter until this time, I thought it was quite impossible fairly to consider the report of the Committee at present, and I proposed that the Ordnance Estimates should be taken; upon which the hon. Member for Manchester said that I must have a dishonest motive in so doing; and that my intention is to prevent the House of Commons from having the report in their hands, and fairly considering the recommendations of the Committee. Why, certainly, if in making my suggestions as to the course to be pursued on this question, I was influenced by a dishonest motive, I should be fairly liable to the imputation of acting in total disregard of my duty. But I certainly had not taken a very skilful mode of carrying out any dishonest intentions on this subject, because it would have been much easier to have said in the month of May or Juno, we had better not wait any longer, and the House could scarcely have refused to listen to that argument. But because I have postponed till the month of July to ask for this report, the hon. Gentleman makes these imputations against me, which I totally deny. I deny that I have acted so corruptly With respect to the dispute which has lasted all this night, the question simply turned on what the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose said as to the Committee deriving great advantage from having the report of the Select Committee before them; but we, on the other hand, contended that as that report could not be in the hands of Members till Saturday, the very short time intervening between the sitting of the House on Saturday and Monday—the report being voluminous—would not enable the House to gain sufficient information on the subject; and therefore it would be better not to discuss the various items, or to enter into any very large question of the reduction of the estimates till next year. Now I cannot say at present whether the hon.
 287 288
 MR. HUME  disclaimed any factious opposition in the course he had pursued, and said he should regret if any thing personal had fallen from any hon. Member in the course of the debate.
 MR. PAGE WOOD  said, that some of the observations just made by the right hon. Gentleman appeared to him of such serious import, both as regarded the honour and integrity of the profession to which he (Mr. Page Wood) had the honour to belong, and as regarded the position of our Government in the colonies, that he could not remain silent, knowing what he did of this case as a counsel therein. If the allegation made by a right hon. Gentleman who had once filled the high office of Secretary for the Colonies, that the interference
 257
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  defended the conduct of Sir W. Denison, and expressed his regret at the animus which had been evinced against an officer standing high in his profession. He entreated the House not to form their judgment upon Sir W. Denison upon the speeches which they had heard.
 LORD ASHLEY , representing the Board of Health in that House, begged to state that they were utterly powerless in these matters. The Board of Health had no jurisdiction within the metropolis, except in cases where the cholera should have broken out, and then they could give certain directions, and have certain cleansings made; but those were surface cleansings. Privies were to be emptied, streets washed, and a system of house-visitation established, so long as cholera prevailed; but, with respect to the institution of effective measures for the removal of permanent sources of disease, the Board had no power. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Rochester had said that the state of the metropolis was much worse than before. He (Lord Ashley) could hardly concur in that. It was very bad, very unsuited to health and safety, but there had been a very great deal of cleansing, and he was happy to say there was a determination to go further in the adoption of such measures. The cholera was now spreading rapidly; and unless something were done it was impossible to say what would be the consequence.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  answered, that it was thought by the noble Earl the First Commissioner of Woods and Forests, after inquiry, that it would be necessary to have a separate Bill for the metropolis; and it was on that ground that his noble Friend did not include the metropolis in that Bill. This year his noble Friend had considered that until the commissioners of sewers, appointed last year, had proceeded further with regard to the requisite alterations in the system of sewers, it would not be advisable to introduce a Bill.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that inasmuch as society in Van Diemen's Land was in a very disorganised state, and as he had stated expressly that Earl Grey had disapproved of and censured Sir W. Denison's conduct towards Mr. Justice Pedder, he did not think, considering the difficulties which the Governor of that colony had already to contend with, that any good would result from making public a document which might have the effect of lowering the Governor in the eyes of the colonists, and subjecting him to their criticism and censure. The better course, therefore, was not to lay the despatch on the table.
 MR. HAWES  said, he understood the charge against the Governor to be, that he had been instrumental in passing certain Acts of the Legislative Council illegally, those Acts being intended to appropriate particular taxes, not to local objects, but to imperial purposes; and, generally, that he was guilty of interfering with the due administration of justice in the colony. The question on which these accusations turned, arose entirely out of the construction of what was called Huskisson's Act, namely, the 9th of George IV., chap. 83. The question was, whether the proceedings which had taken place came under Mr. Huskisson's Act, which declared that the Acts of the Council should be registered in the Supreme Court within a limited time; but the Council might set aside this sanction in certain cases, and the Acts would be equally valid without it. In 1845, an Act was passed by the Council in Van Diemen's Land, by which a tax was imposed upon dogs, with the view of preventing their increase. This Act, however, was not registered in the Supreme Court; but within a certain period it was declared by the Governor to have become law. Some excitement was got up in the colony on the subject, and an appeal was made to the court, which decided that the proceeding was repugnant to the spirit of Mr. Huskisson's Act. The law officers of the Crown in Van Diemen's Land differed altogether with the Judges on the point, and stated that the time for taking objections to the law had gone by. As it was,
 253
 MR. EVELYN DENISON : Sir, it is with the greatest deference that I venture to say anything upon a question having reference to one who is closely connected with myself. I hope, however, I shall prove to the House that I am capable of overcoming any prepossessions I may he supposed to be influenced by when I at once join with hon. Gentlemen in expressing my deep regret for the act that was done with regard to Chief Justice Pedder. I shall not enter into the merits of this question on either side; it would not he becoming of me to do so; but I shall confine myself to one single point. The main question I believe is this—shall a certain despatch from the Secretary of State for the Colonial Department, animadverting upon the conduct of the Government of Van Diemen's Land, be produced before this House? Now, whatever may be the view taken of this subject by my hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies, I have that opinion of the sincerity and frankness of character of my relative to believe that it would not be his desire that any expression of opinion with regard to his conduct should be suppressed, or that what he had done should not undergo the fullest investigation by this House. I, for one, cannot join my hon. Friend in desiring that that despatch should be kept from the notice of the House. As far as I am concerned, I should desire that the despatch should be produced, and the fullest information given. I repeat that it would not be becoming in me to refer to the grounds upon which the selection of that officer was made, nor to say anything with respect to the value of his public services. They are before this House; and I hope not only that the House will exercise an impartial judgment upon them, but that the closest attention will be directed to the future conduct of that Gentleman; and I do not doubt that his disposition to discharge his duty will conduct him through the very important, laborious, and responsible situation in
 261
 MR. CARDWELL  said, if he understood the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, he had brought three questions before them, upon which he proposed to take the opinion of the House. The first of these was to give an important relief to the mercantile marine; and as that measure was not to be disposed of in the present Session, he should say nothing against it then. With regard to the second question—that of pilotage—the right hon. Gentleman proposed to bring in a Bill which he was anxious to pass in the present Session of Parliament. It was merely of a permissive nature, to enable those parties who had the control of the pilotage to make certain remissions in regard to taking pilots where it would be expedient; and at the first view, it certainly did appear a reasonable proposal, which he was not then prepared to object to. At the same time, however, he thought the right hon. Gentleman
 247
 MR. GOULBURN , when in office, had to move a grant for the repair of St. Margaret's Church, and received a previous assurance from the authorities that they were then in treaty for a burial ground in the country in lieu of that which was close to the House. He was mainly induced to move the grant upon the faith of that arrangement; he wished to know whether it was being fulfilled?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, it now being three o'clock, he trusted the Committee would at once agree to the resolution, and postpone its consideration till the second reading of the Bill. Some doubt had been raised as to whether the Trinity-house had the power to carry out the arrangement in reference to the light-dues; but be had consulted with parties competent to give the best opinion on the subject, and they entertained not the least doubt upon the matter. Indeed, in the case of Scotland, some years ago, a remission was actually made in the same manner that
 248
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that what he had stated was, that there were certain exceptional cases in which the light-dues were paid twice, and he proposed to do away with those exceptions.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he should put foreign ships in the same situation as others.
 MR. LABOUCHERE : By some person approved of by the Trinity-house.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  rose and said, that he proposed, in redemption of the engagement which he made at an early period of the Session, to call the attention of the House to various subjects connected with the mercantile marine of this country. He felt persuaded that it was wholly unnecessary for him to detain the House by any prefatory statement of the immense importance of the subject to which he invited its attention. He need not dwell either upon the vast amount of capital invested in the merchant service, the large and valuable portion of the population employed in it, or the immense mercantile and commercial interests connected therewith. It was his duty at a former period of the Session to call the attention of the House to a subject intimately connected with the interests of the merchant service, namely, the repeal of the navigation laws. On that occasion, in bringing forward the measure which he felt it to be his duty to propose, he encountered, as he anticipated, the opposition of a great and powerful party, to whose opinions he was aware the principle of that Bill was altogether contrary; and he did not feel any surprise, nor did he express any surprise, at the strenuous opposition which that measure encountered. But he entertained a hope that, with regard to the class of subjects to which he now invited the attention of the House, no such party fooling would be excited, but, on the contrary, that they would be able, in the most calm and dispassionate manner, to turn their attention to this subject; and, by united counsels, to dispose of it in the best manner possible with regard to the great interests concerned. He had already adverted to the change which Parliament had agreed to make in the navigation laws. Now, in any measures for the improvement of the mercan-
 213 214 tabula rasa 215 l l l 216 l l l l l 217 l l l 218 219 220 221 222 "Are your cptains in general as well educated and as trustworthy men as the American captains?—Yes, I believe they are; but I do not
 223 "Have you seen the reports from the consuls?—I have not read them attentively; but I know their general character, and I am afraid that they are too correct. I dare not challenge their accuracy as respects the continental trade." "If I were to say the English captains had improved, I think I should state that which was not the fact; for the last twenty-five years respectable people hardly ever send a boy to sea, and the consequence has been that we have had to take the captains of our merchant ships from rather a less educated class of men than they used to be fifty or sixty years ago. I do not think their seamanship is one iota impaired, but perhaps their manners may be a little less refined." "That though he thought a too indiscriminate censure had been thrown upon the commanders of British ships, and not sufficient allowance made for the very large numbers we require, he believed, that taking the whole course of our trade, the captains of many foreign ships are a better class than many in our ships." A Glance at Revolutionized Italy "It wounded my national pride to see the general run of our skippers cut so mean a figure, not only in dress but in manners, when compared with these smart Italian captains. No further back than twenty years ago, the Italian skipper was mostly a coarse dirty fellow, in an ill-cut weather jacket or greco, with a greasy hat and a very empty head under it. The change is prodigious. It seemed to me that, if there had been any change in the masters of our own common merchant vessels, it had been a change for the worse. This is matter of serious consideration, and especially now that hazardous changes are contemplated in our navigation laws." "Statists may make their tables, and bewilder us with returns and long arrays of figures, and treat men as ciphers; but if the condition of the merchant captain is getting worse instead of better, it must he seriously doubted whether our mercantile navy is improving; and without that nursery and treasury, what is to become of our national navy? Twenty-five years ago, in every part of the Mediterranean the preference was given to English bottoms, wherever they could be procured, and the rate of insurance was increased upon goods shipped in country vessels. There is
 224 225 "We come next to treat of the laws applicable to seamen; and it will appear, for obvious reasons, that in the codes of all commercial nations they are the objects of great solicitude and of paternal care. They are usually a heedless, ignorant, audacious, but most useful class of men, exposed to constant hardships, perils, and oppression. From the nature of their employment, and their 'home on the deep,' they are necessarily excluded, in a great degree, from the benefits of civilisation, and the comforts and charities of domestic life. Upon their native element they are habitually buffeted by winds and waves, and wrestling with tempests; and in time of war they are exposed to the still fiercer elements of the human passions. In port, they are the ready and the dreadful victims of temptation, fraud, and vice. It becomes, therefore, a very interesting topic of inquiry to see what protection the laws have thrown around such a houseless and helpless race of beings, and what special provision has been made for their security and indemnity." 226 227 228 229 230 231 232 233 s s 234 l l 235 236 " Moved— "2. That the Chairman be directed to move the House, that leave be given to bring in a Bill for improving the condition of Masters, Mates, and Seamen, in the Merchant Service."
 MR. ROEBUCK  observed, that in all the proceedings on the part of the Judges of Van Diemen's Land up to the time that they declared the ordinances to be illegal, everything had been done in the most regular manner. All was conducted in perfect accordance with the forms of the constitution. Who then was the first to depart from that course of regularity? The Governor himself, who in substance found fault with the Judges for their decision. What business had he so to do? It was beyond his duty and his power to interfere with a judicial determination. It was said that the Governor was a military officer, as nine out of ten of our governors wore. He agreed that the tone of mind acquired by men of the military profession was not the best suited to civil affairs, and that it in some degree disqualified them for discharging the duties of constitutional government. What was it, then, that Sir W. Denison did? He removed one of the Judges, and sent to another a letter submitting to him that it would be a wise thing for him to request eighteen months' leave of absence. What was the meaning of that? Was there any portion of Chief Justice Pedder's conduct to be found fault with except his decision in regard to the dog-tax? It was known that that learned Judge determined that the ordinance imposing that tax was illegal. Was it for this that he was recommended to absent himself for eighteen months from the discharge of his duty? Was it not an insult to the Judges, and an act calculated to degrade the judicial bench in the estimation of the inhabitants of the colony? There was no class in the community whose character and conduct were of so much importance to the general weal as those of the Judges by whom the law of the land was administered. What would be said of that Government which should write a letter to Lord Chief Justice Den man he having adjudicated in a matter which interested both the Government and the House of Commons, and having come to a decision centrary to a previous determination of the House—what, he asked, would be said of a Government
 259 ad misericordiam 260
 MR. ROEBUCK  with reference to the remark of the noble Lord that the population of Van Diemen's Land were at present in a disorderly and disorganised state, begged to say that if under any circumstances a governor should be above all suspicion or imputation, it was where a population was in such circumstances as the noble Lord had described. There was an old saying— Omne ignotum pro magnifico;
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought it most unjust that the right hon. Gentleman should have made such wholesale charges against a whole class of men, as he had done, and than get up, saying it was three o'clock, and cut the discussion short, without giving any opportunity whatever of answering those charges.
 MR. HENLEY , in reminding the House that they had been informed that the Board of Health had no power to abate a great and admitted evil, begged to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government whether it was not in spite of earnest remon-
 251
 MR. HUME  wished to know whether the Government had any objection to lay on the table of the House the despatch which the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Colonies had written to Sir W. Denison, in which he reproved him for the illegal manner in which he bad attempted to intimidate the Judges in the performance of their public duties. Until the Government consented to produce that despatch, he thought the House ought not to allow this Motion to be withdrawn. Representations had been made to him by the inhabitants of the colony, strongly condemning the conduct of the Governor in this matter. What security had they for
 254
 MR. HUME  then asked if there vas any objection on the part of the noble Lord to lay on the table a copy of Earl Grey's despatch wherein he censured and disapproved of Sir W. Denison's conduct?
 MR. ANSTEY  rose to renew his Motion for an Address to Her Majesty on the subject of certain illegal ordinances or Acts of Council for the taxation of the people of Van Diemen's Land, and the attempts of Lieutenant Governor Sir William Denison to intimidate the Judges of the Supreme Court of that island. The hon. and learned Gentleman recapitulated what he had formerly stated to the House with respect to the conduct of the Governor—that Sir W. Denison was charged with having, by means of private solicitation, endeavoured to induce one of the Judges of the Supreme Court (the Chief Justice) to withdraw from his post, on leave of absence for eighteen months, in order that he might be enabled to appoint a successor who would give judgment on particular cases in favour of the Crown—that the Chief Justice having refused this degrading proposal, measures were taken to remove him, solely because, in the exercise of his judicial functions, he had declared an illegal Act of Council to be a violation of a British Act of Parliament—that this attempt was only prevented by the receipt of information from England, that the Governor had the power to call together another packed Council, who would bring in a Bill to change the existing law—that the Council was accordingly summoned, and by them a Bill was passed, rendering legal all those measures respecting local taxation which the courts of law had previously declared to be illegal. With this short statement he would
 252
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  observed, that a pilot question never could be brought before Parliament without its always being thought necessary to introduce a clause to this effect, "Provided always, that nothing contained in this Bill shall affect the rights and privileges of the Cinque Ports." There was always some reservation of that sort conveyed in the intimation that they might do what they liked without interfering with the Cinque Ports. Now, it so happened that the Cinque Ports were the great grievances; they formed the subject of all the complaints; and if they were left out of the Bill, it would be like the play of  Hamlet 246
 MR. GLADSTONE  wished to induce the House not to call for the papers in this case, for such a proceeding would not he in conformity with the spirit in which hon. Gentlemen proceeded in a case of this kind. The calling for the papers alluded to by the hon. Member for Montrose, would add much to the censure convoyed in them. If the object of such a proceeding was the vindication of the character of chief Justice Pedder, it might be a valid reason for doing so, although it would press hard upon
 255 256
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that if the right hon. Gentleman felt that he had reason to thank the House for the attention with which it had listened to his statement, it appeared to him that the House and the country were not less indebted to the right hon. Gentleman for the very interesting and comprehensive view he had taken of a class of subjects to which was attached very little of popular or exterior attraction, but which were at the same time of the deepest and the most vital national importance. He would not attempt to follow the right hon. Gentleman throughout the greater portion of the details into which he had entered, or the plans he had suggessed. It was perfectly obvious that the particulars of those plans would require a far more detailed and prolonged consideration than could be given to them while listening to such a statement as that which they had just heard. He should therefore confine himself to a very few and cursory remarks on different portions of what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman. Now with regard to the question of light-dues, with which the right hon. Gentleman had commenced his observations, he should state that he was exceedingly glad that the right hon. Gentleman had succeeded in obtaining for the mercantile marine of this country a very considerable remission of the burdens to which they were subjected by that class of payments; and he felt that those who were intrusted with the management of the corporation of the Trinity-house, whatever might be thought of the constitution of that body on abstract principles, deserved the distinct approbation of that House for the disposition they had shown to appreciate with an enlightened judgment the exigencies of the times, and to meet the reasonable demands of those who were peculiarly interested in that matter. He
 237
 MR. GLADSTONE  was glad to receive that explanation from the right hon. Gentleman, as it appeared from it that he only meant to remove exceptions to the general practice at present in existence. With respect to the question of pilotage he would not enter into that subject farther than to say that he regretted to find that the right hon. Gentleman had taken such a view of the connexion between that question and the repeal of the navigation laws, as to have prevented his having submitted to the House the statement he had just made at an earlier period of the Session; because
 238 primâ facie 239 240 241 242 243
 SIR G. CLERK  would for the present abstain from offering any observations on the main statements of the right hon. Gentleman, as he proposed simply to lay his Bill on the table for the present Session; but he desired to offer a few remarks on the modification proposed of the light-dues, and with regard to the law proposed to be introduced as to pilotage. With regard to the light-dues, he was ready to concur with the right hon. Gentleman in reducing them to the lowest scale consistent with the safety of the trade on the coasts. He was glad the right hon. Gentleman was disposed to continue them, and only proposed to regulate that tax so as to make it press with more equality. With respect to the right hon. Gentleman's proposition to introduce a Bill, and pass it this Session, with respect to the pilotage, the Cinque Ports would be very materially affected by that Bill, and, as Member for Dover, he had no hesitation in saying he should protest against the passing of a Bill of this sort during the present Session. There were local interests which would be so deeply affected by this Bill as to make it highly important that there should be time to have it considered whether the measure would be acceptable to the shipping interests or not. It was generally understood that the present Session would be brought to a close in three weeks, and what time therefore was there for the consideration of such a measure as this? The right hon. Gentleman had stated that the measure of Lord Sydenham had been defeated by local interests; and did not that prove that local interests did exist which would have to be consulted? He thought he had some reason to complain that the right hon. Gentleman, if he had intended to pass this measure this Session, had not brought it on three months ago. It had nothing to do with the repeal of the navigation laws, and might just as well have been introduced in February last as now. What was the principle of the alteration proposed? He believed no person entertained a doubt that it was absolutely necessary for shipping interests, for the safety of property and life, that there should be upon the British coast a considerable body
 244 l l
 SIR G. CLERK  could not suppose that the American Government would assent to that for one moment. They would not submit to have their captains examined by a set of commissioners appointed by us, they knowing that their captains were as competent to navigate our seas as our own. This was a most important measure, and he had no doubt the greatest opposition would be offered to it by all persons connected with the pilotage at Liverpool, the Cinque Ports, and everywhere else. He should, therefore, by all the means at his command, try to prevent this Bill from being prematurely discussed; he should oppose its second reading until it had been printed, circulated throughout the kingdom, and every opportunity afforded to all persons interested in it fully to consider it. He trusted, therefore, the right hon. Gentleman would be satisfied by simply laying the Bill on the table for this Session.
 Sir G. CLERK : But how were the masters of foreign ships to be examined?
 SIR G. GREY  would make inquiry.
 SIR G. GREY  quite agreed that this was a very important subject. He did not understand his hon. Friend to put a question to him, but to call his attention to this matter; and he could only say that, whenever a representation had been made to him of a nuisance of any kind existing in any neighbourhood, he had felt it his duty to call the attention of the Board of Health and the police to it. He had received no specific representation with regard to nuisances in that immediate neighbourhood; but certainly the statement of his hon. Friend, who had to attend in the House for so many hours, demanded inquiry. With regard to London generally, every power conferred upon the Board of Health or the police was, he believed, put in exercise with a view to prevent, as far as possible, the spread of disease. The prevalence of it probably arose partly from the state of the weather, and the drought.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  begged to say that various nuisances had been removed by the operations of the commissioners of sewers, but in places the least likely to come under the notice of Members of that House, the endeavours of the commissioners having been first to cleanse the most miserable parts of the metropolis. Vast accumulations of deposits had been flushed away from the drains; and the drains under that House were clean and clear; but the pestilential exhalations of St. Margaret's churchyard, from the decomposing bodies there, it was not in the power of the commissioners of sewers to keep off. With reference to the imputations cast upon the body of which he was a member, he wished to observe that the state of the plans and maps bequeathed to them by their predecessors was such, that it was utterly impossible to take with confidence any steps founded upon them; and therefore a survey was ordered, which had only just been completed. Before that, nothing could be done without danger of wasting the money of the ratepayers in useless works.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the Bill would not apply either to Trinity College or any other corporation, but simply to occupiers. If, however, a clause were proposed calculated to improve the management of estates by colleges he would not object to it.
 MR. HAMILTON  proposed a clause, empowering the incumbent of any benefice in Ireland, with the consent of his archbishop or bishop, to devise or lease any part of his glebe lands, not being less than ten acres, and not being immediately appertaining to and used in connexion with a glebe-house, for any term not exceeding twenty-one years, to take effect in possession, and not in reversion, and without fine.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  stated, that it was not his intention to have legislated on this subject, but as the clause was proposed by the hon. Member for Dublin University, he would not oppose it.
 SIR R. FERGUSON  said, that a provision should have been introduced against subletting.
 MR. HAMILTON  said, the lease could be made only to a person in occupation; and in the form prescribed in the Act to which reference had been made in the clause, there was a provision against subletting; and if the Solicitor General introduced any general provision against subletting, it would, of course, apply to church lands. The clause was then brought up and agreed to.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he did not rise to offer any opposition to the course proposed to be taken by the hon. and learned Solicitor General, but rather to express his approbation of the candid manner in which he had explained his views, and the consideration he had shown towards the recommendations of the Committee. But as the subject was an extremely important one, as well as difficult to deal with, and bore much upon property in Ireland, he wished briefly to explain to the House the grounds upon which the Committee had come to the conclusions at which they had arrived, and which he believed if acted on with firmness and fairness, would attain all the objects which the Government proposed to accomplish. There could be no doubt that, inasmuch as recent events had forced the Legislature to contemplate a rearrangement of the present system of property in Ireland, they should take care to prevent, as much as legislation could do it, a recurrence of those evils which unhappily recent events in Ireland had shown them to be in existence; neither ought they to confirm any law which had mainly contributed to such a state of things. Considering the peculiar circumstances of the Irish people, and looking at the temptation which the
 329 bonâ fide bonâ fide l 330 bonâ fide judgment
 MR. SADLEIR  said, he should only aim at making a few cursory remarks upon this Bill. He agreed in the general principles laid down by the Solicitor General, but regretted that those principles were not reflected in the Bill itself. He
 331 elegits elegits 332
 SIR J. GRAHAM  had been anxious to offer some observations to the House on a measure which, in connexion with the Incumbered Estates Bill, appeared to be of vital importance to the circumstances of Ireland; but time now forbad; and as he believed there was no difference of opinion as to the second reading of the Bill, he suggested that that stage should now be taken without further delay, in order to allow the Solicitor General to pass the Bill through Committee  pro formâ l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUEE  stated, that 50,000 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHE-
 352  replied, that considerable expense had been incurred for the purchase of ground, for the alteration of the approaches, and for furniture. The commissioners, however, stated in their report that they would endeavour to exercise the strictest economy, and that they would postpone the completion of such portions of the building as were not immediately required. The estimate laid on the table was the architect's estimate, and had not been sanctioned in a formal way.
 MR. DRUMMOND  observed, that if any set of Gentlemen who had seen a true drawing of all the details of the new palace imagined that it could be completed
 353 l l l
 MR. LAW  asked whether this 12,000 l l
 MR. LAW  said, it appeared to him that this sum was in addition to the amount paid already; and he considered it somewhat irregular to propose, as an ordinary estimate, a large sum, which was beyond the express terms of the original contract. The moment it was discovered that the
 356 l
 MR. FOX MAULE  could not promise that there never should be any excess. There were no rules laid down according to which the estimates could be so constructed as to avoid occasional excess. He feared that many hon. Members were too ready to think that there was every disposition on the part of a Government to get all the votes they could, and to expend as freely as possible; but on the subject of excesses, he wished to call attention to one or two facts. In the year 1841 there was an unappropriated balance carried to the public credit amounting to 119,000 l l l l
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the subjects to which the hon. Member for Montrose, had adverted connected with the Royal Academy, and the providing better accommodation for the pictures of the late Mr. Vernon, had not been lost sight of by the Government. He had himself proposed the appointment of the Committee last year, and, although he was not able to make any proposal for the present Session, he hoped next Session to be able to state an arrangement that might be satisfactory.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that there had been an opinion expressed by a majority of the Roman Catholic bishops, that in order to make these colleges what they considered safe places for the education of Roman Catholic youth, certain securities must be provided, and among the rest, that certain professors should not be appointed, except subject to the veto of the Roman Catholic bishops. That was a proposition to which the Government could not assent. At the same time he must add, that both the former and present Governments gave explanations that satisfied a great number of the bishops that education might go on in the colleges with perfect security to the religious opinions of the Roman Catholic youth. The plan of the colleges was a thing which did not immediately concern the present Government, having been sanctioned by an Act of Parliament previous to their accession to office. What might be the ultimate success of those colleges it was of course impossible for him to say; but he believed that they were now looked upon with favourable eyes by a large majority of the Roman Catholic clergy and laity. Sir R. Kane, a distinguished appointment of the last Government, had informed him that the number of pupils likely to be sent would be much greater than he had in the first instance anticipated. He (Sir R. Kane) had received a vast number of letters from persons anxious to send their sons to the colleges, and who eagerly inquired when they were likely to be opened.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  added, that he had been informed, that when the colleges were once open, the matriculation fees would be sufficient to supply whatever might be further required.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, so far as he could recollect his words, he had not stated
 357
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the Government had naturally inquired, when the proposal was made to them, in what way the Act had been understood. They were informed by the Board of Works, that the letters which they received directed them to expend the whole of the sum on the buildings, and that as to what was usually
 358
 LORD J. RUSSELL  admitted, that a portion of the 7,000 l
 LORD J. RUSSELL  replied, that 21,000 l
 MAJOR BLACKALL  conceived that the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was an argument for the Committee that had been moved for. That speech showed that a return when moved for was not sufficient, for how were the same returns read in an opposite sense by two hon. Gentlemen? The matter was an important one, and it ought to be set at rest. It was not right that taunts should be thrown out against Ireland on the subject of her taxation. If the Chancellor of the Exchequer stated what was true, Ireland was not fairly taxed. Then if she were not, let the matter be justly settled, and let her bear her fair proportions. Let them, he said, by a fair and full inquiry, put an end to this bandying of words that was constantly going on upon both sides of the House—the Irish insisting that they had paid too much, and the English declaring that they paid too little. The question could be settled by a Committee, and a Committee ought to be granted.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  believed the accommodation in the library and reading-rooms was better than that in any similar institution in any other country. l
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  said, that the success of the colleges depended entirely upon the appointment of the professors. If those appointments were judiciously made, he had no doubt of the success of the colleges; but if they were jobbed, and persons appointed merely through Parliamentary or any other interest, they would certainly fail. He could answer one of the questions of the hon. Member for Montrose. The presidents and vice-presidents had been under salary since 1846, and had received two and a half years' salary. He had always thought it very absurd that they should have been under salary so long; but he thought it fair to say, that this was not the fault of the present but of the former Government, by whom the appointments were made. He trusted the Government would listen with attention to the objections which had been urged against these colleges by the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Tuam—if the Government would only see justice and fairness done to all sects, he was convinced that the colleges would be successful, and would be found to be a source of lasting improvement to Ireland.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  inquired whether the income intended for these colleges was accumulating; and whether there was any considerable amount of it in the hands of the Government?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  referred to the words of the Act. They were "for the necessary buildings, purchase of land, tenements, and buildings, with the appurtenances, and the furnishing of the same." The question then arose whether books and apparatus were part of "furnishing" or not.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, Sir Robert Kane had communicated to the Government his opinion that this sum was necessary, but the vote was not to be an annual vote.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not intend to follow the hon. and learned Gentleman through the long details of figures which he had gone through; but he assured the hon. and learned Gentleman that whatever returns upon this subject might be desired, he should have great pleasure in acceding to; and it was by returns that the points could be most advantageously laid before the House. But although he could not accede to the Committee which the hon. and learned Gentleman had moved for, he should yet make a few observations in reply to the statements which he had made. Whatever Ireland might contribute to the general revenue of the empire, so far as regarded the injustice of which the hon. and learned Gentleman had been complaining, his statements were not borne out by the facts of the case. Without any Committee on the subject, the various returns which already lay upon their table were sufficient to show that since the time of the Union downwards, the expenditure of Ireland had never been met by her income, not even with the additions which the hon. and learned Gentleman had taken credit for on account of the customs received on goods now landed in this country. The hon. and learned Gentleman had talked of the proportion of payments to be made by the two countries, and had quoted figures, which, if he had only looked at the last returns, might have been stated in round numbers at 48,000,000 l l 340 l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that no doubt they might very much sooner get into the new House of Commons if they chose to break through contracts, and pay forfeits; but there was no escaping from those contracts without paying the forfeits; and he thought, upon the whole, that it would be the best way to finish the works according to the contracts. No contracts were now entered into without their being submitted to the Treasury.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  fully expected that the works would, in the course of next year, be sufficiently advanced to enable them to get into the New Houses.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he must object altogether to borrowing money for an annual expense. They had resisted loans for building docks, and they certainly ought to resist them for such a purpose as was now proposed. It was to be hoped that in the course of next year they would be able to get into the New Houses, and get rid of all the temporary charges. He should not go into the question respecting prosperity, which the hon. Member for North Warwickshire had raised; but, even assuming that his statements were well founded, he did not think that they afforded any justification for the course which that hon. Gentleman had recommended.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Government had not felt themselves at liberty to apply any sum obtained under the Act to other purposes than those specified in the Act. They thought it best to come before Parliament and state the case as it stood, for, after all, the amount was only required to carry out  bonâ fide
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Yes, in excess of the sum originally specified.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was true that 100,000 l l l l l l l 355
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  stated, that the present vote would be almost entirely expended upon the new House of Commons.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was quite ready to admit that the proceedings connected with the building of the New Houses had not been conducted in a very satisfactory manner. It was a matter with which it had been very difficult to deal in the first instance, because Committees of the two Houses, apart from the Government, had determined
 351 l
 MR. F. FRENCH  insisted that the Motion of the hon. Member ought to be acceded to. He was convinced that Ireland in proportion to her means was paying as largely as England. In fairness to England and to Ireland, the Committee ought to be agreed to.
 COLONEL DUNNE  did not see it was for the benefit of Ireland that England had colonies, or that she had such an interest in them as to be called on to pay for them,
 342
 MR. BANKES  said, that though the sum now asked for might appear inconsiderable, the principle involved was worthy of a discussion, because if, after an Act of Parliament had been passed limiting the expense of a certain establishment, the Government of the present day might claim 12,000 l 360 l l
 MR. MUNTZ  wished to know whether the money they were then voting was to be applied to the completion of that portion of the building which was to be appropriated to the use of the Members of that House?
 MR. MUNTZ  thought that they had much better make a large grant at once, and get into the Now Houses without further delay.
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, he understood that the colleges of Belfast and Cork gave the greatest possible promise of success. The only doubt he had was with reference to the college at Galway, if the Roman Catholic clergy should be found to persevere in their opposition to it.
 MR. FLOYER  objected to this clause, by which temporary enactments which were passed last year were continued for one year longer. He considered this to be a very objectionable course to adopt. The defect of the present Act was, that it gave no guide or direction to the board of guardians to enable them to decide who were, and who were not, settled in the parish in which they were resident. He thought the position of boards of guardians was an extremely difficult one, because they had not the facts regarding the chargeability, &c., of the pauper before them, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would direct his attention to amend our legislation in this respect, otherwise the guardians could not administer the poor-law in the satisfactory and uniform manner which was desirable.
 MR. FLOYER  said, it had been alleged that the Act of last Session was only a continuance of what was called Mr. Bodkin's Act; but that was totally incorrect. There were three classes of paupers under the Act giving irremovability, as it was termed—first, those who had resided five years in a given place; then the class who were temporarily sick; and, lastly, the class of children, with widows in the first year of their widowhood. Now, the second class, the temporarily sick, were the largest class, and occasioned four-fifths of the expense; they were entirely omitted from Bodkin's Act, which only threw the first of the three classes on the common fund.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  mentioned the names of several other Prelates of the Catholic Church who were opposed to the colleges as well as the Archbishop of Tuam.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  hoped that this vote would be postponed; or if the Ministry were disposed to part with 12,000 l 354
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  ultimately withdrew the Motion, saying he should bring it forward next Session.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  rose to move, pursuant to notice, for a Committee to inquire into the fiscal relations between Great Britain and Ireland. One good effect of the appointment of the Committee would be, that it would be proved that Ireland had been unduly taxed. It would be proved, also, that the fact of the Irish standard of taxation being lower than in England, was not the result of any merciful consideration for Ireland, but was owing to the experience of English statesmen, who found that increased taxation in Ireland would not increase the revenue, but would diminish the amount contributed to the imperial exchequer. The appointment of the Committee would further tend to show that this country had not been lavish in her grants to Ireland. If a Committee was appointed, it could only sit for a short time at that period of the Session; but it was not his fault that his Motion had been delayed for such a long period; but if it only met for one week, they would be enabled to see what documents should be called for, which could be considered during the recess, and another Committee be appointed at the commencement of next Session. If his Motion was agreed to, he should be able to show that if they took the gross revenue of the two countries at 56,000,000 l l l l l l l l l l l 334 l l l l 335 l "For several years Ireland has advanced in permanent taxation more rapidly than Great Britain itself, notwithstanding the immense exertions of the latter country, including the extraordinary and war taxes, the permanent revenue of Great Britain having increased from the year 1801 in the proportion of 16½ to 10; the whole revenue of Great Britain, including war taxes, as 21¼ to 10; and the revenue of Ireland in the proportion of 23 to 10. But in the twenty four years referred to your Committee, the increase of Irish revenue has been in the proportion of 46¾ to 10. "You contracted with Ireland for an expenditure she could not meet, your own share of which you could not meet but by sacrifices unexampled—by exertions the tension of which only England could have borne. Ireland has been led to hope her expenditure would have been less than before she was united with you. In the fifteen years preceding the Union, it amounted to 41,000,000 l l 336 "In 1807 the revenue amounted to 4,378,241 l l l "A case is established in the instance of Ireland, which is written in characters too legible not to servo as a guide to future financiers—one which ought to bring shame upon the memory of its authors." "Here is an example to prove that an increase of taxation does not tend to produce a corresponding increase of revenue; but, on the contrary, an actual diminution." l l l l l l 337 l l l l l l s 338 l l 339
 MR. PLUMPTRE  asked if it were true that Government had received a protest signed by a large portion of the Roman Catholic hierarchy against these colleges; and if so, whether, seeing also that they were objected to by a large portion of the English people, he meant to persist in their establishment?
 MR. PLUMPTRE  asked, who had decided that the sum now applied for would be sufficient for the purposes for which it was destined—the professors or the Government? Unless there was some security that it would be sufficient, Parliament might be called upon year after year for similar grants, and nobody would be able to tell when these applications would stop.
 MR. SADLEIR  had made no charge against Trinity College, the authorities of which probably felt compelled to adhere to their present system of estate management.
 MR. SADLEIR  inquired whether Trinity College, Dublin, would be empowered to grant leases under the Bill? There was nothing more objectionable than the college tenure in Ireland, and nothing more disgraceful than the way in which Trinity College had managed their estates during the last 100 years. When their land came out of lease, the authorities of the college took pains to secure and select from any part of the country some party willing to occupy the position of middleman. Cases had come within his personal knowledge where the college had rejected the proposals made to them by their occupying tenants and the persons actually cultivating the land, and had selected middlemen who offered rents much under those which the occupying tenants proposed to pay, the middlemen in these cases enjoying a profit after the payment of the rent.
 MR. HENLEY  wished to be informed what security there was against the House being called upon for an annual grant to continue the undertaking in case the colleges should not fill? The noble Lord said the Roman Catholic hierarchy had made certain demands with regard to certain professors and officers, which the late Government would not concede; but explanations had been given by the present Government which had satisfied a considerable portion of that body. It was desirable the House should be put in possession of these explanations, because Parliament had voted money upon the faith and understanding that the colleges were to be common to all parties, without advantages being given to any.
 MR. HUME  understood "furnishing" to mean everything suitable to establishing the colleges. He wished further to know, when the presidents and vice-presidents were appointed, at what salary, and from what fund, they were paid?
 MR. HUME  expressed his belief that the 100,000 l
 MR. HUME  thought the Government had acted fairly, if there existed a doubt that this expenditure was not comprehended within the Act. That had been stated to be the case; and, as the money was required for starting the colleges, he should support the vote.
 MR. HUME  thought it not right that the presidents and vice-presidents of these colleges should have been paid during three years for doing nothing.
 MR. HUME  hoped, that by the rules recently laid down, they would have no more votes on account of any excess.
 MR. HUME  thought it perfectly right to postpone any discussion, as the commission were still busy about their report. He was gratified to find that the number of visitors seemed to increase; and when greater facilities were afforded for the use of the reading-room by the public, the institution would effect a much greater amount of good. He entirely concurred in the vote, and he only wished to see the liberal sums now given by Parliament towards the Museum properly appropriated. He wished to make a remark respecting the National Gallery, and to express his anxiety that the recommendation of the Committee of last year should be carried out, with respect to providing accommodation for the munificent collection of Mr. Vernon. He thought that, as the Royal Academy were only accommodated in their present apartments in the National Gallery until the rooms should be wanted for the public, it was of considerable importance that space should be obtained for Mr. Vernon's collection in the rooms now occupied by the Royal Academy. It was notorious, and from accounts that he received from
 343 l 344
 MR. HUME  did not understand what had fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Did he mean to say that the original plan was to be carried out, with the exception of some alterations? Nothing was more distinctly ascertained than the estimate was at first. When Mr. Barry's plan was brought before the Committee, an examination took place. It was found that the estimate was very defective, and the Committee postponed the matter for several months, in order to allow a complete estimate to be made, and it was after the new plan was brought before the Committee that the amount of the estimates was fixed. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth proposed a resolution that the architect was not to be paid by a per centage, but to be paid by a sum of money. It was left for the Woods and Forests to decides whether it should be 20,000 l l l
 MR. HUME  begged to remind the hon. Gentleman that the architect had undertaken the work after the Committee had come to a resolution that he should not be paid by a per centage, but that he should receive a fixed sum.
 MR. HUME  said, that the proposed ventilation was, he feared, bad, and that many faults were to be found with the architecture. The original estimate was 770,000 l
 MR. HUME  admitted that the public accounts were now more correctly kept than formerly, and he was bound also to admit that his right hon. Friend at the head of the Army Department had given a great deal of time and attention to the subject; and, on the whole, there was no great reason to complain.
 MR. HUME  feared that there was very little chance of their being able to get into the New Houses of Parliament in the course of the next year, and when they got in he feared they would not find very good accommodation.
 MR. HUME  was sorry the evidence had not been published which was taken before the Committee last year; if it had, as he had wished it to be, he was sure it would have afforded very satisfactory information to many persons.
 MR. HUME  thought that the present question fully deserved the serious attention of the House. The two objects that they had in view were economy and accommodation; and he feared it would be found that the temporary provision made for the use of both Houses would prove as expensive as the estimates for the new buildings, which he at the outset brought under the notice of the House.
 MR. NAPIER  represented the inconvenience of seizing the present occasion to make a complaint against Trinity College respecting the management of their estates. If the hon. Member for Carlow would select some specific instance, at a suitable time, he would meet the hon. Member upon this charge.
 MR. BAINES  said, that it was quite correct that Bodkin's Act provided that the class of paupers who had resided five years, under certain circumstances, should be chargeable to the common fund; but Mr. Charles Boiler's Act went a step further, and included other classes.
 MR. BAINES  said, with respect to the clause under consideration, he wished to say that the Act of last Session, two provisions of which were of a temporary nature, made provision for casting on the common fund of the union the two classes of vagrants, and the irremovable class of paupers under the 9th and 10th Vic, cap. 66. It had been found unjust that the parish where the relieving officer lived should be charged for the relief of all that came to him; and so, also, that the mere accident of a parish having the workhouse within it could not justify the whole charge-ability being thrown upon it. Therefore, it was thought by Parliament, and justly, he thought, that the true, and reasonable, and just course with regard to this class of
 362
 MR. BAINES  said, that as so many objections had been raised against the sixth clause, the object of which was to enable the Poor Law Board to unite several parishes to return one guardian, he should withdraw it at the proper time.
 DR. POWER  said, it was quite true, as had been stated by his hon. Friend the Member for Limerick, that very grave objections were entertained by some of the Roman Catholic bishops to the establishment of those colleges; but he thought that their objections were founded rather on the experience of the past than on any just grounds as regarded the present mea-
 359
 MR. SPOONER  objected to the amount originally fixed upon for the establishment and carrying on of these colleges, being exceeded. It appeared, that apart from the sum voted for establishing these colleges, 7,000 l
 MR. SPOONER  thought it was advisable to see if they could not increase this vote and finish the work at once. They had already voted no less than 192,766 l 348 l l 349
 MR. SPOONER  said, that upon looking at the Act of Parliament he found 21,000 l l
 MR. T. GREENE  said, the Committee were anxious that the whole of the funds placed at their disposal should be applied to the completion of the buildings most urgently required, and they were desirous that no further progress should be made with the towers at present; but Mr. Barry had stated in one of his reports, that if they adopted that course they would incur an expenditure of about 50,000 l
 MR. T. GREENE  admitted that the Committee-rooms were defective in this respect, and also thought it was very difficult to hear in them. Flock paper had been put upon the walls with a view to
 350
 MR. T. GREENE  said, the ventilation of the House of Commons rested with Dr. Reid, that of the House of Lords with Mr. Barry, and that as to that of the Committee-rooms it had not been thought of yet. He hoped, however, all the arrangements respecting the ventilation would be completed before the commencement of the next Session of Parliament.
 MR. THORNELY  wished to know when they would have a report of the progress that had been made in the erection of the colleges? He trusted that none of the professors would be appointed until the colleges were nearly ready.
 MR. EWART  wished to know on what principle it was proposed to ventilate the House? From all he could learn it appeared to him that the House of Lords was to be ventilated upon the principle of a descending current of air; the House of Commons upon an ascending current, and the Committee-rooms not ventilated at all.
 MR. EWART  complained of the Committee-rooms. It was extremely difficult to hear in them; they were badly ventilated, and there was no retiring room for the Committee to consult in. Whenever there was difficulty in the Committee, witnesses and strangers had to be turned out into the lobby, which they blocked up, and created confusion and inconvenience.
 MR. EWART  believed the decrease had been principally in the reading-rooms. Seven years ago the numbers there were 71,000, now only 65,000, which was very remarkable.
 MR. EWART  said, the Committee now sitting on the subject of public libraries had agreed on two points. First, that the 52,000 duplicate volumes in the British Museum ought to go to form lending libraries; and, secondly, that the reading-rooms should be open in the evening for the admission of many studious persons who were at present excluded. He confirmed the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose in the fact that when the Royal Academy removed from Somerset-house to Trafalgar-square, the Chancellor of the Exchequer distinctly stated, in answer to a question, that they were to occupy the building only until it was required by the public.
 Mr. W. FAGAN  thought there were good grounds for granting this Committee.
 341 l l l l l l l l l l l l
 MR. W. J. FOX  believed that, taking into account the increase of population, and the additional facilities of communication with the metropolis, the ratio of visitors to the British Museum had not increased. But, looking to the higher purposes of literature and art connected with the institution, the attendance at the reading-room, the print-room, and the sculpture-room, had been regularly decreasing for several years, until the decrease had become very considerable. He would not pretend to say from what cause this arose, but he thought the question should have been mooted, had the House not received an intimation that the commission had concluded its labours, and that their report would shortly be printed. He had heard several complaints that the commission had not been so accessible as it ought to have been, and that there were literary men deeply interested who would have been able to offer valuable suggestions respecting the institution, but who had had no opportunity of stating their views to the commission. The British Museum was a most useful institution, but he believed its utility was capable of very large extension.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, that last Session of Parliament he had moved for a return of what sums had been voted, and what had been expended, on the Houses of Parliament. They had now got another step as to what would be the probable cost of the Houses, and it appeared that the amount would be 2,043,000 l l l
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  considered that to be the great misfortune. He understood the fact to be that the commission whose duty it was to look over these matters was under the control of the Treasury, and that the Treasury were the really responsible parties. There was rather an ominous sentence in this estimate. It said, "exclusive of the cost of previous estimates proposed for warming and ventilating the House of Commons." Then there came this doubtful expression, "and all other incidental payments not under the cognisance or control of the architect." These words—"incidental payments"—left a loophole for everything.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he was sorry to hear it stated by the hon. Member for Oldham, that the number of persons visiting the British Museum had declined, and that there was not a disposition on the part of the public to avail themselves of the advantages which the collections at the Museum afforded. He confessed that he had reached a different conclusion. He considered the hon. Member to be quite under a mistake when he supposed that there was not a growing disposition on the part of the public to avail themselves of all advantages of that class; and as to the aggregate number of visitors, there could be no doubt that they had of late very much increased. The number, for example, who went to inspect the works of art and relics of antiquity at the Museum had very much increased during the last five or six years. Thus, in the year 1843 the numbers wore 517,000, while in 1848 the numbers were 867,000, showing, as the House would see, a very manifest increase. Again, with respect to the print-room, the mumbers in 1846 were 4,390, while in 1847 they amounted to 4,572, and in 1848 there was a still greater increase, which raised the number to 5,819. In the face of these facts it still was said that the numbers had recently declined; and, assuming that they had, he might observe, that it never could be very easy in such cases to say why a few less should have examined those works of sculpture or of painting in one year than in another. There certainly had been no impediments thrown in the way of visitors, at the same time that precautions to no inconsiderable extent were found necessary, for very serious losses had been sustained in the medal department, in a case in which there existed every rational ground for placing full confidence in the person at whose hands the Museum had sustained that injury. His great learning, his very pleasing manners, disarmed all suspicion; and, unfortunately, as many as 300 or 400 coins had been abstracted. Still reasonable access was not denied, though it became necessary to provide means of security against depredation; and he wished to impress this upon the mind of the hon. Member opposite, that if there were any falling off in the number of visitors, the change was to be imputed to accident, and not to any impediments created by the officers of that institution, for there could be no doubt that they showed every inclination
 346
 SIR R. PEEL  rose to move the estimates for the British Museum. He said he should best consult the convenience of the House by at once placing in the hands of the Chairman the vote necessary for this establishment. Every matter connected with the British Museum had boon referred to a commission, which had made extensive inquiries, and whose labours were now drawing to a close. Any discussion would therefore take place with much greater advantage when their report was laid on the table, and the opinions of the very eminent persons who were upon that commission were before the House. For these reasons he was of opinion that any discussion with regard to the British Museum had better be postponed until next year. l
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that if he were informed that the opinion of the mercantile community was adverse to these clauses, he should at once withdraw them, and proceed with the other clauses of the Bill. They were intended to improve and simplify the County Courts Act. He might mention an alteration of the existing law which would be effected by the 6th and 7th Clauses of the Bill. The judges of the local courts could now, in certain cases, commit debtors to the house of correction; and repeated complaints had been made to the Home Office by parties who had been so committed, that their hair had been cut close, and that they had been treated as misdemeanants. It certainly was not the intention of the Legislature that this should be the case; and he had introduced a clause providing that persons in such circumstances should be confined in the debtors' prison. But, as in some parts of the country the debtors' prison might be at a distance of twenty, thirty, or even forty miles from the court, and it was not likely the plaintiff would be willing to incur the expense of conveying the debtor to prison, he (the Attorney General) proposed by another clause, that when such inconvenience should be certified to the Secretary of State, the defendant might be imprisoned in a neighbouring gaol, subject to such regulations with regard to treatment as might be laid down by the Home Secretary.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  stated, in reply to Mr. W. PATTEN, that he had introduced this clause to obviate the frauds which he understood were frequently committed upon creditors in consequence of a landlord's execution taking precedence of the writs of the local courts.
 MR. FITZROY  stated that he intended to propose a clause increasing the jurisdiction of the county courts from 20 l l l l l l l l 406
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  presumed that, if the present Amendment were negatived, the hon. Gentleman would not again raise the discussion by the proposition of his clause. He concurred with the hon. Gentleman in thinking that the working of the measure establishing the county courts had given great satisfaction to the public at large; but he deemed that it would not be safe, with the experience they had yet had, to extend the jurisdiction of the courts to 50 l l l l l
 The ATTORNEY-GENERAL  having moved that the House resolve into Committee, with the view of agreeing to a Resolution whereon to found a Bill upon this subject,
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, that doubtless the Bill now before the House contained several very useful Provisions; but he must altogether protest against any compensation being given to the officers of the Palace Court, on any supposed ground of right arising out of the losses which they might sustain from the measure now before the House. He wanted to know why the House should be so very tender of the interests of lawyers; nor could he understand why they, at all events and under any circumstances, must have compensation? He would put a case. Suppose a man, in times long since passed away, was the owner of a very good inn and posting-house, and that in consequence of the establishment of mail and stage coaches his business happened to be somewhat injured—would he be entitled to compensation merely because the people of this country thought proper to improve their means of locomotion? Again, suppose the property in a great coaching-house
 399 pro formâ
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  replied, that it would not be necessary for his noble Friend to delay going into Committee, inasmuch as the whole of the question to which he referred was still open to discussion.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, he should resist the proposed compensation on higher grounds than those which had been taken by his noble Friend the Member for Marylebone. He should resist compensation, because he held that the original institution of the court was illegal and unconstitutional. It imposed taxes and fees upon Her Majesty's subjects without the consent of Parliament. The court was originally supposed to be necessary for the purpose of settling disputes between members of the Royal Household, but it soon came to exercise domination and tyranny over every person who resided within twelve miles of the court. This, however, did not take place until this country came under the dominion of a Stuart king. By the 12th of James I its jurisdiction was thus extended; and for further strengthening its hands, letters patent were granted in the 6th of Charles I., although in several cases which he might mention, and with which, of course, the Attorney General was much more familiar than he could possibly be, the superior courts reversed the decisions of the Palace Court, and, both directly and by implication, pronounced against its legality. He might mention most especially the case of "Fysche  v l l 401 l l l l l l l 402 l l l s d l d l s l l l s d l s d l s d l s d l l s d l l s d l l s d l s d l l s d l 403 l s d l l l l l l
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  wished to know whether there would be any opportunity afforded of discussing this question afterwards?
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, there would.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the Committee were about to divide on a serious question, which he did not think should be settled in this incidental
 408
 MR. VERNON SMITH  had been one of the Members of the Committee referred to by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who had truly stated that they had not passed many resolutions on the subject of a reduction of salaries. Several Members had declined to vote, and with reason, for only the miscellaneous estimates were laid before them; and they thought that under those circumstances they should do an injustice if they made the
 425 l l l l 426 durante vitâ?
 Mr. H. DRUMMOND  was surprised that the hon. and learned Gentleman should have concluded with a recommendation to curtail the salaries of persons whom he did not pay, who were not paid out of the public funds, and some of whom were not paid at all. He (Mr. Drummond) considered that Her Majesty's Ministers and their friends had to thank themselves for this Motion. They had boasted that they had reduced the prices of all commodities 50 per cent; but was not that tantamount to raising their own fixed salaries 50 per cent? He remembered that the ground of raising the Judges' salaries was, that it was difficult to get men of eminence at the bar to fill those important offices. When Sir Samuel Romilly was in the full height of his practice, and when he and others were making very much more than the salary of the Lord Chancellor, it might have been exceedingly difficult to induce men of such eminence to accept judicial positions. This, he thought, was a sufficient reason for excepting the Judges; but he believed, also, their salaries were fixed for life by Act of Parliament. It had been said they ought not to introduce the commercial principle into public life, and to get the Government of the country jobbed at the cheapest rate; and in that he fully agreed. He well remembered, when Lord Sidmouth was Secretary for the Home Department, reading in the  Edinburgh Review l 430
 COLONEL ANSON  assured the hon. Member and the Committee, that it was from no disrespect to him or them that he had not made such a statement. He should have been happy to avail himself of the opportunity so to do, but wished in the first instance to hear if any objections were made to the estimates. He thought that the report, ably drawn up as it was, would be of absolutely little use to the Committee until the evidence had been appended to it. If, however, hon. Members would turn to the last page of the report, they would find recommendations of the Committee that the Government should take the matter into their consideration during the recess; and he had no hesitation in saying that the Government would certainly take into their most serious and deliberate consideration all the recommendations which had been made by the Committee. But at the same time it would not be right in the Government, or any Member of it, to enter into a pledge to carry out any particular recommendation. With respect to Vote No. 1, the Committee had not recommended that there should be any reduction in the military force of the country. Upon Vote 2, containing the commissariat and barrack supplies, the Committee reported that they had "noticed the increased charge to the public arising from the system recently adopted by the Treasury in regard to the troops in Ireland, although this does not appear in the Ordnance Estimates, and they have suggested the expediency of reverting to the mode of supplying the troops previously in use." He believed that in the answers he had given before that Committee, he had expressly stated that that was also his opinion. At the same time he must bear his testimony to the manner in which this department had been conducted, and he had no reason to believe that the system was different now from what it had been. The Committee further reported, under Vote 3—the Ordnance Office—that they believed "that any improvement in the practical working of the office can only be effected by the Executive Government, and by the co-operation of persons familiar with the details of business now transacted by the Ordnance."
 454 455 "Your Committee direct the attention of the House to the large sums expended for these stores. The value of Ordnance stores at present in the custody of the department (exclusive of barrack stores) amounts to 6,420,000 l l l 456 "No work should be commenced by the Ordnance, and no estimate for any new work should be submitted to the Treasury, without the previous sanction of a Secretary of State officially communicated to the Board of Ordnance. Before this authority is given, it is most important that a fixed plan, with a detailed estimate of the whole work, should be submitted to the Secretary of State, who is called on to record his official sanction on the part of the Government. Your Committee believe that this regulation, by fixing responsibility on a high officer of State, would tend to secure the public against needless expenditure, and they do not apprehend that it would prevent or retard the construction of works which may be necessary for the due protection of our own shores, or for the future maintenance of our maritime power and commercial interests. Your Committee do not intend by this recommendation to supersede the ultimate control and final responsibility which, after examination of the plan and estimate, will still attach to the Treasury." 457 l l l "That he considered Bermuda a most important station for the protection of our trade, and for the defence of our West India possessions. He is, however, of opinion that no new work should be commenced at Bermuda, because he has boon informed that Lord Dundonald, the admiral on the station, and Captain Elliot, the governor, recommend an alteration in the system of defence. The plan sanctioned in the year 1824 is said to be insufficient at the present time, and it has been suggested that a flotilla of steamers would afford the most effective means of defence. Colonel Reed, the former governor, who is also an engineer officer, has given to your Committee an opinion quite opposed to this view." 458 l l 459 l
 COLONEL ANSON  said, that the increase in the amount of this vote since the year 1835 arose from the fact that there were no store-rooms then in the Tower, and consequently no stores of clothing were prepared; and it must be recollected also that the increase in the number of men, reckoned only at 1 l
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO  said, the noble Lord at the head of the Government having read one paragraph from the report, he would read another:—
 "The progress of military science and tactics has, according to the concurrent testimony of the military authorities examined by your Committee, increased the importance of artillery; and, comparing the proportion of artillery in the British Army to the proportion in foreign armies, it will be found to be far less. The force in Great Britain and Ireland may be taken at 60,000 men; there are eighty field guns equipped on a low peace establishment; this gives one gun to about 750 men."
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, after his hon. and gallant Friend had very fully gone
 460 461 "The amount of force which it may be necessary or expedient to maintain, is a question which has not been referred to the consideration of your Committee; but, in accordance with the terms of their appointment, they have made some inquiries into the expense of the artillery, and into the strength of the artillery compared with the rest of the Army. All the evidence given to your Committee shows the value of an efficient artillery officered by scientific men. The experience of modern warfare tends to strengthen this opinion; and your Committee desire distinctly to state, while they abstain from entering upon the consideration of the force to be maintained, that they regard the corps of artillery as the most important arm of the service, and, therefore, recommend that the proportion of the artillery to the rest of the Army should not be reduced."
 LORD J. RUSSELL  wished to make an observation on a remark made by the hon. Member for Cockermouth. His hon. Friend appeared to think that he had said, he had no objection to a general inquiry into the salaries paid at public offices. What he had intended to say was, that he should not object, when it appeared that any case for inquiry was shown, and that it would be deemed expedient to do so. He bad said that be bad not objected to an inquiry into the Home Office, which had taken place last year, and which had led to reductions to the extent of 3,000 l
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, those hon. Gentlemen who have supported this Motion have all done so—I think every one that has spoken—saying that they did not quite like the Motion—that they wished it were something different from what it is—but that, upon the whole, as it was for a reduction, and as it proposed economy as its object, it was desirable that the Motion should be supported. Now, I own I do not think, if that is the opinion of hon. Gentlemen, that it is a good way for the House of Commons to adopt a Motion which its supporters think objectionable, and leave it afterwards to be discovered how such a Motion can be carried into effect. The hon. Member for Montrose usually says upon these occasions, "Let us reduce things to the level at which they were in 1792 and 1793, and cut off those increased amounts of salary which have been added since that time." I observe that he did not use that argument to-night; but the hon. Gentleman who spoke last said that if there has been a great increase in prices, and salaries have been increased upon that ground, and afterwards prices become much lower, then it is a natural principle in carrying on business to reduce these salaries, and to make them correspond to the prices of the necessaries of life. But the fact is, taking first the higher salaries of the State, that they have not, as the hon. Gentleman supposes, increased from the period when there were not those high prices, remaining now at those rates; but they are, generally speaking, lower salaries and lower emoluments than they were before these high prices. I therefore think that the hon. Member is extremely prudent in avoiding that which usually is his favourite argument. Now, take the principal offices of the State, and which were
 439 l l l l l l l l l 440 l l l l l l 441 l l 442
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he should certainly vote for the Motion of his hon. Friend near him, notwithstanding all that had been said by the right hon. Gentle-
 422 s s s 423 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 424 l l
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the original question before the House was, "That he (the Speaker) should now leave the chair;" since which it had been moved as an Amendment, that all the words after the word "that" be left out for the purpose of adding certain words proposed by the hon. Member for Oxfordshire. If the original Motion should be negatived, then the words proposed by the hon. Member for Oxfordshire would become the question before the
 452
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. Gentleman, at the commencement of his observations, had stated that he meant no reflection upon any of Her Majesty's servants. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) never supposed that he intended it, nor that he was at all influenced by any personal considerations in the matter. He only hoped, that, on the other hand, the hon. Gentleman would acquit him of being actuated by any personal considerations, and would give him credit for looking only to the general good of the country at large in resisting the Motion now proposed. The hon. Gentleman had said—and, in fact, it was evident from his Motion—that he meant to include all public servants in the proposed reduction, from the Lord Chancellor, who was the highest paid functionary, down to the letter carriers, some of whom, it had been said, received as little as 7 s 418 "Economy, to deserve the name, must be rational; and no consideration of more money can be set in competition with the paramount evident necessity of securing for offices of great trust and confidence the highest class of intelligence and integrity. It has been frequently observed, and the observation being founded on truth and reason should never be lost sight of, that offices in a free country should not be put beyond the reach of men of moderate fortunes. If salaries should be fixed too low, a monopoly would be created in the hands of the wealthy, the power of selection by the Crown would be most injuriously restricted, and the public would be deprived of the services of men of limited means, educated with a view to the pursuit of liberal professions—a class furnishing, more than any other, the talents and industry suited to official life. It should further be considered that the higher offices of Government require an entire devotion of the whole time and attention of those who fill them, that their own private affairs must necessarily be neglected, and that if care should be taken, on the one hand, to avoid the scandal of private fortunes amassed at the public expense, it is neither for the interest nor for the honour of the country, on the other hand, that they should be ruined in its service." 419 l l l l l l l l l l 420 s s s 421 s
 MR. WODEHOUSE  contended that the prospects of the country had been entirely changed by the adoption of the policy of 1846. In a pamphlet written by Mr. Kerr, it was mentioned, that the loss of protection should stimulate the tenant; and it then made reference to "the physician who had taken away the blood." Now, "the physician who had taken away the blood" was not at present in the House, but the tenantry could not forget the language which that physician had used in the year 1842, when he said, "Continue your improvements; I cannot undertake to guarantee to you a particular
 443 s
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he should be glad if the Attorney General would state the grounds on which he had brought forward the first five clauses of the Bill. So far as he was informed at present, he decidedly objected to the Bill passing into a law; and if there were any other Members present, representing large constituencies, he hoped that they would be able to induce the hon. and learned Gentleman to postpone these five clauses. It was thought right in the original Act to provide that where the plaintiff resided more than twenty miles from the defendant, he might still sue for a debt, though under 20 l 404
 MR. MUNTZ  said, that it would be well for hon. Members to consider with regard to this measure, the crying complaints of the people of England, who considered that some reductions ought to take place in the expenditure. He had no difficulty in voting for the measure before them, though he could have wished that it had been framed in a different manner, so as to include every person from the top to the bottom of the tree—though he should not object to some measure by which those with the lower salaries should be relieved from the effect of the reduction. If they were to wait until they could have a perfect measure, they would never have any measure of reduction at all. The policy of the Legislature was to make this the cheapest country in the world. It might be so for those who had fixed salaries and annuities, but it would not be so for those who had to get their living by their labour. He thought that, as they were making re-
 437 l l 438
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that this was one of those Motions upon which the votes of hon. Members were very likely to be misunderstood unless some explanations were offered. He disagreed with one of the short, pithy sentences of the hon. Member for Birmingham, in which it was stated that the whole country was looking to this Motion. He (Mr. Aglionby) did not believe that the country cared one farthing about it. He professed himself to be as good an economical reformer as any hon. Gentleman in that House, and he was strongly of opinion that the Motion was not intended to have any practical result. It was one of those ordinary clap-trap Motions which led to nothing; and though he himself had sometimes voted for claptrap Motions, he certainly should not give his support to the present one. The hon. Member for Montrose had said that he would vote for it because it pledged the House to something; but the fact was, that it pledged the House to nothing; and, if it pledged them to anything, it was to something bad. In the course of the
 445 s s s s s s s 446
 MR. GOULBURN  felt called upon to make a very few observations on the subject, and he trusted the House would allow him shortly to do so. He believed the Motion of the hon. Member for Oxfordshire was founded on injustice. The Motion, in the first place, applied to the higher offices of State, which were hold during pleasure, and seldom or never for more than a limited period. It might be a matter of subordinate consideration whether they reduced the salaries of the holders of that description of office or not. If they reduced this class of salaries, they would no doubt find persons among the aristocracy who would amply discharge the duties of those offices, but that they would get men of superior talents from the inferior orders to accept such offices, he decidedly doubted. Under these circumstances, it would be objectionable to adopt any course which would prevent their calling into the public service such a valuable class of persons. It would be most objectionable virtually to say that you must select all the holders of the higher offices from the aristocracy. With respect to the lower class of public officers, he conceived his hon. Friend had not sufficient public experience of them to enable him to speak of their services. He would venture to say that no class of men were so much entitled to the consideration of Parliament as the body to which he had just alluded. He not only alluded to the laborious discharge of their duties, and to the services which they rendered to the public, but to the perfect reliance that could be placed in their integrity and honour; and during his long public life he never knew of a breach of confidence on their part. The rapid changes which took place in the Government of this country rendered it necessary that perfect confidence should be placed in the officers of public departments; and he could confidently appeal to those who had held high offices whether they ever knew an instance of the business of the Government having been betrayed. He did not think the House should be a party to inflict an injury on such a class of men. The hon. Gentleman said that salaries should be reduced because they had been raised at a time when prices were high, and very recently prices had fallen. The hon. Member also spoke as if nothing had been done in this respect. Now, the fact was, that in 1821 the House agreed
 447 "That an humble Address be presented to His Majesty, to assure His Majesty that we have regarded with satisfaction the measures which have been taken by His Majesty's commands for a general revision of the Department of the Customs in Great Britain; and to entreat His Majesty to give directions that a similar investigation may be extended to all the other branches of the Revenue, in order to render its collection more economical, and its management more efficient; that, for the purpose of affording a further relief to the country, His Majesty will be pleased to order a minute inquiry into the several Departments of the Civil Government, as well with the view to reducing the number of persons employed in those Departments, which, from the great increase of business, were augmented during the late war, as with reference to the increased salaries granted to individuals since the year 1797, either in consideration of the additional labour thrown upon them during that period, or of the diminished value of money; and further, that His Majesty will be graciously pleased to direct that every possible saving which can be made, without detriment to the public interest, shall be effected in those more extended establishments which the country is obliged to maintain for the safety and defence of the United Kingdom and its dependencies, and more especially in the military expenditure, by a reduction in the numbers of the Army, and by a constant and vigilant superintendence over that and all the other Departments connected with the application of the ample supplies granted by this House."
 MR. BRIGHT  felt some difficulty with regard to the Motion of the hon. Member for Oxfordshire, If he voted for it, it would be with the view of expressing an opinion that public officers were unnecessarily highly paid. But he thought the Motion proposed by the hon. Member for the West Riding afforded a far better course for the House to pursue. An in-discriminating lessening of salaries could not be justified unless there was an investigation into every case; and that investigation would be useless into a certain class of salaries from 12 s s 451
 MR. BRIGHT  asked the Speaker to explain the exact nature of the question upon which the House was about to divide.
 MR. HERRIES  begged to state the reasons which would compel him to vote in opposition to the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Oxfordshire. The hon. Member for Montrose had stated that he would support the Motion, because he regarded it as a pledge on the part of the House to economy. Now, with regard to economy, the House could give a pledge at any time, without at the same time doing an act of injustice to individuals, or of mispolicy to the public service. His hon. Friend was mistaken when he said that no progress had been made in reducing the expenditure of the public service. According to the statement made the other evening by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, a progressive and considerable diminution had taken place in the number of persons employed. In the three great departments the number of persons employed was 9,083, with an aggregate salary of 962,000 l l l 433 l l s l l l l l Porter's Statistics of the British Umpire 434 l l l l l s s l l l l 435 l l l l l l l l 436 l employés
 MR. ROEBUCK  would say a few words upon this Motion, because he did not mean
 427 428 429
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  regretted to learn that the Attorney General intended to oppose the clause, for he had received a variety of communications begging him to support it, as many parties were willing to forego part of their claims when above 20 l
 MR. HENLEY  rose to move the Amendment of which he had given notice. He had had the honour to serve last year on a Committee to which the Government referred certain large branches of public expenditure; and this subject of salaries and wages paid to persons employed in the different Government establishments naturally came under the consideration of that Committee. In making a few observations on the subject, he wished it to be distinctly understood that he had no intention whatever of reflecting on any persons employed in the various departments of Government. It was his firm belief that Her Majesty had the good fortune in all the various departments of the country to have in her employment men as much distinguished by honour, integrity, zeal, and ability, as could ordinarily be expected to fall to the lot of any Sovereign; and he should be sorry indeed if those employed by the Crown were not as well, if not better, paid for their services, than those in any other employment, because he thought the best security for having public offices well filled, was to
 409 "the Committee had not recommended any reductions of the public services which appeared in the estimates, but that after some consideration, discussion, and division of opinions, they thought such reductions might form part of the general revision of all salaries suitable to the altered circumstances and expenses and condition of the country; that they were of opinion that in the course of examination it would be found desirable to establish a uniform rate of remuneration for similar services performed in different departments." l l 410 s s 411 s s s s 412 d l l l l l l l l 413 l l l l l s s d s d s d d d 414 s s s 415 d d d d d d d 416 417
 MR. HUME  said, that in reply to his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Sheffield, he thought he could show that a reduction that was intended to be applied generally could not be unjust, and that on general principles the public had a right to be served at as low a rate as any other employer. He believed that on all similar occasions a distinction had been made with regard to those who received weekly or monthly wages, and he hoped that rule would be followed in the present case also, and that these men would be excepted. But he would ask his right hon. Friend, who called this an unjust Motion, whether he thought that up to 1845 or 1847 the public servants had been properly paid? If they were well and properly paid up to 1847 and 1848, would it be said that their salaries were not proportionally higher now, when the means of living were reduced 15 or 20 or 30 per cent below the amount at which they then stood? If he could have brought forward his Motion, he would have asked the House to pledge itself that all new salaries to be hereafter declared should be on a scale commensurate with the altered condition of the times; but, unfortunately, he had not been able to bring that Motion forward. He did not agree with the whole of this Motion, and yet he would vote for it as a pledging the House to reduce the expenditure. Four great Motions had been brought forward on this subject. In 1821, the House unanimously agreed to an ad-
 431 l l l l l l l l 432
 MR. HUME  said, that as the report of the Committee on the Ordnance Estimates had now been received, he trusted the Government intended to make some statement of what they intended to do.
 MR. HUME  thought the noble Lord must have been asleep whilst he bad been speaking. He had read from the report of the Committee, yet the noble Lord had the assurance to say he had not! Really if these things continued, he should hardly know whether he stood on his head or his heels. The noble Lord had not stated any political reasons for maintaining such a force of artillery. He (Mr. Hume) admitted the necessity of the force being efficient, but, upon the reasoning of the noble Lord, 40,000 men must be kept. Artillery ought only, as the Committee said, to be in proportion to the infantry; and the question was, whether the numbers now maintained were not in disproportion to that which ought to be a peace establishment. The Committee had not approved of two additional battalions with the necessary expense of additional officers. He, therefore, protested against the Minister of the Crown taking upon himself to sanction that Which the public cried
 462
 MR. HUME  said, the hon. and gallant Gentleman had attended to everything but just that on which he wished him to have animadverted: he referred to the number of the artillery. The Committee, it was true, did not take into consideration the increased votes for this arm of the service: it was not their duty to consider what was the number of artillery that ought to be maintained in a time of peace. He asserted on Friday that the expense under this particular head was 3,000,000 l l l l l
 MR. HUME  asked, what use there was for an overwhelming force of artillery? What use was there in the united kingdom for eighty guns, with all their appurtenances ready for action? Lord Hardinge, in 1828, wished the artillery to be maintained upon the scale of Waterloo. He thought of nothing else, as if we were going again to play pranks upon the Con-
 463
 MR. HUME  said, the amount voted for barrack supplies in 1832 and 1833 was only 47,000 l l
 MR. MULLINGS  admitted that these courts had worked most satisfactorily, but could not concur in the proposition to extend their jurisdiction to 50 l l l
 MR. COBDEN  asked, if it was right to go on after midnight voting such large sums? He protested against going on with the estimates at that late hour. He should move that the Chairman do report progress.
 MR. COBDEN  said, that on a former occasion, when the hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire brought forward a Motion similar to the present, in which he proposed to apply a reduction to one office of the Government, he voted with him upon the distinct explanation and understanding that he did not intend by that vote to re-, duce the wages of the humbler servants or clerks. He (Mr. Cobden) now thought it more important than ever then to explain the way in which he intended to vote, because the hon. Gentleman had gone further than he did before, for he had professed to carry out those reductions even to so low a class of public servants as the humble
 448 s s s s l l l l l 449 l l l l l 450 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the number of servants employed, and the amount of salary paid to them, with a view to the reduction of persons so employed, and such a reduction of salary as was consistent with the public service."
 MR. SPOONER  suggested that it might be well to insert a clause in the Bill, empowering the judges of the county courts to try cases up to the amount of 50 l
 MR. SPOONER  would not have troubled the House with any observations, if he had not thought that the motives of the hon. Mover were misrepresented, and some of his statements misunderstood. There was no man more willing than his hon. Friend to raise all salaries which should be proved to be underpaid, nor was any man more willing to enter upon an inquiry relative to the over payment of the higher offices of State. But this was not the proposition at present before the House. His hon. Friend had laid down this principle—that a very great change had been made in the whole commercial policy of this country, and that the class of persons to whom he had alluded should not be exempted from a diminution of salary. It was no answer to refer hack, as the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stamford had, to the year 1815, and to display a great amount of official knowledge in pointing out the diminutions which had taken place from time to time. The House must bear in mind the great change effected in our commercial policy, and the necessity of giving satisfaction to the country by making that altered policy bear equally on all classes of the community. His hon. Friend, in exempting one of the great professions from the operation of his Motion, meant merely to exclude men who held their situations by Act of Parliament; but if the noble Lord chose to reduce the salaries of Judges to be appointed hereafter, his hon. Friend would have no objection to any arrangement of that kind. [Mr. HENLEY: Hear, hear!] The noble Lord had, however, said that if the Motion were carried, the pay of the Army and Navy ought to be reduced; but the money pay of the
 444
 SIR G. GREY  said, in the early stage of the Bill the Treasury were reproached with great extravagance, and now they were blamed for making a very inadequate allowance. The only object which the Treasury had had in view was to make such arrangements as would secure the efficient working of the Act, and they certainly had not the slightest desire to degrade the judges. Although he admitted that the courts had fully answered public expectation, he still doubted whether they would work as satisfactorily to that class of suitors who had hitherto resorted to them in order to obtain a speedy remedy, after their jurisdiction should have been enlarged. At the same time, he was not prepared to say that after more experience, accompanied with those conditions hinted at by his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General, it might not be possible to extend the jurisdiction; but of this he felt assured, that to attempt this in a hasty manner would be to defeat the object in view. The argument, in fact, of the hon. Mover seemed to be against any limit whatever, and would justify an extension of the jurisdiction to 100 l l
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  supported the Mo-
 407
 SIR J. GRAHAM  thought the question whether the jurisdiction should be extended to 50 l
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  observed, that the hon. Members for Manchester and the West Riding made the same speeches in 1846 they were making now. They then promised the mechanics and labourers of the country that high wages and low prices were coming. But here was the year 1849, and instead of that prophecy having been fulfilled, they had low wages as well as low prices. But it was not merely that "wages were reduced, in many places there were none at all. He could point to hundreds of mechanics who used to earn 3 l l
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  hoped that his noble Friend would not press his Amendment. It was quite clear that his noble Friend was desirous of abolishing the Palace Court; but if he succeeded in obtaining a majority against the clause, it would defeat the Bill altogether. Many Acts of Parliament had recognised the sale of these offices; and vested rights could not be abolished without giving the parties in whom they were vested, compensation. He had understood his noble Friend also to object to the manner of giving compensation, and that he would rather have that question referred to a Select Committee of the House than to the Treasury. Now, he (the Attorney General) believed that if the legal claims of the parties demanding compensation were to be strictly investigated, he was providing the best tribunal that could be devised. In a Select Committee of the House there was a divided responsibility, and Members of it were exposed to
 469
 MR. C. LEWIS  intimated that the subject was under the consideration of Government, and that a measure was in preparation.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  observed, that the hon. Baronet, with the exception of that episode in his speech on the West Indies, had confined himself to the question as to the real property being exclusively rated, and to the rates not extending to personal property. The question was one of great interest and importance to the community, and it had already received much consideration during the present Session, and no doubt it would receive more hereafter. He would, in the first place, confine himself to the question immediately before the House, as to whether or not they should rate stock in trade, or whether the interventions of the courts in
 476 477 Burn's Justice v 478 479
 MR. DUNCAN  had supported the proposition of the noble Lord last year, and his mind had no way been changed since as to the necessity of legislation on this question. The ease ought to be considered. The object of the noble Lord was merely to limit the hours of night labour; and, though no person objected more than he did to interfere between the employer and employed, yet after reading the evidence of Dr. Guy, he was convinced that interference in this case was absolutely necessary.
 MR. ORMSBY GORE  said, that the hon. Member for Lymington had been wrongfully accused of pressing this subject with unnecessary eagerness upon the Government. All the hon. Member and the country were anxious for, was to obtain from the Government some announcement of their views, not upon all the minutiae of the question, but upon the point whether it was their intention to countenance the labours of the Committee. A great part of the debate had turned on the sanitary state of Smithfield market. He looked upon that as the weakest ground the Committee could have taken, and therefore all the supporters of Smithfield had seized and enlarged upon it. But he must take the liberty of setting the hon. Member for Middlesex right with respect to some of his assertions on this point. It was true that Dr. Lynch had described Smithfield as being most salubrious; but in answer to a question, he had also stated that if he had a guarantee that the area of Smith-field would be kept open as a square for the purpose of recreation and health, he would much prefer that state of things to the existence of the market. The hon. Member for Middlesex was also mistaken when he stated that but one or two witnesses had spoken against the unwholesome influence of Smithfield; for amongst those who had given such evidence were Mr. Aldis, Professor Owen, Mr. Bullen, Mr. Grainger, and Mr. Grimes, the latter's evidence being the more remarkable on account of his having lost his wife through fever produced by malaria. In 1809, so convinced were gentlemen connected with the city of London of the nuisance of Smithfield market, that a deputation from the City Lands Committee waited upon the Board of Trade, having in view an enlargement of the market; but the Board of Trade told them that the inconvenience could not be removed by enlargement, but that the removal of the market to a more
 512
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  could not allow this debate to close without offering a few remarks upon the observations of his hon. Friend the Chairman of the Committee. He (Mr. C. Lewis) was a member of the Committee last appointed, but not of the Committee of 1847, that previously
 513 514
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  felt some difficulty with regard to the present Motion. Last year, when the question was before the House, he voted for inquiry into the best mode of relieving the operative bakers from their grievances. They complained justly of the very long hours of labour to which they were subjected by the
 487
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  did not consider that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Abingdon, with all his ingenuity and ability, had made out any case to found the claims he had been advocating. As to the fact of that hon. and learned Gentleman's having formerly held an office in the Palace Court, everybody must be satisfied that he felt and intended that such a circumstance should not in any degree interest his advocacy on this occasion. Still it was possible that without being aware of the fact, it had influenced the learned Gentleman's better judgment. Perhaps he had been one of the parties who prepared the Bill under which compensation on the extinction of arrest by mesne
 472
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  trusted, at any rate, that the Committee would not be led away by anything which had just been stated from the opposite benches to sanction a clause for giving compensation to the holders of office in a court whose very existence had long been felt to be a grievance, and the abolition of which was so loudly demanded by public opinion. According to the showing of the hon. and learned Gentleman himself, compensation had already been granted to these parties to the tune of 7,000 l l
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he objected to the clause, because he could not agree to any compensation being granted to these officers. His hon. Friend the Member for Middlesex had stated yesterday, that the court was illegal; and, indeed, he could not himself help thinking that it was unconstitutional to tax people as that court had done without the consent of Parliament. Landowners, merchants, manufacturers, and shopkeepers were not compensated when new laws were made affecting their respective interests; and he knew not why such peculiar and tender concern was felt for the interest of the lawyer. If these gentlemen bought their places at an extravagant price, they did so upon speculation, and they ought, therefore, when the Legislature thought fit to alter or abolish the court, to take the consequences, in the same way that other persons did in other kinds of speculations. He must, therefore, again protest against compensation being granted to persons in the condition of these Palace Court officers. He would repeat the objection which he took yesterday to the Treasury being authorised to estimate and determine the amount of the compensation. The objection which he made was not a vague one, for when the Treasury had such authority given before, large sums were awarded to persons in the shape of com-
 468 l l
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the report of the Committee having been brought before the notice of the Government, it would have been, as a matter of course, taken into consideration by them. At the same time, he wished it to be understood, that by undertaking to take into consideration the report of the Committee, the Government did not pledge themselves to the adoption of the measures recommended by the Committee.
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  was aware what he should have to encounter in endeavouring to attract the attention of the House to the Motion he was about to propose. Accustomed as the House was to deal with questions affecting large classes of the community—not merely the inhabitants of this country, but those of the remotest parts of the globe—it was scarcely to be expected that they would condescend to give their attention to a measure which involved the interest of a small section only of the community. He assured the House he had no motive in bringing forward this Motion except that of elevating the position of a class of working men who toiled more continuously than almost any other class of persons in the British community. There were no less than 10,000 persons in this metropolis employed in preparing the staff of life, who were looking with anxiety to the result of this Motion. It was a question which involved their comfort, their happiness, their moral progress—aye, and the very duration of life itself. The noble Lord reminded the House that last year he moved for a Committee on this subject, but it was refused. He regretted that refusal, because if a Committee had been appointed, the truth of the allegations of the petitioners might have been ascertained. He was, however, not discouraged. He recollected that on the former occasion his right hon. Friend the Homo Secretary told him that he was out of court in moving for a Committee, because there was nothing more to inquire about, inasmuch as Dr. Guy had investigated the whole matter. His right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford had stated that he would not be unwilling to consider a legislative remedy on the subject; and he believed that the general impression was that he, last Session, made out a  primâ facie 482 483 484
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  felt it necessary to go to a division, as the right hon. Gentleman had held out no hopes that any measure could be taken, or Committee ap-
 492
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  said, that if Smithfield alone were to be considered, the crowding of cattle would be compensated in a sanitary point of view by the pains taken to clean the market, and the fact of having so large an open space in that part of the town. But it was not Smithfield alone that was to be looked to, but the streets and alleys in its immediate neighbourhood, with their knackers' yards, bone grinders, gut spinners, and various other similar establishments, which, collected within a small area, and amidst a dense
 506 507
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  said, he would certainly undertake to produce a table showing the revenue arising from the market, though he had it not by him at that moment, from which it would appear that the city of London did not receive one farthing of that revenue,
 MR. STAFFORD  observed, that though he had listened attentively to the speech which the House had just heard, yet he confessed himself somewhat at a loss to imagine how his noble Friend intended to vote. As to his hon. Friend the Chairman of the Committee, he was so completely absorbed by the subject of Smithfield market, that on a recent occasion he found it very difficult to define what he meant by smoke; and as to the evidence taken before the Committee, his hon. Friend seemed to think, that, like the meat to which it referred, there was no keeping it, and he was, therefore, evidently most impatient to serve it up to the House as soon as possible; hence, notwithstanding the morning sittings and the pressure of business towards the close of the Session, he urged this subject upon the attention of the House and the Government with extraordinary earnestness. It was to be regretted that his hon. Friend had so little confidence in the Government, and that so great were the eagerness and haste with which he pressed forward on this subject, that he went in direct contravention to the resolutions adopted by that Committee of which his hon. Friend was himself the chairman. As to the degree in which Smithfield was supposed to affect the health of the citizens of London, he believed that that question was set completely at rest—that the case in favour of Smithfield had been clearly established.
 508 509 510
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he hoped the House would allow this Bill to be read a first time. He supported the measure for many reasons: first, because of its utility. Now, upon that point he might quote the evidence of a medical gentleman (Dr. Guy), whose statement respecting the diseases to which bakers, under the present order of things, were subject, was appalling. The spittings of blood, and the pulmonary diseases which followed, were lamentable, and demanded the attention of the Legislature. It was all very well to write in the closet, and there discuss the dry principles of political economy, but when they saw a human being wasting away to a skeleton, and finally perishing, from the unhealthiness of his occupation, it was high time for the Legislature to interfere. It was
 488
 MR. DISRAELI  thought the explanation of the Under Secretary for the Home Department fully justified his hon. Friend in having brought the subject forward, and he confessed he was glad to hear his statement. It was clear, from what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman, that this was a question the consideration of which could not be longer delayed. Without being-guilty of an exaggeration, it could be proved that one-third of the income of the country had to bear the whole of their local burdens. The fact was incontrovertible that real property had burdens thrown upon it to the amount of twelve millions a year, from which other descriptions of pro-
 480
 MR. WODEHOUSE  thanked his hon. Friend for bringing this question before the House, and was happy to hear that they were to have some remedial measure. He submitted to the noble Lord that the subject of the land tax and the rating of the poor must at the opening of next Session be thoroughly brought under revision.
 SIR F. THESIGER : No, I was not at that time. But I was Solicitor General, I think, if that will answer your purpose.
 SIR F. THESIGER  said, that the Legislature itself had fixed the scale for compensating the Six Clerks for the abolition of their offices. One word to the noble Lord he would now address, being certain that if the noble Lord would but look at the matter a little more clearly, he would see that he was really mistaken as to the facts on which he grounded his case against the Palace Court. As for what had been said about the "illegality" of the court, there was absolutely no sort of ground for such an imputation. It had been even affirmed that the Crown had had no authority to establish this court at all; but he begged to affirm that the Crown had an undoubted power to establish, under certain forms that were resorted to by it in this instance, any such ancillary court in aid of, or within, the jurisdiction of the common law. What were the facts? There had formerly existed an ancient court for the trial of causes of a limited and small amount, and in which the parties were officers of, or connected with, the Royal household. That old court having been abolished, another court was erected under letters patent granted by Charles
 470 471
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he was not going to support the Motion of the Gentleman on the other side, because he thought that the Bill had better pass. The hon. Baronet had, in his enumeration of things not liable to rating, fallen into a mistake. Machinery was liable, and was rated, as he could testify, even to the very hammers used in his own factory. He readily admitted that there was a difficulty in rating stock in trade, but still it could not be denied that the present system was both unequal and unjust. They must come to a national rate at last, and the sooner the Government turned their attention to the subject the better it would be for the country.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he was sure it was quite unnecessary for his noble Friend to have expressed any apprehen-
 485 486
 MR. J. EVANS  objected to sending the question of compensation before the Treasury. The Six Clerks in Chancery were receiving compensation equal to the incomes of Peers of the realm. They had already received 130,000 l
 MR. HENLEY  would beg to ask the learned Attorney General one question: it had been stated by the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, that the officers of the Palace Court received a certain compensation some few years ago, on the abolition of arrest upon mesne process; and he admitted at the same time that since that period the other portion of the business of the court had very much increased. Now, what he (Mr. Henley) desired to know was, whether since or at the same time that larger powers had been conferred on the several new courts having jurisdiction over small debts, any similar extension of powers had been given to the Palace Court? [The ATTORNEY GENERAL: Certainly not.] As that was the ease, he could not press the point, which, had the hon. and learned Gentleman's answer been in the affirmative, he should have been supplied with against this claim of compensation for loss of offices.
 MR. HENLEY  admitted that very great practical difficulties existed in rating stock in trade; but maintained that if stock in trade was to be exempted, it would lead to great difficulty and trouble; that if they had justice on their side, he would ask them why they did not repeal the law at present existing on the subject. That the great necessities of the country would ere long force it upon them for a total revision—that if the subject was not properly taken up, the House might depend that it would be forced on them; and the result would be, they would then have to get rid of this impost, which, as it at present stood, was objectionable to all parties.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, his statement as to the revenue arising from the market had been questioned by the noble Lord who last addressed the House. He (Mr. Osborne) begged to say that he held in his hand an account of the net income of Smithfield market, from the 1st of January, 1844, to the 31st of December, 1848; and the net annual income of the city of London, given by that paper, was in 1848, 5,641 l s d
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, that in common with the rest of the House, he gave every credit to the hon. Member for Lymington for the great interest he took in the question. But he wished he had confined his energies to carrying out to its consummation the Motion which he had had so long in hand for preventing interment in towns. The hon. Gentleman had told the House that the complaint he made regarding Smithfield market depended entirely upon how far its existence affected the public health. Now if it could be proved that the present position of Smithfield interfered with the public health, the hon. Gentleman might make out a good case. But he (Mr. Osborne) did not think that the speech of the hon. Gentleman had at all made out his case. Having given his (Mr. Osborne's) serious attention to the consideration of the report, he should say that the hon. Gentleman's speech was not borne out by the evidence, which he had most wisely abstained from reading. He must be aware that the great proportion of evidence was directly against the assertions that he had made; and in a case in which so much money was at stake, it really was necessary to act with great caution. He understood that no less than 7,000,000 l 500 "That Smithfield was drained by 2,000 feet of main sewer, averaging 4 feet 6 inches in height, by 2 feet 9 inches in width, into which the market was drained by 28 gullies, each furnished with a trap." 501 502 503 l
 MR. COBDEN  said, that if he understood the proposition, the House was asked to limit the hours of labour of a certain class of workmen in London. Now, that was an entirely new principle. The Coal Whipping Act had nothing in common with the proposed Bill—for that regulated the mode of hiring labourers, and did not restrict their hours of labour. As for the Ten Hours Bill, if there had been any attempt to restrict the hours of adult labour by means of that measure, he should have voted against it. But it would be admitted by all that the Ten Hours Bill was strictly applied to the limitation of the hours of labour of children in factories. The present proposition involved a new principle of world-wide application. He had been asked what his principle in respect to labour was; he would tell the House. He was for perfect freedom in this respect. He thought that the freedom of labour was to be identified with freedom of trade. The present was a case which might be argued on the same
 489 490 primâ facie
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, that the value of Smithfield was not the toll paid to the city of London, but the commerce of the city of London which was brought to such an immense amount annually by this market. The value of Smithfield was estimated at seven or eight millions sterling. On large market days it was stated that as much as 30,000 l 504 505
 MR. MACKINNON  presented a petition from several of the leading medical men of the metropolis, complaining of the sale of diseased meat in the London markets as being most injurious to the health of the inhabitants. The hon. Gentleman then proceeded to call the attention of the House; to the report of the Committee on the removal of Smithfield Market. With regard to the constitution of that Committee, he might be allowed to say, that eight of its members had been selected from the Committee of 1847, and the remaining seven were chosen on account of their high station in that House, and of their being connected with the grazing interest. He thought it right also to premise that he did not believe there was a single individual on that Committee who had the slightest personal interest in the removal of Smithfield market. He said this, because he knew that rumours had gone abroad that some of the members of the Committee had a private interest in removal of the market to another site; but both on his own part, and on that of the other members of the Committee, he was able to say, that not one of them had the slightest interest with regard to the selection of another site. Therefore he thought it would be admitted that the report of the Committee had emanated from fifteen honest and honourable men. With regard to that report, he might state the substance of it in three words. It was simply this: that Smithfield market, from its deficiency in size, and from the inconvenience which was thereby created, ought to be abolished; and that the area of a new
 493 Times l l 494 "That the passing of live-stock to and fro from Smithfield is a nuisance to the inhabitants of the neighbourhood and to the public at large, and that the present size and arrangement of the market does not afford sufficient accommodation for the live-stock therein offered for sale; and these are propositions which your Committee are prepared to maintain." "With regard to the places for the reception of those animals, they generally being in a ple-
 495 496 497 d d d d d 498
 MR. MACKINNON  said, that he had been induced to adopt the course he had taken in consequence of the representation of two or three Members of the Committee, that unless he brought forward the subject in the present Session, the report of the Committee would fall to the ground as a dead letter. He had no wish to press the subject unnecessarily upon the attention of the Government; and upon the assurance that they would take the subject into their serious consideration, he had no objection to withdraw his Motion.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  admitted there was great difficulty in dealing with this question; but in his opinion the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex had made out a strong  primâ facie
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  concurred in what had fallen from the hon. Alderman, and complained that there had been something very much like packing in reference to the formation of the Smithfield Market Committee, and a decided disinclination to put the metropolitan Members upon it, he himself having been two or three times strenuously excluded from it. This showed clearly enough how the matter stood, and that the Committee had made up their minds before the evidence was heard. The hon. Member for Middlesex, however, had turned the whole case into ridicule, and he was far from saying that it did not afford a very fair field for the exercise of his faculties in that capacity. As the hon. Alderman who had just sat down had observed, the real truth was, that the only ground on which the case against this market could at all be supported was that it was not sufficiently large for the wants of the metropolis. The statement, however, which he had made, that the corporation were anxious to enlarge the market, might be taken as a pledge of the wishes and intentions of that body.
 SIR E. FILMER , as a Member of the Committee, could say that, throughout the whole of the sitting, it appeared as if there was one party cutting against another, and one market against another; which rival markets hon. Members were forbidden to mention. The evidence was of so loose and contradictory a character, that he should recommend that it be taken, in future inquiries of a like character, upon oath, as was done before Committees of the House of Lords; for there was nothing of which he felt more entirely convinced, than that unless the Committees of that House took the evidence brought before them in a manner to afford just grounds for confiding in its accuracy and trustworthiness, their investigations would be of very little advantage to the public.
 SIR G. GREY  said, he should not have risen, but to state the reasons why the Government could not assent to inquiry. All, however, he need do, was to remind the House of the discussion of last Session, upon the Motion for a Select Committee, and that the reasons he then urged were still in full force. Those reasons were twofold: first, that the information sought to be obtained was already before the House; and, next, that it would only encourage a vain and delusive hope, leading to inevitable disappointment, that the appointment of a Committee could lead to a legislative remedy for the evils of this class of persons. With regard to the Coalwhippers Act, he would read a few words which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford, upon the argument that it was an interference for the protection of labour:—
 "He, for one, had taken great interest in the case of the coalwhippers, and was very far from repenting the course he had pursued with respect to that measure. The House would be very much misled were it to suppose that measure constituted a precedent for interference in the present instance. He should state very shortly what were the objects of that measure. A custom had grown up between the masters of coal vessels and the publicans, in that part of the city of London where the coalwhippers exercised their vocation, by which it invariably happened that the men whoso services were necessary to discharge the coal ships were hired through the publicans. The publicans had come to be hiring agents. The consequence was the greatest demoralisation—a demoralisation which he should have said was complete, had it not been for the fact, that the men were conscious of the servitude to which they had been reduced, and were unfeignedly anxious to escape from it. The Act did nothing to regulate wages or the hours of work; it did nothing towards the inspection of labour. All that the Act did was to establish an office and a public officer to control it; and it was required, under the sanction of a penalty, that every one having a coal vessel to discharge should repair to that office for the purpose of hiring men. Even that provision was attended with subsidiary arrangements which were intended to exclude interference. Whatever might be the merits or demerits of that Act, it did not form a precedent."
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  expressed his satisfaction with the discussion his Amendment had called forth, and bogged to withdraw it.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  rose to avail himself of the opportunity to raise the general question of rating; he believed there was a real grievance which required a remedy, on the principles of justice and fair dealing to all classes of the community. In order that the House might clearly comprehend what was his object, he called attention to the facts of the poor-rate. In 1847, 5,290,000 l l l 473 l l l l l l l 474 l 475 s s s s
 SIR J. TYRELL  would support the Motion. He admitted that Smithfield market might to some extent be a transit market; but still it was necessary to establish a sort of quarantine after cattle had once been in there, in order to free the said cattle from any disease they might have imbibed. He also admitted that the hon. Member who had just sat down had adduced all that could be said in favour of the market, derived as his information had been from the whispers of the butchers; but it must be recollected in a matter of this kind that the consumer and the butcher had in some respects a conflicting interest. At present the owner of cattle was compelled to sell at almost any price in the winter months, if his beasts were driven to Smithfield; and, therefore, it was desirable that a larger market should be erected in a less objectionable situation, where the cattle could be supplied with sheds and water, and where they could be kept until disposed of, at a reasonable cost. It was probably true that Essex, the county he had the honour to represent, was interested in matters remaining as they stood at present, and that there were advantages, in a commercial point of view, in having Smithfield market in the neighbourhood of the Bank of England. The hon. Member for Middlesex, who had advocated the interests of the butchers, was perfectly welcome to make the most of that admission. [Mr. OSBORNE said that he had advocated the interests, not of the butchers only, but of the public] The hon. Member was called "the butchers' pet." He believed that the hon. Member, and also the hon. Member for Northamptonshire, were promised a fish dinner—concluding with roast beef and plum pudding—at the conclusion of this Smithfield debate. But whatever their advocacy might have been, and how-
 511 élite
 MR. VERNON SMITH , adverting to the efforts of the hon. Member for Montrose, said, that no one had done more for the cause of economy than that hon. Member; but he rather frittered a way a good cause, as when he concluded his speech by introducing the subject of saluting the bishops. There was undoubtedly a great case for economy, and his noble Friend at the head of the Government did not deal with it fairly, when he put the case of a private individual who, having kept a watchman for a number of years, dismissed him at last because his property was safe and untouched. The Government had kept up an amount of stores calculated for the two years' expenditure of the last European war. On what principle did they mean to keep up that stock? Did they mean to keep up sufficient to exterminate the whole of Europe? It was the amount which they had at the close of the last European war. Could any war break out, on that immense scale, suddenly? His noble Friend was himself the watchman, and he put it to him whether it would not have been better that, during the 30 years of peace, we had not kept these stores, but had paid for them when they were wanted? They would have been bought at an enormous expense he granted, but not at such an enormous expense as the expense of the stores we had kept. The hon. Member for the West Riding had stated the other day that there were now six and a half millions of stores in our possession. This was not all; there was the expense of the stores, of warehouses, of establishments, the waste of perishable materials, and not only this, but there was, in the present state of civilisation, always something new coming out, which made all the old stores absolutely useless. The improvement of detonating locks made flint and steel useless. The new armaments made the old armaments useless. Some new improvements might arise in another two years; therefore, it was impossible to exaggerate the mischief of keeping an enormous amount of stores, and that would
 519 520
 MR. COBDBN  said, that his experience, as a man of business, and from what be had seen of the evidence before the Committee, was, that Government was under a great delusion as to the way in which they carried on the manufacturing establishments in every branch of the service. They had no notion of what things cost when they manufactured themselves; the mode in which the parties having the superintendence made their report, was utterly fallacious, not worth one farthing. Take the case of powder. Gentlemen brought in a very detailed account before the Committee, to show that powder could be made at something less than it could be bought from a private dealer. He took the opportunity of questioning these gentlemen as to the mode in which they ascertained the cost of this powder. He found that nothing was put down for the cost of the plant; nothing was put down for the interest of houses or cottages connected with the plant; nothing was put down for the interest of the money embarked in the floating stock. There were 100,000 lbs. of saltpetre and brimstone—no account was taken of the interest of the money so invested. He thought the parties themselves were very well satisfied before they left the Committee that their calculations were fallacious; but he was strongly of opinion that there was nothing that could not be procured from private enterprise at a cheaper rate than Government could manufacture it. He could make no exception of gunpowder. It was said that it was necessary to have a manufactory to check the private manufacturer. He apprehended that that might be done by a laboratory. He maintained that you might have any thing by private enterprise, as good and as cheap as Government could manufacture it. There was another manufacture which you carried on; that of the brass ordnance. You said that you could not get brass ordnance that you could rely upon. He thought it was a great stigma on the character of brassfounders if such were the fact; but he doubted it. He believed that there was nothing which you could not have, if you gave a contract price for
 522 523 l "The world never yet saw so extravagant a Government as the Government of England. Not only is economy not practised but it is despised; and the idea of it connected with disaffection, Jacobinism, and Joseph Hume. Every rock on the ocean where a cormorant can perch is occupied by our troops—has a governor, deputy-governor, storekeeper, and deputy-storekeeper, and will soon have an archdeacon and a bishop. Military colleges, with thirty-four professors, educating seventeen ensigns per annum, being half an ensign for each professor, with every species of nonsense, athletic, sartorial, and plumigerous. A just and necessary war costs this country about one hundred pounds a minute; whipcord, fifteen thousand pounds; red tape, seven thousand pounds; lace for drummers and fifers nineteen thousand pounds; a pension to one man who has broken his bead at the pole: to another who has shattered his leg at the equator; subsidies to Persia; secret service money to Thibet; an annuity to Lady Henry somebody and her seven daughters, the husband being shot at some place where we never ought to have had any soldiers at all; and the elder brother returning four Members to Parliament—such a scene of extravagance, corruption, and expense, as must paralyse the industry and mar the fortunes of the most industrious spirited people that ever existed." 524 525 l l l 526 527 l l l 528
 MR. ELLICE  said, that as regarded the colonies, they could not introduce new principles at once, but that such things must be done by degrees, and by a gradual preparation for the changes. He had merely risen, however, to say a word as to the question of ordnance stores, to which he had already called the attention of the Committee which had been sitting upon these estimates. He was persuaded that till the Government should have devised some plan for placing the whole of the civil expenditure for the military defences of the country under one directing head, would they continue to hear the same com-
 532
 COLONEL ANSON  begged to be allowed to offer a few observations, as he really felt that, from the position he held in the House, it was necessary for him to do so. Everything that had been said by his noble Friend at the head of the Government with regard to the colonies and our establishments abroad, seemed to be satisfactory to the House. And by the next time that the Prime Minister met the Parliament some important steps would be found to have been taken towards altering the system upon which the colonies were managed. He (Colonel Anson) now wished to reply to those observations which related to the department with which he was connected, and he trusted that what he had to say would be found equally satisfactory with the speech of his noble Friend. In the first instance, the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose seemed to have misunderstood him the other night, and to have supposed that he suggested incorrectness in the hon. Gentleman's statements. Nothing could have been farther from his intention. On the contrary, he knew that, from the hon. Gentleman's habit of attending to minute details, there was usually greater correctness to be found in his statements than in those of many other hon. Members. He meant merely to say that the hon. Gentleman had not his books before him, and he had therefore led the House to think that there was a greater amount of expenditure in the present than in any former year; that there was in the Ordnance department an advance of 1,800,000 l l l l 534 l l l l l l l 535 l s s d l l l l l l
 COLONEL ANSON  wished only to explain, as the vote had been already alluded to, and he promised that he would not go into the subject again when the vote came on, if he were then suffered to proceed. Well, then, besides the 31,000 l l l l l 536 l
 COLONEL ANSON  thought that the supply of small arms was absolutely necessary, as they had but a small surplus of percussion guns over what they wanted. He hoped, however, that next year they would be able to dispense with the item. As to the 145,000 l
 MR. J. B. SMITH  thought, if a war broke out, they would find a large portion of the stores they already had, and were proposing to lay in, utterly useless. They had already 160,000 flint guns on hand, and they were now proposing to purchase an additional stock of percussion guns, notwithstanding that experiments were being tried on a new invention, by which five bullets, one after another, could be shot off by one charge. He considered, therefore, the old and new stock would be rendered by next year utterly useless.
 COLONEL ANSON  said, the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark had given notice of his intention to move that reductions be made in the votes for Bermuda, the Ionian Islands, and the Mauritius. He said he had deducted one-half of the amount originally intended for these services, and hoped that diminution might be satisfactory to him. He said the outlay already contracted for the works was necessarily considerable; and a vote as large as he now proposed would be required to meet it; but it would be competent for the hon. Baronet, or any other Member of the House to move next Session for an account of all sums expended on these works. The Government, in the meantime, would immediately send out orders to stop all further expenditure.
 COLONEL ANSON  said, the hon. Baronet was labouring under a mistake, when he complained of the improper expenditure on account of the ordnance for the Mauritius. When that island was first taken possession of by this country, its fortifications were carried throughout its whole extent. Those works had since been contracted. That he considered to be a work of economy, for the more concentrated and strengthened the fortifications were, the less amount of ordnance was required. The hon. Baronet had said, that in its arrangements with the Ionian Islands the Government had robbed the Army, for the purpose of expending the money on the Ordnance. That was not the case; for the money which had been expended was to be repaid by the Ionian Islands to this country. But he had already said that this expenditure for the defences of these islands would be stopped. The statement in the estimates was not so correct as it ought to have been. It would induce a person to suppose that the money was required for new works, whereas it was not so.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, he merely asked for information; but he had a professional curiosity to know what Corfu was for. He had heard it asserted from the opposite benches, that Corfu was to defend the entrance to the Gulf of Venice; but he had no notion how a fortress could defend a passage when it was out of sight. He recollected passing all the way to Venice, and he saw nothing of Corfu. In fact it was sixty miles from the opposite shore, and therefore defended nothing. It was all part of the superannuated notions on the effect of fortifications, which the experience of modern wars had entirely exploded.
 COLONEL ANSON  said, there would be a further consideration of the question before they expended any money for the Mauritius.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  was of opinion that the country stood indebted to the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark, for having brought forward this question, though his hon. Friend had exercised a very sound discretion in not pressing his Amendment to a division, the hon. and
 546
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, there appeared to have been a complete  razzia
 MR. FOX MAULE  thought the hon. and gallant Member had overlooked one material difference with regard to the respective positions of artillery and engineer officers, and of officers of the line, in the fact that the former advanced by merit and service, whereas the latter got their commissions, and could obtain their promotion, by purchase. He was not prepared to give any definite reply to the suggestion of the hon. and gallant Member that the lieutenant colonels of the line should have retirements after refusal by engineers and artillery officers.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that some of the general principles upon which the hon. Gentleman had suggested reductions, had before been brought under his notice. Objections had previously been made to salutes—and especially to the episcopal salutes to which his hon. Friend had referred—and he (Lord J. Russell) did not mean to deny that some further economy might be practised in that respect. The hon. Member for Montrose, however, never took notice of any changes made in the way of economy. He (Lord J. Russell)
 517 l 518 l
 LORD J. RUSSELL , without complaining of the manner in which the hon. Gentleman had made his remarks, could not allow them to pass entirely without comment, because the question raised by the hon. Gentleman was not one which concerned the present Government, or any other Government in particular, but was a very important question as relating to the position of this empire. The hon. Gentleman began by saying that the inquiry before the Ordnance Committee had confirmed his anticipation, that for the Government to undertake the manufacture of any particular article was a very wasteful and extravagant course, and that it would be far better to go to private dealers for any stores which might be required. Upon this point, he quite admitted that the general rule should be contract with the private dealer, and that the  onus probandi 529 530 531
 LORD J. RUSSELL  conceived that his right hon. Friend had misunderstood what had fallen from him. He had given no opinion as to the present expenditure, but his remarks applied to the general doctrine which the hon. Member for Montrose seemed to adopt, namely, because this was a time of peace they should make no preparation for a time of war. The question of stores was too large for him then to go into, and he should reserve the expression of opinion on it until he had examined well the subject. He certainly had never meant to say that the present amount of stores could not be reduced.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he had received despatches on this subject, but had not yet been able to read them. However, he believed he might say that the proceedings of this officer had not received the sanction of the Government.
 MAJOR BLACKALL  complained that the privilege given to lieutenant-colonels in the royal artillery and engineers of retiring on full pay, was not extended to the officers of the line. Of the former, thirty-four had retired in one year, while in the whole of the line, only twenty had so retired. He knew that twelve lieutenant-colonels of the artillery, and five of the engineers, had declined to accept the boon offered them, of filling up the vacancies;
 553
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  concurred with his right hon. Friend in thinking that this was a subject worthy of the closest attention. It was admitted that the cash accounts of the three great departments were in as perfect a state as could be conceived; but it was equally true that the store account of the Ordnance and Navy was in a very unsatisfactory state. He would earnestly address himself to this subject, and would endeavour to have the store accounts put in a proper state before the next meeting of Parliament. At all events, if he should not by that time have entirely succeeded, he hoped to be able to give a satisfactory account of the progress he had made.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had not the slightest difficulty in assuring the right hon. Baronet that his attention had been directed to the matter, inasmuch as all the estimates were under the notice of the Treasury'. It was perfectly true, that unless all the returns were accurately filled up, the information was not worth a farthing. If this were done, a precise knowledge of all the estimates would be brought annually before Parliament.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the three hon. Gentlemen who had preceded him had clearly and correctly stated the difficulty. It was one which did not apply to the Ordnance estimates only. The right hon. Member for Northampton said very truly that there were cases of emergency, but that that plea might be carried to a very improper extent. No doubt of it. Still no one could deny that there were cases of emergency, in which parties on the spot must take upon themselves to incur some expense. He might instance the invasion of
 548 549
 MR. HUME  pressed on the Government the necessity of establishing a representative government in these islands. He wished the House to observe that of all the votes that of the Ordnance required the greatest attention, and afforded the greatest scope for reduction; in no other department perhaps, except the Navy, had greater irregularities taken place. He apprehended that much of the money expended in those fortifications abroad was pure waste; whereas had it been expended at home it would have been of much use to this country. He certainly thought that every such expenditure should be first submitted to the Treasury, and through the Treasury to that House. He wished to know whether the expenditure for the Mauritius would be stopped. The first item was 5,000 l
 MR. HUME  had to complain that every recommendation made by the officers of the service leading to increased expense was eagerly seized upon and adopted; but every suggestion favourable to economy was instantly rejected and laid aside. He had no objection to the promotions which the public service allowed; but he had strongly to protest against the system of brevets, as they led to a gratuitous and uncalled-for waste of public money. He had seen in the public papers, that an officer in the British service had taken it upon himself to make war upon a native king on the coast of Africa. He wished to know whether the officer in question had acted with the sanction of the Government, or whether the war was one of those emergencies that the country would afterwards be called upon to pay for? If the officer had exceeded his authority, he (Mr. Hume) should like the Government to make him pay all the extra expense of his unjustifiable proceedings.
 MR. HUME  said, that what be complained of was, that they should have large establishments from which they derived no benefit. If the noble Lord was a merchant of the city of London, and found one watchman capable of keeping his warehouse from being robbed, he (Mr. Hume) would accuse him of extravagance, if be found that in the following year he had added two or three watchmen more. Every Committee which had sat in the House, from Lord Castlereagh's in 1816, 1817, and 1819, to the Committees in 1825 and
 521
 MR. HUME  said, he should not oppose this vote on the present occasion. He wished to point out the immense importance of the Government making up their minds before Parliament met again for the adoption of some determinate course with respect to the colonies. The charge on the estimates for stores for the colonies was most extravagant. If Her Majesty's Ministers would act upon the principles laid down in the letter of Earl Grey on the subject of responsible government in Canada, they might get rid of a large portion of the military expenditure in the colonies, and more especially as regarded ordnance stores and fortifications. It was much better to put expenses of this kind on the colonies, for by this means the country would save a large expenditure. He was sorry to find that the arrangement recommended by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon in 1833, with regard to naval stores, had not been carried out, for there was now an immense accumulation of them. He could tell the noble Lord he would be compelled to reduce the public expenditure next year; and if he did not do so, somebody would be found to
 516 l l l l s d s d
 MR. HUME  wished to know whether so large a sum as 145,000 l l
 MR. HUME  said, that although the discussion had commenced and proceeded under the impression that they were at Vote No. 6, it seemed that they were really only at No. 4. Now, he wished to say a word on the subject of barracks, which was an item in that vote. The House was not aware of the large sums set aside for barracks. Very few of the recommendations made by the Committee that had sat upon the subject in 1828, had been attended to. The actual vote was more for the present year than ever it had been before. For the year 1835–36, it was 85,000 l l l l l l l l 533
 MR. COBDEN  trusted that the noble Lord did not imagine that he, as a man of business, could have contended that no stock of stores was necessary. All he had argued against was the excess, and yet the noble Lord had spoken as if he (Mr. Cobden) had argued against stores altogether. With regard to Earl Grey, he quite agreed with the First Lord of the Treasury, that in the case of Vancouver's Island, Earl Grey was anxious to save the public money; and, therefore, he (Mr. Cobden) had never joined in the attacks against his Lordship, although not perhaps thinking that the Hudson's Bay Company were the best governors that could have been selected. He might say generally that he had a high admiration, not only for the talents, but for the noble principles of Earl Grey. He had a high opinion of his Lordship's intelligence and understanding, and he looked to him for great and beneficial changes in our colonial system.
 MR. COBDEN  observed, that the discussion had given occasion for many sound principles to be enunciated; and he thought hon. Members would be satisfied that the Legislature had made very considerable progress in the declaration, at least, of sound principles with regard to our colonial government. A Motion had been brought forward for' stopping the expenditure in the Ionian Islands. Those islands stood in an exceptional state to all our other colonies and dependencies abroad. It was said they had come into our possession after the late war, for political reasons, and for the benefit of this country. But on referring to the debates in 1816, he found that very eminent authorities protested against our taking possession of these islands at all. The Marquess of Lansdowne, in speaking of this subject, said—
 "But to revert to the Ionian Islands, he did not see of what use they were to this country. They were burdensome and expensive, but of no use; and here he should advert to the policy of the Congress which had given to England the protection of those places; the Congress acted towards this country as a man dying without fortune, who left the providing for a son to one friend, for a daughter to another, and the payment of his debts to a third. They had, in fact, made England the residuary legatee under a testament of this kind; whenever an unprofitable burden was to be borne, it was left to this country." "Then, again, why were the seven or eight Ionian Islands saddled on us? Productive of nothing else, they were exceedingly rich in patronage. There must be governors, and secretaries, and commanders-in-chief, and commissaries, and port admirals, and the whole apparatus of patronage. And these were the latent inducements to burden this country with their protection." 551 l l l 552 "It was for the House, so long as the question was before them in detail, to estimate the particular danger to which each of the different settlements was exposed, because it was that danger alone by which the amount of its military force ought to be measured, and then to compare this danger with the danger to ourselves at home from a lavish and improvident expenditure. Malta, also, must be fully garrisoned—and why? Not on account of any apprehended attack, for there was not a breadth of wind to waft a hostile fleet towards her shores, but for a different and singular reason, namely, that her fortifications were very strong. So, with respect to the Ionian Islands, the argument was this—they were acquired in time of peace and by treaty. Corfu is extremely strong, and therefore they must have a large garrison, and Corfu must have a force in proportion to the strength of her position. In fact, let the place be strong or let it be weak, let it be old or new, populous or the contrary—from all parts come converging arguments in favour of an increased establishment. But economy, approaching even to parsimony, was the panoply of peace—and those who maintained that the safety and security of this country depended on our maintaining great armies in a period of peace, displayed an ignorance of the first principle of our constitution; and not only that, but an ignorance of the first principle of our insular policy."
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  agreed in what had fallen from the hon. and gallant Gentleman, but he could not assent to all that had been said by the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark. There could be little doubt that this country had taken these islands, and was fortifying them for her political purposes. At the same time, he thought that a few forts constructed to protect the town from the predatory attacks of neighbouring forces was all that was necessary, and that 450,000 l l 545 l l
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, the attention of the House had been called to the evil, but not to the remedy suggested by the Committee. Until 1836 there were balances which it was in the power of the Government to appropriate; but under the improved mode of keeping the accounts, all the unexpended balances were paid into the Exchequer, a power being necessarily vested in the Treasury of meeting emergencies by a special order. While the Committee recommended that that power should be retained by the Treasury, they went on to call attention to the absolute necessity, where this power was exercised, of a statement being appended to the esti-
 547
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, he entirely approved of the present mode of voting the estimates, and should be extremely sorry to return to the practice of voting either Army or Ordnance extraordinaries. Admitting that there must be extraordinary items, still if the present form of estimate was strictly adhered to and carried into effect, the House would be perfectly cognisant of all the facts. These estimates were rightly and deliberately framed. There were five columns, the first containing the total estimate for the work; the second, the sum already voted; the next, the sum already expended; the next, the amount required for the current year; and the last, the further amount necessary for completing the work. If all these were accurately filled up, whatever might be the sum voted, and whatever the sum expended, oven though there might be some anomalies in the postponement of one expenditure, another appropriation of the sum voted, the facts would be constantly before Parliament. But let it be observed, every thing depended on the fidelity and accuracy with which these columns were filled up. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, in his evidence before the Committee, admitted that the mode of preparing the estimates
 550
 Sir J. GRAHAM : You have not come to that vote. You had better reserve your observations until you come to it in regular course.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  would not go into any general discussion, but would, in the two or three remaks he had to make, confine himself strictly to the vote before the Committee. He had on a former occasion expressed a decided opinion, that the consideration of the report of the Committee, together with the evidence, would require, from the number and multiplicity of its details, considerable time and attention on the part of the Government, and on that subject he had nothing to add; but he would for one moment invite the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who was thoroughly conversant with the affairs of the Admiralty, and all its details,
 537
 MR. W. MILES  pointed out the manner in which the balance in the hands of the Treasury were created out of which these emergency charges were defrayed. Certain barracks were to be erected at Newcastle, the original estimate for which was 58,000 l l l l
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  said: After what has been stated by the hon. and gallant Officer, I will not make the Motion of which I gave notice, But still I feel called on to make some observations upon this notice. The Motion I gave notice for was that this vote be reduced by the sum of 19,154 l l l l l l l 539 "Earl Grey stated to your Committee that he considered Bermuda a most important station for the protection of our trade, and for the defence of our West Indian possessions. He is, however, of opinion that no new works should be commenced at Bermuda, because he has been informed that Lord Dundonald, the admiral on the station, and Captain Elliot, the Governor, recommend an alteration in the system of defence. The plan sanctioned in the year 1824 is said to be insufficient at the present time, and it is suggested that a flotilla of steamers would afford the most effective means of defence;" and the Committee "recommend that before another vote is asked, the Government should reconsider the necessity of this expenditure, and the plan to be adopted." l l l l l l l l "That the policy of constructing these works and their proposed rate of progress should be reconsidered by the Executive Government." 540 l l l l l l "the maintenance of the fortressess already existing, as well as to the subsistence and payment of the British garrisons, and to the number of troops to be kept in time of peace." 541 l l l l l l l l 542 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 543 nil; l l l l l "According to Earl Grey's views, these works should never have been undertaken; one of the great objections to the fortifications which have been constructed towards the sea is, that they render other fortifications on the land side necessary also; otherwise it may be that we have only constructed fortifications against ourselves. If Corfu had been left undefended, it could never have been held against a great naval Power; but as it is, being fortified, it imposes upon us, in the event of a war, the inconvenient necessity of maintaining a large garrison there. The Inspector General of Fortifications has recommended a further outlay. The Secretary of State for the Colonies regrets the past outlay, and expresses doubts as to the policy of additional works. In these circumstances, your Committee recommend that no vote for these works should be taken until the subject has been considered by the Government." l l l l 544
 MR. DRUMMOND , in bringing forward the Motion of which he had given notice relative to the taxation and large expenditure of the country, said that the necessity had now arisen for Her Majesty's Government taking into their serious consideration the mode of levying taxation in this country, with a view of making some radical change. The last time he troubled the House on this subject, he asked for leave to go into a Committee of the whole House, in which they might have been enabled to go into these matters in detail, referring to all the various establishments in which economy might be practised, and in which expenditure might be reduced. Her Majesty's Government were pleased to oppose that proposition, and one of them had turned his remarks into ridicule, while another had warned the House against following so inexperienced a Palinurus. To
 566 567 referring to the Treasury bench 568 en pure perte en pure perte. Quarterly Review "If we are to keep our place, it is indispensably necessary that every incumbrance should be removed which clogs the activity and energy of individuals or the Government. Every part of the machine of society must he adapted to the increased exertion it is called upon to make. If
 569 "Your Lordship will find, that I stated in my message to the council, that though I was not of opinion that the salaries were extravagant, or the officers too numerous, yet I considered that some diminution should take place in consequence of the state of the finances, and that I intended making a proposal to your Lordship. This I proposed should be to the effect that from the 1st of October next a graduated deduction should be made by the treasurer on all salaries from 100 l. 570 "That a complete revision of the financial system of Jamaica, including an improvement in the existing mode of taxation, both for general and parochial purposes, would afford more real relief to the suffering planters than any other measure which it is in the power of the Legislature to adopt." "Due weight ought to be given to the following considerations—That the agriculture of the colony is in a state of great depression; that every degree of retrenchment in the public expenditure that is consistent with justice and good faith is imperatively called for; that an example of the reduction of emoluments set by the Governor would increase his personal influence and authority in the colony, and would tend to reconcile the holders of subordinate appointments to the application in their own case of a rule to which the highest authority in the colony had voluntarily and cheerfully submitted." 571 "The private enemies to be made in all attempts of this kind are innumerable; and the enmity will be the more bitter, and the more dangerous too, because a sense of dignity will oblige them to conceal the cause of their treatment. Very few men of great families and extensive connexions but will feel the smart of a cutting reform in some close relation, some bosom friend, some pleasant acquaintance, some dear protected dependent. Emolument is taken from some, patronage from others, objects of pursuit from all. Men forced into an involuntary independence will abhor the authors of a blessing which in their eyes have so very near a resemblance to a curse. When offices are removed, and the officers remain, you may set the gratitude of some against the anger of others; you may oppose the friends you oblige against the enemies you provoke. But services of the present sort create no attachments. The individual good felt in a public benefit is comparatively so small, conies round through such an involved labyrinth of intricate and tedious revolutions; whilst a present personal detriment is so heavy where it falls, and so instant in its operation, that the cold commendation of a public advantage never was and never will be a match for the quiet sensibility of a private life; and you may depend upon it that when people have an interest in railing, sooner or later they will bring a considerable degree of unpopularity upon any measure. So that for the present at least, the reformation will operate against the reformers; and revenge (as against them at the least) will produce all the effects of corruption."
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, that if he might be permitted to state the points upon which he agreed with, and differed from, the hon. Gentleman the Member for West Surrey, with a view to giving his vote in support of the hon. Gentleman's Motion, he would say that the hon. Gentleman had one foot of iron upon which he might stand in defiance of all arguments against his Motion, and that was, that there was not a fair partition of taxation on the working classes. Now, if they looked to the taxation upon such an article as tobacco, they would find that by the manner in which that taxation was made, the working man paid eleven times as much as the rich consumer of that article. And when he heard the Chancellor of the Exchequer say there was a sort of balance in the case of the income-tax, he could not agree to it until he found that the rich man paid something like eleven times as much as the poor man. As to the policy of paying off the national debt, he thought they must some day have a friendly passage of arms. He could not understand how it was to be paid off except at the market value, and he feared that if it were paid off we should be told to-morrow, "Oh, you are a happy nation—you have no debt;" and the first thing we should do would be to get into debt again. He would also take that opportunity of saying that hon. Gentlemen ought not to be too hasty in forming an opinion in consequence of what was considered as the report of the African Committee. In the main, that report was the opinion of the Chairman; for generally there was an equal division of the Committee, and then the Chairman gave his casting vote. He (Colonel Thompson) hoped, therefore, that the report would go forth to the world as the opinion of the Chairman.
 MR. DRUMMOND  declined adopting the alteration proposed by the noble Lord. Amendment proposed—
 "To leave out from the words 'That whereas' to the end of the Question, in order to add the words, no greater amount of Taxation ought to be levied than is sufficient for the good and efficient government of the Empire; and whereas it is expedient that a searching inquiry should take place, whether some places may not have become useless, whether some salaries are not too large, and whether some works and establishments may not be unnecessary, it is the opinion of this House that a vigilant superintendence should be exercised over the expenditure of the Country in all its departments, in order that every reduction may be made therein which can be effected without detriment to the public service.'"
 MR. DRUMMOND , in reply, observed that there was no intention on his part to misrepresent the conduct of Earl Grey, but he thought that what had fallen from the Under Secretary for the Colonies made more strongly for his argument. It was unjust of the noble Lord at the head of the Government to say that he had taken advantage of the absence of Members to bring forward the question, for the fact was that he had urged the matter on the attention of the House last Session, and twice during the present. With regard to the national debt, it had been said that that was an advantage to the public, though, if the same rule were applied to the nation as to individuals, it would not be so considered, for it was always thought to be an advantage to gentlemen having mortgages on their estates to pay them off. In conclusion, he declared that he did not bring the Motion forward as a censure on the Government, and he believed that no Gentleman on either side of the House, with one exception, thought it had that tendency, either directly or indirectly.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  hoped the Government would endeavour to make the law obeyed in Ireland, because it was the law, and not allow it to be interpreted by partisan magistrates. Who were the magistrates that sanctioned processions, which necessarily led to such fatal results? That was a most important point, and ought to be carefully inquired into. If the Government did not ascertain who were those who sanctioned these proceedings, the investigation would be a delusion. He held
 612
 MR. FOX MAULE  thought that the House would admit that a most melancholy occurrence had taken place in Ireland. It was one that required the most minute investigation into all its details. He would, therefore, earnestly impress upon the House the inconvenience of getting into a discussion upon the subject now, when they found that the assertions on the one side were contradicted by the other. They should remember that it was but one short week since this affair had happened, and all the circumstances connected with it were to undergo a most strict inquiry by the Government. The military, on an occasion like that, were entirely at the command of the magistrates, and should not be censured for the course they took. They should recollect that during the late disturbed times in Ireland, the conduct of the military had been such as to call forth the approbation of all well-disposed persons.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said: Those who at all consider the speech of my hon. Friend the Member for West Surrey, must admit that he did not mean to bring any charge against the present Government, for my hon. Friend had himself said so most distinctly. Then if there has been no charge conveyed in the Motion, and if it has not been accepted by my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer as a charge against the Government—if those, also, who this evening debated the question, were also agreed in not regarding it in the light of a censure, then I venture to think myself warranted in saying that no sort of censure has been intended. But nothing less would please the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield than to take the Motion in a sense totally different from that which the hon. Mover himself intended and plainly professed. That hon. and learned Gentleman would take it to be a censure, and insisted upon his right to take advantage of the opportunity which that Motion gave him, to speak of what he called the imbecility of the present Administration, and to express his earnest wish that a strong Government could be found. Now it would be difficult to imagine that the
 592 593 l 594 l s d. s l d d. 595 d l 596 597 598 l l l 599
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  thought one thing was evident—that there was a great difference of opinion as to the remedy by which the evil complained of was to be met. To the resolution he thought there was no substantive objection; but the arguments in support of it ought to be borne in mind, or it might give a notion to the
 587
 MAJOR BLACKALL  quite agreed with the law laid down by the hon. Member for Manchester that it was illegal for any parties to appear in arms. It should be recollected that the military who were connected with this business had no option of action themselves, but were entirely under the control of the magistrates. The conduct of the military during the trying times of last year in Ireland, was, he thought, sufficient to show that they were not the partisans of any class of men, but were always anxious to discharge their duty.
 MR. HAWES  wished to correct a statement made by the hon. Member for West Surrey. He understood the hon. Member to state that certain reductions were proposed by the Governor of Trinidad—which the noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Department refused to sanction. The hon. Member was in error, for no reductions had been proposed by the Governor of Trinidad which did not meet in principle, though in regard to the extent there might be some question, with the sanction of the noble Earl; and he could assure the hon. Member that, as far as the noble Earl was concerned, whenever well-considered reductions were proposed, they would not meet with opposition.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Gentleman had stated that it was no part of his intention or Motion to express any censure or blame
 572 ad valorem ad valorem ad valorem ad valorem 573 l l l 574 ad libitum 575 l l l 576 l l l l l l l l l l l l 577 578
 MR. BANKES  expressed his surprise that the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex should have brought forward his Amendment without giving notice of it. Having heard the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he undoubtedly understood that the Government meant to offer no opposition to the Motion; and having been absent from the House for some short space of time, he was astonished on his return to find an Amendment moved by the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex. That Amendment gave an opportunity to hon. Members of slipping through the question; but as he was not prepared for any evasion of the question, he should give his vote for the original Motion. The time had come, he thought, when Parliament was called on to give an aye or no decision on the question whether
 602
 MR. MOORE  said, that was a mistake. What he said was, that he was quite sure misrepresentations must have been used to induce Government to send troops on that occasion.
 MR. MOORE  explained. What he had said was, that under the shadow of Lord Roden's name, bigots and bad men were pursuing their own objects.
 MR. MOORE  rose to call the attention of the House, and he trusted also that of the Government, to an occurrence of a very extraordinary nature which had recently taken place in the north of Ireland—an occurrence which he thought ought to engage serious attention, not only on account of the violence committed and the blood shed, but on account of other circumstances which had stained the transaction, and which could only he considered as endangering the peace, the loyalty, and the affection of the people in that country. It would be unnecessary to remind the House of the fact, that the very wise and proper enactment passed for the discontinuance of those abominable nuisances and fanatical follies called the processions of the 12th July in the north of Ireland, expired in the year 1845; or that the Government, regardless of the entreaties of wiser and more considerate gentlemen in Ireland, had neglected to renew the Act. He did not blame the Government for the omission, as he believed they had abstained from bringing forward such a measure in the spirit of generous reliance on the good feelings, discretion, and right principles of the gentlemen of the north of Ireland, and in the belief that it would be almost an insult to the pride, principles, and honour of those gentlemen, to suppose it possible that, in the midst of mutual afflictions, they would seize the moment to stir up the embers of forgotten feuds, and inflame a prostrate but still chivalrous people, by the display of the banners of religious ascendancy. But the Government little knew the hearts, the souls, the brains of the Orangemen of the north of Ireland, who were about to seize that opportunity for obtaining a paltry and disreputable triumph over their opponents. That particular 12th of July, following three conse-
 604 605 606 more dangerous Evening Mail 607 Evening Mail 608
 MR. MOORE , under the circumstances, would not persist in his Motion.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  could not help thinking that after the assurances given that the Government were determined to institute a complete and searching inquiry into this unfortunate business, it would be most inexpedient for the Government to comply with the request just made by the hon. Gentleman opposite, and that they should pronounce any opinion upon an abstract proposition. In the present condition of Ireland he saw nothing more unfortunate than that those scenes which he hoped had passed away for ever, should have been added to the calamities with which that unfortunate country was afflicted. During his experience of that country, nothing had given him greater satisfaction than to see a determination among the leading men of both parties, and especially the Protestant party, to discourage by every means in their power those displays which had kept up a spirit of animosity among different classes of the people, who had a common interest in living together in harmony. If these things could be prevented by the influence of men of all classes, it would be better than any interference by way of legislation. He deeply regretted what had recently occurred, and could only repeat the assurance which had already been given, that the attention of the Government had been directed to the matter, and that the most searching inquiry would take place.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  wished to explain. What he had called an "abstract proposition" was, not the circumstances of this case, but the question put to the Government, whether processions of this nature were or were not lawful?
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that if the hon. Member for Mayo had let fall some warm expressions, he might be readily excused for having done so. He was very glad the hon. Member had brought the matter before the House. Had he not done so, he (Mr. Bright) should have felt it his duty to have asked the Government to what extent an inquiry had been instituted into the origin of this most shocking occurrence. The present was the most atrocious proceeding that had taken place in Ireland for many years past. There was not a single feature in the whole transaction that did not cause equal regret and blame. The hon. and gallant Member for the county of Londonderry knew more of Lord Roden than he could pretend to do; but certainly, according to the evidence in the papers, that nobleman was very greatly to blame. He knew not how thousands of persons could enter a field adjoining Lord Roden's park and find refreshments prepared for them, without having been invited to do so, and indeed expected there by the owner. The Government had been blamed for not having brought in an Act for prohibiting processions in Ireland. Yet the Government was right. They hoped that the tone which Ireland had assumed rendered
 611
 DR. NICHOLL : Sir, this discussion ought to cease. The House was assured that a searching investigation was going on: that investigation might lead to judicial proceedings, which they ought to do nothing to prejudice. What had been done in reference to Colonel Verner, Colonel Blacker, and Mr. Watson, ought to prove that rank would not screen any individual. They ought to leave the matter in the hands of the Government, and if justice were not done, in a future Session an inquiry might be entered upon, in order to find out why there had been such a failure of justice; and Irish Members might depend upon the assistance of independent English Members.
 MR. REYNOLDS  was glad that he had made the remark, because it had elicited such an explanation. He considered the summing up at the inquest an excuse for murder. Such proceedings were calculated to inflict great discredit upon the country and all the authorities. With regard to the military, no censure had been cast upon them. But it occurred to him that the author of these murders was the Earl of Roden. That observation might be unpleasant to hon. Gentlemen, but he believed the facts would show that to be so. What were the facts? That the Earl of Roden, the late grand master of the Orangemen in that province—and, perhaps, the grand master at present—invited 1,500 armed men to enter his domain on the 12th July. They were armed to the teeth—dressed in all the gaudy colours worn by Orangemen on these bloody anniversaries. It appeared that the Earl of Roden prepared the banquet, that be appeared in the dress of an Orangeman, that he road extracts from the holy Bible I among them, that he regaled them with I beer and porter, and whisky, and that after all this occurred they were directed to go by what was called a circuitous route on the one hand, and a bad road on the other. And why? Because the immediate district of Dolly's Brae was inhabited by Roman Catholics. Not satisfied with spending the day in triumph, shouting and huzzaing, and firing shots, and playing  Croppies he down The Boyne Water 615
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, the speech of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had surprised and disappointed him. The right hon. Gentleman asked the House not to agree to an "abstract proposition." What did the right hon. Gentleman mean by an "abstract proposition" in connexion with this massacre? It appeared from the evidence at the inquest that a man was shot. It also
 614
 MR. REYNOLDS  seconded the Motion.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, surely the House was not going to adopt such a resolution as was proposed by the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex, for it was the identical proposition that that House ought to do its duty—that whereas there were many needless places and so on, therefore the House ought to be vigilant in reducing the expenditure. Could the House understand a proposition of that sort? He could understand the proposition of the hon. Gentleman the Member for West Surrey, for that stated distinctly and categorically that the expenditure was too great; and he hoped the House would not for an instant pass over what was a real and substantive proposition, to accept one which was evidently put forward as a makeshift and excuse to escape from a plain-spoken and proper proposition. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had said that this was a sort of charge against the Government. He (Mr. Roebuck) accepted it in that
 588 l l l l l 589 590 l 591
 MR. HUME  was almost ashamed to answer the statements of the right hon. Gentleman, because they had been repeated four times in the House. The question submitted to the House was, whether more money was raised than was wanted. The terms of the hon. Gentleman's Motion scarcely did justice to the subject. The hon. Gentleman said, that the day of party had gone by; he (Mr. Hume) wished that that was the case. Unfortunately, up to this hour, he found that party operated to reject measures which the country approved of, and which, if followed up, would confer a great benefit on the country. He thought the hon. Member for West Surrey had scarcely done justice to his own Motion; he scarcely knew in what way he supported his own allegations. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had a complete answer, and he (Mr. Hume) agreed with the Chancellor of the Exchequer that it was not the Ministry, but the House of Commons, that was responsible. Last year, on the proposal to renew the income tax, the House of Commons evinced their decided opinion against it, and then the Ministers came down and revoked their resolution. He wished that in the present case the House would show themselves equally alive to the pressure of taxation; but Members did not think of the manner in which the taxes were exacted, and consequently did not trouble themselves much about it. He did not deny the benefit they had derived from changes; he only complained that they had not carried them further. He entirely concurred in the Motion of the hon. Gentleman; he concurred that a greater amount
 579 l 580 l l l l l l l l l 581 
 
 Full pay. Half pay. 
 Yrs. M. W. D. Yrs. M. W. D. 
 Admirals 16 7 2 1 39 2 1 5 
 Vice ditto 13 6 3 5 41 5 1 5 
 Rear ditto 15 5 2 2 32 0 3 2 
 Retired ditto 11 8 2 2 35 8 2 2 
 Retired Capts. 10 10 2 1 33 8 3 5 
 
 In 1837 it was £51,319,113 
 1838 51,720,748 
 1839 53,440,287 
 1840 53,440,053 
 1841 54,465,318 
 1842 55,223,873 
 1843 55,501,739 
 1844 55,103,645 
 1845 53,873,062 
 1846 55,583,025 
 1847 59,230,413 
 1848 58,990,736 l 582 
 
 From 1834 to 1838 inclusive, the average revenue was £51,075,408 
 1839 to 1843 52,402,899 
 1844 to 1848 57,001,632 l l
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  agreed with his hon. and learned Friend and the Members of Her Majesty's Government, that the present discussion could lead to no good. He only rose to say that he had heard the abuse of the Orangemen by the hon. Member for Dublin with the utmost contempt.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he had attended to what had fallen from the noble Lord at the head of the Government, but he was at a loss to know how he intended to meet the Motion of the hon. Member for West Surrey. They had had many matters introduced into the present discussion which were altogether extraneous as regarded the speech of that hon. Gentleman; but in a few words which he (Mr. Spooner) desired to address to the House, he would endeavour to confine himself to the proposition which he had made. In the resolution the hon. Gentleman had moved—there were two propositions—one enunciating that there were overpaid salaries and needless offices, and one that the taxation of the country bore unfairly on its income. And how did the noble Lord meet that resolution? Let the noble Lord meet it with a direct negative—let that House say that there were too heavily paid salaries and too many offices—and let them know who thought that such was the case, and who did not. Instead of taking that course, however, the noble Lord recommended the House to adopt the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex, who said that these things might exist, whilst the resolution of his hon. Friend the Member for West Surrey asserted that they did. The noble Lord had said that the adoption of his hon. Friend's resolution would be the adoption of a vote of censure on the absent Members by those that were present; but did not the same argument apply to the proposition of the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex? Why did not the noble Lord put the House to the test as to whether there were too heavy salaries or unnecessary offices, and not meet the question by a side wind, instead of by a direct negative? They had taken off the customs duties, and suffered the produce of foreign articles to come into this country
 600
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  wished to explain the grounds on which he intended to vote for the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for West Surrey. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated, in reply to the arguments of that hon. Gentleman on the subject of salaries, that official salaries were in the aggregate less now than they were at the end of the American war; but he wished to know whether—with reference to the prices of articles of consumption, these salaries were not much higher now than they were ten years
 601
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  seconded the Motion.
 CAPTAIN JONES  wished also to express the deep regret he felt at this unfortunate occurrence, which equalled that of the hon. Member for Mayo, and he would show that he felt it by not imitating the hon. Gentleman, who had used very harsh and opprobrious terms, speaking of the jack-pudding; insignia of the Orangemen, and making use of the terms bigots and fools. He would take no notice of these words, and regretted they had been used. He would say for himself that he was one of those who had represented to the Government the necessity of preventing those processions, and he was anxious to see not only Orange processions, but every other sort, prohibited. The hon. Gentleman seemed to imagine that Lord Roden had invited these men to his park at Tullymore. He had seen, under Lord Roden's hand, that such was not the fact. He complained of the hon. Gentleman using the term bigot with regard to Lord Roden.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that when the hon. Member for Surrey invited the House to agree to a Motion made by him some days or weeks since on financial subjects, he (Mr. Gibson) was considered to be a little squeamish, and unwilling to agree to what appeared to many hon. Gentlemen to be a reasonable proposition, because he moved the previous question. He made that Motion then, and if the hon. Member had submitted a similar Motion on the present occasion, he should have taken a similar course, and for this reason—his first Motion was simply to come into Committee of the whole House, in order to do something which was shadowed forth in the hon. Member's speech. The Motion only asked for a Committee; and it was not to be supposed that he would go into Committee for objects shadowed forth in a speech to which he did not agree. He, therefore, could not have reasonably been expected to vote for the hon. Member's Motion. But here the hon. Member presented himself in a different guise, and asked for a distinct opinion as to whether there did exist a margin of expenditure which might be cut down, still continuing a good and efficient system of government. He merely asked them to leave on the Votes of the House of Commons a record to the effect, that, at the present time, the expenditure was larger than was necessary to carry on good and efficient government. Now, he (Mr. Gibson) must say, that if he was asked to give his deliberate opinion, aye or no, he must say decidedly that he thought there was a larger expenditure than was necessary for good and efficient government. Therefore, thinking, as he believed most men thought, that there must be a reduction of expenditure, he could have no objection to vote for the hon. Member's present Motion. It might not be desirable in the opinion of some to put abstract resolutions on that subject on the books. There might be some technical objections to that course; he had none; but there could be no objection on principle to it, so long as all were agreed that there must be reduction of expenditure. If he understood the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he had no objection to this Motion. The right hon. Gentleman said that Government was so anxious to carry out measures of economy, that they would make no objection to having this Motion placed on their proceedings. He (Mr. Gibson) was glad to hear that. He did not look
 584 585 l l 586
 MR. MONSELL  looked at this moment with a hope that something would be done to put an end to these miserable party quarrels in Ireland. It should be understood, before this Session closed, that it was the intention of the Government to put a final stop to these proceedings by the introduction of some legislative measure. He did not think that the statement of the hon. Secretary for Ireland was quite satisfactory on this point. He thought it was most essential, in the present excited state of the people's minds, that there
 613
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that Dolly's Brae was not far distant from a place called "Crossgar," where a certain occurrence took place not long ago to which he would not more particularly allude; and the Government, in sending troops to Dolly's Brae, were actuated by a desire to prevent, if possible, a repetition of that occurrence. Now, the occurrence at Dolly's Brae was of a very recent date: they hardly knew at the present moment the real state of the case. As he had already said, he would forbear on the present occasion to go into details respecting it; but this he would say, that the present most melancholy and unfortunate occurrence presented to the consideration of the House, the country, and the world, a state of society that was most lamentable to think of. The hon. Gentleman had asked why the Government had not proposed the renewal of the Act to prevent such processions. He (Sir W. Somerville) confessed that he had hoped that the time Lad arrived when the common sense of all parties would have rendered such a renewal unnecessary, seeing that such processions at no time did any good, while, as on the present occasion, they often did great mischief. He had hoped that the state of public feeling in general, and the increase, if he might so say, of a more kindly disposition of one class toward another, would have permitted the Government to postpone, at all events, the consideration of the proposal to introduce an Act to prevent such processions. He deeply regretted that in this case the Government and the country had been disappointed. Having said thus much, he would only add,
 610
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  hoped that if he did not attempt to answer in detail the
 609
 SIR G. CLERK  observed that when the right hon. Gentleman brought in this Bill, he admitted that it might be considered objectionable to bring in a Bill of such importance at so late a period of the Session. He himself saw no reason why it should not have been brought in three months ago, which would have given ample time for its consideration by those who were affected by it. This Bill, as he understood it, was a selection of one clause out of a
 727 728
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the right hon. Gentleman opposite opposed the Bill with an ardour worthy the Member for Dover, on the ground that in its operation it would interfere with the jurisdiction of the Cinque Ports. It had been his (Mr. Gibson's) fortune to be in communication with gentlemen connected with the Cinque Ports, and although he disapproved of the separate jurisdiction, yet he must say that he had not found them taking so strong a view of the question as the right hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House. Every one must see that the pilotage system, which was established when navigation was differently carried on, when surveys of the coast were imperfect, and when steam power had not been invented, and when, consequently, steam tugs were not in use, required alteration, and that the time was come when there must be made considerable alterations in the pilotage laws of this country. With
 729
 MR. RICE  said, that the right hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House was mistaken in supposing that he (Mr. Rice) differed from the views which had been expressed by his right hon. Colleague upon that subject. He believed
 730 731
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  was very glad it was in his power to support this Bill, it being a step in the right direction. He did not think that, with the precautions that were taken, it would affect the Cinque Port pilots at all. He hoped that the Government would persevere, and that this Bill would be the precursor of a very great reform in our pilotage laws.
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  said, the case stood thus—there was a monstrous monopoly in existence, which imposed a heavy burden on shipowners. One corporation, who were the instrument by which this burden was imposed, were desirous of making some relaxation; but in the way of this relaxation there stood a vested interest, in the shape of pilots, who were protected by the law. The right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade now brought forward a Bill to enable the Trinity-house to make a relaxation in the burdens on shipping, and the right hon. Baronet the Member for Dover opposed it because he feared that the good which it would effect was so great that the Cinque Ports would be obliged to make a similar alteration. That was the real question before the House. He thought the right hon. Baronet would have done better for his constituents if he had not raised the question of the Cinque Ports. The Government had not precluded themselves, by bringing forward this Bill, from going into the whole question of this monstrous abuse and monopoly; and if it should be gone into, the less the Cinque Ports thrust themselves forward the better. Compelling a master of a merchantman who knew the Channel to take a pilot, was just like obliging the driver of an omnibus between Hyde-park and the Bank to take a man on the box to show him the way. The shipping interest of this country only asked to be permitted to steer their vessels in their own way, and every other question was between the underwriters and themselves. He should be very glad to hear what permanent course the Government intended to pursue respecting pilotage, this being merely a temporary Bill.
 MR. ANDERSON  said, that, as a steam shipowner, he wished to say a few words
 732 l
 MR. MOFFATT  supported the Bill, but said that he was enabled to state, with regard to a large portion of the shipping interest, that they viewed the Bill with satisfaction only as the prelude to a larger and more comprehensive measure, both with respect to pilotage and light-dues. It would otherwise be regarded with great dissatisfaction. He trusted that when the right hon. Gentleman addressed the House, he would allay the fears which now existed in the minds of the shipowners on this subject.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the House would recollect that when he first brought this subject under their notice, he had stated that it was not his intention to introduce what he could call a comprehensive and satisfactory measure with regard to the pilotage system of this country. Indeed, he should have quite despaired of being able to do so with any prospect of bringing such a measure to a conclusion in the present Session. But as he believed that an opportunity had presented itself of affording a just and immediate practical relief to the shipping interest of this country on the subject of pilotage, he had thought that he ought not to forego that opportunity, because he could not at the time enter into all those difficult questions which must be solved by any one who undertook to revise or remodel so ancient and complicated a system as that on which our pilotage was conducted. He had always admitted that any such com-
 733 734 bonâ 735
 MR. GOULBURN  concurred in the propriety of making this a permissive rather than a compulsory measure. The House should recollect that at the present moment we were bound by the reciprocity-treaties that no additional charge should be placed on the foreign ships beyond that imposed on the British ships. Now, if a foreign ship took a pilot on board, the owner of that vessel would have to meet a charge from which the British vessel navigated by a competent master would be exonerated; and the probability was, that that charge on the foreign ship would cause applications to be made to the Government to be released from the impost. He presumed the master of a foreign ship would not be subjected to an examination before the Trinity Board; and therefore it was most desirable to hear from the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, whether this measure would impose a charge upon the Treasury of the nation under the terms of the reciprocity treaties?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  did not believe that the difficulty suggested by the right hon. Gentleman would arise. If a foreign ship coming from ports in the vicinity of
 736
 MR. GOULBURN  was afraid he had been misunderstood. It was probable enough that if the foreigner employed an English master or mate, no claim could he against the Treasury; but if the foreigner was put to a charge for pilotage, from which the English vessel was freed, he thought the demand would in all probability be made.
 MR. WAWN  said, that he, for one, could not denominate this a measure for the relief of the shipping interest. He approved of it so far as it went, but it did not go far enough. It left restrictions upon the British shipowner which coulod not be imposed upon the foreigner; and he had to express his regret that when the Bill for the repeal of the navigation laws was before the House, the hon. Members for Dover did not advocate the necessity of placing the British upon an equality with the foreign shipowner.
 ADMIRAL BOWLES  asked whether there would be any objection to limit the permission to be examined before the Trinity and other competent boards in this country to natural-born subjects?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he should be sorry to introduce any clause of the kind. He could hardly conceive it possible that the foreigner could obtain such a knowledge of our harbours as would enable him to pass an examination in this country; but if he had sufficient knowledge on that score, the mischief was already done, and he could not be a more dangerous man than he was. He should not exclude him from the privilege, the object of the Bill being to place the question of the pilotage upon an equal footing.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, that however beneficial the Bill might be in many respects, it would be certain to throw a great many of that hardworking and industrious class of men, the pilots, out of
 737
 DR. NICHOLL  observed, that ships which took a pilot on board were exempted from liability to other vessels whom they might run down while they were under his charge, upon the ground that the pilot was not the servant of the owner of the vessel, but was cast upon him by a superior authority. He did not think that, as the Bill was worded, any difficulty would arise on the subject; but he would suggest for the consideration of the right hon. Gentleman whether in Committee it would not be expedient to introduce some clause carefully guarding against such a construction under the proposed law. If the master piloted the vessel, then, being the servant of the owner, the shipowner ought to be responsible.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that a suggestion like that proceeding from his right hon. Friend was worthy of every attention, and he would give it his best attention. With regard to the question of compensation, which had been raised by the hon. Member for Bristol, he thought that it might be safely left to the constituted authorities to do what they thought just towards their servants. He did not himself believe that any class of persons would be thrown out of bread by this measure.
 MR. VILLIERS  said, he rose only to point out to the attention of the House, as they possibly did not observe the important admission which had been made by the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, because it seemed to him to be an admission that would put an end to all projects or Motions of this kind ever after. The hon. Gentleman was one of the oldest, most sincere, and most intelligent of that body, who had agitated on the subject of protection for fifty years; and if any one knew what protection was, and what would raise the price of corn, it was the hon. Gentleman. The hon. Gentleman then thought he would not have the shabbiness to look upon this Motion as more or less than a protection measure, which would have the effect of raising the price of food, and would be in some way or other a substitute for protection. He would only add one word as to what had occurred in another place with regard to a fixed duty. A noble Lord who was very much respected for his extremely high character (Lord Winchilsea) said, in addressing the House, if ever such a project as a fixed duty were proposed to this country, he trusted in God that the people of this country, as one man, would rise and resist it.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the hon. Member for the West Riding had been so kind as to offer to give them (the Protection Members)
 770 771 l l l l l 772 773 774 775 d 776
 MR. NEWDEGATE  observed, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had proposed to raise 2,000,000 l l s. s s l. 763 s s s s s s s s s s s s l. s s s s s s s 764
 MR. SPEAKER  overruled the objection.
 MR. SPEAKER , in putting the question, observed that the House would remember that on a Motion of this nature, a Committee had recommended that the practice of the House should be adhered to, and that every Member should speak only to the question before the House.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was sure the House would concur with him in paying the right hon. Gentleman the tribute of admitting that he had stated his proposition in the clearest and fairest manner, avoiding all those topics that might give rise to angry discussion; and in this respect it was to be
 753 l l 754 755 756
 MR. WODEHOUSE  could not help expressing his regret that this Motion had not been brought forward in some other shape, when the sense of the House might have been taken distinctly upon it; but he hailed this proposition,  pro tanto
 MR. BANKES  did not rise to second the Motion for adjournment, but to speak on the question of adjournment. He would put it to the hon. and learned Member, whether he thought it would promote the despatch of public business; and if he did not, he thought he might without difficulty induce him to withdraw the Motion. The only reason the hon. and learned Gentleman had given for adjournment was, that the right hon. Gentleman had grown grey in the public service—that he had been a successful Chancellor of the Exchequer—[Mr. ROEBUCK: I did not say successful.] Well, then, that he had been Chancellor of the Exchequer, and that he had uselessly occupied the time of the House when he made a proposition to the Chancellor of the Exchequer of the present day, which was, that finding there was a deficiency in the Exchequer at the present moment, he suggested a method of supplying it. These were the arraignments brought by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield against the hon. and learned Member for Stamford. The whole gist of the argument was in favour of his Motion for adjournment. There had been a discussion which nobody but the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield thought misapplied. It was a suggestion which, favourably received, was a fit question for discussion before the conclusion of the present Session. The hon. and learned Member for Sheffield was known to entertain peculiar opinions, and to advocate them in a manner peculiar to himself; but he would not succeed in expediting the business of the House if he
 785
 MR. G. SANDARS  said: Mr. Speaker, I feel called upon to offer a few observations on the question now before the House, having incidentally alluded to it on a former occasion, and having been referred to by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stamford, who has so ably and temperately explained his views to the House, that those who differ with him must admit the fairness, clearness, and moderation with which he has introduced the subject. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in his reply to my right hon. Friend, has treated the question with much flippancy. He looks upon it as a subject of so little importance as to be beneath his notice to attempt to controvert the facts so ably laid down by the right hon. Gentleman below me. The Chancellor of the Exchequer might be overflowing with wealth, as he treats a plan to increase his "ways and means" some millions per annum with perfect indifference, if not with unbecoming levity. As much has been said in favour of practical views contrasted with theoretical, and having had some twenty-five years' experience of the corn trade, and having been a largo importer of foreign grain the greater part of that period, having watched narrowly the effects of that import on the prices of grain of home growth, I feel myself qualified to offer an opinion upon this question of a practical nature. I have no hesitation in declaring it as my firm conviction, founded on my past experience, that a moderate import duty on wheat would not in usual seasons advance the price to the consumer in this country. But, to fortify my opinions upon this point, I have, since I last named it to the House, taken some pains to ascer-
 757 s 
 
 Wheat, qrs. 15,000,000 
 Barley, qrs. 3,200,000 
 Oats qrs. 2,800,000 
 Total 21,000,000 758 s s s s s s s s s 759 s s s s s s s s s s d d d s Cries of "It has been objected to a fixed duty on corn that it could not he collected in years when there was any unusual deficiency in our harvests, the price of corn even without any duty being then oppressively high; but though it may seem paradoxical, it is entirely true that prices in such years would not be influenced by the payment of a moderate duty, and that they would be quite as high were it repealed or suspended as it would be were it allowed to exert its full influence. The
 760 s s s s s s s s s 761 l l s s s
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that during the discussion that evening, several reasons had been assigned as those which had probably induced the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stamford to bring the subject before the House; and, as he believed that all those reasons had been repudiated, either by the right hon. Gentleman himself or by his friends, he had been endeavouring to discover what could have made the right hon. Gentleman—without wishing, as he said, to bring back protection, or to lay any burden on the people of this country—so anxious to invite the Chancellor of the Exchequer to increase the taxation which the people were now called upon to pay. He had recollected that the right hon. Gentleman was, some twenty years ago. Chancellor of the Exchequer himself—and that there had of late been a report that he might possibly become Chancellor of the Exchequer again—that old habits, and, per-haps, hopes recently revived, might have led him to try his hand at a matter of finance and taxation, although he had not been regularly called in and asked to prescribe. Now he (Mr. Bright) was not disposed to shirk the consideration of the question which the right hon. Gentleman had placed before them. The hon. Member for Buckinghamshire said that they had not met the question, whether this small fixed duty would be a burden on the people of this country, and whether foreigners could be induced to pay it. He should put the question in a very simple form, but he thought a very conclusive one. Let it be observed that we drew
 778 779 780 781
 MR. BRIGHT : One witness had stated at the inquest that he could give the coroner the names of many who were present, and were, therefore, responsible. He was quite sure that Government could not institute too rigid an inquiry, for he was certain that Parliament would require and the country would insist on it.
 MR. BRIGHT  was not about to repeat the observations he had made on the previous evening; but he thought that the noble Viscount who had just spoken should not attempt to make it appear that Government had neglected their duty in not passing the Act, because he (Mr. Bright) believed that they had acted in accordance with the opinion of Parliament,
 743
 MR. HERRIES  then said, he should not have interrupted the current of observations on the subject before the House, if he had not believed it was decidedly the
 745 746 l l l 747 quâ s s s s s s s d s s d s d s d s s d s d s d s d s s d s s d s s s d s d s d s d s d 748 s s 749 s s s s s l s l l l 750 l s l l l l s s l l s l l s s s 751 752
 MR. ROEBUCK  withdrew his Motion for an adjournment.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, at this period of the Session they might have been doing something for the benefit of the country by passing some of the many Bills now lying on the table, but they had passed the time in a discussion rather more suited to a debating club. There was no proposition before the House which the Government could deal with; there was no proposition before the House upon which any private Member could give an opinion; but they had been called upon by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stamford, who had grown grey in the service of the public, on the 20th July—at the time there was the greatest pressure of business—to discourse upon what, he was pleased to say, was a simple proposition respecting the finances, and the taxation which should be imposed. The right hon. Gentleman was going to bring forward a proposition, but he found his courage not equal to the task, and he shrank from his proposition by merely making a suggestion. Was there anything so valuable as precious time, and was anything so disrespectful to a rational House of Commons? What was the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman? He was an old Chancellor of the Exchequer; he had come forward with an abstract proposition, which he would not discuss, because
 784
 MR. HUME  could not allow this discussion to close Without saying a few words. He had been chairman of a Committee of that House which had reported in favour of the suppression of those assemblages, and an address had
 744
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  rose to order. There was no question before the House.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he was in the hands of the House, and would take whatever course they might think best. He would, therefore, postpone his observations for the present.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, that he did not rise to question the policy or the popularity of the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stamford. He believed the House would acknowledge, whatever their abstract principles might be upon the subject, that the right hon. Gentleman had very ably argued the question. Although no question had been submitted to the House, it had been neither a useless nor an uninteresting discussion. But when the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire charged the Chancellor of the Exchequer with having evaded the question, he bogged to remind the hon. Gentleman that there was no question before the House. But he (Mr.
 777
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, that as probably he should not have another opportunity, he would now bring forward his Motion. If they wished that he should do so To-morrow, he would do so; but he gave way on a recent occasion, not because he thought the question had been sufficiently discussed, but he felt that the question he was about to submit to the notice of the House, was so important in its nature that he did not wish to organise those Gentlemen who generally went under the designation of the Manchester school, in hostility against the Motion which he was about to bring forward. He would sooner have been silent on the question he was about to submit to the House, than he would have precluded the question by acting in opposition to any part of the House. They had had an important discussion to-night; he did not underrate the importance, but at the same time, in bringing forward the Motion which he was about to submit to the House, he would take leave to tell the House and the country at large that it was one fraught with consequences not only important to this country, but to the civilisation of Europe at large. He was perfectly willing, if the Government would prefer it, to bring on the question on the report To-morrow, at twelve; but when so many representations had appeared in the public press of this country, and so many misconceptions in the public mind, he hoped the House would bear with him. [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: Give notice for To-morrow.] In compliance with the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman he would give notice, that, on bringing up the report To-morrow, he should move for any papers connected with the advance of the Russian troops into the kingdom of Hungary.
 MR. COBDEN  rose to order. He put it to the hon. and gallant Gentleman whether the present was a suitable time for entering upon so important a question.
 MR. COBDEN  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down paid him the compliment of calling him a skilful agitator. It was true, indeed, that to agitate at all successfully one must be in earnest, and, if with a good cause, one must succeed; but even with a bad one, he would be respected for his perseverance. Now, the fault he found with hon. Gentlemen opposite was, that they showed no earnestness in the course which they pursued. It was quite impossible to know if they were dealing with realities, they were so often called upon to deal with shams. What was the course pursued by hon. Gentlemen opposite during the present Session? A few days before the assembling of Parliament the Duke of Richmond had a meeting of farmers, in which he shadowed out to them the great efforts that were to be made to restore the principle of protection, and to prevent free trade from coming into operation. Well, the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire came down to the House, and, as the leader of the protection party and of the farmers out of doors, who thought he was about to fight their battles, he moved an Amendment to the Address, but it did not contain one word about protection, and the Amendment was never put to a division. On another occasion after that the poor farmers were brought up in great numbers to Willis's-rooms. There was a great display of party eloquence, which ended with three cheers for the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, the leader of protection. Well, the hon. Gentleman brought forward his Motion about local taxation; but in the very beginning of his speech he said he did not mean to discuss the principles of protection. On the next occasion there was a large cavalcade to Drury-lane Theatre, and another great move was to be made in the House. The farmers' hopes were raised, the principle of free trade was to be reversed, and protection was to be re-established. The hon. Gentleman again came down to the House with another Motion, but not one word in it about protection. He talked of everything else, the foreign
 765 s 766 s s s s. s. s s 767 s d s l s d l l s l s l 768 d d 769 s s
 MR. MITCHELL  said, that he considered that the opinion of merchants in Liverpool, London, and other places, on this question, was a most fallacious test, inasmuch as the trade was a gambling one, and tended to concentrate the business within a few towns. As to the doctrine laid down by the hon. Member, that a fixed duty would not be paid by the consumer, he never heard anything so monstrous in his life. Such may be possible in a case where another country may have a surplus over from the previous year, and England may be the only purchaser. Such a case, however, could not occur. Let the House recollect that a 5 s 762 l l s s s
 SIR G. GREY  said, he felt that some apology was necessary to the hon. Member for Mayo for his accidental absence from the discussion last night. The fact was, that having had occasion to go out of town yesterday morning, he had a good deal of public business to attend to on his return, and did not observe the hon. Gentleman's Motion on the Votes, otherwise he should have been present. He hoped, however, that he would now be permitted to state that the Government were convinced—although they had arrived at the conclusion with deep regret—that it would be necessary for them to introduce a Bill to prohibit party processions in Ireland. The House was aware that a temporary Act for the purpose of preventing processions in certain cases was suffered to expire in 1845; and he certainly had hoped that it would not be necessary either to renew that Act, or to introduce another of the same kind. The Government, however, had come to the resolution of introducing, at the commencement of next Session, a measure not merely for prohibiting party processions in certain cases, but to prevent all processions of persons carrying arms, or emblems calculated to create animosities or excite violence. And while he made this announcement, he bogged also to say, that he could not for a moment countenance, but, on the contrary, must strongly protest against, the doctrine held in certain places, that because the former Act had been allowed to expire, such meetings were therefore necessarily legal. It was not necessary to constitute an illegal meeting that it was prohibited by statute law. Under the common law, a meeting, although connected with a society that was perfectly lawful,
 741
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  said, that a proposition was now made most easily to replenish the Exchequer, and that proposition emanated from his right hon. Friend the Member for Stamford. It would be thankfully accepted by the Chancellor of the Exchequer;
 782 s "The merchants and master manufacturers are the two classes of people who commonly employ the largest capital, and who, by their wealth, draw to themselves the greatest share of the public consideration. During their whole lives they are engaged in plans and projects; they have frequently more acuteness of intellect than the greater part of country gentlemen. As their thoughts, however, are commonly exercised, rather about the interest of their own particular branch of business than about that of society, their advice, even when given with the greatest candour, which has not been the case on every occasion, is much more to be depended upon with regard to the former of these objects than with regard to the latter. Their superiority over the country gentleman is not so much in their knowledge of the public interest, as in having a better knowledge of their own interest than he has of his. It is by this superior knowledge of their own, that
 783
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  hoped the House would permit him to state that he had received a letter from the Karl of Roden, and to read a part of it to them, with respect to the fact of there being Roman Catholics present in his park on that occasion. He assured the House, from his own; personal knowledge of the noble Lord, and the parties residing in the district of Tully-more-park, most of whom were Roman Catholics, that the most entire good feeling was entertained towards him by those parties. He said he was firmly convinced that the Earl of Roden took the course which he believed best calculated to ensure the peaceful dispersion of those who came to pay him a visit of respect. For he did not invite them; they themselves came to him; and having been connected with the body to which they belonged for many years, it was not likely on that occasion that he should turn the cold shoulder to them. He gave them a welcome to his park and his domains. But that led him to remark, if any transaction could be admitted as an excuse for it—if any excuse could be admitted for it—they must look to late events winch had occurred in Ireland as a reason for the Orange body being more upon the  qui vive 742
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  rose and said: I trust the House will grant me the privilege and indulgence which they are accustomed to accord in all cases of a personal nature, while I advert to certain animadversions on the character of a noble relative which were made in a debate in this House last night, unhappily during my absence. I regret I was not here when the discussion took place of which the hon. Gentleman the Member for Mayo gave notice; and I must confess it is owing
 738 739 "I trust that you will ever show to those who disapprove of your organisation that you are not a faction driven by party violence to commit unlawful acts: but that you wish to see all denominations enjoying the blessings which you seek for yourselves. I trust that your motto is unchanged, ' Semper eadem 740
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, he should be lightly held by those whose good opinion he was anxious to maintain, if he remained silent on this question. He came from men of peace, men who abhorred the shedding of blood, and he came there to state their opinions. They viewed war as one of the greatest evils, but they would not therefore subject themselves to the imputation of being insensible to the welfare of other nations, or to the interest their country had in multiplying constitutional principles throughout Europe. They hated bloodshed, but they held the man a coward who was afraid to put his head out of window and cry "stop thief." England had now the same interest in supporting liberal principles in Europe, which our forefathers thought they had in upholding what they called the Protestant interest, which happened to be the struggle of their day. The spirit of the English people was with freedom everywhere. First-born of liberty themselves, they looked for nothing so earnestly as the success of their younger
 804 ultima ratio
 MR. M'GREGOR  said, that the professed policy of Austria had been to be considered a paternal Government; but, as regarded Hungary, their acts had all tended for a long period to prevent the exercise of the constitutional rights of the people of that country. He said he approved of the policy pursued by the noble Lord, by which he had succeeded in bringing to a satisfactory conclusion the war that had been raging over the continent of Europe; and he believed that the House and the country intrusted to him with confidence the conservation of the interests of Britain and of nations. Before he sat down, he could not help alluding to a mistaken opinion regarding the power that used to be possessed by Prince Metternich in Austria. It was quite a mistake to suppose that he was the all-powerful Minister he was supposed to be in any other department than that specially entrusted to him, which was the foreign relations of the empire. The grand pervading authority over
 805
 LORD C. HAMILTON  said, that those who were acquainted with the nature of that constitution for which it was absurdly alleged the Hungarian nation had risen in arms, knew well that it was nothing more nor less than an engine of tyranny, under which the peasants of Hungary were worse off than the peasantry of any other part of the Austrian empire. He had resided in the country, and knew how they envied the lot of the other subjects of the Austrian Crown, who were under no such infamous constitution; and he had also heard the complaints of the nobility in other parts of the Austrian dominion, that they had not the same power over their dependents as the aristocrats of Hungary. But the aristocrat was not the word. They were magnates; and every descendant of every noble was privileged from arrest, from toll, and from military service. [Mr. B. OSBORNE: No, no!] He knew they had been taxed within the last fifteen years; but he was now speaking of the old constitution for which Kossuth was supposed to be struggling. And here he could not help expressing his astonishment that a Member of the character of the hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex, in discussing the affairs of Hungary, should have entirely omitted all mention of Count Stephen Szechni, whose fortune and whose whole life had boon devoted to the improvement of his country and the deliverance of the people from the tyranny of the needy magnates in whose cause Kossuth was now in arms. Not one word had the hon Member to say of such a man, though he had enlarged so much on the efforts of Kossuth, who had entirely destroyed and broken up the fabric which Count Szechni had succeeded in raising, during 30 years, by the exertion of all his great talents, perseverance,
 806 807
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, this debate would excite a more lively interest all over the continent of Europe than any other debate in the present Session. A struggle was now going on between Austria and Hungary the importance of which it was impossible to over-estimate, for the world was in danger of seeing another partition of Poland, another instance of similar treachery, another example of a brave and gallant people having their rights destroyed and reduced to the miserable condition of Russian serfs. It was impossible the British House of Commons could view this struggle with indifference. It was not a struggle for an abstract idea; it was the effort of an united people determined to maintain the constitution which had been handed down to them for centuries—a constitution which had been sworn to by all their sovereigns even so late as last year, and by virtue of which oath alone the Emperor of Austria held any rightful sway over the country. The constitution of Hungary was as similar to the constitution of this country as any mentioned by history. It consisted of three estates, King, Lords, and Commons; yet the noble Lord the Member for Tyrone had ventured to designate it as an "infamous constitution." That word would attach to the name of the noble Lord, and when he went forth he would be pointed at as the man who had ventured not only to call the Hungarian constitution "infamous," but who had even spoken of the "infamous" Kossuth. Why, if there were defects in that constitution, they had been cured by the reforms established by that illustrious man,
 816
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, as he was then present, he might at once be allowed to state that when he used the word insurrection, he thought he had applied the proper term. He did not, however, mean to assert by that term that this was an unjust and unprovoked insurrection. He had used the term which he thought at the time was most applicable to the case.
 MR. WYLD  said, after the almost unanimous expression of opinion that had been
 817 l
 MR. ROEBUCK  wished, before the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs rose to address the House, to make a few observations. The hon. Member who had just sat down had said that this was an European question. In that view he (Mr. Roebuck) agreed with him. It was a question which involved great points of international law and international policy. The question of law was beyond their reach, but they might still deal with the question of policy. The important principle with which he had to deal was, that in the internal affairs of any country there should be no external force or pressure used to coerce the will of the people. That was the point which his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Middlesex sought to establish, and to point out that a great infringement of this principle was going on before our eyes in the interference of Russia with the affairs of Hungary. Unfortunately, the Emperor-despot, as he was called, of Russia, was not the only European Power that had been guilty of this sort of interference. Going from one end of the scale of government to the other—beginning at complete despotism,
 800 801 802 803
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : The noble Lord was quite correct; he used the term without reflection, which, although signifying illegality in this country, in Hungary signified what was legal and right; for when they made a levy  en masse insurrectio Vitam et sanguinem pro nostra rege insurrectio 792 793
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, that as the noble Lord had intimated that there were no official papers to produce, he would, of course, not press his Motion.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, if he thought there was but little interest in the country or in Europe at large, he would not for a minute interfere between the House and bringing up the report; but, as be knew that the people of this country took a strong interest in the question which be was about to submit—as he thought it was not simply an Hungarian, but an European, and, above all, an English question—he begged to interpose for a short time between the bringing up the report and the other subjects before the House. He thought he was justified in saying that great misapprehensions had been most general ill this country with regard to the case of Hungary, and that they extended as well to the House; but in this respect great misconceptions existed also in the minds of some hon. Gentlemen to the real bearing of this question. It was generally supposed and said—indeed a laugh was raised in the House when he presumed to mention the free and independent kingdom of Hungary—it was generally supposed that Hungary was a province of the Austrian dominion. He repeated that the constitution of Hungary was free and independent—that it had never been at any time a province of the Austrian dominions; that as far back as 1,000, when Stephen I. succeeded to the throne of Hungary, it was an independent kingdom; and there were circumstances connected with that kingdom for which we should feel a peculiar
 787 "Should I, or any of my successors, at any time infringe the privileges of the Hungarian people, it is permitted to you or your descendants, by virtue of this promise, to defend yourselves without being treated as rebels." "Hungary was a country free and independent, in her entire system of legislation and government; that she was not subject to any other people or any other State, but that she should have her own separate existence, and her own constitution, and should be governed by Kings crowned according to her national laws and customs." 788 789 de facto de jure "The King of Hungary cannot be discharged from the duties of sovereignty without consent of the nation, the Diet having the appointment of a regency in case of incompetence or resignation of the King." 790 clarum et venerabile nomen 791
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES , in rising to second the Motion, said that he was unwilling to believe that the noble Lord at the head of our Foreign Office, who had generally taken so enlarged a view of the prospects and condition of Europe, should have seen without concern the event then under their consideration—an event which he (Mr. M. Milnes) felt sure that he might say, without exaggeration, was one of still greater importance than any other that had taken place within the last two remarkable years. He would remind the House, that notwithstanding the tumult and the confusion which had prevailed throughout so large a portion of the Continent during that period, that was the first event from which they had reason to anticipate any very considerable alteration of the present territorial arrangements of Europe. He would also press upon their attention this important fact—that if no change should take place in the course which events were at present taking in Hungary, the future independence of Austria would, under any circumstances, be absolutely impossible. If the noble Lord were that enemy to Austria which he was foolishly supposed to be, nothing could afford him more gratification than to see the independence of the Austrian empire utterly submerged in the waters of Russian absolutism. It was very easy to say that a portion of the forces of Austria having been engaged in Italy, it was only natural that she should apply for aid to her neighbour, Russia, in her endeavours to suppress a trifling insurrection in one of her provinces. That was the diplomatic view of the question. But he hoped the House
 794 795 796 disjecta membra decheance 797 798 799
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, in the few observations which I shall feel it my duty to make upon the Motion of my hon. and gallant Friend, and upon what has passed in debate, I wish to guard myself in the first place against the possibility that anything which I may say may expose me to the imputation of entertaining unfriendly feelings towards the Government and empire of Austria. I know well, that imputations have been cast upon Her Majesty's Government, and upon myself as the organ of that Government, in regard to
 808 809 810 811 812 813 814 815
 MR. HORSMAN : The Session was drawing
 835 "One of the most wretched features of the times is the wretched and emaciated appearance of the children. They come into the workhouse
 836 "The physical condition of the labourers," (says Mr. Bourke,) "is so reduced that except from the sons of the wealthier farmers you cannot find a man of such physical strength as in any other part of the world you would select to perform any amount of agricultural labour." "It is notorious," (says Mr. O'Shaughnessy,) "that owing to the general depreciation of property and the distress, the attendance of magistrates in the discharge of their ordinary functions is rendered impossible; and if the present state of things continues, we shall have no magistracy to discharge the duties of the court. Similar inconvenience will arise with respect to the holding of petty sessions—the attendance of grand juries and the performance of other civil duties. …. Every institution—every public officer—every contractor, and all Government debts are unpaid." "In some instances," (says Count Strzelecki,) "where priests were confined with fever, I found nothing in their cabins—nothing available beyond stirabout for their own sustenance—no tea, no sugar—no provision whatever. In some of their huts the wind blew—the snow came in, and the rain dripped; and they were undergoing distress as great as that suffered by any of the poor people: there was no difference between them." "No records of mortality have been kept. Still the painful and frequent occurrence of corpses in the streets and on the great roads stamps that distress with a severity far exceeding that which accompanied and resulted from the great famine in Tuscany in 1340–7–9 as narrated by Sismondi." "The paupers are merely kept alive in crowded workhouses, or in alarming numbers depending on outdoor relief. Their health is not maintained—their physical strength is weakened—their moral character is degraded—hopeless themselves they offer no hope to the country except in the prospect—abhorrent to human nature and Christian feeling—of their gradual extinction by death. Many families are now suffering extreme distress who three years ago enjoyed all the comforts and refinements of life, and administered to the necessities of those around them. Thus we have seen
 837 838 l 839 l l l 840 "I have always considered it to be impolitic, if not impossible, to legislate for a state of famine in any district. A famine is the consequence of the earth's ceasing to yield its produce—if there be no produce from the land, there can be no value on which to levy a poor-rate."—" There are different degrees of famine—it may be more or less continuous—and it may be more or less intense. In Ireland, it has been not only very intense, but very continuous." 841 "He had already said that the effects of the poor-laws had been injurious to the landed proprietors, injurious to the farmer., and, above all, injurious to the labouring population. He would now assert that the effect of the poor-law—ho meant the present administration of the poor-law—tended directly to the destruction of all property in the country. It had been said that this would lead to an agrarian law—it would lead to worse than that—an agrarian law was the division of all property; but the present state of the poor-laws in this country tended to the destruction of all property. At present some parishes had been actually abandoned, so heavy was the pressure of the rates, and so great the evils of mismanagement. The consequence was, that the neighbouring parishes were compelled to support the poor of the deserted parishes; and they, too, would soon be reduced to a similar situation, and thus pauperism would stride with increased, and every day increasing, rapidity throughout the land." 842 "That unless the progress of this system be arrested, it must go on till we gain that precipice towards which we are hurrying with accelerated rapidity—that the circumstance of one parish being thrown out of cultivation, inevitably and immediately tends to lay three or four others waste, and that this devastation, gaining strength as it proceeds, must needs cover the land, no man who consults that body of evidence before your Lordships can entertain a shadow of a doubt."—" Stand where we are (he adds) we cannot. I might say with others, whose minds are filled with despair and the dread of coming events, that I could be content never to have things better, so I were assured they would never be worse; but this, even this wretched compromise is impossible with the frightful scourge that is ravaging our country." l 843 l l l l 844 
 
 The expenditure last year was £52,282 
 The rate collected 10,667 
 The debt to contractors by last distress papers 20,000 
 The estimated expenses for seven months, ending October 1, 1849 48,000 
 Total, debts and expenses on October 1 68,000 
 Estimated expenses being per month 4,000 845 846 847 l 848 849 "Before any measure could be introduced for the permanent relief of the poor of Ireland, it would be absolutely necessary to relieve that country from its superabundant population. The transfer of our superabundant labourers to the colonies would be equally beneficial to all parties; to the labourers, by diminishing the overwhelming competition under which they now suffer; to the settler, by affording him the means of cultivating his land; and both to this country and to the colonies, by relieving much of the distress now existing in the former, and by adding to the productive industry of the latter." "He thought it of the greatest importance that emigration should be encouraged to a much greater extent than at present, and he believed it was in the power of Her Majesty's Ministers to take measures that would give much greater extension to the system than it now possessed." "The question of emigration from Ireland is decided by the population itself; and that which remains for the Legislature to decide is, whether it shall be turned to the improvement of the British North American colonies, or whether it shall be suffered and encouraged to take that which will be and is its inevitable course, to deluge Great Britain with poverty and wretchedness, and gradually, but certainly, to equalise the state of the English and Irish peasantry. Two different rates of wages, and two different conditions of the labouring classes, cannot permanently coexist. One of two results appears to be inevitable: the Irish population must be raised towards the standard of the English, or the English depressed towards that of the Irish. The question whether an extensive plan of emigration shall or shall not be adopted, appears to your Committee to resolve itself into the simple point, whether the wheat-fed population of Great Britain shall or shall not be supplanted by the potato-fed population of Ireland." 850 851 852 
 
 The rated property of England was £100,000,000 
 Ditto ditto Ireland 13,000,000 
 Unrated property of England 140,000,000 
 Ditto ditto Ireland 7,000,000 853 
 
 The official value of English imports by a return of 1846 £66,000,000 
 Ditto of Ireland 2,000,000 
 Exports, England 53,000,000 
 Ditto Ireland 240,000 
 Revenue of England 50,000,000 
 Ditto Ireland 4,000,000 854 855 "There is a concentration of misery and suffering in Moyferta almost beyond the possibility of grappling with, and daily on the increase. … On one estate little short of 200 houses have been tumbled down within three months, and 120 of this number, I believe, within three weeks, containing families to a greater number, many of whom are burrowing behind the ditches without the means of procuring a shelter. … We admitted a considerable number of paupers, among whom were some of the most appalling cases of destitution and suffering it has ever been my lot to witness. The state of most of these wretched creatures is traceable to the numerous evictions which have lately taken place. … The pressure, however,
 856 "The tendency to evictions augments in proportion as the labour on the estates is burdensome and unprofitable; the landlord will not have the same motives to employ labour in a large electoral division as he would have if every labourer whom he employed was a labourer the less for whom he would have to pay a poor-rate." 857 858 "Nothing was to be seen over the country but pillage, murder, and conflagration. Happy would he be if he could go to his bedchamber without entering an armoury, and could close his eyes without apprehensions of having his throat cut before morning, and of seeing his wife and children butchered before his face. Let noble Lords opposite take a journey to Ireland, and he would engage to give any six of them a villa and a small farm each, if they would consent to reside in it." "In 1800, we find the Habeas Corpus Act suspended, and the Act for the suppression of rebellion in force. In 1801, they were continued. In 1802, I believe, they expired. In 1803, the insurrection for which Emmett suffered, broke out. Lord Kilwarden was murdered by a savage mob, and both Acts of Parliament were renewed. In 1804, they were continued. In 1800, the west and south of Ireland were in a state of insubordination, which was with difficulty repressed by the severest enforcement of the ordinary law. In 1807, in consequence chiefly of the disorders that had prevailed in 1806, the Act called the Insurrection Act was introduced. It gave power to the Lord Lieutenant to place any district by proclamation out of the pale of the ordinary law—it suspended trial by jury, and made it a transportable offence to be out of doors from sunset to
 859 860
 COLONEL DUNNE  seconded the Motion.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that much as he felt compelled to dissent from a great part of the hon. Gentleman's speech, no part of it had struck him with more surprise than his assertion that the House had shown an indisposition to consider Irish affairs. Whatever fault might be found with the House or the Government for the mode in which they had legislated for Ireland, he thought there could be no difference of opinion as to the industry, patience, and indefatigable attention with which everything relating to that country had been considered in that House. Nor could any one deny that the attempts to legislate for her benefit, had been forwarded by every individual in it. The hon. Gentleman himself was an instance of that very zeal and devotion. At the close of a weary and prolonged Session, which had been occupied—be would not say exclusively, but to a great extent—with the affairs of Ireland,
 862 863 864 865 l 866 867 868 869
 MR. HORSMAN  rose to explain. He had never said absolutely that he wished to see the potato exterminated—lie merely put an alternative which was this, that rather than that the potato should be the life and soul of Irish agriculture, he should wish to see it no more.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland calculated rightly when he supposed he should enlist the sympathies of all in the expression of joy by his reference to do-tails in proof of the return of prosperity to Ireland, however those details might be qualified. If, however, the right hon. Gentleman had told them the number of
 870 871 872 873 874 l 875
 MR. SHEIL : I shall not forget that this is the 23rd of July. How does it come to pass that of the Irish miscellany by which it is supposed that this Motion is supported, not one has thought it judicious to originate a proposition of an analogous kind? It is not because they are conscious of their inadequacy to the performance of the task which has been assumed by, or has devolved upon, the Member for Cockermouth. It is not because they are utterly destitute of that self-reliance of which my hon. Friend affords a model—it is not because they are not aware that the hon. Gentleman has no sort of connexion with Ireland excepting that which an amiable but somewhat speculative sympathy can supply. It is because his utter ignorance of Ireland is countervailed by his distinguished talents, and more especially by those peculiar faculties which render him the most appropriate exponent of dissatisfaction, and the faithful mirror of discontent. But it is not to the use of caustics that the talents of ray hon. Friend are confined. He can praise as eloquently as he can condemn. In the course of last Session, when he proposed the extension of the income tax to Ireland, he pronounced an admirable and most just panegyric on the distinguished Nobleman at the head of the Irish Executive. It is not undeserving of remark that those who are most lavish of their incongruous praises upon Lord Clarendon, seldom vote in favour of the Ministry on whom he reflects a lustre. On the occasion to which I am referring, the commendations of my hon. Friend extended to the Government. He frankly stated that they had great difficulties to contend with. Where indeed, is the man, whose mind is not the prey of the most virulent partisanship, who will not acknowledge that a large allowance is to be made for those almost insurmountable impediments
 876 877
 SIR R. A. FERGUSON  said, as he had been so personally alluded to by the hon. and learned Member, he felt called upon to make a few observations. The hon. and learned Member had spoken as if an enormous property belonged to the corporation. This was not so, for the enormous tract was of the extent of about 8,000 acres in and near Londonderry and Coleraine. The matter was one entirely between the Irish Society and the tenants on its property. It had been declared that the Irish Society had granted leases of their property on the most beneficial terms. Now, the fact was, they had been compelled to grant leases in perpetuity about eighty years ago, after a dispute had arisen on the subject which had lasted for a long period. If this had not been done, the whole would have been ruined, and the whole settlement lost. But this was not a piece of liberality on the part of that society; for it imposed an increased rent and other charges on the tenants to the amount of 36 per cent. and hampered the tenants, on the leases so granted, with all sorts of vexatious provisions. The hon. and learned Member said there had been no case of litigation between the tenants and the society. He could mention cases of the kind in which the society had been defeated. As for there being no case of forfeiture, it arose from the circumstance that the Court of Chancery decided that the society, having
 889 l l l
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  hoped, in a few words, to show the propriety of not acceding to the Motion just made. The Bill had been delayed in consequence of the illness of the Lord Chancellor; but it had been sent down from the other House after it had received the most attentive consideration. He had had several opportunities of proceeding with this Bill in Committee, in the morning sittings; but he had postponed doing so in consequence of his hon. and learned Friend being anxious to be heard in opposition to it, and, in conformity with an arrangement made with his hon. and learned Friend, that day had been fixed upon for the debate. With respect to the other Members connected with the corporation of London and this society not being present, there would be ample opportunities of hearing them at its future stages. He confidently appealed to the House not to allow the Motion for adjournment to be adopted, the
 890
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  would say nothing with respect to the question of costs, as that was embraced in another clause. The question before them was, whether it should be compulsory on the original lessor to commute a leasehold tenure into a fee-simple. Now, the real owner of the estate was the lessee, the lessor having no right whatever to the property. They had heard much of the Irish Society; but estates held under this tenure were no more the property of the Irish Society than copyhold property was the property of the landlord. The real owner of the property was the lessee, with the perpetual right of renewal. Now, this view of the case did away with all those charges of injustice which were brought against the Bill. It was not correct that the Copyhold Enfranchisement Bill was thrown out on the principle. It was rejected because the details of the Bill were found not to be in harmony with the principle. It might as justly be said that the owner of the manors in England was the owner of the soil that belonged to the copyhold tenant, as to say that the lessor of those lands in Ireland was the owner of those lands.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  was sorry to say, the clause was open to the objection stated by the right hon. Baronet. It was exceedingly difficult to make such an arrangement as was desirable, as had been alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman. The present Bill would enable any one tenant to go to the lessor, and compel an enfranchisement subject to a foe-farm rent. The reason why the course suggested by the right hon. Baronet had not been adopted was, that such difficulties would arise as to the details that it would not he possible to carry them into effect.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  thought they were the same, but he would not at once pledge himself on the subject.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the Clause should be reconsidered before the last stage of the Bill.
 SIR R. A. FERGUSON  said, there was no difference between the leases in perpetuity granted by this society, and those given by any other owner. It was about eighty years since the Irish Society had been compelled to grant leases in perpetuity.
 MR. PAGE WOOD  was glad the experiment of last year had been made, and yet he did not see his way to any extension of the grant, or to its being voted in perpetuity. He wished the case of orphans in our workhouses could be considered in relation to the same subject. It would be very desirable if any attempt could be made to send them to the colonies. It was obvious what all such propositions as the one before the House would lead to. There would be claims made from the National Schools, from the British and Foreign Schools, and from all schools connected with the Church and with Dissent. Nothing could be more dangerous than for the Government to interfere in such a manner that they should seem not to prop up the honest and industrious, but those of an opposite character. A friend of his, a magistrate in Essex, had told him that a widow in his neighbourhood who was bringing up her son honestly, said, that she was, to her sorrow, frequently tempted to let her poor boy take something, in order that he might be sent to Chelmsford gaol, where tailoring was taught. This showed
 919
 MR. LAW  supported the proposition. The House had refused to acknowledge in the case of copyholds the principle that a proprietor should be compelled to part with his property; and why should they in the present instance compel a landlord to give the fee-simple of his land to a tenant, whether he was willing or not? There was gross injustice in such a proposal. He objected also to the monstrous proposition that a landlord should be obliged to pay the costs incurred in defending his property before the Court of Exchequer or Chancery, and that the Remembrancer of the Court of Exchequer should have the power of conveying that man's estate in his name, and against his will.
 MR. LAW  then proposed the introduction of an additional clause. The hon. and learned Gentleman said that it was painful to him to think that he was the only Member of the House present who was connected with the corporation and the Irish Society, and he had attended day after day in that House to protect the interests of both those bodies. As the legal adviser of the corporation, he was hound not to shrink from the duty of defending their interests. He should take the sense of the House as to this last effort he should make to except the Irish Society from the operation of this Bill:—
 "And be it enacted, That nothing in this Act contained shall extend, or be construed to extend, to prejudice, diminish, alter, or take away any of the rights, privileges, powers, or authorities vested in or enjoyed by, or duties or liabilities imposed upon, the Society of the Governor and Assistants, London, of the New plantation in Ulster, within the realm of Ireland, under or by virtue of any Charter or Charters heretofore granted to them by the Crown, or of any Statute or Statutes in anywise relating thereto."
 MR. LAW  said, that he had given notice of a Motion for the society to be heard by counsel against the Bill, on the second reading; but that stage had been taken at midnight, without any notice to him.
 MR. LAW  said, he rose to move that the House resolve itself into Committee on the Bill on this day three months. If it was the pleasure of the House not to adopt his Amendment, he should propose clauses by which the corporation of London and the Irish Society should be excepted from the operation of this Bill. The object of the Bill was to convert leasehold into freehold property by a compulsory process. The preamble stated—
 "Whereas many lands in Ireland are held under leases and under-leases respectively, with covenants for perpetual renewal, and great expense is constantly incurred in procuring renewals under such covenants, and much litigation and inconvenience arise from such tenures; and it is expedient that such tenures should be converted, in manner hereinafter provided, into tenures in fee, and that, except as herein excepted, all leases and under-leases of lands in Ireland, with covenants for perpetual renewal, granted or made after the passing of this Act, should operate and take effect in manner hereinafter mentioned," 883 884 "The Irish Society object to be included in the provisions of the Leasehold Tenure of Lands (Ireland) Bill, because none of the reasons which exist in other parts of Ireland for such a Bill, apply in the slightest degree to the property granted by charter to the Irish Society. The Irish Society have never in any case insisted upon the forfeiture of a lease, nor has litigation prevailed amongst their lessees and their undertenants; a covenant in their leases constitutes the society the sole arbitrator in all disputes which may arise between them. The leases are for twenty-eight years and three lives; so that, should the lives drop, the lessee is certain of a terra of twenty-eight years without a renewal. The average period of renewal is about thirty years. The leases also contain covenants to repair, to protect the fisheries of the society, and other covenants most beneficial to the property and its lessees. The only certain means of enforcing the performance of the covenants of the lessees is by periodical renewal. This wholesome check is by the Bill proposed to be abolished; and the Irish Society will be deprived of the best means of enforcing the regulations which have been found so beneficial. The charters granted to the Irish Society for plantation purposes have been carried out to the fullest extent. The property of the society is a pattern to all other parts of Ireland for peace and tranquillity. If the authority of the Irish Society is repealed by granting the fee of their estates to their lessees, they will no longer have any motive to apply the whole of their disposable revenue in improving the property and contributing to the educational and other charities of the district, as heretofore; and the property will in a few years become like the other parts of Ireland. The Bill will transfer the powers of the society to the middlemen, who have been so notorious for their extortion and hardship to their undertenants; and will leave their under-tenants entirely in their hands, without the salutary chock which the society has hitherto had upon them." l l 885 886 887
 LORD ASHLEY  shortly replied. He denied that he had spoken disparagingly
 920
 LORD ASHLEY  then rose to bring under the notice of the House the state of a portion of the juvenile population of the metropolis. If he were asked why he had brought forward his Motion at so late a period of the Session, he must plead as his excuse his utter lack of opportunity to lay the subject before the House, owing to the interposition of other business day after day. But he nevertheless entertained a very strong desire that he should have it in his power to do so, not only on account of those whose claims he represented, but for the purpose of showing the House to what profitable use the small grant he had obtained last Session had been turned, and the prospects of success their past experience might encourage them to cherish. He had another reason, besides, for pressing the subject on the attention of the House—that he was anxious to excite some interest, and perhaps discussion, on the preventive, as contrasted with the reformatory system. Prison discipline seemed a favourite topic for all writers and speakers; and endless inquiries had been
 898 899 900 901 meum tuum. 902 903 "In 1840, I stated that, 'whether led astray for a moment by bad companions, or assailed by overpowering temptations, or driven by distress and hunger, or trained to vagabond and thievish practices, and, in all cases, with a mind totally unformed by education and uninfluenced by religion, the child of 14, or 10, or even eight years old, is now turned into a yard or 'day-room,' tenanted by 40 or 50 older criminals. Once here, Jus terrors of a prison soon vanish before the levity and merriment of his new companions. He finds them great objects of admiration; and many are the plunderers who can relate the most attractive stories of successful and daring robbery. Excited by these tales, he soon becomes ambitious of imitating the heroes of them. He is instructed in the arcana of the dreadful calling which he has entered upon by some adept in the craft, and thus a few weeks, or even a few days, before trial have sufficed to convert the child, who, until the verdict pronounced at that solemnity, was accounted innocent in the eye of the law, into a hardened profligate, prepared and tutored for a course of iniquity, and determined to run it. I could furnish a hundred histories of misery and crime springing from the pestiferous society of the untried felons' ward." "It is not possible to convey to the mind of the reader any adequate idea of the extent of the corruption of mind, feeling, and character, or of the
 904 "I am not reconciled to summary convictions, but I highly approve of frequent courts to try petty offenders of all ages promptly on the spot." …"As long, however, as juvenile offenders are mixed up in our gaols with adults, no effectual improvement can take place." 905 906 "What you say, my Lord, is most true. All in this room have made attempt after attempt to get into some honest employment, but we have found that our tainted characters beset us every-where. My own case is a proof of this. I obtained a situation, and held it for five or six months. I was satisfied with my employer, and he was perfectly satisfied with me. One day there was a knock at the door; I opened it, and in walked a policeman. He asked for my employer, and, when he saw him, said, 'Do you know that you are employing a convicted felon My employer said he was not aware of it, but the policeman assured him it was the fact, and then my master turned round, and dismissed me from his service. Thus I was driven back to my old courses, and I declare to God that the impossibility of obtaining employment compels me and many others to lead the lives we do." l l l 907 "I assure you, should it please God to spare my life and bless ray industry, it is my intention not only to remit to England something for the support of ragged schools, but endeavour to stir up others to do the same." "Gentlemen—We could not think of leaving England without expressing to you our most hearty thanks for all your care of us since we were admitted into the Refuge. We thank you for our protection, our education, and so worthy a master; and for our food and clothing. We hope so to behave as to comfort all your hearts. We may forget some we once knew; we never can forget the Committee." "Gravesend, April 8, 1849. "We write to inform you we are arrived safe at Gravesend, and are quite well. We cannot express our gratitude to your Lordship for your kindness towards us, especially when we reflect on our past lives. When Mr. Nash took us under his care, he promised he would never leave us, and he never did, but he often told us to you we were indebted for ragged schools. May God bless your Lordship, may God bless Mr. Nash and every ragged school teacher; and we beg one favour of you, that you will open more schools, such as Mr. Nash's Dormitory, at Westminster, for there are many poor hoys that would be very glad to get in them; and we do promise, through God's grace, to conduct ourselves with the strictest propriety, and open a Sunday school in Australia. You said you would pray for us, so we will for you, every day of our lives, and tell the people in Australia what kind friends you are to poor boys. We are your Lordship's obedient servants." 908 "Brisbane, Friday, December 23, 1848. "Dear Mother—I write these few lines to you, hoping to find you in good health, as it leaves me at present. I have arrived with safety in the colony, after a long and wearisome voyage. I am in the depot now, in Brisbane. I am engaged as a shepherd, or to be generally useful, to go to a place called Wide Bay, 120 miles further up the bush. The blacks are not very wild in the towns, but they are out in the bush, where they are wild; they catch kangaroos and cat them. Parrots and cockatoos are very numerous here; the natives will catch them for you, and give them to you, if you give them a piece of bread or tobacco. I forgot to tell you how much wages I am to receive; it is 12 l "W—S—." l "Ipswich, Moreton Bay, December 26, 1848. "I have a good situation as a gentleman's servant. I have 20 l "I found the country better than I expected it was. I like the place very much. All I wish is, that my sister Susan had come out with me. … My dear teacher—I am happy. I have got a good place, for my mistress is more like a mother to me. Though I am thousands of miles from you and all my friends, yet you are always in my mind, and the old wall of the poor-school." "1. Has the plan of emigration acceded to last year by the Government been the means of stimu-
 909 "To insure all the benefits that ragged schools are capable of conferring, is it not desirable that, wherever possible, the reformed vagrants should, either by employment or removal elsewhere, be kept from returning to their old haunts and companions?" "Do they, in general, desire one or the other?" The answer was the same. He then asked— "With such inducements, a fair provision of school-room, and an adequate supply of proper teachers, would there be any difficulty in obtaining the attendance of throe times as many children as are now receiving instruction?" "Would it therefore be practicable to grapple with the existing race, and so greatly reduce juvenile delinquency?" l l 910 l "The poverty of those who avail themselves of the benefits of this institution (Glasshouse-yard) is such, that the average number of articles brought by each washer is less than seven, even when the family apparel is included; and the matron has frequently to lend them dresses to wear while they wash those they take from their backs.
 911 Times "Hitherto the system of education," says the report, "has been quite unsuccessful, which may be thus demonstrated:—From July, 1840, to July, 1849, 326 female inmates, between the ages of 13 and 20, have been provided with 896 situations from the workhouse, being an average of nearly three situations to each. "There were 46 who left the school at the age of 13; 103 at 14; 72 at 15; 44 at 16; 18 at 17; 20 at 18; 12 at 19; 11 at 20; Total 326. Of these 89 are now leading abandoned lives; 20 have had illegitimate children that have become chargeable; 37, after having had several situations and outfits, have emigrated; 10 are married; 1 passed; 7 dead; 10 are receiving relief either in or out of the house; 45 are supposed to be in service; 99 nothing certain is known; 8 taken out by friends. Total 326. "Of the boys, only one class could be traced, namely, those who had been apprenticed to the captains of vessels in the merchant service. From 1843 to the end of 1847, 137 youths, from 15 to 18 years of age, left the workhouse and engaged themselves in the sea service, as above described, and of these 83 returned and became subsequently chargeable." 912 913 "Sound health; regular attendance for at least six months in a ragged school; the ability to write a sentence from dictation; to work the four single rules of arithmetic; to read fluently; to repeat the Lord's prayer, and the Ten Commandments; showing a comprehension of their meaning, and answer a few simple questions on the life of our Saviour. To these must be added a certificate of regular attendance in some industrial class for at least four months, or a competent knowledge of some handicraft, or practical occupation, which would serve as an equivalent for such industrial training." l 914
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he wished the House merely to know what they were to divide upon. An adjournment of the debate had been moved by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Newark. The fact was, that the public time was very important just now, and that this debate had only commenced at half-past nine o'clock. There was a general understanding in the House that every Member of the Committee was anxious to make a very long speech, and, therefore, it was deemed expedient that they did come to a
 949
 MR. HAWES  said, he was relieved from the necessity of going at great length or much detail into the question which the hon. Member for Montrose had brought before the House, because he and the hon. Gentleman the Member for Inverness-shire had had an opportunity of bringing all those charges and complaints before a Committee of that House, to the appointment of which the Government offered no opposition in any respect—to which every facility was offered by them, and every possible document calculated to aid them, in the possession of the Colonial Office, freely and spontaneously given. Having made these charges and complaints—none of them conceived in a spirit of much charity—they found themselves in a minority in the Committee; and when they found that to be the case, they thought it necessary to obtain the opinion of the House in opposition to the report of the Committee. If the case was to rest entirely on the statements of the hon. Member for Montrose and of the hon. Member for Inverness-shire, he (Mr. Hawes) might be apprehensive of the result; but statements so void of accuracy and so little calculated to give the House correct information, it had not been his fortune often to hear. After they had sat for months on the Committee, and had heard all the evidence, they seemed to have left it with precisely the same opinions, and not to have imbibed a particle of information from the inquiry. Had either hon. Gentlemen stated the origin of the dispute to the House, or the grounds stated by the colony for asking the Government to alter an Act of Parliament? for in that light an act of the Court of Policy (the competent legislature of the colony) was clearly to be considered. That act of the Court of Policy established a civil list, not to the amount of 39,000 l l l 941 l l l l 942 943 "Upon a review of the several circumstances above adverted to, your Committee is of opinion that the Crown is entitled (if considerations of good faith and of public policy require it) to insist upon an adherence to the civil list arrangement made in 1844 for the full period for which the civil list was granted, and that no attempt to set aside that arrangement, either by direct or indirect means, can be justified." "Having thus expressed to you the views which I have been led to take of the proceedings adopted by yourself and the Combined Court on the understanding that the question concerning the civil list should be left  in statu quo 944 945 946 Price Current. l l 947 948
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that he had no personal interest in the matter, but he thought the Irish Society ought to have a fair opportunity of being heard. He would
 891
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he had not intended to excite a corn-law debate.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the object of one of the clauses of the Bill appeared to him to be objectionable. The proposed mode of keeping accounts was unsatisfactory, as under it they would find it impossible to ascertain the real amount of consumption, except they deducted the quantity of articles exported from the quantity imported. If, under such circumstances, the official accounts were not more accurately prepared, and delivered at an earlier period, they would be comparatively useless. There was another clause in the Bill which he conceived was also objectionable. He alluded to the clause which proposed the reduction of the duty on embroidery. It was proposed to reduce the duty of 20 per cent now paid on embroidery and needlework from foreign countries to 15 per cent. and from British possessions to 5 per cent. In 1846, when the new tariff was under consideration, the present duty was imposed, and he could not conceive that sufficient reason existed to reduce it now. The duty paid on foreign embroidery and needlework imported in 1845 was 61,524 l l l l
 MR. NEWDEGATE  regretted the debate had been allowed to proceed in the absence of the hon. Alderman the Member for Southwark, the head of the Irish Society, and the other Members of the corporation. He therefore moved the adjournment of the debate.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the only article affected in the way suggested by the hon. Gentleman was corn, but he hoped the House would not enter upon a corn-duty debate.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  did not charge the hon. Gentleman with attempting to do so. The only article to which the clause alluded to by his hon. Friend was corn. No other article subject to the payment of duty could be brought under it. As for the reduction of the duty on embroidery and needlework from 20 to 15 per cent. he did not anticipate the results stated by the hon. Gentleman. It was notorious that the class of persons referred to by his hon. Friend worked for very low wages, and he did not believe that protection would do them much good, or that the present reduction of duty would make any difference to them. The reason for the reduction of the duty was, that formerly embroidery and needlework paid the same duty as certain silk goods. A great number of articles which came from India, which were manufactured in a peculiar way, were, until recently, admitted as silk goods; but the Custom-house had decided that strictly and legally speaking they came under the head embroidery and needlework, and therefore had to pay the 20 s
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the subject was one well deserving of attention; but as this clause merely facilitated the taking of goods out of quarantine, the occasion was not a favourable one for the discussion of the whole question.
 MR. F. FRENCH  proposed the alteration of certain words, to make the measure permissive instead of its being compulsory.
 MR. F. FRENCH  said, it was a matter of regret that no one connected with the Irish Society was present. He had had opportunities of inspecting the accounts of the Irish Society, and he was satisfied no property could be bettor managed. As it was, four-fifths of the rental received was laid out in the improvement of the property and in benefiting the tenantry. He believed the Irish Society to be entitled to every indulgence and support, in consequence of their liberal treatment of their tenantry. Coming as he did from the west of Ireland, he was anxious to encourage the introduction of capital with habits of business and improvement, as was proposed under the auspices of the city of London. He fared this Bill would have the effect of deterring English capitalists from interfering with Irish property.
 COLONEL DUNNE  could conceive an opposition to the Bill, on the ground that it
 895
 MR. BAILLIE  said, that notwithstanding the late period of the Session, when so many Members were out of town, and when, therefore, it was impossible to obtain a fair expression of the opinion of Parliament upon any subject—notwithstanding this disadvantage, his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose had considered it his duty to bring under the notice of the House the report of the Committee appointed to inquire into the grievances of British Guiana; and he did so on two grounds: first, because the inhabitants of that colony, confiding in the justice of the House of Commons, had expressed a desire that the dispute which had so long existed between the Colonial Office and the Legislature of that colony should be decided by the Imperial Parliament; and, secondly, because, having had the misfortune to differ in opinion from the majority of the Committee with respect to the nature of the report which, in accordance with the evidence, it was the duty of the Committee to submit to the House, he thought it would be but just and reasonable that the whole case should be fairly stated, and laid before that tribunal to which the inhabitants themselves had expressed a desire that it should be referred. His hon. Friend was of opinion—and he (Mr. Baillie) confessed he entirely agreed with him—that the Committee had omitted to notice in their report some of the most important points of the evidence that was laid before them. He begged the House to mark this, that if a Committee of that House were appointed to inquire into certain evils and grievances alleged by a colony, and omitted to notice in their report those evils and grievances which were stated to exist in the general practice and administration of the Colonial Office, the House had naturally a right to assume that the silence of the Committee upon those points was a tacit approval of the course of policy which had hitherto been pursued; and the result Would be that no amelioration—no improvement of any kind would take place either in the government of that colony, or in any other colony similarly situated, and placed under a similar system. He was, therefore, on behalf not only of British Guiana, but of all other colonies, that he begged leave to call the attention of the House to just those points of the evidence
 932 sine die sine die 933 934 l l 935 sine die 936 s s 937 "He had also seen it stated in the local newspapers, that on the east coast of Demerara, where a contemplated reduction of 25 per cent in wages had taken place, it had been met cheerfully and in perfect good humour by the negroes, who would submit to the reduction of wages when they saw it was necessary; but who, when they saw the planters anxiously competing for their labour, would endeavour to get the last farthing they could obtain. The consequence of that reduction was, that at once, and without the expense of immigration, the colony obtained the advantage of an increase of one-fourth to its working population. If that were the case, would any man tell him that the system of protection was to the advantage of the planter? He (Earl Grey) held, on the contrary, that if protection were admissible on the grounds of the general interests of the country, it would be for the interest of the planter himself that we should adhere to the wise determination which Parliament came to in 1846." 938 "That additional difficulties in the arrangement of this dispute have been engendered by the statements made by Earl Grey on the 8th of February, 1848, announcing to Parliament, on the authority of a colonial newspaper, that the most satisfactory arrangements as to labour actually existed in British Guiana between the employers and the employed; it having been proved to your Committee that Earl Grey was at that very time in possession of despatches which had arrived by the same packet as the newspaper in question from the Governor of the colony (of which, however, be made no mention) stating that, as matters stood on the 31st of December, 1847, half the estates of the colony must go out of cultivation." 939 940
 MR. GRATTAN  regretted the hon. and learned Gentleman had made the observations which he did on the Irish Members, and, above all, as he intended to support the hon. and learned Gentleman. He regretted the hon. and learned Gentleman had not laid on the table the charters under which the Irish Society held their property. The Bill was most injurious to that body, and so it would prove to many private landlords. The hon. and learned Gentleman alluded to the charters granted by the Stuarts, as if they were the production of peculiarly wise monarchs. Now, these monarchs were only remarkable in this way, namely, the first was a bad poet; the second never spoke the truth; the third was always with women; and the fourth was a coward, and ran away. The hon. and learned Gentleman was anxious to be enabled to prove the extent to which the Irish Society would be injured; he therefore thought the House ought to accede to the proposition of the hon. and learned Member, and clear all, at that late period of the Session, when they were within a few days of the prorogation. Every attention should be paid to the city of London, and, above all, at a time when it was going to Connemara to take possession of Mr. Martin's property for the purpose of improvement; and he hoped the gentlemen who went over for that purpose, would be hospitably received in Ireland.
 MR. J. STUART  then moved the adjournment of the debate.
 SIR J. YOUNG  said, that he had every respect for such a respectable body as the Irish Society; but he could not understand why it should be excepted from the operation of the Bill. The hon. and learned Gentleman had given notice of many special clauses under which the Irish Society and the corporation would be exempted from its provisions; but he had proposed an Amendment directed against the principle of the Bill. This would affect all landowners, and the Irish Society had no greater claim to be excepted than private gentlemen. The hon. and learned Gentleman, in the course of his observations,
 888
 MR. HUME  had objected to the compulsory power given in the Copyhold Es-
 892
 MR. HUME  said, he rose principally to refute a calumny of the grossest kind. The hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies said that by free trade in labour was meant the use of slave labour. He utterly denied that such was the case. That was the only thing in the hon. Gentleman's speech which he thought worthy of notice. The alleged facts were admitted. The hon. Gentleman had chosen to term an act of policy an act which the law officers of the Crown had declared to be of no value whatever, those functionaries having declared that the colonists were right in the course which they had pursued. He wished to see the colonists in the enjoyment of responsible government, and no longer in leading strings. If a rebellion took place, there would be immediate concessions.
 SIR HUME  rose to move the resolutions of which he had given notice with respect to the colonies of British Guiana. At the hour at which he rose, and in the thin House which he addressed, he would not attempt to go into the question fully, but would content himself with laying down those principles on which, in his opinion, the House ought to act in furtherance of the great object of rendering the colonies of this kingdom satisfied with and benefited by their connexion with the mother country. Such, however, had been the course pursued, that we had not only rendered many of these colonies a burden to the country, but had interfered with their natural advancement, while as to those colo-
 921 922 923 l 924 925 l l 926 927 928 "Am I to understand you to state that for the ten years you were in the colony, and for ten years before that, the colonists have always been at variance with the Government?—Yes, always. In the time of Sir Benjamin D'Urban the supplies were stopped for two years, though the King's chest sufficed in some degree to pay some of the officers. During the ten years you were in the colony you have stated that the principal objection arose to you when the abolition of the apprenticeship was proposed?—Yes. After that, what was the next point of difference, or were there any other points of difference between the colonists and yourself?—I think the chief thing was with respect to immigration; not giving them the number of immigrants they wished, but only proposing a certain number of immigrants: I have no idea why they disliked me in fact." 929 930
 CAPTAIN JONES  regretted to hear the hon. and learned Recorder say that the hon. Baronet the Member for Londonderry had a personal interest in the matter. The
 893
 MR. ANSTEY  wished he could agree with the hon. Gentleman as to the universal feeling of the country being in fa-
 897
 ALDERMAN SIDNEY  felt bound to state that the corporation of London, as well as the Irish Society, had been treated very strongly at the present moment, when they were about to purchase land to a very great extent in Ireland for the purpose of improvement. Was this the time to take from them the management of their own capital? As the trust for the plantation was originally imposed upon them, he conceived they were justified in asking the House to be excepted from the operation of the Act.
 MR. THORNELY  expressed a hope that the Government would propose a mea-sure to sweep away the absurd restrictions on commerce imposed by the quarantine laws. After the admirable report on the subject, drawn up by the Board of Health, there could be no excuse whatever for retaining them. This should be done without any reference to negotiations with foreign countries, as was the case with respect to free trade and the repeal of the navigation laws. The people of this country almost unanimously wished to get rid of these laws.
 MR. MONSELL  said, the Members of the Irish Society could be heard at a future stage of the Bill; therefore, the present Motion appeared to be a most vexatious mode of defeating this Bill. He would venture to say, that in the south of Ireland, where this tenure was well known, the tenants were most anxious that the Bill should pass, and the landlords were not opposed to it. In fact, all classes in Ireland believed that it would confer great benefit on them. [Mr. F. FRENCH: Make it permissive.] It was very well for the hon. Member now to ask to make it permissive, when he had just stated that it should be postponed until certain Aldermen could come down to the House. The proceeding adopted was a factious mode of defeating the Bill by a mere side wind.
 SIR G. GREY  had no wish to undervalue the importance of these ragged schools, which he had on a former occasion declared to be of great advantage to the interests of society, and which provided the moans of educating a class of the population who had peculiar claims to their attention. Great credit was due to Mr. Sheriff Watson, of Aberdeen, and other individuals who had sot the example which had been followed by the noble Lord. He would not enter into that part of the noble Lord's speech referring to prison discipline, with which the noble Lord could not be so well acquainted as with the ragged schools, or he would not have compared the benefits resulting from the emigration of children belonging to the ragged schools with the results of the prison discipline at Parkhurst and Pentonville—a comparison which had no foundation. The noble Lord said, that the boys from these prisons had relapsed into crime when they were thrown
 915 en masse 916 "There are evident reasons why the privilege of a tree passage could not with safety be held out to a greater extent than as a prize to a small number of the most deserving and regular of the children who come to the ragged schools. For the benefit is one which in reality would be most acceptable to vast multitudes of honest parents and children for whom they can find no certain or adequate provision in this country; and to look to emigration on a large scale as a means of entirely removing the class of children who are neglected, would be to hold out a direct stimulus to parents to cast off their children in order to secure for them this great boon. It is only whilst the indulgence is confined in its character to that of a prize conferred upon comparatively few children, that this objection can be escaped. Considerations of a similar nature appear to Her Majesty's Government to show that the measure is not one which could with propriety be made the subject of an annual application to Parliament for a grant out of the public funds. The ragged schools, as your Lordship is aware, have hitherto been entirely supported by the private subscriptions of benevolent individuals; and while the advantage of a gratuitous education is not extended to the children of the working classes generally, it is absolutely necessary that the single exception of a public grant should not be made in favour of those parents who throw aside their children, but that the schools provided for them should preserve their present character of charitable institutions maintained exclusively by voluntary contributions. The same reasons are applicable against asking for a grant of public money from year to year for the benefit of this particular class of children, as distinguished from those who are better taken care of by their parents. The opinion of Her Majesty's Government, therefore, is, that for the future the finding of means to remove to the colonies the most meritorious of the children attending the ragged schools must depend on the same voluntary sources as the other provision for those institutions. But, understanding from your Lordship that probably an inconvenient delay would attend any attempt immediately to raise funds for the purpose by subscription, and that the object could be more easily accomplished after some examples of a successful emigration of the children, the Government is unwilling not to offer some aid towards commencing the experiment." l l. l 917 918
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, he had objected to the Copyhold Enfranchisement Bill, because it was a one-sided measure; and he now found this Bill was open to the same objection. He thought there ought to be equal powers on both sides. The
 894
 SIR J. GRAHAM  asked whether the provisions of this clause were the same as those in the Church Temporalities Bill?
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, as he understood the matter, the objection to the Copyhold Enfranchisement Bill, introduced by his hon. Friend the Member for Cocker-mouth, was, that it was compulsory on the landlord and not on the tenant. As he read this clause, it was open to the same objection. He conceived, that with regard to this as well as the other Bill, the House should proceed on something like fixed principles. It appeared that it was only where the reversionist was called upon by the tenant, that the deed of enfranchisement would be granted. It appeared to him to be very hard upon a reversionist, who had many of these lessees on his estate, that he should be compelled by some of them to convert their tenures into perpetuities, while others of his tenants, because they refused to make the application, would keep up the old tenure. He thought the power should be given to both parties.
 SIR J. W. HOGG  was quite satisfied that the House should go to a division upon the speech of the hon. Under Secretary. It had not yet been mentioned in the course of this debate that the report which was carried was so carried by a majority of 8 to 3; and that the proposition of the hon. Member for Montrose was rejected by a majority of 10 to 4.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, he only wanted to impress the general fact, that we were approaching the time when, if something effectual was not done, our crime and our dirt would run away with us. He was, therefore, glad to see the alliance between a noble Lord and the hon. Gentleman opposite, who, he trusted, would be two Herculeses to cleanse the moral and the physical Augean stables that were before us. There might be a time when the mosaic paddle or the spear sufficed for sanitary regulations; but that was long gone by, and the comfort of existence was concerned in keeping pace with the wants of the age.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, the Bill had been carefully considered by a Select Committee, two of the Members of which represented the Universities of Oxford and Dublin, and all the recommendations of that Committee had been carefully attended to. As to the time of the Session, he found seven or eight Bills on the Paper not so far advanced as this one was, and therefore he looked upon that as no valid objection to the third reading. The hon. Gentleman said there was no practical grievance to remedy; whereas the Bill was brought in on the occurrence of an actual practical grievance. The mode taken by the Bill to remedy the evil complained of, was less open to objection than any other that could be devised, and he hoped the House would now consent to the third reading.
 DR. NICHOLL  urged his hon. Friend to withdraw this Bill, as there was no chance of its being passed at that late period of the Session.
 MR. HAGGFIT  observed, as the general feeling of his Friends around him appeared to be against a division, he would
 953
 MR. HEKLEY  thought it was necessary that this subject should be dealt with by Parliament. A complaint was made in that House the other night that something had not been done by the parochial authorities of St. Margaret's in reference to their burial ground, in consequence of an alleged understanding come to upon the occasion of the repair of the church; and he was informed a few days since that the reason was because of the uncertainty which prevailed as to what the law might be with respect to intramural interments.
 MR. ANSTBY  said, that he would move that the Bill be read a third time that day three months, unless the hon. Member for North Warwickshire postponed it till next day. Two new and important clauses had been added, which were not yet in the Bill, and it was only right that at least a day should be allowed to intervene. The hon. Gentleman himself admitted that the Bill was so altered and perverted by amendments that had been added, limiting its operation to women under twenty-one years of age, from its original character, that he did not care to pass it, and yet he now persisted in moving the third reading. In its present shape, it was a Bill to prevent the procuring of women by other persons, but it did not in the least degree prevent defilement by the seducer in person—or what some hon. Gentlemen had described as legitimate seduction.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, in rising to move that Mr. Speaker leave the chair to go into Committee on this Bill, he hoped he should be allowed to say a few words on this subject, which was one of very considerable importance, and he could only expect the House, at that late period of the Session, to take what he had to say on trust. The Bill came down from the House of Lords on the 8th of June, and was read a second time on the 18th of that month, and it was then determined to refer it to a Select Committee; the Members of which had attended upon almost every occasion, and had attentively examined the details of the Bill, with the view that nothing should be introduced into the Bill which in any way tended to damage it. The Bill came down in the shape of a code with schedules annexed, and in a form differing from the ordinary Acts of Parliament. It at once occurred to the Committee to consider whether the form of the Bill was not such as to render it difficult of working. On this point they had taken the opinions of persons conversant with matters of the kind, without troubling the House for its decision. The result was, it was determined by the Committee, he believed on the Motion of the hon. Member for Leominster, to put the measure in the
 956 957
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he proposed in Committee to point out all the important alterations. The repealing schedule had been adopted from the Attorneys and Solicitors' Act as a convenient form; the Committee had delegated to him the duty of examining it, which he had done carefully; and, with one or two verbal alterations, it might be taken as strictly correct.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, a new principle was introduced in the mode of commencing proceedings. Instead of petition to the Lord Chancellor, the petition would be to the Court of Bankruptcy, with an appeal to the Vice Chancellor's Court. To this alteration the Lord Chancellor did not object.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  stated that the remodelling of the offices was to be effected by another Bill. No new officers were appointed, nor were any additional duties devolved on existing officers, except on the chief registrar, at present a sinecure. By a subsequent clause, the 7th, power was given to abolish two commissioner-ships on the death of the commissioners; and by the 9th to make a redistribution of the bankruptcy districts in the country.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, there were no new officers created, or new salaries given. Some fees were reduced, and new modes adopted of charging the fees, by means of stamped papers issued from the board of inland revenue. All foes would go to the funds of the court, and would not be receivable at all by the officers. Parties, instead of paying a lumping fee, as at present, would pay small fees as the business was done.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  stated, that Clause 14 gave power for a special case to be stated to the Court of Equity, as was now done to courts of law.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  stated, that certain duties, including the redistribution of the business, had been given to the senior commissioner, only because it must be done by some one. Opportunity had been taken of reducing the number of registrars in the event of death.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  stated, in answer to questions, that in future there would be but one account in bankruptcy, instead of several, as at present. Fees were now paid in money, which had given rise to some dissatisfaction, and hence the provision for their payment through stamped documents. No fees at all would be received by the officers, the payments being made for the stamped documents, to the board of inland revenue. This applied to the whole of proceedings, except to fees on taxation and other proceedings. No claim for compensation was given by the Bill; it was simply a re-enactment of the old law. The Bill, when it came from the House of Lords, had comprised provisions relating to the bankruptcy of Members of Parliament, which the Committee had struck out, as not coming within the scope of a consolidation of the bankrupt laws. Clause 69 preserved the former period of 15 days between the commencement of proceedings and the issuing of a fiat. Clauses 75 and 76 were new; they made the filing of a declaration of bankruptcy in India an act of bankruptcy in England. Clause 77 related to private arrangements by composition deeds, and made the composition deed an act of bankruptcy, of which any creditor might avail himself.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that Clause 78, referring to summonses in bankruptcy, required that, in addition to the affidavit of a good defence on the merits, parties should give two securities to answer the claim. But this was left
 960
 LORD ASHLEY  said, it would be much better to leave it to the Government to take up the scheme of the commission, when prepared, than that he should propose its adoption.
 LORD ASHLEY  brought up four supplementary clauses. The first would empower the Board of Health to inspect and inquire into burial grounds; the second to give the churchwardens the power of making an agreement for further interments whore the churchyards became offensive and dangerous to the public health. The board thought it desirable that the subject should be taken up on a grand and comprehensive scale. They expected to be able to place before Parliament a large scheme with respect to intramural interments, as soon after the meeting of the next Session of Parliament as possible. To this subject the two latter clauses related.
 MR. MOWATT  had also felt himself obliged to oppose the Bill, because it was calculated to mislead the people for whose benefit they affected to legislate, namely, the parents of females in humble life, by teaching them to dispense with the moral education and training of their children, and lean only upon the Legislature.
 MR. ROEBUCK  also begged to enter his protest against this ill-considered and crude piece of legislation, which he described as the result of a species of cant which was almost as dangerous as vice.
 MR. ROEBUCK  did not desire to impute any thing to the hon. Gentleman. He only meant to say that the House, in passing this measure, was yielding to an unworthy cry out of doors.
 MR. ROEBUCK  expressed a hope that the hon. Member for North Warwickshire would not endeavour to pass it in the present Session. He objected to the two new clauses which had been added to the Bill, directing not only that the costs of the prosecution should be paid, but that the party should likewise be compensated. This was departing from the ordinary course, and might open the door to many vexations prosecutions for the purpose of obtaining compensation.
 MR. J. STUART  expressed his sense of the obligation due to the Committee for the extraordinary labour and attention which they had bestowed upon the Bill before the House. He was certain that as it had come from them it must have received many essential improvements, and that with respect to many of the points to which their attention must have been directed, although there might be a difference of opinion as to these points, yet that on the whole, considering the present state of the law, the Bill before them had come out of the hands of the Committee in a shape which entitled it to the respect and attention of the House.
 MR. J. WILLIAMS  said, this clause had excited much discussion in the Committee. It was felt a hardship that Members of that House who were traders should be placed in a different position from other Members.
 MR. HENLEY  wished the hon. Member for North Warwickshire to state what he intended to do upon the subject of costs, as referred to by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield. As the Bill was now framed, it might be entitled, "a Bill to support a society for the suppression of vice at the expense of the county rates."
 MR. HUME  said, that he could not allow this extraordinary measure to pass without saying a few words by way of protesting against it. In the first place, he begged to observe that, as it came from the House of Lords, it consisted of only one clause. That had been considerably altered, and within the last forty-eight hours two other clauses had been added, and now they were asked to pass the Bill into a law. In the next place, he must say it appeared to him that to attempt to improve the morals of the people by Act of Parliament was a great mistake. He thought it would be better if the right rev. Prelates and others who interested themselves in this question, would endeavour to set a good example to the community. If a Bill of this kind were desirable at all, it should have been taken up by the Government with all the assistance which they could command to render it as perfect as possible. But he protested against this kind of interference altogether. There was a certain class of persons who were never at rest unless they were either showing intolerance to their neighbours, or making loud professions of superior sanctity. That was a class whom he always looked upon with suspicion, because in his dealings with them he had invariably found them the readiest to impose upon others, and the least ready to do justice.
 MR. SPOONER , in reply, said that there had only been a few verbal alterations made in the first clause; and with respect to the two clauses which had been
 955
 MR. SPOONER  said, he had treated this offence as other offences in regard to
 954
 Mr. MACKINNON  considered the clauses to be satisfactory as far as they went; but they were not stringent enough to meet the nuisance intended to be corrected. He impressed upon the House the fact that within the last sixty years 3,000,000 human bodies had been buried within the limits of the metropolis. He trusted that stops would be taken to bring
 951
 SIR G. GREY  said, that a communication made to him by the rector of St. Margaret's corroborated the statement of the hon. Gentleman. He would take the opportunity of adding that he had received some communications with reference to the statement made in the House in regard to burials made in Bristol, and he was informed that the representation, that the bodies of persons who had died of cholera were left exposed, to the peril of the inhabitants of the surrounding houses, was perfectly unfounded; he was assured the graves were all nine feet deep, and the utmost precaution was taken to prevent any evil result to the neighbourhood.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  was glad to join in any tribute of applause which could be paid to the Committee, but at the same time he was bound to say that that which they were now invited to do required more than ordinary deliberation. They were about to enter into the consideration of one of the most important branches of the law which affected the trade and commerce of this country. The words in which the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General couched this invitation, were in themselves startling. They were invited to enter into the consideration of a Bill containing 278 clauses, embracing, in fact, the whole bankrupt law, and they were told that they must be content to take a great deal upon the faith of a Committee. He hoped, however, that adequate explanations would be given as the Bill passed through its various clauses in Committee. Admitting the obvious advantages of a consolidation of the law, he thought that in matters of such vital interest great care ought to be taken that under the guise of consolidation there was no chance of anything like real change being introduced. If the time would allow, all the changes actually effected ought to be fully explained to the House; but the fewer the number of these, the greater would be his confidence in the measure. He was willing
 958
 SIR J. GRAHAM  asked if any increase of salaries was proposed, or new fees given for additional duties, as had been done in another court?
 CAPTAIN BERKELEY  said, that the I Admiralty had no power or jurisdiction over these matters, which were decided upon by a Committee. He was bound, in justice to Sir Robert Peel's Government, to say that it was their intention to have placed this department under a permanent head, and carried out the recommendation of the commission to the fullest extent. He trusted that a twopenny-halfpenny economy would not be practised in the dismissal of Captain Washington. The question was one involving millions, and not a shabby addition to a gentleman's half-pay.
 SIR F. T. BARING  stated, that the delay alluded to by the hon. Gentleman arose from the circumstance that the officers of the harbour department wished to save expense to the parties interested, and therefore performed the duties themselves instead of sending down commisioners.
 CAPTAIN BERKELEY  said, as it appeared the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose had only read a part of the report, without the evidence, he thought that the hon. Gentleman's attack on the Committee was rather unfair. The hon. Member also took upon himself to say that the Admiralty did not know what these harbours along the coast of England would contain—a line of battle ship, frigate, or corvette. The hon. Gentleman could not have fallen into a greater error respecting the facts of the case, for every information which could be required on the subject was in the possession of the hydrographical department; the charge against it, therefore, was without foundation. The hon. Gentleman insinuated that he (Captain Berkeley) and other Gentlemen had not read the report of the commissioners on tidal harbours; but he could state that he had
 986
 MR. RICE  felt bound, as a member of the Tidal Harbour Commission, to pay his humble tribute of respect to Captain Washington for the great attention, assiduity, and industry manifested by that gallant officer on all occasions. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose, however, had mixed up two distinct subjects, namely, the tidal harbours and the harbours of refuge, which had no necessary connection with each other. The hon. Gentleman stated that the Admiralty was totally ignorant as to what was going on respecting these harbours; he could state that the Lords of the Admiralty visited the works at Dover and Harwich within the last few weeks. Then as to the stability of the work, he believed nothing could be better or more satisfactory than the progress of the works under Mr. Walker and other eminent engineers.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, with regard to the report to which the gallant Officer alluded, it was not very easy to answer it. The only part of the statement true was, that the change had been made, and, if any one, he was the party who made it—it was entirely his own act—and he alone was responsible for it. He was sure the House would be surprised at the statement of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose, when he (Sir F. Baring) stated that he had made no alteration in the powers or business of the harbour department, and he had no intention of doing so. He held the opinion that the harbour department was of great public use and importance to the country, and had rendered a great deal of valuable service, and had operated as a very considerable check on the obstructions which had been gradually allowed to be made in our tidal harbours by local interests. It was not, therefore, intended to reduce the usefulness of that department. All that be had done, as the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon knew, was a subject of discussion before
 984 985
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  was Sony to be obliged to oppose the suggestion of his hon. and learned Friend. He believed the general feeling of the Committee was in favour of this provision in the Bill. The hon. Member for Leominster, although he objected to some of the provisions of the Bill, did not oppose this. It had also received the universal assent of the trading classes. He knew that the gentleman to whom the commercial classes in the city of London had intrusted this Bill were favourable to it, as well as the deputations which had come up from various parts of the country. Under such circumstances he was justified in saying that the commercial and trading classes were favourable to these provisions of the Bill. He would shortly point out what was their effect. As the law now stood, a Commissioner of Bankrupts had the power of withholding a certificate without protection. Therefore, for any one of these offences, or for some not nearly so great, the commissioners would suspend the certificate. This, therefore, was in the shape of a specific notice to traders as to the punishment to which they would be liable if they were guilty of certain acts. Many of these offences were now defined by the law as it stood as misdemeanors, and might be punished accordingly, and they were merely specially pointed out in
 994
 MR. BERNAL  conceived it highly inconvenient that one of the most important measures which could come under the attention of the House should come down at the end of the Session. This code of laws, in the shape of a Bill, was of greater importance than any other that had been before the House during the Session, for upon the state of the law of debtor and creditor the prosperity of the country depended. They were now asked to pass a Bill of this nature within two or three days of the prorogation. He declared that he had been positively afraid to read such a long-Bill, and be believed that many of his hon. Friends entertained the same opinion. He agreed altogether in the opinion expressed by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Sheffield as to the objectionable nature of the provisions of the Bill alluded to by him, which called for the serious attention of the House. He most strongly objected to their adopting such a measure merely because it came down backed with the recommendation of a Select Committee. If the House, as a legislative assembly, was to depute such powers to a Select Committee, it might as well abandon its functions. In the course of the Bill going through Committee yesterday, many of the anomalies of the bankrupt law, as described in that Bill struck him with amazement. The 125th Clause appeared to him to be one of the most tyrannical enactments he had ever met with. It empowered the court to issue an order to the Postmaster General to direct that all letters addressed to the bankrupt should be transmitted to the official assignee and opened by him. [The ATTORNEY GENERAL said, this was only a part of the old law.] He knew this; but when this Bill was sent to the Committee it was their duty to consider the whole extent of the bankrupt law as embodied in the Bill, for what was bad in the old law they were bound to rescind. The clause, however, to which he alluded empower ed the court to direct the Postmaster General to withhold all correspondence from the bankrupt, and authorised the official assignee to open all letters for him for a period of three months, and the court might renew such order for a similar period from time to time. The object of this was in consequence of a suspicion that the bankrupt was likely to be guilty of fraud, and a concealment of his property from the assignee of the court. This proceeding
 995
 MR. HEADLAM  was aware of the difficulty of legislating properly upon the subject; but was also aware that the trading interest were so anxious for it that he would not undertake the responsibility of opposing its further progress. He believed, however, that the alterations it would effect in the present law were, upon the whole, exceedingly inconsiderable, for provisions in favour of the bankrupt, on one hand, were counterbalanced by provisions of a contrary character on the other.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  observed, that the commissioner now pronounced, or might pronounce, his judgment in public—in open court—in a bankruptcy case, and it might be reported and read by the whole world. The Bill only proposed to enable the commissioner to append his judgment in an authentic form to the certificate—a judgment he now delivered in open court—for the guidance and satisfaction
 1002
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the right hon. Baronet would find, by reference to the 12th Section, page 5, that it gave the appeal. If there were any doubt, however, he would take care that it should be made quite clear upon the third reading of the Bill.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  said, he did not wish to see the Government act in the summary manner on this occasion which
 1016
 ADMIRAL BOWLES  said, that having been chairman of the Tidal Harbour Commission, he happened to know the dangerous state in which several of them were, in consequence of the works which had been allowed to be carried on in them in connexion with railways and other undertakings. Nothing could be more important than the report made in 1846, and which he feared the House was not sufficiently acquainted with; for it was not very likely that many hon. Members had explored the gigantic folio before him. He hoped the attention of the Government had been drawn to the subject, and that they would sec during the recess what farther steps should be taken. If the Government did not propose something on the subject early next Session, be should press upon the House the propriety of adopting steps to carry out the recommendation
 983
 LORD J. RUSSELL  stated, that he could not only say that it was a matter of great difficulty to decide as to what claims should be admitted; but he knew that both the late Lord Auckland and the Duke
 988
 LORD J. RUSSELL  agreed that this was not properly a question of franchise, but of regulation; but could not agree with the hon. Member for Oxfordshire if he meant that no remedy was required upon this subject. The Reform Act gave the right of voting to these persons; but it appeared that the only mode in which they could assert and maintain their rights was so difficult and vexatious, that practically they had not the right which the Reform Act intended that they should have. He (Lord J. Russell) must say that he thought his hon. Friend the Member for the Tower Hamlets had made out his case in that respect; and that if a man was obliged, whenever a rate was made, to go afresh to the overseers, and ask to have his name put upon the rate-book, and constantly be present to renew his claim, he was prevented from enjoying the right the Reform Act gave him. He (Lord J. Russell) agreed that the right ought not to be given in such a manner as to leave any doubt as to the person being really the householder he was described to be, and really an inhabitant
 991
 VISCOUNT NAAS  begged to remind the House that when Parliament expressed a wish that the Orange Society should be dissolved, the Earl of Roden took the whole odium of that act on himself, and that it was mainly owing to his influence that the Orangemen had submitted to the proceedings so quietly as they had done. He believed there was no one who would be more rejoiced if the recent processions were to be the last to take place in the north of Ireland, than the noble Lord to whom he alluded.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, it appeared that the noble Lord was about to vote for the principle of a Bill the machinery of which he, at the same time, confessed was inoperative. If the Bill passed into a law, all the securities provided by the Reform Bill would be completely lost. Upon this subject he begged leave to quote the opinion of Lord Denman. In the case of "The Queen  v Adolphus and Ellis "If the practice described were to prevail, there would be great danger of the most enormous bribery. The statute, in requiring that rates shall have been paid, contemplates some payment by the party's own hand."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that the works had been undertaken in conformity with the recommendations of a commission appointed by the late Government. The Admiralty was charged with the responsibility for the works. The whole circumstances connected with them was fully explained by him before the Committee on the Miscellaneous Estimates, to which he would refer the hon. Gentleman.
 MR. SCULLY  seconded the Motion.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he thought the noble Lord was not justified in describing
 1013
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, that he agreed with the hon. Member who had last spoken, when he said it was the duty of the Government to have declared all processions illegal before the 17th March; but he rose for the purpose of appealing to the House, whether it was desirable that this discussion should proceed further. He could not help thinking that he might even appeal to the Member for Dublin, whether, after the statement of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, that the affair was under inquiry at the present moment, it was not more
 1014 ex-parte
 MR. GRATTAN  expressed a hope that the Government would extend the inquiry to what had occurred at Belfast. He hoped that his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Armagh and others would use the influence which they possessed among the Orange party to prevent such processions in future. He believed that his hon. and gallant Friend and the Earl of Roden had never encouraged these processions, and that they deeply regretted the dissensions which prevailed.
 MR. MASTERMAN  said, that the clause was intended to operate only against fraudulent debtors. During his mercantile career he had witnessed so many certificates obtained by fraud, that he felt the absolute necessity of instituting some check upon the system. It was most desirable that a line should be drawn between the fraudulent debtor and one who honestly gave up his property to his creditors. The latter, he hoped, would receive every consideration from the House.
 MR. REYNOLDS  rose to move for copies of correspondence between the Government of Ireland and the civil and military authorities of the county of Down, relating to processions, &c., on the 12th July.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, he was sorry he could not comply with the appeals which had been addressed to him from both sides of the House, for he did not feel he could do so without a neglect of those duties incumbent upon him as an independent Member. Since he last had the honour of addressing them on this most melancholy subject, another murder had been committed on an unoffending Roman Catholic by a body of Orangemen in the county Down. [Viscount CASTLEREAGH: No, no!] He could assure the noble Lord it occurred in that part of Belfast which stood in the county Down, and the facts were these: It appeared that on the 11th of July, a body of Orangemen attacked a man of the name of John Cleary, an un offending Roman Catholic, and murdered him in a brutal and savage manner. Informations were tendered to the Mayor of Belfast, once a Member of that House, but he and a brother magistrate refused the informations against four of the parties who were sworn to. But they went further; they not only refused the informations, but they allowed the men that were charged to go at large upon bail, respectively of 5 l l 1006
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, the right hon. Baronet had failed to convince him that this matter ought not now to be spoken of in that House. He would remind the right hon. Baronet that Her Majesty was likely to honour Ireland by paying that country a complimentary visit. Now, the mass of the people of Ireland were Roman Catholics, and they believed this affair had been a wanton, malicious, sectarian, and party conspiracy, to deprive the people of their lives. Unless, therefore, the question was now discussed—unless full satisfaction was given—unless there was a perfect understanding that justice would be done to the people, a great deal of discord and disunion, which might be exhibited in an unpleasant shape, might be found to exist in Ireland at a time when every good Irishman wished there should be nothing but peace and good-will. He was himself so anxious that there should be nothing but peace and good-will upon the arrival of Her Majesty, that if any man smote him on the right cheek, he would offer him the left also. He asked the right hon. Baronet these questions:—Was the Earl of Roden still a magistrate and deputy-lieutenant of the county of Down? Was Mr. Beers still in the commission of the peace? This gentleman had stated, at a dinner, that the place where the outrage was committed had been called Dolly's Brae from time immemorial, but it should now be baptized "King William's Hill." And they had baptized it, but how? In the blood of the people. They murdered a boy ten years of age, and they shot an unfortunate woman of eighty—for these heroes were remarkable for wreaking their vengeance upon children and women. The hon. and gallant Baronet the Member for the county of Armagh was not so liberal as he was brave; but after these transactions, as we were in a transition state, he did not despair of converting him to liberal opinions. He regretted there should be so much party dissension in Ireland, for whilst other countries were working out their prosperity and independence by union, the people of Ireland seemed as if they were only working their own destruction by their party feelings. He condemned marchings upon the 17th March as much as he did marchings upon the unholy anniversary of the 12th July. And, after all, what was that anniversary? The anniversary of a battle between a Dutch King and an English Stuart; and upon the 12th of July in every year the followers of the hon.
 1008 1009
 MR. REYNOLDS  felt that after the appeal which had been made to him, it would be unbecoming to press the Motion, In reference to what had been said by the right hon. Secretary of State for I Home Affairs about the Earl of Clarendon, he had to express his belief that in the
 1015
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that the object of his proposition had been simply to induce the House to mitigate the severity of the law.
 MR. ROEBUCK  objected to that part of the form for the certificate of conformity (Schedule Z), by which, after declaring that the bankrupt was entitled to his certificate, the commissioner certified in the words following, to what "class" of certificate the bankrupt was entitled:—
 "And I further certify that his bankruptcy has arisen from unavoidable losses and misfortunes, and that he is entitled to, and I do award him, this certificate as of the first class; or that his bankruptcy has not wholly arisen from unavoidable losses and misfortunes, and that he is entitled to, and I do award him, this certificate as of the second class; or, that his bankruptcy has not arisen from unavoidable losses or misfortunes, and that he is only entitled to, and I do only award him, this certificate as of the third class."
 MR. ROEBUCK  put it to the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown, whether it was not a useless waste of time to be discussing this question? They had very important business before them, and he must say he thought it a complete waste of time at such a period of the Session to be engaged in an idle discussion like this.
 MR. ROEBUCK  observed, that by the 256th Clause certain acts were set down as offences—there were nine of them—and if the court—that was, a single Judge—should he of opinion that the bankrupt had been guilty of any one of these nine offences, he might refuse the certificates, and then all the debts proved under the commission became judgment debts, and any one of the creditors might take the bankrupt in execution, and incarcerate him in gaol for a year, the court having the power to release him within that time. He was aware that in the present bankrupt law something like the same principle was established, but he was anxious it should not be extended. He had several objections to the present clause. The first was, that they thereby deprived every bankrupt of the power to be tried by a jury of his country, and gave the right to every single bankruptcy Judge to decide that the debtor was guilty of the offences named in the clause—not upon the issue joined on the question, not upon a solemn trial, but they allowed the comment' or dictum of the Judge to determine whether a man was a fraudulent debtor or not. They not only gave this power to the Judge, but they enabled the creditor to imprison the debtor for a year; thus authorising the pound of flesh to be taken from the debtor, and imprisoning him besides, for having, it might be, incurred the anger of a creditor. He must say that he was very unwilling to trust the kindness of those who laid it down as a principle that every debtor was, of necessity, a rogue,
 993
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, the votes of a good many Members would depend upon the answer they should receive to the question, whether there was to be a power of appeal after a certificate had been given? and if so, whether each class of certificates would be entitled to an appeal?
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  remarked that the right hon. Gentleman was the last person in the world whom he would think of charging with a job; but he must call the attention of the House to the circumstance that the private business of the House during the present Session had been seriously obstructed by the delay which had taken place in sending up the necessary reports from the Admiralty respecting Bills affecting harbours or navigable rivers, which must be submitted to that board in the month of December, if they were to be proceeded with in the next Session. He hoped that in future Sessions of Parliament arrangements would be made at the Admiralty to prevent a recurrence of that delay.
 MR. HENLEY  thought it very hard that the Admiralty should be censured for reducing their staff of officers, when the First Lord declared that this was done from a feeling of economy, and could be effected without injury to the public service. The Government stated that they had done this on their own responsibility; and because the hon. Member wished to protect some pet child, he (Mr. Henley) did not think they should be blamed for their desire to effect a saving.
 MR. HENLEY  agreed that this was no question of franchise. The only question was, whether the machinery by which it was proposed to alter the mode whereby these parties could claim the franchise, was a right machinery. It was proposed that, once upon the register, they should remain there till objected to. The overseers would have no knowledge whether they even remained in the parish. Freeholders, to ever so low an amount, could not fairly be put in the same category with easily fluctuating lodgers. Besides, it was hardly fair, in so thin a House, at the close of the Session, to catch a second reading by way of affirming the principle of a Bill, which could not really be proceeded with in this Session. He would therefore move that it be read a second time this day three months.
 MR. HENLEY  objected to the clause. There were other fraudulent debts contracted besides bankrupt debts; and penalties ought not to be inflicted upon one class
 1001
 MR. HUME  rose to call the attention of the House to the circumstances connected with the expenditure of public money in the improvement of harbours, which he thought to be of great importance, The House would recollect, that about eight years ago a discussion took place with regard to the harbours of this country, and that in 1845, by an address of that House, Her Majesty appointed a commission to inquire into the state of our tidal harbours and navigable rivers. That commission collected a vast deal of valuable information upon the subject generally, and the Members were unanimous in recommending the adoption of a course to the Government with the view of securing for the future a proper appropriation of any funds that might be required for the improvement of the harbours of this country. Amongst other evils which the commission pointed out, there was one of long standing. By an Act of Charles II., the harbours of the country had been placed under the superintendence of the authority of the Lord High Admiral, who had powers under that Act to prevent all encroachments on land
 978 979 l 980 
 
 In 1845 £120,000 
 In 1846 30,000 
 In 1847 140,000 
 In 1848 131,000 
 In 1849 141,500 
 In all £562,500 981 
 
 In 1845 £33,836 
 In 1846 85,681 
 In 1847 4,429 
 In 1848 12,792 
 In 1849 45,771 
 In all £182,509 l "The progress of the different harbours of refuge is laid before Parliament every year, when money is voted for the advancement of the works. There is no occasion, I think, for the Harbour Commission to interfere, or go to any additional expense of public money by making inquiry." "The Admiralty have no power or jurisdiction over the construction of these harbours of refuge. They were determined by a Committee appointed for that Purpose. The plans have been determined upon, and are not carried out under the authority or supervision of the Admiralty." "No. 7 also appears to me unnecessary, as I believe the engineers send in a periodical report to the Admiralty, which should be filed in the hydrographic department or Record office." 982
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said, he felt that the Orangemen would not suffer by anything that was said by the anti-Protestant party in that House. He would wish to know why the hon. Member for Limerick and others who had spoken on the subject, had kept out of sight altogether the reasons which had induced the Orangemen to assemble. There were not only challenges sent out to the Orangemen, and threats that they would be murdered if they ventured to march, but the matter was so notorious that the Government had thought it necessary to send military to the spot. With regard to some observations that had fallen from him the other night, he thought, wherever vulgar abuse, excited by religious hatred and political animosity, was displayed, it was entitled to scorn and contempt.
 MR. SPOONER  agreed that a line should be drawn between the honest and the dishonest bankrupt; but he thought several clauses in the Bill went beyond the intention of the promoters of it.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he should give his vote in favour of the schedule as it stood. In the first place, he did it for the sake of the really honest, but unfortunate, man, who was entitled to have from the commissioner or the court that certificate of his conduct to which one who was not free from blame would not be entitled. And, in the next place, because the Attorney General had assured the House that he would take care to make provision for allowing a good and effectual appeal.
 MR. MITCHELL  said, in his opinion the distinction in grades of bankruptcy would very much reduce the stigma of
 1004
 SIR W. VERNER  was sure the House would see it was impossible, after the marked allusions made to him by the hon. Member for Dublin, that he could refrain from one or two observations. He was delighted that the House had seen a specimen of what had so frequently taken place at Conciliation Hall; and that the hon. Member had expressed himself in that House in the same unqualified and unreserved terms which he had been in the habit of using in those meetings. From his own knowledge, and from his experience—now of nearly half a century, during which he had had the honour of holding a high situation in the Loyal Protestant Society of Orangemen in Ireland, he could give the most unqualified contradiction to every one of the hon. Member's statements respecting them. The tale of its having been contemplated to alter the succession of the Crown, was too contemptible to require notice. He had intended to move, as an addition to the hon. Gentleman's Motion, for "a copy of any correspondence between the Government of Ireland and the civil and military authorities of the county of Down, relating to processions, public meetings, or armed assemblages of the people on the 12th day of this instant July; for a similar return of any correspondence relating to a procession at Crossgar, in the county Down, on the 17th day of March last; and also of a meeting and procession which took place near the town of Ready, in the county of Armagh, in the afternoon of Thursday, the 28th day of June last, or early in the morning of Friday, the 29th." On the first of these occasions there was a procession of armed Ribbonmen. Twenty-six Ribbon flags were displayed, and several
 1011 1012
 MR. GROGAN  said, the question was one which created much interest in the country. Many officers who had distinguished themselves in the command of boats were wholly excluded from participating in the distinction which the medal conferred.
 MR. F. PEEL  felt called upon to make some observations after what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield. He would, in the first place, shortly explain the particular alteration in the law of bankruptcy proposed to be made by this Bill to which the hon. and learned Member had referred. The House was aware, that upon the refusal or the suspension of a certificate, the consequence to the bankrupt was twofold—'first, in reference to his property, and next, in reference to his person. Any property which the bankrupt might acquire, whether by his own industry or by inheritance or gift, passed at once to the assignees, and was distributable among his creditors. His person also was liable to be taken in execution on a judgment obtained by any creditor who had chosen not to come in under the bankruptcy. But all creditors who had proved their debts under the bankruptcy, were considered to have elected not to proceed at law, and were barred from so proceeding, whether the bankrupt obtained his certificate or not. What the Bill proposed to do, was to make every debt proved under the bankruptcy a judgment debt; and the assignees were to be judgment creditors for the aggregate amount of the debts proved. The effect would be, that on the refusal or suspension of the certificate, any creditor, or the assignees on behalf of the whole body of creditors, would be at liberty to take out execution against the person of the bankrupt, and put him into prison. As the exercise of this power of imprisonment depended upon the refusal or suspension of the certificate, this Bill contained certain provisions upon the subject of the certificate; the general effect of which, he thought, would be to limit the discretion of the commissioners. At present
 996 997 998 l
 SIR G. GREY  entirely concurred in what had fallen from the noble Lord, He had told the hon. Member for Dublin a little time ago, the Motion was one he could not agree to, the more especially as the investigation was only now in progress.
 SIR G. GREY : What I said was, that the subject was under inquiry; and I suggested that it would not be doing any good to have a discussion upon it whilst the investigation was going on.
 Sir G. GREY  said, he had already intimated, in the few words he addressed to the House before the hon. Gentleman brought the Motion forward, the reasons which should induce him to refuse the production of these papers. They were reasons with which the House had clearly intimated they agreed. It would be most inexpedient to produce the correspondence whilst the subject was under inquiry; and at the same time he could not but deprecate a discussion that could not be productive of any benefit. He had stated before, and he now repeated it, that the Lord Lieutenant had directed a thorough and searching inquiry to be made into all the circumstances connected with the lamentable occurrence to which the hon. Gentleman had called attention. The hon. Gentleman called upon the Government, both here and in Ireland, to act firmly; but he (Sir G. Grey) must say that if they were to act in the spirit of the hon. Gentleman's observations they would be punishing people without trial or investigation, and that their proceedings ought to be characterised by some other term than that of acting "firmly." The Lord Lieutenant
 1010
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  said, that at an early part of the Session he drew the attention of the First Lord of the Admiralty to the system of the distribution of medals to the officers and seamen of the Navy; and the House was given to understand that there would be a reconsideration of the several claims. There were many actions in which the approbation of the Admiralty was specially given, and the country never intended that these parties should be excluded from the advantage of a medal. For many of these actions the Order of the Bath had been given. That such a distinguished officer as Admiral Owen should not be in possession of a medal did appear something extraordinary. In another place he understood Earl Grey said, that such actions as he had mentioned, which had received the special approbation of the Admiralty, should be excluded from the receipt of the medals.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  asked which department was originally responsible for the original plan of the harbours of refuge, and which department was responsible for the expenditure, and seeing that the works were duly executed?
 SIR J. GRAHAM  did not think that the present conversation had been altogether useless. It appeared from the evidence before the Committee last year on the Navy Estimates, that the Admiralty
 987
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, he agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield in thinking that this was a most lamentable and inexcusable loss of time; and if the hon. Baronet persisted in forcing the matter to a division, he should feel it his duty to vote against him. He admitted the premises of the noble Lord, but he was sorry to say he had come to the very opposite conclusion that the noble Lord had arrived at. He was of opinion that the householders in the position described by the hon. Baronet, were entitled to the franchise, and that some difficulty existed in obtaining the right to exercise that franchise;
 992
 Sir J. GRAHAM  had heard the speech of his hon. and learned Friend with great pleasure, and also with pain. As a warm and sincere Friend of his hon. and learned Friend, he had heard him address the House with so much perspicuity with pleasure, and with regret, because he could not agree with the doctrines which his hon. and learned Friend had laid down. He (Sir J. Graham) was unlearned in these matters; but still he had taken part in former revisions of this branch of the law. His hon. and learned Friend thought it was a great public object of the highest importance to promote the security of credit, and his learned Friend added, to extend credit. He (Sir J. Graham) doubted the latter; but when credit was withheld in consequence of the great losses attending the trade of the country, if it could be traced to fraud, it should be checked by punishment, but not of an extremely heavy description. The question was, whether the policy which had recently been acted upon with regard to credit was within equitable limits, or whether there should be a great change after the short experience they had had of the law, and arm the creditors with more summary powers, to be exercised either by themselves or the commissioners on their behalf. The law had
 999 1000
 SIR J. GRAHAM : It appeared to him that the appeal clause did not give an appeal to each class of certificates.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that if the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Sheffield persevered in the Amendment, he should feel it his duty to divide with him. He had already stated the nature of his objections to this particular operation of the measure, and the grounds upon which he entertained them. He would just recapitulate what the House had already, and without a division, adopted. They had given this judge of the Bankrupt Court a considerable amount of criminal jurisdiction; they had given him a most ample power over the property of the debtor; they had given him, under certain limits, power over the person of the debtor; and now they were going deliberately to give him a most fearful power, as it appeared to him, over the character of the debtor. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General defended this provision upon the principle that it would be for the benefit of future creditors that the true character of the bankrupt should be ascertained, and should appear upon the certificate, and this certificate was to be an enduring record, and to be published in the  London Gazette 1003
 Sir W. CLAY  had great unwillingness to withdraw the Bill after the hostile expression of opinions from the other side. However, as the noble Lord at the head of the Government had expressed his conviction that the grievance was one which ought to be remedied, he would, at his suggestion, withdraw the Bill, on the understanding that if the noble Lord did not next Session bring in a Bill, he should himself deem it his duty to do so.
 SIR W. CLAY , in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said, he was sorry to trouble the House with any observations at that late period of the Session; but it would give great satisfaction to a large body of householders if the House were to ratify the principle of relief embodied in the Bill. The question lay in a nutshell, and with the permission of the House he would shortly explain it. Hon. Members were aware that the new franchise created by the Reform Bill was given to householders occupying tenements of a certain yearly value, having resided within the borough for which they claimed to vote for six months, and having occupied a tenement for twelve months. The other condition was, that they should have paid up all rates and taxes. The machinery provided by the Reform Bill for carrying the principle into effect was, that the overseers of every parish were required to make out a list of persons occupying tenements of 10 l 989 l s s 990
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  trusted the hon. Gentleman would withdraw his Motion, at all events for the present, the matter being only now in the process of investigation.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  did not think it necessary to defend the magistrates of the county of Down against the attacks of the hon. Member for Dublin. Those attacks refuted themselves, and he did not think the gentlemen of Down cared, or need care, very much about them. He thought it exceedingly unfair towards those magistrates who had been doing their duty in a time of great difficulty, that at the time when they were about to undergo a judicial trial, they should be subjected to the criticism, and he might say the abusive language, that had been used in that House. Perhaps he might be allowed to say one word with regard to these armed bodies being illegal. He wished to know why that fact had not been discovered at the time of the processions on the 17th of March last; or why it was not considered to be within the province of the Government or of the Lord Lieutenant to proclaim the meetings, when it was known that they were about to take place? They should, if necessary, have written to the lords lieutenant of counties and to the magistrates, requiring them to make known to the people that these meetings, from whatever side they came, were to be suppressed. But the fact was, he believed great misapprehension prevailed on the subject. It was true that Mr. Baldwin had declared the other day in Down, that armed meetings were illegal; but the Earl of Roden and the other magistrates who took part in the proceedings, had no idea of anything of that kind. It was to be supposed that even the stipendiary magistrates did not know of the illegality, or that they would not otherwise have been present. The people were left to act in utter ignorance of the law. But if the meetings were illegal, why, he would ask, had not the fact been so stated when the Government had been pressed to bring in a Bill to prevent their taking place? For his own part, he believed that the subject was one on which great misapprehension prevailed, and he should therefore again protest against those gentlemen being subjected at the present stage of the inquiry to the attacks of the hon. Member for Dublin, who wished to have judgment pronounced in this case before the trial took place.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, he could throw light on some of the points brought forward by the Mover of the Amendment.
 1033 Taïb, taïb kathîr!" " 1034
 MR. BERNAL  wished to distinguish between the general question affecting the slave trade, and the question now before the House as regarded the slave trade in the Persian Gulf. The one stood on a very different basis from the other. He thought it would be very easy for us to close up the Persian Gulf with our marine, and so effectually put a stop to the slave trade; and therefore he considered the Bill, taken on its own merits, deserving of support. At the same time he did not feel himself precluded thereby from taking any course he thought proper on the general question when it came before them.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  rose and said: Mr. Speaker, before the House proceeds to take into consideration the proposals I have to make in regard to those important measures of which I have given notice, I should wish the House to have the benefit of a statement of your opinion with respect
 1040
 MR. SPEAKER : I know not how I can better answer the question put by the noble Lord than by stating to the House what is the rule which governs the practice of the House with reference to amendments made by the Lords in Bills of this description. The rule is this, that the Lords may amend Bills for the relief of the poor, if the amendment does not in any way amount to an interference with the disposition or collection of the rate to be levied, or with the persons who have the control or management of the rate. This rule has always been strictly adhered to with regard to all private Bills authorising the levying of local rates; but there have been some occasions with reference to public Bills in which the House of Commons has agreed to waive the point, and not insist on an adherence to its privileges. The precedents which have occurred in more recent years are those of the English Poor Law Bill of 1834, the Irish Poor Law Bill of 1833, the Irish Municipal Bill of the same year, and, lastly, the Irish Amended Poor Law Bill of 1847. It is quite obvious that a large number of the Amendments which have been made by the Lords in the present Bill, do most decidedly infringe upon the privileges of this House. The first two clauses of the Bill as it was sent up by this House, proposed a certain maximum amount of rate to be levied, first, upon the electoral divisions, and then upon the unions. By the omission of those two clauses, the Lords have increased the amount of the rates to be imposed; or at any rate have imposed a different amount of rate from that which the Bill, originally sent up to them by the Commons, had declared should be imposed. It will be for the House to say, whether they will follow the precedents in which I have alluded, and waive their privileges on this occasion; or whether they will maintain them. If the House should resolve to adhere to the latter alternative, the Lords' Amendments, of course, must be rejected.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : After having had your opinion, Sir, as to the question of
 1041 s d d s d s d 1042
 SIR J. GRAHAM : Sir, I can assure the House, that, upon a question affecting the ancient and undoubted privileges of
 1043 Hatsell 1044 pro tanto s s s s 1045 quantum 1046 à priori "That, in order to facilitate the passing of Bills through Parliament, this House will not insist upon its privileges in respect of any Bills, Clauses, or Amendments which may be brought from the House of Lords whereby tolls, rates, or duties are authorised, imposed, or regulated, provided the same shall be assessed and levied by local authorities, and shall not be applied to the public service." 1047 corpus 1048
 SIR G. GREY : Sir, there can be no doubt as to the importance of the question to which the right hon. Gentleman has called the attention of the House, with respect to the maintenance of the just and reasonable privileges which the House has always felt it to be its duty to maintain. Without entering at all into the merits of the particular Amendments made in the Bill by the other House, I wish to call the attention of the House to what I conceive to be an important distinction, which was lost sight of by the right hon. Gentleman, between the decision which the Committee upon Public Business came to with respect to the waiver of our privileges on questions relating to local rates, and the course which is proposed in this instance by my noble Friend. It was proposed to the Committee, and afterwards proposed to the House, that once for all we should agree, in all cases of local taxation, to waive the privileges of the House—to surrender those privileges, in fact, by a distinct resolution of the House, founded upon the recommendation of the Committee. I think the decision of this House, on the occasion in which this proposal was brought under their notice by the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, was a sound and a wise decision, and that it would have been most unwise and impolitie to have surrendered altogether, by a single resolution, the right which we now maintain, to insist upon our privileges in any case in which we think the public interest demands that they should be insisted upon. The course now pursued by the noble Lord does not in the least degree bind us for the future. No doubt it would have this effect on our future course, that it would add one to the string of precedents with respect to poor-rates in which we have not thought it necessary to insist upon the ancient privileges
 1049 1050
 MR. F. FRENCH  was anxious that the view taken by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon should not be adopted by the House. It was most extraordinary that a stand should at this moment be made upon a question of privilege. When the poor-law was originally introduced in 1838, the Lords made some important Amendments in it, in a manner that, in his opinion, tended to ruin many districts. Why was not a stand then made upon a question of privilege? He hoped the Amendments would be adopted, for their whole scope and object was to check the legislation of that House, which seemed to have proceeded on the principle that Ireland was to be regenerated by every interest connected with it being ruined.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the objection taken by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon had been left wholly unanswered. The right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary had only narrowed the question to a very simple issue, whether by continuing the course of precedent they would not be virtually giving up their privileges with regard to poor-rates. In his (Mr. Henley's) opinion any privilege which rested, as this did, upon unbroken usage, must be utterly swept away if they went on, day after day, giving way in the manner proposed by the noble Lord. If the course now proposed was pursued, and if hereafter the Commons attempted to set up their privilege, they would be involved in a discussion with the other House whether the privilege existed or not. They were actually cutting the ground from under them, and as effectually destroying the privilege as if they did so by a specific resolution. There had been an universal dissent from the resolution proposed by the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford. [Sir G. GREY: That resolution applied to all local rates.] He know that, and he knew that the right hon. Baronet drew a distinction
 1051
 MR. HUME , having been a Member of the Committee on Public Business, had then refused to give up any of the privileges of the House with respect to taxation. The privilege of taxation belonged exclusively to the House of Commons, and he saw nothing but difficulty and collision in the future, if, in this measure, they consented to yield it up. It was at all times unpleasant and inexpedient for the two Houses of Parliament to come into collision; and it appeared to him that nothing was so likely to avoid it as a steady determined resolution to adhere to their undoubted rights. There ought to be no relaxation unless in the greatest emergency; and, in his opinion, a case had been made out for a waiver on this question. If, therefore, the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon took the sense of the House upon the subject, he should, at whatever risk of inconvenience, support him.
 MR. GRATTAN  contended that there was nothing beneficial in the Amendments to counterbalance the evil of the privileges of the House being abandoned. The House had already yielded its privilege, without any advantage being thereby gained, in the case of the original Poor Law Bill for Ireland; and if they went on abandoning their rights in order to pass bad measures, they would eventually destroy the country. He suggested that—as this difficulty had arisen—the Bill should be postponed, and that next Session a measure should be introduced really adapted to promote the interests of Ireland, without interfering with the privileges of the House of Commons. If the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon divided the House upon the question, he should vote with him.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, that in matters of very great importance there might be some plea for the House giving up its privileges; but he did not think that this was a case in which they ought to be yielded. There were already so many precedents in this way that they almost became a general rule.
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, that if the proposition of the noble Lord went to impugn the resolution of the Committee
 1052
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, the hon. Gentleman appeared to have misapprehended him, and, perhaps, therefore, he might be permitted to explain what he intended to suggest. He should suggest that the same course should be taken with this Bill as was taken with a Bill yesterday. In the proceedings of yesterday, he found the following:—"Boroughs Relief Bill; Lords' Amendments to be taken into consideration this day three months." Then there was:—"Boroughs Relief (No. 2) Bill: To relieve boroughs, in certain cases, from contribution to certain descriptions of county expenditure; ordered to be brought in by Mr. Attorney General and Mr. Spooner." And the next was:—"Boroughs Relief (No. 2) Bill: To relieve boroughs, in certain cases, from contribution to certain descriptions of county expenditure; presented, and read a first and second time, and committed; considered in Committee and reported, without amendment; and read a third time and passed." This was the last proceeding in the House yesterday; and it was the example which he would recommend to be followed now.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the Bill referred to by the right hon.
 1053
 MR. VERNON SMITH  thought that if such a course had been adopted with regard to the borough of Birmingham, it ought  à fortiori
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the right hon. Baronet had urged the House to take the same course with this measure as they had with a private Bill. [Sir J. GRAHAM: No; a public Bill.] Well, a public Bill. With regard to the merits of the Birmingham Bill, there had been no dispute, and no obstacle raised to its passing through all its stages. But if the same course were taken with the present measure, it must be materially altered; and the alterations would probably give rise to so much discussion that there would be little chance of the Bill passing in the present Session.
 MR. SPOONER  contended that the Bill was just as liable to be delayed if the Commons waived their privileges, as it was if they resolved to maintain them.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, the only valuable
 1054
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, he intended to propose that the Lords' Amendments be taken into consideration that day three months; but, before moving it, he wished to know what course the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon proposed to take.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  intimated that he did not intend to divide the House.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  thought the House was greatly indebted to the right hon. Baronet for the manner in which he had brought the question forward; and he rejoiced to think there was still some respect for privileges which used to be so much valued. The late report of the Committee on Strangers was also an instance of the same feeling. The hon. Baronet then entered, at some length, into a review of the Amendments, in the course of which he stated that only five clauses had really been introduced into the Bill by the Government. All the rest were owing to private Members or to the House of Lords. Some of the clauses were inconsistent with each other; and he contended that there was no necessity for immediate legislation. It would be infinitely wiser to postpone it till next Session.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he should not enter into a discussion upon the merits of the Bill, or upon the Amendments made in it by the House of Lords. He had not heard, however, any hon. Member say that a rule was to be once and for ever laid down that the House was never to waive its privileges. This being the case, he reminded the House that it was impossible for the House of Lords to make any amendment in the Bill without interfering in some degree with the privileges of the Commons. If, therefore, the House of Commons insisted upon its privileges, the House of Lords must be deprived of all power of considering poor-law measures. For these reasons, he should vote with the noble Lord.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the hon.
 1055 1056
 SIR J. GRAHAM : Sir, I beg to claim the indulgence of the House for a few moments. The noble Lord has frankly admitted the great importance of the constitutional question, and what I am about to say shall he strictly limited to the discussion of it. I admit most distinctly that it is very difficult on a question of this nature to preserve the harmonious working of the two Legislative Assemblies, and that some concessions should be made, where it is possible to make them without the infraction of great constitutional principles—those principles which have been handed down to us as fixed, and as a special security—a security for that harmonious working. I admit as fully as the noble Lord, or any hon. Gentleman, that a conflict with the other branch of the Legislature is to be avoided. But the question is, how such a conflict is best to be avoided? I believe that reliance on the old constitutional maxims, and the strictest adherence to them, will be found the safest and best way of doing so. I declare to the noble Lord—so strongly am I impressed with this belief—that if, with reference to the public safety and advantage, it was on the whole thought expedient we should waive our privileges with respect to this question of the poor-rate, I would infinitely rather, in the next Session of Parliament, come deliberately to a resolution embodying that waiver, than go on multiplying these precedents. I tell the noble Lord—and I am sure that on reflection he will agree with me—that if we multiply these precedents, it is clear the other branch of the Legislature will avail itself of them when it pleases, and claim the right of dealing, not with the poor-rate only, but with that immense mass of local taxation which is becoming daily of more importance, and which the hon. Member for
 1057 l l 1058
 MR. SHAFTO ADAIR  said, that with respect to the constitutional question, he believed that all the Members of the House were united in a universal wish to defend their just privileges; but he also thought that in matters of privilege there was another party whose interests were to be considered, and that was the party on he-half of whom those privileges were exercised. He thought that if the public interests required them to make a waiver of their privileges, they might do so without any injury to their future position; and if any great occasion hereafter arose, such as the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon seemed to apprehend, he had no doubt but that Mr. Speaker would, as his predecessors had always done, give timely notice to the House with regard to it. He would, under these circumstances, feel bound to oppose the Amendment.
 MR. GRATTAN  said, the noble Lord at the head of the Government had now told the Irish Members, on the 27th of July, after they had been sitting there since the month of February endeavouring to amend the law, that he was quite satisfied with the Irish poor-law as it stood. When he heard that declaration he remarked to an hon. Friend near him, "The noble Lord has cut all our throats." He thought it essential that they should impose taciturnity on the noble Lord. There was once an Irish doctor in that House who was forced to hold his tongue, and who was called the muzzled doctor. They ought to have an English muzzled Lord also in the House. It was too bad that after five months' deliberation they should be met by such a declaration. He found his house on fire; he came there to look for aid, but when he looked round to the quarter from which he was to expect assistance, he found that it was much more likely to come from the ablebodied  pompier
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon seems to think that I said I was entirely satisfied with the present state of the Irish poor-law,
 1059
 MR. HUME  would not enter into the merits of the Bill; but respecting the constitutional question, his opinion was this, that, as they were representatives of the nation, and were bound to protect the national interest, it was not for them to yield a right which, from time immemorial, was constitutionally vested in the House of Commons, namely, the right of taxation. The House of Lords might yield, because they acted for themselves; but they—the House of Commons—had no right to give up a privilege which they held from the people, and which had been handed down to them by successive generations. He quite concurred with the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon, that it would be much better to come to a resolution to give up their privilege to a certain point; but in their present position he did not see that they were justified in parting with a constitutional right which they held from the people at large. Upon that ground, and without reference to the merits of the Bill itself, he should vote for the Amendment.
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  looked upon the Bill as consisting of two parts. In one respect it was a Money Bill, but it also contained a great many regulations for improving the working of the Bill. The Bill was not, therefore, strictly speaking, a Money Bill, and he thought the House of Lords had a fair right to amend it. He must, in that view of it, vote against the Amendment.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  said, that if the principle of the hon. Member for Montrose were to be carried out, that House should not, upon any measure of local taxation, go through the mockery of sending it to the House of Lords. Let that be the understood principle of the constitution if they were to act as that hon. Member required. He should vote against the Amendment.
 SIR J. WALMSLEY  thanked the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon for the opinions he had expressed on this very important question. It had been stated that the two Houses could not work harmoniously unless the House of Commons gave way upon this occasion. But they had already been favoured with strong reasons for not giving way; and if they were obliged to do so, he was satisfied that the opinion of the people out of doors would be this, that if the two Houses could not work harmoniously, one of them must be reformed, and that one was the House of Lords. He trusted, however, that this House would never yield one iota of its privilege of keeping a just and strict control over the taxation of the country.
 SIR J. YOUNG  wished to observe, with regard to what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, as to the powers of the House of Lords being considerably on the increase, that the course of legislation for the last century showed that any danger of encroachment on the part of the other House on the privileges of the people was perfectly chimerical. The question to be considered was, whether it was indispensable for this House to maintain power over local taxation—a power so difficult to maintain that it must be frequently waived—or whether they might not safely add another precedent to those that had been cited as already existing, of departure from their privileges. The House should consider, looking to the position of the House of Lords as consisting of great landed proprietors, whether that House was not better qualified to deal with these questions of local taxation than the House of Commons. He considered the line of demarcation between questions of local and general taxation to be so broad, that there could be no danger whatever of its being passed.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, the hon. Member who had just resumed his seat, had told them that he could see no harm in adding another to the precedents already existing of departure from the privileges of the
 1061
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  thought that the Bill, as the noble Lord wished them to receive it, contained scarcely one principle worth having. He was afraid that the hopes which had been raised throughout the country would be disappointed. In his opinion it would have been better for the noble Lord to have adhered to the principles with which he started; he believed those principles would have been most beneficial to the country; and the more they were exhibited, the more they would be approved of.
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  said, that if the statement turned out to be true, he should regret that the proposition for taking-possession of the waste lands of Ireland was not carried into effect, for they might have discovered means at once to have paid off the national debt. As to the maximum rate which it was now proposed to omit, he never was very sanguine as to the effect; on the contrary,
 1064 ex confesso
 COLONEL DUNNE  was much disappointed that Government should have abandoned the maximum clause after it had received the support of nearly all the Irish Members. He did not think that any rate should be allowed to reach confiscation; and seeing that, according to the Earl of Rosse, the local taxation of England was only 2 s d s d
 MR. GRATTAN  thought that the House would take it for granted that the Poor Law Bill had totally failed. Mr. Nicholls and Captain Kennedy had given it as their opinion that no measure could do good unless that which gave employment. The Government were mistaken if they thought the Poor Law Bill would give permanent relief; but then they had another resource in emigration. He had never heard that a country was made powerful, great, and rich by exporting its people. He saw but one remedy—he hoped the day would come when the English Members would rise in a body and say to the Irish representatives, "Go home; we are tired of you and your affairs." But right hon. Gentlemen opposite were afraid of that magic word "Repeal;" but there were men who did not yet forget it, and who thought that if anything could save their country, it would be self-legislation. There was no sincerity in the maximum clause, and that was the reason why the noble Lord only set its proper value on it. He thought that the Irish gentry had a right to complain of the mode in which they
 1065 l l
 MR. F. FRENCH  supported the pro-position of the noble Lord, and felt that they were under a deep debt of obligation to the Lords for the manly manner in which they had dealt with the clause. He had heard with pain the noble Lord at the head of the Government say that he was content with the poor-law, and that he sought no alteration in the Bill. Did the noble Lord think that he or any other Minister would be able to maintain a law so injurious to the welfare of the country? He told the noble Lord that the Irish Members were prepared to act in a body, and that neither he nor any other Minster would be able to maintain the law.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  opposed the omission of the clause. When they were providing for the poor of the country, they had no right to tax only one species of property. The clause, as sent up to the Lords, laid down the principle that charges upon land, so far as they could be got at, should go to the support of the pauperism, as well as the fee and the occupancy of the property. Why should a man who, out of an estate of 5,000 l l l l
 MR. SADLEIR  hoped the hon. Baronet would not divide against the noble Lord's Motion. As the clause went up to the other House, it made jointures chargeable in the first place, and annuities and rentcharge in the second place. The effect of imposing poor-rate on jointure would be intolerable; and to impose it on rent-charges and annuities, would be only to add an additional charge upon the land. Many English capitalists had advanced their money on the security of Irish rent-charges and annuities, and the effect of such a law would be to induce them at once to call in the arrears due to them.
 MR. AGLIONBY  wished to know what the opinions of the Irish Members were? He thought that amidst the variety of opinions expressed by the Irish Members, the best plan to pursue was to reject the clause.
 LORD J. RUSSELL MR. HENLEY  said, that he could not understand why ratepayers in Ireland should not be entitled to a copy of the ratebook, as in England.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that his hon. Friend was mistaken in supposing that the provisions in this clause had the least analogy to the provisions of the English law. By this clause the parties were not to have a copy of the ratebook, but the amount of the rates which were due. It was the collector's book, not the ratebook.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  observed, that the clause now under discussion was ancillary to another clause, which gave the landlord a power of ejecting his tenant when more than a year's rates were due, To that clause he had an insuperable objection, and therefore he should vote against the present clause.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  then moved that the House should disagree with the Lords' Amendment in the 27th Clause.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  thought that the clause would considerably facilitate emigration, and that it ought to stand in its present shape.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the effect of the clause as it stood would be to encourage collusion, and tend to substitute rates for emigration for rates for the relief of the poor.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he did not sec any reason why, when one man owed another man money, the party to whom the debt was owing might not set off any sum which he owed his debtor. Therefore, if
 1068 l
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that in law there was no set-off against a poor-rate. The relief of the poor was in all cases a ready-money transaction.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  next proposed to agree to so much of the Lords' Amendment inserting Clause 30 as is contained in the proviso commencing line 10 of page 18. and ending line 31 of the same page, and to disagree to the rest of the clause.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he should divide the House upon the clause.
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to a valuable discovery which had been made, calculated to develop the resources of Ireland, and to aid in relieving the poverty of the country. The announcement he now made, might at first be listened to with incredulity by hon. Members; but, in support of his statement that a valuable discovery had been made, he would read to the House the following letter he had received from an English chemist:—
 "I beg to acquaint you that a discovery has been made in Ireland which will materially enhance the value of landed property in that country. It consists in the aptitude of its millions of peat acres to produce at a trifling expense—little more than that of manual labour—oil, naphtha, naphthaline, muriate of ammonia, candles, pitch, tar, and other principles, by a new process of distillation. These several materials were submitted to me some months ago by Mr. Owen, and, from
 1069 "JOHN WATERS, M. D., "South-crescent, Bedford-square." l l l 1070
 LORD ASHLEY , having been thus appealed to, would to only too happy to bear his testimony to the high character of Mr. Owen. In fact he would be most unwilling that the name of that gentleman should be mentioned in the House without his (Lord Ashley's) coming forward to give his full testimony that a more discreet, sober, generous, high-minded and religious man than Mr. Owen, it had never been his lot to meet. Mr. Owen was a trader who had long carried on a most extensive business; and a person more capable of undertaking operations such as those at present in question, as well as a person more incapable of making an exaggerated statement in reference to them, did not exist. His hon. Friend the Member for Ennis had given him notice that it was his intention this evening to appeal to him (Lord Ashley) upon the subject; and, accordingly, in order that he might be sure of his ground, he had that morning called upon Mr. Owen to ascertain from him the exact results of his experiments and operations. He would therefore state to the House the facts exactly as they had been stated to him, observing, however incredible these results might appear, that they were yet the fruit of actual experiment, of a course of experiments which had been going on for more than a twelvemonth, in which Mr. Owen had invested considerable capital, and from which he had already reaped considerable returns. The great value of the plan was, that Mr. Owen sought for no recompense or reward from the country. His object was to confer benefit upon Ireland, and to show that there existed in that country a profitable investment for money which had never hitherto been dreamed of. The statement which he had to make to the House was as follows. The extraction of 100 tons of peat in Ireland would cost 8 l l 1071 
 
 £ s d 
 Carbonate of ammonia, 2,602 lbs., value 32 10 2 
 Soda, 2, 118 lbs. 8 16 6 
 Vinegar, 600 lbs. 7 10 0 
 Naphtha, 30 gallons 7 10 0 
 Candles—that was the stuff of which candles were constructed—600 lbs. 17 10 0 
 Camphine oil, 600 lbs. 5 0 0 
 Common oil, 800 lbs. 3 6 8 
 Gas 8 0 0 
 Ashes 1 13 0 
 Total £ 91 16 4 l l l
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that as his hon. Friend who had just spoken had touched upon the general question of the suppression of the slave trade, he would address a very few words in answer to the objections he had urged. He (Lord J. Russell) did not consider that the passing of this Bill would at all commit the House in regard to any future conclusion to which they might arrive on the general question of the means to be adopted for the suppression of the slave trade. The conclusions
 1038 1039
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, that a Committee had been sitting for two years to consider the best means of putting an end to the slave trade; and the Committee had reported "That the suppression of the slave trade by naval force was, in their opinion, impracticable." It was painful, no doubt, to confess failure in an object which the country had so much at heart; but that was the conclusion to which the Committee had arrived. On account of the lateness of the Session and other causes, the report of the Committee had not yet been brought officially under the notice of the House. He (Mr. E. Denison) had come to the same conclusion which had been arrived at by the majority of that Committee. It was a painful position to be placed in at the end of a Session of Parliament, to be asked to vote for a Bill to enable Her Majesty to carry into effect certain engagements or treaties in the Persian Gulf for the more effectual suppression, of the slave trade—the means to be taken for that purpose being the employment of a naval force—means which the Committee had come to the conclusion were entirely ineffectual. The noble Lord said that there would be no expense incurred; but he must doubt the correctness of that view, when he saw the provision made in Clauses 8 and 9 for bounty on captures and for indemnification. He had no alternative if there were a division than to vote against the Bill.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  agreed with the right hon. Member for Manchester that all attempts hitherto made for the suppression of the slave trade had, to a great extent, failed; but he attributed that failure to certain concessions which had been made by the Government to hon. Members opposite. It would hardly mend the matter to make further concessions in the same direction, He greatly doubted whether the hon. and learned Member for Youghal truly represented the feeling of his constituents in opposing this Bill.
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to the fact, that the Committee, where these differences, it was true, existed, had yet decided by a majority against the policy pursued by the Government. But Government always took care, in the appointment of every Committee, to have a majority of the Members in favour of their own views, and hence the result at which this particular Committee arrived showed that the Government had been beaten. The Committee decided on two allegations—first, that our policy in regard to the slave trade, instead of doing good, aggravated its horrors; and, secondly, that it was a source of great expense to this country. Our exertions in those seas had increased the atrocities perpetrated on the slaves. They found now such cases occurring as 500 human beings crowded into a vessel of 100 tons; and as no such cases used to occur in former years, he thought they might fairly be attributed to our cruisers on the coast of Africa.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  stated it to have been his intention to have offered some opposition to the principle of this Bill on the second reading; but in consequence of the absence of the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, he had postponed doing so. He believed Bills of this description were productive of a great deal of mischief. He had various and well-grounded objections to treaties of this kind, as he felt they had been productive of injury to the cause of humanity, and the slave trade had increased in consequence of them, and in spite of them. He contended, moreover, that this was not a time to increase the naval expenditure of the country, unless in cases in which the honour and dignity of
 1031 l l bonâ fide 1032
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  wished to ask the noble Lord whether a better understanding was likely to be arrived at with the Emperor of Brazil on the subject of our attempts to suppress the slave trade. He was told that very great uneasiness existed as to the state of relations between England and Brazil, and that these relations had been disturbed by our slave-trade policy; but he must say that it appeared to him very strange that it should have been thought necessary at all to have entered into any treaties whatever with these different chiefs, if we had a right to seize
 1036
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  was sorry to differ from his right hon. Friend who had just spoken; but in all transactions connected with the suppression of the slave trade, he pinned his faith to the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, whose conduct during the last fifteen years had been most straightforward and consistent in that matter. In his opinion a squadron would always be necessary for the suppression of the slave trade.
 SIR T. E. COLEBROOKE  seconded the Amendment. He viewed this measure simply as an attempt to continue and extend those attempts to suppress the slave trade by force which a long experience had now proved to be abortive and futile. They were now about to apply a system which had already signally failed on the coast of Africa to Mussulman tribes, without the least reflection as to its total inapplicability to them, and the manifest difference in all their habits, customs, and feelings. This was the most idle and useless of all the attempts which had yet been made to suppress the slave traffic; and the only effect of it would be to imperil our commercial relations in the East. But besides the general objections on principle, there were particular objections applicable to that particular case. The reasons for putting down the slave trade had always been regarded as of an exceptional nature—we interfered only on account of the magnitude of the evil; and it had always been held that we should not interfere with a nation on this account except upon the strongest grounds of humanity. There were no such reasons in the case of the eastern nations, for slavery with them was a very different institution to the slavery in other nations, and had not those repulsive features. Would the right hon. Baronet the President of the Board of Control say that the East India Company were in such a state that for a speculative object they were prepared to embark in increased expenditure? Or were the vessels now devoted to the suppression of piracy, and the protection of commerce, to be taken away for this new object? Considering that the whole question of the slave trade must come under the consideration of the House early next Session, upon the report of the Committee which had sat upon that subject, he protested against embarking upon this vain and idle attempt.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  was not going to discuss with the hon. and learned Gentleman who made this Amendment, or with the hon. Baronet who seconded it, the abstract love of slavery which was too evident in the course of their speeches. He would not, moreover, discuss with the seconder of the proposition the amiable character of slavery in Mahomedan countries; but it must be borne in mind that a great part of the slaves who were the subjects of slave States on the eastern coast of Africa, were Christians, natives of Abyssinia, and therefore had, in a greater degree, the sympathy of the British public than the negroes on the west coast. But the practice of slavery, both on the west and east coast of Africa, was to this country matter of great interest, because that great continent, that might naturally offer an amazing field for European commerce, never could be opened to the commercial intercourse of this country so long as that abominable slave trade was carried on. It was doubted whether those chiefs were independent; but no doubt whatever could exist on the subject. They were perfectly independent—as much so as the Imaum of Mascat, or the Schah of Persia. The hon. and learned Gentleman wished that it should be set forth in the treaty with each, that he was independent; but such a thing was never found in any treaty whatever. Su far as the argument of the hon. and learned Gentleman went, as to our getting into angry discussion with the Schah of Persia on this question, the answer was a plain one—that in the month of June last year the Schah issued a firman prohibiting the slave trade in the Persian Gulf, and, in the formality of the East declared that firman to be equal to a decree of fate. [Mr. ANSTEY: Why was a Bill not brought in upon that point?] It was not necessary in order to carry into effect the decree of the Schah of Persia, as it was in the case of the other chiefs. The chiefs bad granted the right of search; the Schah of Persia had not. But it was said they were engaged in a wild goose chase in endeavouring to persuade Mahomedan
 1035
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS   reported
 MR. BERNAL  wished it to be distinctly understood that it was impossible to know or to be answerable for the contents of such a number of Bills as had come down from the other House since Twelve o'clock, the Amendments in which the House was called upon to agree with before Three o'clock. He alluded more particularly to Railway Bills. In the ensuing Session he trusted some measures would be taken to put a stop to a practice which was utterly repugnant to anything like sound legislation, or to the respect which was due to the House of Commons.
 MR. VERNON SMITH , not having been a Member of the Committee, and knowing nothing of the evidence produced before it, appealed to the House whether they could, in the absence of that evidence, come to a vote such as that now proposed? The hon. Member for Inverness-shire, who had made the Motion, had not entered into any reasons for asking the House to assent to it, for he knew that he could not do so without referring to evidence which, as not having been reported, it would be contrary to rule to allude to. The hon. Gentleman who spoke last, had, notwithstanding that salutary rule, alluded to the evidence, and had most properly been called to order by the Speaker for doing so. But the hon. Member had not thought fit to press his Motion for the production of the evidence, probably out of kindness to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, who he knew had that day other fish to fry. There could be no doubt that the passing of this Motion would in effect he a censure on Lord Torrington; and, for one, he would never consent to brand with censure the governor of a colony, unless upon the most satisfactory and conclusive evidence. It was impossible for any governor to maintain his position in times of difficulty without incurring considerable obloquy. He had not, however, risen to defend the conduct of Lord Torrington; and if sufficient grounds should be shown in the ensuing Session to justify his impeachment, he did not mean to say that he would not vote for such a step. But at present—in the absence of all evidence—he knew of no grounds to justify the condemnation of Lord Torrington, which the appointment of the commission proposed would in effect be. It was true that the appointment of a Committee of that House to inquire into the proceedings of the governor of a colony, might, to a certain extent, impair his power, and operate as a censure upon him; but a commission on the spot to investigate his conduct would do away with his authority altogether from the very moment they landed. The Motion was certainly in words—"to appoint a commission to
 1089
 MR. VILLIERS  thought his right hon. Friend the Member for Northampton must he satisfied that his observations were uncalled for and unjust, for he had reflected upon the Committee without knowing its proceedings, and imputed objects to them for which he had no grounds, and for which no one had afforded him any reason. He (Mr. Villiers) begged to say there was no intention on the part of the Committee of impugning the conduct of Lord Torrington, or of embarrassing the Government by the vote which had been arrived at. Nor, indeed, was such the necessary consequence of it. Far from it. The vote had been arrived at really upon the ground of justice to Lord Torrington. The Committee voted for demanding further information, instead of publishing the evidence as it stood, without that further information. That alone was the spirit in which the Motion was proposed and carried—that further information was desired. The statements were very conflicting, and the Committee felt it would not be fair to allow serious imputations upon the Governor of an important colony to go forth without being assured of further information. Ultimately the present Motion was carried, because, he was sorry to say, his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies would not assent to any compromise. If he had, this Motion would not have been made. The Motion to which the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire had referred in his observations was, that the Committee should ask leave to sit again next Session, and that the Secretary of State for the Colonies should be communicated with stating the desire for further information. That was proposed by the hon. Member; and he (Mr. Villiers was instrumental in inducing the hon. Member to strike out of it some severe words. But even to that his hon. Friend would not assent.
 1093
 MR. LAW  hoped the noble Lord would not persevere in forcing a division under such circumstances.
 MR. FOX MAULE , as a confirmation of what had fallen from his hon. Friend the Member for Rochester, would state a circumstance which had occurred within the last two hours. Among the Bills which had come down from the Lords, and which had been read a third time that morning, was a Railway Bill. His noble Friend the Vice-President of the Board of Trade (Earl Granville) had come down to the other House with the view of introducing
 1075
 LORD HOTHAM  was desirous of placing beyond all dispute the question of notice or no notice of his intention to bring the Motion for a Commission before the Committee. When the Committee met on Tuesday last, two letters of a very important character were read. The importance of them was deemed by the Committee to be so great that they refused to allow them to be published with their ordinary Minutes. After that refusal, the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies applied
 1095 1096 1097
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that if the Committee were to meet again and propose
 1100
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, it was not necessary that the hon. Gentleman should divide; but the Motion having been made, it was necessary that the Government should ask the House to negative it,
 LORD J. RUSSELL : When the hon. Gentleman the Member for Inverness-shire made his Motion, I said, if I recollect rightly, that if the evidence before the Committee be incomplete, as the hon. Gentleman says it is, and if the inquiry be not carried to the full extent that it ought to be carried, then let the evidence be completed, and let the inquiry be fully carried out. And I certainly meant to convey that the only way which I think that could be done, would be by the reappointment of the Committee at the commencement of next Session, and by its being then enabled to have before it such witnesses as could give further evidence on the subject. I certainly said very clearly at the commencement of the discussion, that there might be witnesses who could not have
 1099
 LORD J. RUSSELL  was of opinion, that in so far as it concerned the good government of our dependencies, it was a very serious question whether a commission should be appointed to inquire into the conduct of the executive officers at the head of one of those dependencies. It appeared to him that commissions might be appointed, and had been appointed from time to time, to inquire into the state of our colonies, their general administration, and likewise their finances, and to get such information as might enable Parliament to legislate. But an inquiry into the means taken for the suppression of insurrection appeared to him as calculated to weaken and impair the authority of any person exercising the functions of government. He did not see how it was possible for any person to go on conducting the affairs of a colony with a grand inquisitor in that colony collecting all complaints, and taking the evidence of every person who might have any charge to make against him with regard to an insurrection which, like most other insurrections, had not been suppressed without the exercise of force, and the application of those measures of coercion which it was usual and necessary to resort to under such circumstances. There was an insurrection in Canada some years ago, which was put down by Sir J. Colborne, who was rewarded with the highest honours the Crown could bestow. Had they sent out a commission of inquiry into the means taken by Sir J. Colborne to put down that insurrection, his legitimate authority as governor of the colony must have ceased. Again, they had had an insurrection in Ireland last year, which was promptly suppressed by the energetic steps taken by his noble Friend the Lord Lieutenant; but had they afterwards sent over a commission to inquire by what means that insurrection had been put down and suppressed, the authority of the Lord Lieutenant and the Executive of Ireland would have been gone. Therefore, he said, that although it might be perfectly right to appoint a commission to inquire into the affairs of a colony generally, a commission to inquire and take evidence on the spot as to how a go-
 1082 1083 1084
 LORD J. RUSSELL  rose to move that the House, at its rising, do adjourn till Tuesday next.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, the evil complained of by my hon. Friend arises, in a great measure, from the manner in which the business is conducted in this House. In the early period of the Session so many notices of Motion are given and discussed, and so many Amendments are moved on
 1077
 LORD J. RUSSELL  had not meant to cast any imputation on the House. On the contrary, he had said on more than one occasion the Government had been assisted by the manner in which the House had acted.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the noble Lord seems to plead guilty to the charge of his being the cause of the very unsatisfactory
 1078 1079
 MR. DISRAELI  observed, that the whole of the conversation showed that the contemplated prorogation of Parliament was premature, and rendered legislation, according to the admission of a Member of the Government, unworthy of the confidence of that House. As public Bills were of just as much importance as private Bills, he had some time ago proposed that the same rule should be applied to both, and that a day should be fixed beyond which no Bills should be introduced, unless they were mere continuing Bills, or Bills called for by some sufficient public exigency at the time. The truth was, that as soon as Parliament was prorogued for six months, neither the Ministry, from whatever party formed, nor those efficient Gentlemen who worked under them, ever considered public business, but employed the whole of the six months of the vacation in what was called relaxation. They began to prepare their measures only at the moment when Parliament reassembled. He hoped the almost disgraceful scene which had been witnessed in the House during the last few days in connexion with the conduct of business, would induce the House to make some change in this respect.
 MR. DISRAELI  would not detain the House more than a few moments, and should not have risen to address them at all, had not the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken much misrepresented the true state of the case. The ground of the right hon. Gentleman's argument against the Motion was founded on the fact that the evidence taken before the Committee had not been printed and circulated amongst Members; and the resolution of the Committee had been described by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, as an inquisitorial act, and as indicating a partial and persecuting spirit on the part of those who brought it forward. Now, without entering into the secrets of the Committee-room, or the conduct of the Governor of Ceylon, he thought it right to place before the House all that he was justified in stating as to the proceedings of the Committee with respect to the evidence not having been printed. There was a Motion made in the Committee, by the hon. Member for Montrose to print the evidence. That Motion was resisted, because it was said the evidence was imperfect, and, as it stood, conveyed a  primâ facie 1090 1091 1092
 MR. HAWES  thought it necessary to say just one word in explanation. With regard to the meeting of the Committee to which allusion had been made, it was right to mention that no notice had been given of it. [ Cries of
 MR. NEWDEGATE  observed that the noble Lord himself clearly admitted the necessity of further inquiry into the conduct of Lord Torrington, and yet he would now divide the House against, or negative, a Motion, the object of which was to secure further inquiry. One of two constructions would be put upon the course persisted in by the noble Lord—either that by his own admission of the necessity for such inquiry, he cast imputations upon the conduct of the Governor, whilst he opposed the readiest means of investigating it; or, that he wished the House to come to a vote that would look like a vote of confidence in Lord Torrington after a Committee had been appointed to inquire as to certain acts of his government, and that Committee had declared that further evidence was required.
 MR. SPEAKER  reminded the hon. Gentleman that he had already spoken on the subject.
 MR. SPEAKER : If the evidence has not been reported, it is clearly out of order to allude to it.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he agreed with the observations which had just fallen from the hon. Member for Rochester. When many Bills came down from the House of Lords at this late period of the Session, but little opportunity was afforded to the House to consider them; but he had looked at the Amendments referred to, and it appeared to him there was nothing in them that interfered with the privileges of the House, or altered, as he understood, the main features of the measure referred to.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  observed, that the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire was incorrect in stating that there was no Committee of Supply for the first three months of the Session. There was one at the end of February.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  having remarked that he could not attach either of the constructions of the hon. Member to the course proposed by his noble Friend as to this Motion,
 MR. AGLIONBY  hoped that for the convenience, not only of the House, but of the public, some other plan would be adopted next Session; for the manner in which the business had been conducted for the last month was not at all satisfactory. There was no business for the first three or four months of the sitting—there was nothing but talk. There was a morning sitting at the time Members were attending to the duties which were imposed upon them in Committees. He was certain that for the last month a great number of valuable Members had been unable to attend on a single Bill in a morning. It was putting a dangerous power in the hands of Government to have the business carried on in the morning.
 MR. BAILLIE  said, that having had the honour of being chairman of the Committee appointed to inquire into the late disturbances in Ceylon, he had been instructed by the Committee to move an humble Address to Her Majesty, praying for inquiry respecting the late insurrection at Ceylon. As the Committee had decided that for the present the evidence taken before them should not he communicated to the House, and under these circumstances as it would be improper that he or any other Member of the Committee should make any observations upon the evidence, he would endeavour to confine the few observations he had to make to a simple statement of the grounds on which the Committee conceived it to be their duty to make this application for the means of further eliciting the truth, and forwarding the inquiry which had been
 1080
 MR. BAILLIE  must object to the hon.
 1086
 MR. BAILLIE  said, the reason the Committee did not agree to the Motion of the adjournment was, that it was understood at the time that the House should adjourn over from Friday evening until Tuesday. Out of the four Members of the Committee who had been absent, he had himself given notice to two. He believed, also, that Sir R. Peel was aware of the matter, and that the only Member of the Committee who had not notice of the meeting was Mr. Gladstone. If the Committee were to be again called together next Session, and if the noble Lord engaged that Government would take measures to procure the attendance of witnesses required from Ceylon in the interim, he could have no objection to withdraw his Motion, but he would do so only on that understanding.
 MR. ROEBUCK  suggested to the noble Lord, that he should bring in one Bill at a time, and carry it through steadily, and adhere to that measure, and finish it. Now, according to the present practice, at the end of every Session, there was what was called "the sacrifice of the innocents," when more than half the measures of the Government were thrown over-hoard, and all previous labours were rendered futile.
 MR. HUME  alluded to the way in which the business had lately been pressed on, and said that it could do credit to no one. Why was the House to pass over the Monday?
 MR. HUME  entirely agreed in the observations of his hon. Friend the Member for Rochester as to the propriety of the House altering their mode of proceeding in this respect. When he observed the bustle and hurry which had been exhibited that day with respect to these private Bills, he felt bound to protest against such a mode of legislation. The table was covered with Bills, and he thought it would be better to throw them all out, than pass them in such a way as precluded the House from becoming acquainted with their contents. Some rule ought to be laid down with respect to the period of introducing Bills and proceeding with them. He would ask if such a course of transacting the public business would redound to the dignity of the House?
 MR. HUME  said, he disapproved of the withdrawal, because during the whole of this discussion the inhabitants of Ceylon, who required justice to be done to them, had never once been alluded to. Lord Torrington seemed to be the only party to be heeded. ["Order!"]
 MR. HUME  would then state what was not in the evidence. They knew that the Governor of Ceylon was directed by the Sovereign to send once every six months the proceedings of the executive and legislative councils: they had evidence in the statement of his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies to show that the proceedings up to December, 1848, which would have given them the official information of the origin, cause, and grounds for establishing martial law, had not been forwarded. None of the proceedings of the Legislature and the Government had been forwarded, and therefore they were in ignorance of the form and manner of the steps which Lord Torrington had taken. Here, then, was a clear breach of the Sovereign's instruction. This also they knew without having recourse to the evidence taken by the Committee—that 35 courts-martial had been held, and that neither in the Colonial Office nor in the War Office were there any accounts of the' manner in which those tribunals had been constituted, or of their proceedings. They knew not the number of officers of which they consisted. All they did know was that no official record of their proceedings had been sent to England. And yet Earl Grey had given his unqualified approval of all these acts. He (Mr. Hume), on behalf of Her Majesty's subjects generally, said where martial law superseded and set aside the law of the land, as it had done in Ceylon, and the Governor failed in his duty to send home the information which he was directed by the Queen to send, and especially the information as to all the proceedings connected with the courts-martial, which ought to have been sent before those proceedings were sanctioned and approved, the House was bound, not only to institute an inquiry, but to pursue the investigation to the end. In this case a full and fair inquiry was absolutely necessary, not only for the sake of the colonists, who complained that their rights as subjects of Her Majesty had been invaded, but in justice to the Governor, whose conduct was called in question. The evidence before the Committee proved that Lord Torrington had exceeded his legitimate functions. [Mr. HAWES: Order, order!] I say yes, we have evidence to prove it. [Mr. HAWES:
 1087
 MR. HUME  had alluded to the evidence, but had not quoted from it. The hon. Member the Under Secretary denied his (Mr. Hume's) allegation. But the hon. Member was not warranted in denying an allegation which could be proved. [Mr. HAWES: I am quite ready to meet your allegations.] Well, then, meet them now. But with the evidence they had of the sacrifice of life which had occurred, the promulgation of orders which had been issued, and the exercise of powers unknown in any part of the dominions of the Queen, except in Ceylon—when they had evidence of the property of innocent persons having been confiscated and sold at a great sacrifice, and the only satisfaction afterwards accorded to them being the promise of the return of the proceeds of the sale—with the knowledge they had of the sacrifice of life and property which had resulted from the conduct of the Governor of that colony, it behoved that House, for the protection of the lives and properties of Her Majesty's subjects in all her dependencies, that a full explanation should be had. In the absence of the proceedings of the Legislative and Executive Councils, and in the absence of all official details of Lord Torrington's proceedings, except as to one court-martial, the Committee had not the information necessary to enable them to conclude their inquiry. All they knew was, that a number of lives had been sacrificed; and, in his opinion, they had taken a proper course in advising a commission to proceed to the spot to carry out the investigation, and ascertain the real facts, in order to enable the House to form a judgment as to the merits of the case. He knew of no other mode by which justice could be done; and if the noble Lord meant, by refusing this Motion, to say that everything should be done to screen any governor of a colony charged with improper conduct, and that means should not be afforded to those who were complaining of injustice, to establish their case—if that was to be the principle on which our colonies were to be governed, the dissatisfaction would not he confined to Ceylon, but would extend to all. This resolution was perfectly in concurrence with the wishes of the inhabitants of the colony, who asked for a commission
 1088
 MR. HUME  seconded it.
 MR. HUME  said, that with regard to the Committee being taken by surprise, the first notice was given for the day when the Committee was summoned for special purposes. Notice was given by Lord Hotham that he intended to propose the resolution in question; but another notice was issued by the clerk, in which, by mistake, that resolution was not referred to. The Committee, however, were specially summoned. [Mr. HAWES: No; it was the ordinary summons.] The summons was a special one. Notice of a resolution was given on which the Committee were to meet, and the clerk was directed to insert it in the circular, but, by mistake, he omitted to do so; but the Committee were summoned for other purposes, and they were all there. [Mr. HAWES: No!] He admitted that there were three Members absent—Sir R. Peel, Mr. Gladstone, and Mr. Adderley—who were out of town at the time. [Mr. HAWES: There were four absent.] He understood there were four
 1085
 SIR G. GREY   reported
 SIR J. GRAHAM  was quite sure it was the wish of the House that this discussion should be brought to a close as soon as it could be, consistently with justice. The House would remember that they were sitting in a judicial capacity upon the character of a nobleman performing high functions in a distant colony, a nobleman representing the Sovereign, and conducting the affairs of the country. He was, therefore, certain that there could be nothing of party or of personal feeling in the matter now before the House. Their wish could only be that the strictest justice should be done in a manner the least conducive to the excitement of heated or angry feelings. He knew nothing of the question except what he had heard in the course of this discussion. But after the speeches of his hon. Friends the Members for Wolverhampton and Honiton, he had formed a strong opinion as to what the justice of the case demanded. He thought the opinion of the Committee, in the proportion of nine to one, that it would not be consistent with justice to publish the evidence, quite binding upon the judgment of the House. He was also of opinion, after what he had heard, that it was not possible the inquiry could close as the matter now stood. Admitting these two facts, in which the House appeared to him to concur generally, he must be permitted to state that in his opinion the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies had not in the Committee exercised a wise discretion in rejecting the alternative of a compromise. [Mr. HAWES: I did not.] He had understood the hon. Members for Buckinghamshire and Wolverhampton to say the hon. Gentleman was not willing to accede to any arrangement—that if there was a pledge given on the part of the Government that the Committee should reassemble next Session, to proceed with the inquiry, and that steps should in the meantime be taken to obtain from the colony such information
 1098
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that if driven to a division he certainly would feel bound to vote with the noble Lord; but at the same time, as the hon. Member for Inverness-shire was willing to withdraw his Motion, and as the Committee were to meet again on Monday, he thought the substantial object in view would be attained, and the honour of all parties secured, by not dividing. He would, therefore, earnestly entreat of the noble Lord to consent to a withdrawal of the Motion.
 SIR J. W. HOGG  thought, as a Member of the Committee, that nothing could be more inexpedient and unjust than to consent to the appointment of the commission. The House would naturally expect that the recommendation to pursue an inquiry at Ceylon into the conduct of the Governor, would be supported, at all events, by a large majority of the Members of the Committee. But what were the facts? The Committee consisted of fifteen Members. Four of these, Sir R. Peel, Mr. Stuart Wortley, Mr. Gladstone, and Mr. Adderloy, were absent at the time the recommendation was agreed to. The noble Lord the Member for the East Riding having intimated his intention to submit the recommendation on a particular day, it was naturally to be expected that that intimation would have been inserted in the notices sent out to all the Members of the Committee; but it was omitted in the
 1094 primâ facie
 MR. HEADLAM  contended, that after the Bill had run the gauntlet of Committees of both Houses, it ought not, except upon the very clearest grounds, to be rejected at this stage. To do so would be a great hardship upon the parties whose interests were concerned. At the last moment the Lords had introduced a compulsory audit clause in both Bills; but although that was very objectionable to the parties, they preferred having them with that clause to having no Bill at all. The measure had been fully considered by all the parties concerned, and he hoped that the House would not now concur in a proposal for its rejection on the application of its opponents.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that these Amendments amounted virtually to only two. The first was in the eighth section, where power was given to the commissioners to meet together and to make rules with the sanction of the Lord Chancellor; and the Lords had added the words in the part of the clause where the meeting of the commissioners was mentioned, "Of which the senior commissioner shall be one." There could be objection to that Amendment. The other was the insertion of the word "not," which his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Sheffield had complained of, as having been accidentally omitted. With regard to that omission, it was right, however, to say that it was perfectly immaterial, as the context of the clause would show the object with sufficient distinctness. A complaint had been made elsewhere that the Committee by whom this Bill had been considered, had not a just proportion of equity lawyers upon it, and that it consisted principally of eminent merchants belonging to the House. As, however, the interference with the Bill complained of related not to technical points on which the assistance of legal Members might be necessary, but to clauses affecting matters of trade, it was clear that mercantile men were those best qualified to give an opinion upon such matters. It was also alleged that the Committee had not examined legal witnesses; but they had the benefit of the evidence of Vice-Chancellor Knight Bruce; and as the other learned personages had been examined before the Committee of the House of Lords, and as the printed evidence had been laid before the Commons' Committee, it was unnecessary to examine them over again. He begged leave to add that he considered great credit was due to the noble Lord who had charge originally of this Bill, and he was sure they all felt most grateful to his Lordship for his labours in this matter.
 MR. FOX MAULE  explained that if it had been practicable for him to have taken the Amendments in detail, he would have done so; but there were technical objections which compelled him to adopt the course he had.
 MR. FOX MAULE , after tracing the history of the progress of these Bills through both Houses of Parliament, moved that the Amendments of the Lords be taken into consideration that day three months. He reminded the House that at the' time when Railway Bills were introduced in considerable number, a Committee appointed to consider the subject of amalgamation had reported that, while the amalgamation of continuous lines might be of public advantage, the House should look with great jealousy upon any proposal to amalgamate lines running at right angles. These Bills were for that purpose; and they had passed through their stages without any opportunity being given for the introduction of clauses protective of the public interest; or for the proprietors of parallel lines to state their objections to the measure. Upon this principle the Commissioners of Railways had recommended the House of Lords to reject the Bills rather than pass them without protective clauses; but the clauses inserted for that purpose by the House of Lords were insufficient for the purpose, and now the commissioners were precluded by the Standing Orders from amending the Bill in any way so as to protect the public interests. It was the duty of the House to protect the public; and he thought that the circumstances warranted the rejection of the measure.
 MR. ELLIOT  wished it to be understood, with reference to a statement made by the hon. Member for Montrose, that the whole of the religious rites had been performed in this case, and that under these the boy inherited the personal property.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that he had been, almost from the commencement of that undertaking, interested in the London and North-Western Railway, and he had also the honour of representing the interests of the town of Liverpool. In referring to the manner in which the Bill had been carried through the other House, he considered that after the powerful manner in which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Perth had stated the merits of the case, it would be unnecessary for him to enter into any further details; but having the honour to represent there no inconsiderable portion of those interests on the western side of the island, he had a right to protest against their—under shelter of a mere technical error—interfering to consign the link between the eastern and western sides of the island to one
 1146
 MR. G. THOMPSON  asked whether the promised money had as yet been paid to the Ranee?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, it was quite true that it was the intention of the Railway Commissioners to suggest some clauses—he did not say these two—which they thought would have been desirable, though not absolutely necessary.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  explained, in reference to his answer to the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, that equal running clauses had frequently, but not universally, been introduced into Railway Bills.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  replied in the negative, adding that the running clauses could have been advantageously introduced if the Bill had been unaltered.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the opinions he was about to express were those of himself alone, and were not to be received as those of other Members of the Government. The inconvenience of transferring questions of this kind from Committees to the House at large, had been frequently urged, and his decided opinion was, that the precedent of that House taking upon itself to reverse the decision of its Committees, would be most dangerous. It must be a very clear and strong case indeed which could induce him to vote as a private Member of Parliament in a manner adverse to a previous opinion of
 1145
 MR. ROEBUCK  inquired if the two clauses referred to were necessary in consequence of the Amendments made in the Bill by the Lords; if so, the House ought to support the view of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon; but, if not, he did not think they would be justified in reversing the decision of the Committees of both Houses.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that he had on a previous occasion complained of the blunder committed in the Irish Bankruptcy Bill;
 1148
 MR. HUME  said, the Motion which he had to bring forward on this occasion with regard to the conduct of the East India Company, in connexion with Sattara and the family of the late Rajah, was one more intimately connected with the principle of religious liberty than perhaps any which the House had had to deal with during the present Session, and in bringing it forward he had very great difficulties to deal with. On the 1st of March last he had moved for papers connected with the subject of this robbery and violation of religious liberty; but though they might easily have been furnished in twenty-four hours, they had not yet been laid on the table of the House. He also felt the disadvantage of not having much chance of an audience on this occasion. He wished to protest against the downright robbery inflicted by the East India Company in this case, without entering at all into the injustice with which they had treated the late Rajah. Her Majesty's President of the Board of Control had again and again declared that due attention should be paid to the rights of the heirs of the late Rajah; and it was because he thought that justice required this to be done, and because he had a strong feeling with regard to the injury which the character of the East India Company would receive by joining with robbers
 1150 1151 l l l l
 MR. MULLINGS  said, it had been stated by a noble and learned Lord in another place, that the only lawyers on the Committee had been the Attorney General and the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst. But his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General, the hon. Member for Leominster, the hon. Member for Kilmarnock, and himself, who were also Members of the Committee, had all been bred up to the law. The noble and learned Lord had also been represented to have complained that the Bill contained 367 clauses when sent down to this House, and that it came back with only 278 clauses—no less than 89 clauses having been struck out. But it was right the public should know that the clauses struck out had reference to salaries, and, he would add, increased salaries in some cases, and to retiring allowances and pensions, and other matters that they thought ought not to be included in the Bill. There were only two matters of importance with regard to which the clauses had been struck out. These were the "secret transfer "clauses, and the" execution" clauses. He considered that the secret transfer clauses, if they had passed into a law, would have been a greater blow to credit than had ever before been inflicted. The 106th Clause provided that every secret transfer should be in itself an act of bankruptcy; while the 107th Clause provided that all transfers and dealings with property by the bankrupt for two months prior to his bankruptcy, should be deemed a secret transfer and an act of bankruptcy. He had himself put the question to the noble and learned Lord, "Supposing a bankrupt had property mortgaged for 2,000 l 1149
 MR. FORSTER  said, as one of the mercantile Members of the Committee, he begged to state that he thought that body had been badly treated by a noble and learned Lord in another place. The great offence of the Committee was, that they had not passed the secret transfer clause; but he, for one, was as anxious as any man to prevent secret and fraudulent transfers, but the difficulty which the Committee could not surmount was, how that object could be carried safely into practical effect.
 MR. SPOONER , as an ordinary rule, thought the decisions of Committees ought to be supported by the House; but where an amalgamation had taken place, by which a monopoly might, as had been shown, be created without running clauses and equal rate clauses being inserted, the case was otherwise. The best course would be to throw out the Bill, for the House had no right to inflict injury upon third parties.
 MR. T. GREENE  said, there was a considerable degree of principle involved in the course the House was about to adopt; and although he felt he should incur some unpopularity by his vote, he felt bound to resist the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Perth. The right hon. Gentleman's arguments would be good upon the second or the third reading; but after the promoters had gone to enormous expense, he objected to advantage being taken, at the close of the Session, of a ground of opposition which had failed before. Let the Amendments be considered one by one; but to throw out the Bill upon its merits at this stage, was a step he should be sorry to see the House take.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  asked whether it was not the intention of Earl Granville, on the part of the Railway Commissioners, to move two clauses—the equal rate and running clauses—and whether he was not prevented by the rapidity with which the measure was passed from moving those clauses, which, it seemed, could not now be added?
 SIR J. GRAHAM  hoped that the House would permit him to make one observation personal to himself, before speaking on the question before the House. He had hardly ever thought it his duty to take any part in the conflicts of the adverse interests of competing railways in that House. He had never held, and did not now hold, a single share in any railway. He had therefore no personal interest whatever in the matter, and in the opinion he was about to give be was actuated solely by a sense of what was due to the public interests, particularly in that district in Cumberland with which he was more immediately connected. This was simply a matter of competition between two great parallel lines of communication between the metropolis and Edinburgh and Glasgow, one going eastward through Derby and Berwick, and the other westward by the Trent Valley to Glasgow. It was obviously for the public interest and for the promotion of competition, that the traffic on the line communicating between the two seas should be left to flow perfectly free, east or west, as public convenience might dictate, and that there should be no interruption by high rates and fares as regarded either passengers or goods between Newcastle and Carlisle, and the coal and the manufacturing districts. But if this power were placed in the hands of the directors of the eastern line, they could fix what rates and fares they chose on the Newcastle and Carlisle line, and thereby the traffic would be thrown into a circuitous route. It was highly important, therefore, that the Newcastle and Carlisle should be kept a perfectly independent line. Mr. Hudson had evidently thought that it would be highly advantageous to the line with which he was connected to get pos-
 1144
 SIR JOHN HOBHOUSE  said, that if his hon. Friend had had a right to make any complaint of the manner in which he had been treated, he (Sir J. C. Hobhouse) had also some right to complain. The act to which his hon. Friend had alluded, and of which he complained, which declared that the sovereignty of Sattara should be assumed by the East India Company, was an order of the Court of Directors, dated so far back as the 24th day of January last. His hon. Friend, and those who acted with him, had full knowledge of the fact; and if anything effectual was to have been done, it should have been done at or immediately after the meeting of Parliament, which took place on the 1st of February. There were, however, several occasions afterwards on which he might have brought it forward, when he (Sir J. C. Hobhouse) was in his place ready to answer any question, or to disprove the statements of his hon. Friend, so that it was no fault of his if the question—of which he was surprised his hon. Friend was not completely tired, as for his part he certainly was—had not been brought forward before. As his hon. Friend had not entered at large into the question, he would not do so upon the present occasion; but he could
 1153 1154 1155
 SIR JOHN HOBHOUSE  said, that the money had not as yet been paid to the Ranee, or widow, because she refused to give a receipt for it. It had been repeatedly offered, but she would not give a receipt. In reference to this part of the subject, he must say that Purtaub Sing was reputed to have left a considerable sum behind him.
 SIR JOHN HOBHOUSE  said, the assertion that the British authority in India was not the paramount power there, was to him a perfectly novel doctrine. Sir C. Metcalfe's opinion did not interfere with that question. What Sir C. Metcalfe said was, that—
 "There is a wide distinction between sovereign princes and jagheerdars, between those who are in the position of hereditary sovereigns in their own right, and those who hold grants of land or public revenue by the gift of the sovereign or the paramount authority."
 SIR E. T. COLEBROOKE  could have no doubt, after the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control, that important principles affecting the government of India were involved in the present question. The right hon. Gentleman held it to be a new doctrine that Hindoo princes had a right to adopt heirs, and identified himself with opinions expressed in India, especially by the Earl of Dalhousie, which seemed to strike at the root of the rights of Hindoo princes, namely, that Hindoo princes had no power to adopt heirs, without the consent of the British Government, as the successor of the sovereigns who were lords paramount of India. But the British Government had no right with reference to those princes except what they obtained by actual cession, or could spell out from treaties. What was the opinion of Sir C. Metcalfe?—
 "Those who are sovereign princes in their own right, and of the Hindoo religion, have by Hindoo
 1156
 LORD NUGENT  wished to put a question to the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs on a subject with respect to which he trusted the noble Lord would not be reluctant to satisfy the anxious feelings of a great part of this nation. He had seen, within the last three or four days, in the public newspapers, what purported to be a proclamation proceeding from the Austrian General, Haynau, and addressed to the populations of Pesth and Buda. This proclamation denounced the punishment of instant death upon the spot to any persons, of either sex, who might be presumed to have taken part in what this general called political offences, such as had never before been made punishable with death by any chief holding a commission under a civilised government. Instant death upon the spot was proclaimed; and the soldiers, who were to be the executioners of the sentence, were also to be the judges of the guilt, for such offence as wearing what might be deemed a revolutionary dress, spreading what might be deemed false reports, and, above all, committing what the general termed insult towards the soldiers. He wished to know whether this proclamation, which he would not trust his own feelings to characterise otherwise than by styling it a most astonishing proclamation, and to which the Foreign Minister's noble nature would doubtless prompt him to affix a much stronger term, was or was not genuine?
 LORD NUGENT  would ask, on this last
 1163
 MR. HAWES  said, he had received no notice of this last question, but he believed he was right in saying that several hundreds arrived there within a short period, and more were on their way.
 MR. HAWES  said, that the refugees to whom reference had been made consisted of persons who had left both Sicily and Italy, and were not confined to parties who had quitted Rome. They arrived, however, in such crowds at Malta, that it was absolutely necessary for the Governor, acting on his own responsibility for the preservation of the peace and tranquillity of the island, to limit the numbers frequenting it. This was not done with any inconsiderateness; on the contrary, whenever sickness was given as a reason for landing, the parties were at once allowed to disembark, and they received every care and attention from the Governor himself. Nevertheless, considering the crowds of all characters who flocked to the island, the Governor had stated, and he (Mr. Hawes) thought him justified in so doing, that if he were to be responsible for the tranquillity of the place, he must limit the numbers coming there; and, unless the Governor had intimated to the proper authorities not to allow these parties to land to such a great extent, he would probably have been obliged to take other steps which might have appeared more severe.
 MR. HUME  thought that even the re-
 1162
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, that it had been mentioned in the public prints that the Governor of Malta had thought fit to prevent certain persons landing in that island, those persons being refugees from Rome. Whatever political opinions might be entertained by different parties respecting their cause, their bravery had undoubtedly excited the admiration of the civilised world. He therefore asked the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies whether it was true that those persons had not even been allowed to land in Malta, and whether the English authorities were going to imitate that want of hospitality of which there had been such flagrant instances in a neighbouring nation?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that Her Majesty's Government must reserve to themselves a proper and legitimate discretion to act in accordance with what
 1164
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  thought it was unnecessary for him to say that Her Majesty's Government, in common with everybody else, must have read the proclamation as it appeared in the newspapers with the deepest pain. He need not say more on that point. In reply to the question put to him, he had to state, that the Government had no official communication of the proclamation in question, and therefore he had no official knowledge as to whether it was genuine or not.
