 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  seconded the Amendment. He said, he would not travel over the ground so well occupied by the hon. Gentleman who preceded him on the topics of Her Majesty's Speech, but would confine himself to the state of the sister Country. In the first place, be begged to disclaim every feeling of partisanship, or any feeling of a factious nature, as he was only actuated by a high sense of duty. Re-turned by men of all parties and ranks, and of various political doctrines, he had pledged himself to represent to the House the difficulties in which Ireland was placed, and to convey to them her weak and almost broken-hearted prayer for the restoration of protection to her commercial and agricultural interests. Men of wisdom and men of religion had, by various endeavours, sought to discover the causes of that wretchedness which made the people of Ireland so wonderfully different from the people of every other country—a people who filled the ranks of the British army, and were at all times ready to maintain the honour of England at the cost of their lives. In that country the suffering and degradation of the people had been beyond all powers of description. It was not for the tongue of man to tell the extent of their sufferings, and it was unfortunately but too true that their sufferings, in every variety of form, had been aggravated by religious differences which no successful attempts had ever yet been used to allay; but for a time, amidst the extremity of the distress which had afflicted them, they forgot those religious differences—they laid them aside and did all in their power to assist each other, and mitigate as much as possible the general distress; but such efforts would not,
 126
 COLONEL CHATTERTON : There is a diminution on the whole year.
 MR. GRANTLEY BERKELEY  moved the adjournment of the debate. [ Loud cries of and "With regard to those foreign States whose Navigation Laws have hitherto been of a restrictive character, Her Majesty has received from nearly all of them assurances which induce Her to
 158 "Her Majesty greatly laments that any portion of her subjects should be suffering distress; but it is a source of sincere gratification to Her Majesty to witness the increased enjoyment of the necessaries and comforts of life which cheapness and plenty have bestowed upon the great body of Her people." 159 160 161
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he would not oppose the Motion for the adjournment; but he hoped that it would be understood that the division should be taken to-morrow night. He would wish to be made acquainted with the feeling of hon. Gentlemen opposite on the subject under discussion, especially of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that he shared in the hope of the noble Lord that the debate would be closed to-morrow evening; but he could not be guilty of the presumption of giving a pledge for himself or others. The duration of the debate would very much depend on the conduct of Gentlemen at both sides of the House, and past experience had taught them that the noble Lord did not always find it an easy matter to exercise that influence which he ought to possess over his own supporters.
 MR. SPEAKER  acquainted the House that he had issused warrants for  New Writs See Minutes
 MR. SPEAKER  acquainted the House, that he had received from Major General Thackwell the following letter in return to the Thanks of this House, communicated to him in obedience to their commands of the 24th day of April last:—
 MR. SPEAKER  having read a copy of Her Majesty's Speech,
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS : I rise, Sir, to move that an humble Address be presented
 83 84 85 86 87 "As regards shipping, there is a much better feeling since it was ascertained that the navigation laws were irretrievably doomed; builders are well employed, new contracts are making freely, both at home and in the colonies, and first-class British-built ships are readily taken up as they arrive. In fact, the supply of 12-year ships fall short of the demand, and advanced rates have been paid in some cases for homeward freight. There are now building on the stocks 2,850 tons, against 2,229 in 1849. Some British ships have been taken up in the Mediterranean and elsewhere, and loaded for the States, and a few foreigners to load for England—the first fruits of reciprocity. I enclose some of the shipping circulars, particularly pointing attention to that of Thom, Currie, and Co., from the importance of that firm." —" the prospect of the sweeping measure for the repeal of the navigation laws was accompanied with doubts and anxieties that had had the effect of checking the operations even of the most enterprising; but so soon as it was decided that the old laws were doomed, increased energy evinced itself;' the native hue of resolution,' which had been' sick lied o'er with the pale cast of thought,' again appeared, and in the assurance that the position of the shipowner would not be further compromised, buyers and builders resolved at once to be up and doing." 88 89 90 91 92 93
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Yes; I said so. I said there was a diminution upon three quarters of the year, and an increase upon the fourth and last quarter only. But it shows that some improvement, even in Ireland, has begun; and that there is ground for hoping that the anticipation of the hon. and gallant Officer opposite will not be realised. But I will particularly call the attention of my hon. Friend the Member for Warwickshire to the statement which he made—and which was repeated by the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire—when they said more than once in the course of last Session, that the trade and manufactures of the country were in an absolute state of ruin. It was in vain that hon. Gentlemen on this side of the House attempted to set them right. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Warwickshire took up the table of exports and imports, and said that the trade there set forth was an annual dead loss to the commerce of the country. I ventured to say that the small demand for exports from this country in 1848 was mainly owing to the troubled state of the Continent. So says the circular which I have just read. But the hon. Member for Warwickshire maintained that I was entirely mistaken upon the subject, and that the disturbed state of the Continent, so far from diminishing our trade, had increased it, by causing a greater demand for our goods. What has happened since then? In the course of last year the state of the Continent has been much more settled. What, then, has been the effect
 129 l l l l * * 130 Burn's Glance at the State of the Cotton Trade s s d s s d s d s d s s d s d s d s d s d
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I have heard with considerable pleasure the address of my hon. Friend the Member for South Lincolnshire in moving his Amendment to the Address moved by my hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton. I am glad to find that, on almost every point, there is little difference of opinion in this House. I am glad to find that there is an almost unanimous concurrence in the spirit of the Address. I am glad to find that upon the subject of the disease that unfortunately appeared in this country last year, the House approves the precautions taken by the Government for preventing the spread of that dreadful visitation; and that their best attention will be given to any further measures of this description that may be considered necessary. I am glad, also, to hear from my hon. Friend a disclaimer of that intemperate and ill-judged language which has been used of late in some public meetings in this country—language which, as my hon. Friend observed, can only be injurious to those who indulged in its utterance. I am also glad to find that my hon. Friend has moved the Amendment in the terms he has done. There can be no mistake whatever as to the meaning of the Amendment he has proposed. He says, that be means to urge upon the House the reconsideration of its recent legislative enactments. He proposes to the House that they should reconsider the Act which we believe has contributed much to the welfare of the country, but to which he believes all its distress is owing. And I am glad that upon this, the first night of the Session, that great question is to he brought at once to issue, and that the deliberate opinion of this House is to be called for, and, I trust, expressed, upon the question whether we are to retrace our steps—whether we are to follow the advice of my hon. Friend, and reconsider our recent legislation, or whether we are (as I hope and trust we shall resolve by a great majority of this House to do) to persist in the same course of legislation to which the present prosperity of the country is in a great measure owing
 127 "The year we have just closed was begun by most commercial men with the confident expectation that it would prove the commencement of better times … but it was soon perceived that the disturbing elements, far from being extinct, were still smouldering below the surface, ready to burst forth with more intense violence in different parts of Europe. While a renewal of hostilities on the Continent became inevitable, news from India of an unfavourable tenor reached us early in February, the effect of which was that the slight improvement in trade, scarcely begun, was again checked.… In this fluctuating and unsatisfactory manner we reached the month of March, which was one of the quietest business months we experienced during the past year; the fear of a reblockading of the Elbe and adjoining rivers caused an almost total suspension of business to the Continent." 128
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  hoped the House would not consider it presumptuous in him to rise at so early a period of the Session.
 147 148 149 "It was certainly very satisfactory to have to state, that, with the exception of a very small portion of Ireland, he did not believe that any assistance whatever was either wished for or necessary. The greater portion of the east and north of Ireland was not more distressed at this moment than the south of England; and in several other parts of Ireland there was not the least need of assistance. He might refer to the case of the union of Listowel, in which the collection of rates had fallen into some disorder. A commissioner had been sent down, and within six weeks the demands due had not only been paid up, but 700 l 150 l l l s d 151 l l l l l
 MR. W. FAGAN  said, that the hon. Member who had just sat down had not made a single observation pertinent to the subject before the House. Respecting the improvement of Ireland, he differed from the hon. Member, who should recollect what was the condition of that country prior to and during the potato famine. Four millions of the people subsisting on a description of food which failed them during a period of three years, and the tenant-farmers obliged to dispose of their cattle and farming implements for subsistence. A better state of things was now in progress; and although the improvement was not extensive, it was still improvement, and gave good indications for the future. Prices within the last two months had considerably improved. In cattle alone the rise had been equal to 1 l Cheers from the Protectionists 152
 SIR JAMES DUKE : After the very able, full, and successful speech of my hon. Friend, I am sure that this House will feel that I rise under no ordinary difficulty to second the Address which he has moved to Her Gracious Majesty. Sir, though I have had the honour of a seat in this House now for nearly thirteen years, this is the first occasion that I have ventured to offer myself to the notice of the House; and I am sure, under these circumstances, I shall meet with the kind indulgence of the House in the discharge of the duty which I have undertaken with great reluctance—with great reluctance, from a sense of my inability to address the House, but with great satisfaction, as a Member for the city of London, in giving my cordial support and confidence to Hoi-Majesty's Ministers, under the firm persuasion that they will continue to do everything on their part to maintain the high character and peaceful influence of the nation abroad, and the contentment and prosperity of the people at home, while, at the same time, they will enforce reform and retrenchment in every department of the State, consistent with the safety and the honour, and the dignity of this great empire. No one more deeply sympathises than I do with our Gracious Sovereign, in Her deep affliction at the decease of Her Majesty Queen Adelaide. I fully concur in the sentiment that Her late Majesty had justly endeared Herself to this country by Her piety, her charities, and Her exemplary virtues, and that Her name will be long held in grateful remembrance by every man, woman, and child in this kingdom. Her Majesty states that She recurs with great satisfaction to the advice of Her Parliament. The first meeting of the present Parliament occurred little more than two years ago, and I remember that, on that occasion, instead of the hon. Mover congratulating the House on the state of the country, he was necessarily compelled to begin his speech by lamenting the great distress which prevailed in the trading and manufacturing districts of the kingdom, many mills in that part of the country which he represented being stopped, and the operatives thrown out of work. I think I may feel justified in saying that, at no period in the history of the country, has the House met under more gratifying circumstances than at the present moment. When we reflect that two years ago the great commercial interests of this country had passed through an ordeal which shook
 110 111 "I have a strong impression that the operatives of this district were never, at any former period, more fully employed, more comfortable in a social point of view, or better disposed than now. The rate of wages is, I believe, satisfactory; and the cheapness of the necessaries of life—in food and clothing—has wonderfully improved their condition. The hat trade is rather an exception to this rule, though but few people are employed therein, and the depression is easily accounted for. I have never, during my mayoralty, had one hour's uneasiness about the peace of this district. The speculation in cotton, and its high price, now interfere with the prospects of our master manufacturers and spinners, and I think few are making money; nevertheless the trade of 1849 must, on the whole, be considered very satisfactory. Our own experience in the home trade leads me also to think that the demand from the agricultural districts has not indicated that distress of which we have recently heard so much." 112 s s 113
 SIR J. TROLLOPE  said, that he felt he ought, in the first instance, especially to claim the indulgence of the House in taking the unusual course—unusual, at least, with-in
 114 115 "It is with regret that Her Majesty has observed the complaints which, in many parts of the kingdom, have proceeded from the owners and occupiers of land; Her Majesty greatly laments that any portion of Her subjects should be suffering distress; but it is a source of sincere gratification to Her Majesty to witness the increased enjoyment of the necessaries and comforts of life which cheapness and plenty have bestowed upon the great body of her people;"— 116 117 118 119 120 d 121 s 122 123 d d En passant, d d d. d 124 125 "But humbly to represent to Her Majesty that in many parts of the United Kingdom, and especially in Ireland, the various classes of Her Majesty's subjects connected with the cultivation of; the soil are labouring under severe distress, mainly attributable, in our opinion, to recent legislative enactments, the operation of which is aggravated by the heavy pressure of local taxation."
 SIR J. B. WALSH  contended, in opposition to the hon. Member who had just sat down, that Ireland had been a peculiar sufferer by the abolition of the duties on foreign corn. He was at a loss to know, notwithstanding the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, where the glowing pictures of
 153 154 s 155 156 157 of fait accompli,
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  said, in the observations which he should feel it his duty to make on the Motion and Amendment before the House, he should confine himself entirely to that paragraph in Her Majesty's gracious Speech to which the Amendment was directed. He thought it would be generally admitted by the House that it would be impossible for his hon. Friend the Member for South Lincolnshire, and those who entertained similar views, to agree to that paragraph in the Speech of Her Majesty without moving an amendment to it. That paragraph stated that Her Majesty had great satisfaction in congratulating the House on the improved condition of commerce and manufactures; and it went on to say, that Her Majesty regretted that complaints had proceeded from the owners and occupiers of land. Now, when it was remembered that these complaints did not proceed solely from the occupiers and owners of land, it did seem to him that there was some intention on the part of Her Majesty's Government to insult an important part of Her Majesty's subjects. He did not think the Mover of the Address would have assured the House that that language was not intentional, and that it was an oversight on the part of Her Majesty's Government, at least, though there might not be an intention among them to extend any measure of relief to the agricultural interest. But what had been the language of the hon. Mover of the Address. He said, adverting to that particular question, that he now came to that part of Her Majesty's Speech, in which she regretted to find complaints proceeding from the owners and occupiers of land, and the hon. Member repeated those words with a sneer; but he (the Marquess of Granby) could not think that sneer would be responded to in that House. He believed the distress of the owners and occupiers of land would receive the sympathy not only of that House, but of the country; because every thinking man must know that they could not be distressed without the labourers also suffering. That was admitted by the only Member of the Government who had yet spoken—the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer—who stated that the labourers participated in the distress which prevailed; and that distress fell mainly upon the small tenant-farmers. Let the House remember that those farmers constituted a
 168 "That it is a source of sincere gratification to Her Majesty to witness the increased enjoyment of the necessaries and comforts of life, which
 169 170 "They are willing to work hard, but work is not to be had; and food, firing, and clothing cannot be obtained without labour, excepting under union-house discipline or prison disadvantages. This is an unhealthy state of things, which cannot possibly be permanent, for either we must find some means of controlling this formidable force of a pauperised population, or we must be swallowed up in its surging waves." "Dear Sir—In reply to your letter, inquiring as to the present trade in Sheffield, and its future prospects, &c., now, and for three months preceding Christmas, the general trade of the town has been very good. I never remember the workpeople being so fully employed; but this is caused almost entirely from foreign demand, for the United
 171 "Being engaged myself both in a home and foreign trade, I find no improvement in the former; and judging from the circumstance of a good many retail shops in the principal business street of the town being unoccupied, and have been for more than twelve months, that there is a cause at work which produces this. "However the great problem of free trade may be solved, whether as a benefit or otherwise in the aggregate to this country, there is no question but thousands will be ruined in working it out. These sudden and extreme changes in an old constituted country like this are always injurious. Changes ought to be slow and gradual in their operation, injuring none, but to work benefit for all. A moderate fixed duty, say 6 s s "It is generally thought that this will be a good year of trade; some say a very great one; but this opinion is expressed by those exclusively engaged in foreign markets. "But all this improvement may be ascribed to the natural working of events. We have had a long depression, and we have had repeatedly so before, but there has always followed years of prosperity, and why may not the present work from the same causes? The Continent, by its political convulsions, has been closed to us till lately, which prevented them not only being buyers but producers, and precluded them from competing with us in the various markets they used to send to—viz., North and South America and the East Indies; the consequence is that the markets in those quarters have been cleared of goods, which in itself will account for the present demand from those various places. An immense amount also of merchandise has been sent from this country to California; and not only what has gone from here, but the British goods that have been sent from the United States, from South America, our own colonies, and the Eastern Archipelago, have been very considerable, which has tended to clear the markets, and which is another cause for the impetus which has been given to our manufactures. It is to be feared, if carried too far, the reaction may be serious. I have written these few cursory remarks as they have occurred to me. Hoping you are well, I remain yours truly, "Sheffield, Jan. 12, 1850.—." 172 "My Lord—In reply to your Lordship's letter of the 27th inst., inquiring whether there is any alteration in the circumstances of the home trade since I wrote my former remarks, I beg to state I find there is not; but as a satisfaction to myself, yesterday and to-day I have called upon several houses exclusively engaged in the home trade, as manufacturers, factors, &c., and none of them have participated in much improvement. One house I called upon, the principal of which told me he had been out for three months before Christmas, and he said every county he went into he found business as bad as it could be; many of his customers unable to meet their bills, from the depression existing; indeed, he observed that he thought matters worse since Christmas. I wished this house to state their views on paper, but in Sheffield they seem to have an objection to do so. This house is highly respectable and of old standing. Another establishment I called upon, who are largely engaged as manufacturers of fine stoves and fenders, entirely for the home trade; it is one of the principal houses in the kingdom; their opinions they have embodied in a note, which I enclose. The silver and plated manufacturers have also experienced a very long period of bad trade; it is rather better at present, arising from some large orders for a steam navigation company; but apart from that, they are doing nothing like the business they formerly did. This trade is now in fewer hands, and less people employed. "I have no objection, my Lord, to my statements being read; but as I have always shunned politics, I should not like my name being used, and the houses whose opinions I have given, also object to their names being made public. I am aware this militates against the testimony, but your Lordship may rely on the credence of what I have stated.—I have the honour to remain, your Lordship's very obedient servant,—." "Dear Sir—In reply to your inquiry of this morning, relative to the present state of trade in our business, we are just in a middling way—certainly not brisk. The country trade is not good—the large manufacturing towns, although improving, have not yet recovered from the shock of 1848, and the agricultural districts—say Norfolk, Sussex, Essex, and Cambridgeshire, which help us so considerably when they are lively, appear at present to he quite prostrate. We suppose them suffering from uncertainty and other causes consequent upon the present transition state of the laws governing the price of corn. Everybody appears to be expecting a good year of business is at hand; but we must confess ourselves at a loss to see where the trade is to come from, unless the orders from abroad be very considerable, which, of course, we should indirectly profit by.—We are, dear Sir, yours very truly, "Sheffield, Jan. 29, 1850.—." 173
 LORD NORREYS  could have understood the necessity for an Amendment if no allusion had been made in Her Majesty's Speech to the depressed state of agriculture, and if no other opportunities would be afforded for the discussion of agricultural taxation during the present Session; but as there would be more than usual opportunities for discussing the question of taxation, from the fact of there being a surplus in the revenue, he saw no necessity for that part of the Amendment. Whenever the question of taxation came fairly before the House, he should consider it his duty, as the representative of an agricultural constituency, to endeavour to obtain such relief as was practicable for the landed interest. He had resisted the Motion of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire last
 179
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he was not going to make a speech at that advanced hour of the night, or rather morning. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down declared that it was his intention to watch the conduct of those Gentlemen, Members of that House, who attended county meetings in the various provinces, with a view to see if they would come forward, and here in that House avow the sentiments they had enunciated from the platform. The hon. Gentleman had also called on the farmers of England to watch them to see if they would utter in that
 252
 COLONEL THOMPSON  rose, amidst loud calls for a division. He said it was not at his option whether he addressed the House or not; but he should do it as briefly as the temper of the House appeared to counsel. He represented a constituency whose interests were directly destroyed by the principles advocated on the opposite side; and the speakers of that side had furnished him with his text. The protectionist speakers had made loud demands for justice. He would ask what would be thought of his side, if the people of Bradford had stated that they had mills and manufactories which only wanted one thing to make them go on, and that was a duty on home-grown corn? The hon. and gallant Member proceeded to say he would take the assistance of a piece of history, given by a clerical wit now deceased. He would assure the House it was a better joke than had been uttered by the best of the protectionist orators that night. A bishop was pressed by a set of hungry followers for food, and he cried, "Throw out to them the dinners of the Dean and Chapter." Now, the protectionist claim was to throw out the dinners of the people of Bradford, and he did not see why that should be agreed to without the stoutest possible opposition.
 253
 CAPTAIN PELHAM  said, as a new Member, he had some justification in taking up the time of the House, and he hoped he should be able to satisfy hon. Gentlemen that he had some reason for addressing them on a subject which, personally, was not agreeable to him. He had been long anxious to avoid the duties of public life; but having taken the step to come into Parliament for a most independent borough, he considered it his duty on the present occasion, in consequence of the turn the debate had taken, to refer for a moment to
 180 181 182 183
 LORD J. RUSSELL  thought that the present arrangement had been productive of very great convenience. Under the former practice, any hon. Member, when the Order of the Day was read, had the power of introducing any Motion relating to any other subject. And it was quite true, as his hon. Friend the Member for Malton had stated, that it was utterly impossible for hon. Members to know beforehand what would be the subject for discussion in the course of the evening: for whatever was the Order of the Day, Motions might be brought on respecting Canada, Australia, or any other subject wholly different from that to which the Order of the Day referred. The House found the inconvenience arising from this practice to be so great, that it resolved to put an end to it, and they adopted this Sessional Order, under which the House had, during the last Session more particularly, got through a great deal of business in a satisfactory manner in a remarkably short space of time, without any impediment being placed in the way of hon. Members bringing forward Motions of public importance. With this experience of the benefit accruing from this Sessional Order, he thought that hon. Members would do well to maintain it.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Mr. Speaker, the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has asked us not to misrepresent the purpose which he and his friends have in view. But, unwilling as I should be to misrepresent, I own that to form an accurate idea of that purpose, is a thing almost impossible. The hon. Gentleman who moved the Amendment, in a very temperate and
 234 235 Cries of "The House sympathises with the regret with which Her Majesty has observed the complaints which in many parts of the kingdom have proceeded from the owners and occupiers of land, and beg to assure Her Majesty of the sympathy with which they hear that Her Majesty greatly laments that any portion of Her subjects should be suffering distress; while it is a source of sincere gratification to Her Majesty to witness the increased enjoyment of the necessaries and comforts of life which cheapness and plenty have bestowed upon the great body of Her people. " 236 "That we regret, however, to be compelled humbly to represent to Your Majesty that in many parts of the united kingdom, and especially in Ireland, the various classes of Your Majesty's subjects connected with the cultivation of the soil are labouring under severe distress, mainly applicable, in our opinion, to recent legislative enactments, aggravated by the pressure of local taxation." —"mainly attributable in our opinion to recent legislative enactments, the operation of which is aggravated by the pressure of local taxation." 237 238 239 l s s d s 240 s s s 241 242 243 s s s s s s 244 245
 MR. DISRAELI : I rise, Sir, to support the Amendment of the hon. Member for Lincolnshire. I am sure the noble Lord at the head of the Government will not think it disrespectful on my part if I do not comment upon any other portion of the Address which has been offered for the consideration of the House. That Address refers to many subjects of great interest and importance, on several of which I would have ventured, under other circumstances, to request some information from Her Majesty's Ministers; but, considering the hour of the night [ it was then nearly o'clock 219 l l "Her Majesty greatly laments that any portion
 220 "Humbly to represent to Her Majesty, that in many parts of the United Kingdom, and especially in Ireland, the various classes of Her Majesty's subjects connected with the cultivation of the soil, are labouring under severe distress, mainly attributable, in our opinion, to recent legislative enactments." 221 222 223 224 Commercial Glance Economist Economist 225 226 227 l 228 229 230 231 the red box on the table before the Treasury bench 232 Laughter. 233 A laugh
 MR. HAWES  replied that the order had been revoked.
 MR. HAWES , in reply, said, that orders had been given some time ago for the removal of the  Neptune 162
 MR. ADDERLEY  wished to inquire in the next place whether the  Neptune
 MR. ADDERLEY  bogged to ask the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies, whether the Order in Council making the Cape a penal settlement had been revoked?
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that he well recollected what took place when this subject was under discussion on a former occasion.
 164
 MR. MUNTZ  said, that if he consulted
 203 s s s s 204 s s 205 l l l l 206 207
 MR. LABOUCHERE : Sir, I am well aware there is a general desire on the part of the House that this debate should terminate this night, and I can assure the House it is my intention to delay but for a very few moments the progress of the discussion, being also aware that the House will expect other Gentlemen of higher position to address
 213 214 Standard "As the law now stands, we would say to those of our shipowning friends, and whose trade is to be shipowners, who held like opinions with our own as to the impolicy of the repeal, it is folly now to repine, and greater folly to stand with folded arms and allow others to monopolise our carrying trade without even an attempt at competition. They must suit themselves to the altered state of our maritime laws; have vessels with the greatest capacity to the least register tonnage consistent with safety and sailing properties; have them commanded by men who are not merely seamen and navigators, but something more—men of business, and, above all, by men of sobriety, steadiness, and exemplary moral character, and who by example and precept will instil good moral principles into those under them, both at sea, and, if possible, on shore. These points are of the most vital importance in our competition with foreign Powers, and, if attended to, will, combined with the acknowledged energy of the English character, overcome many difficulties." 215 l 216 l l s l s d l l d l l l 217 ignis fatuus 218
 MR. J. E. DENISON  said, that he was at all times unwilling to occupy the time of the House, and nothing should at that moment have induced him to trespass upon its indulgence, except a strong sense of the importance of the question which they would that night be called on to decide, to the landed interest itself, and the pressing necessity to all interests, but especially to the interests of the land, that a speedy settlement of the question should be arrived at. As an owner of land he was deeply interested in the present debate. He would ask, what was the subject before the House? It certainly was not a question as to the repeal of the corn laws, for those laws had been already repealed; but the question was, whether certain words should be introduced into the Address to the Crown—certain words as to the difficulties under which the agricultural interest laboured. If they were not, in consequence of the Amendment, to proceed to do anything, then it did appear to him inconvenient that such words should be introduced, as their only effect would be to increase and prolong uncertainty. The intention, however, of those words appeared to him sufficiently plain—their intention was not merely to pledge the House to a reconsideration of recent measures, but that they should return to that course of policy which they had so recently abandoned. He considered it very fortunate that an opportunity was at length afforded for a fair and calm discussion of the great question under dispute, for of late the public mind had been so excited upon these topics that there had been nothing like free or fair discussion. As an instance he might mention a county not far off, where great promise was held out of a full discussion by rival champions on either side, but it ended by one party insisting upon considering the
 176 177 178
 MR. J. E. DENISON  said, in the Committee which sat for the arrangement of public business, no decision had been come to on this point, because the Order had emanated in the first instance from the House, and was under its consideration at the time of its sitting. He did not agree with the hon. Member for Montrose, that any disadvantage or inconvenience had arisen to the public service from its introduction. Under the former Order, great confusion and inconvenience had arisen from hon. Members never being able to know beforehand what subject would be discussed in the course of the evening. To correct that evil this Order
 163
 MR. HERRIES  thought the rule might be postponed for a few days for future consideration. He should support the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose.
 MR. HERRIES  said, that he did not rise for the purpose of replying to the observations of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, as he had answered so many of them himself; while many of the speakers on the other side followed each other in the assertion that the whole question on the subject of protection was absolutely settled and disposed of for ever. The hon. Member for Malton had, on the contrary, expressed a hope that it might, by this very debate, be settled. Now, the question neither was settled, as some maintained, nor so easily to be settled, as the Member for Malton supposed, and it would not be settled until justice had been done to the agricultural interest. Hon. Gentlemen talked as if protection were involved in the discussion of this night. The Motion, however, of the hon. Baronet the Member for South Lincolnshire would not bear that construction. Her Majesty had been advised in the Speech from the Throne to use language, which to those having the deepest interest in agriculture, appeared such as would not permit them to acquiesce in an Address being only an echo of that language, either with justice to themselves, or to the interests more immediately involved.
 208 209 "I consider the shipbuilding trade here (Sunderland) not now remunerative, the recent sales having been effected at a reduction of 7½ per cent on the last year's prices." 210 211 l l l l 212
 MR. BROTHERTON  thought that the experiment which had been tried during the last two years had worked very well, and to the advantage both of the public business and of hon. Members.
 MR. HENLEY  suggested that the hon. Member for Montrose should defer the matter until another occasion.
 MR. HUME : That was his Motion. He wished merely to postpone the consideration of the Order.
 MR. HUME  said, that that Order was an alteration proposed by himself on the former practice of the House, under the impression that it would prove advantageous to the public service. But he found that great advantage had been taken of it to stop and impede the discussion of questions of the utmost importance, and many hon. Members had been deprived of the opportunity of bringing forward questions interesting to their constituents and important to the public at large. Another evil which had arisen from it was, that very great confusion in the transaction of public business prevailed at the end of the Session. After the two years' experience which they had had of this Order, he submitted to the House that it would be better to return to the old state of things, in which every Member had the opportunity of gaining the attention of the House. He should move, that the Order just read be deferred for a day or two, in order that the House might take his Motion into consideration.
 MR. HUME  wished before the House divided to say a few words in reply. His object had been not to thwart but to promote the public business of the country. He considered it was one of the chief duties of the House to give every facility to the people to make their complaints in that House. But he found that the withdrawal first of Thursday, then of Wednesday nights from the Members, for Motion nights, had placed the whole of the time of the House at the disposal of the Ministry, from whose neglect a great deal of business was required to be done at the latter end of the Session in a most hurried and therefore defective manner. He, therefore, wished to have an opportunity of laying before hon. Members in a more detailed manner the inconveniences which had resulted from the adoption of this order. The objection of which the noble Lord had made mention, of not knowing what subject would be discussed, he (Mr. Hume) was prepared to meet by a Motion that hon. Members should be required to give previous notice of their intention to move anything on the Order of the Day.
 MR. HUME  said, he was aware that there were many inconveniences attending the old system, and that under the present system the greatest possible opportunities were afforded for impeding public discussion; and the time would come, if they went on much longer as they were doing now, when none but Ministers would have the opportunity of claiming the attention of the House. At the present moment, if anything disagreeable to Ministers was coming on, they adopted the means of preventing a House being formed, and Gentlemen who had no communication with the Ministers had no opportunity of bringing forward their complaints. These were the reasons why he was anxious this Order should not pass; he would not be denominated factious by taking another division. He bowed to the decision of the House; he would fight again and again against such contraction of popular rights. He thought he had reason to know that the House was encroaching rapidly on the rights of the people of this country.
 MR. COBDEN : Sir, I have not risen to make a speech, but to express my regret that there is not an occasion afforded for discussing the question which I thought was to be submitted to us on this occasion. I came into this House fully convinced that before forty-eight hours had elapsed, an opportunity would be afforded those who are supporters of protection, and those who are advocates of free trade, to discuss those two principles in this House. I must say that what has passed in the country has convinced me of the necessity of having that discussion instantly; for I cannot shut my eyes to the fact that a very largo and influential body of the community are under an impression that the question of protection and free trade is not settled in this House. Any one who has had his eyes open for the last three months will admit that there has been an amount of agitation
 246 247 248 249 250 251 s
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  would have been more satisfied if his hon. and gallant Friend had followed in the wake of his noble relative (the Earl of Yarborough), with whom he (Mr. Christopher) had been so long associated in defending the cause of agricultural protection within the walls of that House. The hon. Member for Malton and other hon. Members had professed to congratulate themselves that this important issue would be determined by the vote of to-night. Now, he could tell them that they were most grievously mistaken. The present course taken by that (the protectionist) side had been forced upon them by the manner in which the agricultural interest had been mentioned in Her Majesty's Speech. Her Majesty's Ministers in that Speech did not sympathise with the agricultural interest; they did not even acknowledge that any distress existed; and in proposing the Amendment, they were not actuated by the slightest idea of showing disrespect to Her Majesty, for they treated the Speech as that of Her Ministers only. [Colonel SIBTHORP: Hear!] Her Majesty's Ministers did not even acknowledge the existence of any well-founded cause of complaint on the part of the agriculturists. They did not even acknowledge that any distress existed at all; and therefore it was that he, as an independent Member, having seen the distress that prevailed in his own county, came forward to oppose the Address. He had witnessed the deepest distress in his own neighbourhood; and he had lately seen his county (Lincolnshire) assemble in the most inclement weather for the purpose of declaring their distress, and calling for relief from the Legislature. That meeting, too,
 184 185
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  said, he was anxious, in the course of this debate, to offer a few observations on this important question, not so much because he hoped to offer anything new on the subject—for really when Gentlemen considered what had taken place in that House in the year 1846, on the general debate on the question of the repeal of the corn laws, every person who rose to address the House had a considerable difficulty to contend with; nevertheless, holding the position he did, as the representative of a purely agricultural county, he should feel himself wanting in duty to those who had done him the honour to place their interests in his charge, if he did not attempt, in some degree, to set forth their grievances when he had an opportunity of doing so. His hon. Friend the Member for Malton asked those who advocated protection what object they had in view in supporting this Amendment. He said that the question was not now whether the corn laws were to be repealed or not. That question his hon. Friend said had been settled long before, and that the question now only was, whether a few words should be added to the Address; but he (Mr. Palmer) thought the House would agree with him that those few words were of great importance. Her Majesty, in the Spcech from the Throne, had no doubt alluded to the complaints which had been made by the owners and occupiers of land in various parts of the country, and Her Majesty likewise
 195 196 197 Mark Lane Express 198 s. 199 s d. l s d l 200 Annual Register: "Mr. Brougham supported the Motion on general principles. Agriculture, he thought, was entitled to special protection, both because many public burdens pressed unequally upon it, and because much poor land had been brought into cultivation, which could not now be thrown back into its former state, without immense misery to individuals, as well as injury to the public. In illustrating these positions, he observed, that nothing was more common than to see a manufacturer erect a fine tall building, a matter of great ornament to the neighbourhood, no doubt, but certainly of great use to him. This building was erected on a comparatively small portion of land; and within its four walls were carried on the manufacture of two very important articles—cotton and paupers! And though his manufactory produced to its proprietor an income frequently of not less than 30,000 l l 201 202
 MR. HAYTER  moved that the Sessional Orders for the conduct of the business of the House be read and agreed to.
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH : I wish to disclaim on my own behalf, and on that of many who sit around me, the imputation which has been cast upon this side of the House, that in opposing the Amendment of the hon. Baronet, we deny the prevalence of agricultural distress, or desire to evade the acknowledgment of its intensity. For one, I can truly say that I would not support the Address if I conceived that it implied anything of the kind. But I believe that it was not so intended by those who framed it; and I am sure that it will not
 189 190 s 191 Cheers from the Protectionists 192 193 194
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  hoped that no time would be wasted in the discussion of the Order. He thought it was perhaps rather early for the House to discuss its advantages or disadvantages. It was not a new measure which the House was called upon to adopt on the instant. It was a measure Which had worked well in the judgment of nine-tenths of the Members of the House who took an active part in the public business. He hoped that the question would be at once decided.
 MR. VILLIERS  brought up the Report on the Address, which was read a first time.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  had just entered the House when the hon. Member for North Warwickshire was arguing that it was unfair to expose the English agriculturist to competition with foreigners, on the ground that the latter were untaxed. But he (Col. Thompson) appealed with confidence to the House whether it was not the real fact of the case that the struggle was, not between the taxed agriculturist and the untaxed foreigner, but between the taxed agriculturist and the taxed labourer of Bradford and elsewhere, whose trade it was to manufacture goods for the purpose of being exchanged for foreign corn. The question was, whether it was right and just to put the manufacturers of Bradford down to serve the agriculturists? What would be thought of the former, if, because they were heavily taxed, they were to insist
 322
 LORD C. HAMILTON  begged permission briefly to explain his reasons for voting in the minority on Friday night. He had not spoken in the debate, because, having only arrived from Ireland on Thursday, he was too late to speak on that day, and on Friday the House was too impatient and desirous of coming to a decision. He therefore voted, with the determination of explaining at the earliest possible period. The fact was, he liked neither the Address nor the Amendment, and he voted in the minority, not out of any spirit of hostility to the Government, nor in the spirit of the Address, but merely because he felt that the kingdom of Ireland, as an important part of the united kingdom, had not met with the proper respect with which it should have been treated in Her Majesty's Speech. There might have been at least some expression of sympathy for its condition, if no hopes were held out of remedial measures; whereas all that it had met with was a recognition of its deep distress. But even that was glossed over and immediately followed by a jubilation upon the general prosperity of the empire. For that reason he had voted against the Address; but he at the same time did not coincide in the least in the idea that the distress of Ireland was owing to any late legislation—to any of the so-called free-trade measures. For he thought that Ireland could be very prosperous under free trade, if it were not for the unfortunate circumstances that had preceded the passing of those measures. He had listened
 332
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the noble Lord the Member for Bandon had spoken of the different payments made on account of former advances to railways in Ireland, and suggested that they should be consolidated. That question had been for some time under the consideration of the Government, and he hoped that on a very early day his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer would be able to state the pro-
 326 l
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the question that had been asked a few minutes ago by the right hon. Member for Manchester, and the answer that had been given by the Secretary of State, reminded him that the assertion in the Speech from the Throne, that Her Majesty was in peace and amity with all foreign Powers, was at least premature. It appeared to him that that statement was one which ought not, under any circumstances, to have passed unnoticed by that House. This was the second year in which a very significant alteration had taken place in the terms in which the Sovereign had communicated to the representatives of the people the relations which subsisted between this country and foreign Powers. The language of the Royal Speech in 1845—language which he believed had been used on all recent occasions with the exception of last year—was that—
 "Her Majesty continues to receive from all foreign Powers and States assurances of their friendly disposition." "Her Majesty happily continues in peace and amity with foreign Powers," 274 "In the course of the autumn differences of a serious character arose between the Governments of Austria and Russia on the one hand, and the Sublime Porte on the other, in regard to the treatment of a considerable number of persons who, after the termination of the civil war in Hungary, had taken refuge in the Turkish territory. Explanations which took place between the Turkish and Imperial Governments have fortunately removed any danger to the peace of Europe which might have arisen out of these differences." "Her Majesty, having been appealed to on this occasion by the Sultan, united Her efforts with those of the Government of France, to which a similar appeal had been made, in order to assist, by the employment of Her good offices, in effecting an amicable settlement of those differences in a manner consistent with the dignity and independence of the Porte." 275 276 277
 MR. PACKE  said, that the hon. Member for the West Riding had challenged the protectionists to rise and defend protection on its merits. Now he was not going to produce any fire-works of rhetoric in support of his opinions, but he would undertake to show the House by facts and figures that the agricultural producers of the country were being ruined by free trade. He advanced this position boldly—namely, that the farmers and labourers of the kingdom must be irretrievably ruined by a persistance in the policy of free trade. All the hon. Gentleman's experience of agriculture was derived from his recent acquisition of a farm which consisted of two plots, one of twenty-one acres, occupied by a miller, the other of thirty-two acres, occupied by a shopkeeper, neither of whom were dependent for subsistence upon farming. He would ask the House whether such examples were sufficient to warrant the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire in bringing them forward as proofs of the success with which agriculture could be followed under the reduced prices occasioned by free trade? Now he (Mr. Packe) as a tenant-farmer, would give the results of his experience on a farm of 100 acres, which he held near Loughborough, and with the permission of the House he would read a statement of the comparative expenditure and receipts of that farm under protection and under free trade; * s d *
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  had felt extremely anxious to speak the other evening because he had had the honour of seconding a resolution at one of the most important public meetings that had ever been held in Lincolnshire. There were from 15,000 to 20,000 men assembled at that meeting. He had thought it fair to put a question to one of the most earnest opponents of the landed interest in that county—he meant Mr. John Norton, mercer and draper, of the city of Lincoln. He asked that gentleman, "What sort of a meeting do you think we have had to-day?" His reply was, "An excellent one." "Do you not think that you are dead beat?" His answer was "Decidedly." "Did you ever see a more influential meeting?" He replied, "Never in my life." This he (Colonel Sibthorp) considered most satisfactory, coming, as it did, from so strong an opponent. Mr. Norton told him that the hon. Member for the West Riding had come down to Lincoln on Tuesday. He (Colonel Sibthorp) presumed that it was not on any secret matters; that there was nothing going on  clausis fores 306 Laughter 307 l l l
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said he had been misunderstood by an hon. Gentleman opposite. He firmly believed that protection would be regained.
 COLONEL DUNNE  wished to explain his statement relative to the expenses of the working of the poor-law. No Member was in possession of the returns, and he had taken the early months of last year, the
 327
 COLONEL DUNNE  would not have trespassed on the House but for the statement made by the hon. Member for the county of Limerick, that Ireland was not suffering from recent legislation. The constituents of that hon. Gentleman would, he (Colonel Dunne) felt convinced, be somewhat surprised to hear that their Member had made such a statement; and he was, above all, surprised to hear this statement, when he heard that the hon. Member had himself drawn up an able report on the state of the Newcastle union in the county of Limerick, in which it was shown that it had been much affected by that cause. Had he (Colonel Dunne) not been convinced that the distress of Ireland was owing entirely to the legislation of England, he should not have voted for the Amendment to the Address. The hon. Member for the county of Limerick voted for the rate in aid. Now, there was not a man in all Ireland, except the receivers of that rate, who did not believe that that rate had been deeply injurious to his country; and yet the hon. Gentleman said that Ireland was not suffering from recent legislation. Ireland had been suffering from legislation for the last eighty years; her manufactures had all been destroyed by legislative measures. Upon the understanding that she was to supply England with agricultural produce, and now that
 325 l l l l l s d s d
 MR. BANKES  said, that as the hon. Baronet who had just spoken, undoubtedly with great authority (as an Irish Member, and who held office under the late Government), had thought it right to say that during the existence of the protection system Ireland was in a state of famine, pestilence, destitution—[Sir J. YOUNG: I said the Irish peasantry.] As the hon. Baronet represented the Irish peasantry to be in a state of famine, pestilence, and destitution, it was becoming in any hon. Member who entertained different opinions to appeal to an authority to which he thought the hon. Member was a party, as affording a solemn contradiction to that which he now ventured to assert. He (Mr. Bankes) had observed in the course of the debate on the present occasion, that it was very convenient for those hon. Members who supported free trade, commencing with the hon. Gentleman who moved the Address, to appeal only to years subsequent to the repeal of the corn laws, for the purpose of comparing them with the year now under consideration; and then they spoke of free trade and the progress of commerce and the improvement of manufactures as compared with those years. Now, he asked the hon. Baronet to take one of the years before the removal of protection, when he was himself a Member of the Government, and compare it with the present year. Let him take any year from 1841 to 1845, and compare the present
 310 "My Lords and Gentlemen—I rejoice that I am enabled, on again meeting you in Parliament, to congratulate you on the improved condition of the country. Increased activity pervades almost every branch of manufacture; trade and commerce have been extended at home and abroad; and among all classes of my people there is generally prevalent a spirit of loyalty and cheerful obedience to the law. I continue to receive from all foreign Powers and States assurances of their friendly disposition. I have had much satisfaction in receiving at my Court the Sovereigns who in the course of last year visited this country." "Gentlemen of the House of Commons—I have observed with sincere satisfaction that the improvement which is manifest in other parts of the country has extended to Ireland. The political agitation and excitement which I have had heretofore occasion to lament, appear to have gradually abated, and as a natural result, private capital has been more freely applied to useful public enterprises, undertaken through the friendly co-operation of individuals interested in the welfare of Irelend."
 MR. BANKES  thought the condition of the peasantry of the country had much to do with the welfare of the country. He
 311 312 s s "The noble Lord has admitted that in the Speech delivered by Her Majesty this day, and in the answer to that Speech, and also in the speeches of the Mover and Seconder of the Address, he can scarcely see anything to find fault with. Of the Speech the noble Lord said he had no complaint to make; neither of the Address, nor of what fell from the Mover and the Seconder. That being the case, I wonder the noble Lord did not approach the commencement of the Session with something more of an equable temperament. What was there for the noble Lord to be wroth at? And yet the noble Lord has given utterance to a most violent and bitter party speech. Is it that the noble Lord's temper has been provoked by the contrast which the Speech from the Throne this day presents to the Speeches which the noble Lord, when in power, was obliged to counsel? Is it the congratulations which Her Majesty offers to Parliament on the present state of the trade and commerce of the country, of the improved condition of the manufacturing industrial classes, and, above all, of the flourishing state of the public revenue; is it these things which have suggested to the noble Lord reminiscences of a very painful nature, and which has disturbed that equanimity of temper which is usually displayed by him, and which is generally observed on the first day of Session? 'Vixque tenet Iachrymas, quia nil lacrymabile cernit.'" 313 lacryrnabile 314
 MR. GRATTAN  thought that the questions which had been asked by the hon. Member for Montrose might he answered on some other occasion. He had himself risen for the purpose of saying a few words as to the vote which he had given on a previous evening, on the Amendment to the Address. It was painful for him to have to answer for that vote, because, however satisfied he might be as to the prosperity of this country, he had no satisfaction as regarded his own. In the one they had, comparatively, a picture of happiness; in the other, a picture of desolation. It was the duty of the Government to account for such a state of things; for it was not merely a matter of interest to his country, but a matter of life and death. He had admired the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had moved the Address, but quite as much for what he had omitted as for what he had told them. He had told them, however, that if Ireland had been properly managed she would have given corn enough for this country as well as for herself. Well, for fifty years past they had Ireland under their control, and what had they done? They had brought matters to such a pass that they had driven the farmers and labourers out of the country. It had been stated that the consequences of the scarcity which prevailed in Ireland had been mitigated by the tranquillity which existed in that country; but the proposition was one which he confessed his inability to understand. He could not understand how the consequence of scarcity, which was hunger, could be mitigated by tranquillity. The inconvenience which was the result of hunger might no doubt be succeeded by tranquillity, but it was the tranquillity of the grave; and he could not help thinking that a large loaf, or even a small one, would be preferable to quiescence purchased at so dear a price. It was made a subject of felicitation in the Royal Speech, that the necessaries of life might be had for little or nothing in Ireland at present; but from that assurance, he, for one, could derive no comfort. In Ireland they had not even a little now, and what had become of the nothing? The un-
 299 "Nil habuit Codrus; quis enim negat? Ettarmen illud Perdidit infelix totum nil." des gens fiers et hardis l l 300 l l De non apparentibus et non existentibus eadem est ratio l l 301 l l 302 l
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that another hon. Member had given him notice of asking a similar question to-morrow, but he had no objection to give an answer at once. The House would recollect that when he had expressed an opinion as to the necessity of such a measure last Session, certain hon. Gentlemen, who were directors of railway companies, deprecated any intervention in the audit of railway accounts by the Government, but at the same time they undertook to consider the course that they might think necessary to pursue during the recess. He had stated at the time that it was extremely desirable an efficient system of audit should emanate from that body rather than from the Government, but that he should not consider the Government precluded from doing what they thought necessary on the subject hereafter, should the directors fail in agreeing to an efficient measure among themselves. Until very recently he had been in hopes that a Bill would be brought forward on the part of the railway directors on this subject, though he had had no source of information on the question except the usual channels open to the public; but he believed it was now generally known that the directors had failed in bringing the matter to that form in which it could be brought before the House. At the same time he believed that a considerable body of shareholders were desirous to bring an Audit Bill before the House. He begged again to say, what he had stated last Session, that he thought it extremely desirable a measure should be brought forward by the proprietors of railway companies, if possible, and that it should be submitted without delay to the House. It was desirable that they should be put in possession of the views of the shareholders themselves, before any proceeding was taken; and if a Bill were introduced by them, he should be ready to give it the best consideration in his power; but, in the meantime, if no Bill were brought in by those connected with railways, he would not hold himself precluded from taking up the question.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that before the noble Lord answered the questions put by the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, he (Mr. Roebuck) wished to add a complement to those questions. As he understood the matter, there were certain long outstanding claims made by persons either in the character of British subjects, or who actually were British subjects, which had not been satisfied by the Greek Government. But there was also, as he understood, another claim of a much more important character—namely, with respect to certain islands to which the Government of England laid claim, and which claim had not been satisfied by the Government of Greece. The question, therefore, really became one of national importance. He believed that the Governments of France and Russia were parties to the guarantee of the integrity of the monarchy of Greece, and, therefore, any claim on the part of England to any portion of the territory of Greece, was a matter in which France and Russia had a right to interfere; and every step taken by England with regard to the monarchy of Greece, must have been taken with the full understanding on the part of our Minister for Foreign Affairs that he was running the risk of calling in the intervention—perhaps the hostile intervention—of the Governments of France and Russia. Passing over, then, the case of the Portuguese Jew, and the outstanding claims so many years old, the question became one of national importance—of importance to the whole world. Had we sent a fleet to the Piræus for the purpose of enforcing the claims which he had mentioned, before there was an understanding with the Governments of France and Russia—sent a fleet in a hostile shape, with an intention to resist the Governments of France and Russia if they attempted to interfere? Passing from this to another question of the hon. Gentleman opposite, with respect to Spain, he (Mr. Roebuck) hoped the noble Lord would be able to tell the House that there was not the slightest chance of any arrangement with Spain. We had gone on so admirably while we had no arrangement with Spain, and we went on so exceedingly ill while we had anybody there, that he thought the most enviable condition in which we could pos-
 278
 MR. SADLEIR  said, that his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Portarlington had wished to represent that there had been no very considerable diminution in the expenditure for the relief of the poor; and the noble Lord at the head of the Government had unintentionally, no doubt, misrepresented his hon. Friend's statement. There had been a diminution in the numbers of those who were receiving outdoor relief, but this was owing to the great waste of human life in Ireland, which he designated as disgraceful. His hon. and gallant Friend might have impressed on the Government that each week numbers applying for outdoor relief were refused it. He held in his hand a letter received from Thurles, in which the writer stated that out of 3,000 applicants, only fifty-eight had been relieved during the previous week. He did not conceive that this was the time for discussing the question as to the wisdom or impolicy of free trade, and he would have wished to see no discussion take place on the policy they had deliberately adopted so recently, and which he thought should have a fair trial. He was anxious, however, that no errors should be disseminated respecting the prospect of renewed prosperity in Ireland. He thought the hon. Mover of the Address was too sanguine in his expectations of immediate prosperity, and that it would be many years before Ireland recovered that position which she held anterior to 1845. It was said that in former times the misery in Ireland had been more intense than it was in the present day, and that misery had been attributed to protection. He was anxious the House should bear in mind that her former misery could be attributed to other causes than protection, and he was astonished to hear hon. Gentlemen assigning protection as a cause. They might remember a time when repeal speeches were answered in that House by a reference to the rapid and extensive improvement of the Irish in agriculture during the palmy days of protection—a fact which had been demonstrated by a former Whig Chancellor of the Exchequer. A free-trade policy must necessarily press severely for the present on all classes in Ireland. No man could contend that they had not in the time of famine and scarcity reaped a benefit from the free importation of food; with the Irish tenant-
 328 l l s d d 329 l l l l l
 MR. STANFORD  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, whether there was any intention on the part of Government to introduce a Bill for the audit of railway accounts this Session?
 SIR J. YOUNG : I rise to order. What I said was, that the Irish peasantry had little or no interest in protection. I instanced the small amount of employment which they received under that system; and I stated that in the county of Meath famine and fever were frequent during the existence of protection. What has that to do with the abatement of agitation, and the cheerful submission of the people to the law?
 SIR J. YOUNG  begged the House would permit him to correct a misapprehension, or mis-statement, in a portion of the evidence that had been taken before the Poor Law Committee; but before doing so he must say he was surprised to hear the hon. Gentleman the Member for Meath attribute the state of Ireland to the want of protection for native industry. He entirely agreed in the opinion expressed by the hon. Gentleman the Member for the city of Cork, that the tenantry of Ireland had very little interest in the question of protection. They had none whatever, and as a proof of his assertion, he would read a passage from a statement made in the year 1836, when protection was in its zenith; and he would recommend that statement to the consideration of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Meath. Three tables were prepared stating the average employment during each month, of three classes of labourers. The more skilful were employed 150 days in the year; labourers of a general average class were employed 115 days; and the labourers who had not acquired their full strength, or were becoming old, were employed only 70 days in the year. That was at a time when the protective laws were in their zenith, and it was not in a distressed part of Ireland, but in the rich county of Meath, the best land perhaps
 308 "London, Jan. 23. "Sir—I take the liberty of addressing you, as chairman of the Committee of the House of Commons which sat during the last Session to inquire into the Irish Poor Law, to correct a gross error in the evidence adduced before it. Having observed with great surprise that Mr. O'Sullivan (the priest of Kenmare) had stated that my rents in that neighbourhood were 20 per cent above the poor-law valuation—a statement which I knew must be false, though I could not exactly state to what extent—I directed, therefore, during the recess a minute inquiry to be made on the subject; and having had it proved to Mr. O'Sullivan how erroneous his statement was, I have desired him to address to you the paper which I enclose, admitting the fact; indeed, the gentleman who conducted the investigation assures me that they are still more below the valuation than he now admits. Allow me to add, that it is not so much with a view to setting myself right in your opinion and that of the Committee, that I trouble you with this, as for the purpose of administering the only corrective in my power to that habit of loose statement and
 309 "Sir John Young, Bart." "LANSDOWNE.
 MR. HUME  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, though he attended quarter-sessions regularly, appeared to be totally ignorant of the principles which regulated society in reference to commerce and manufactures. What would be said if the manufacturers were to come to Parliament, and—representing the deplorable state to which they were reduced by the reduction of the prices of their manufactures: that they were obliged now to sell cotton goods for which they formerly obtained 9 d d 291 s s 292 s s s 293 s s l 294 l l 295 296 "It is Her Majesty's hope and belief, that by combining liberty with order, by preserving what is valuable, and amending what is defective, you will sustain the fabric of our institutions as the abode and the shelter of a free and happy people. " 297 298
 MR. P. BENNET  said, he should not have risen but for the misrepresentations which the Mover of the Address had made with regard to the labouring classes. He looked forward to free trade affecting the people, the labouring classes, more than any other class; and by the labouring class he did not mean merely the workmen congregated in large towns, but the labouring classes spread all over the country and living in towns which were in a great measure dependent on agriculture, and he believed that the number of those connected with agriculture was much greater than those connected with manufactures. The hon. Mover of the Address said, that even in the agricultural districts the labourers were better off, as they had either more wages, or they got more for the same money. Now, he (Mr. Bennet) denied the fact of their receiving more wages. Their wages were dreadfully reduced. In his county there were more men out of work than in any district in the kingdom. He might be ashamed of that; but from the great reduction in the
 304 s s
 MR. BENNET  said, that such disturbances had taken place, and he supposed the information had been communicated to the hon. Secretary of the Home Department. He then proceeded to observe, that it was said farmers might get on with wheat at 5 s 305 l l
 MR. P. HOWARD  begged to address a few words to the House on what had fallen from the hon. Member for Montrose. They had seen with satisfaction that Her Majesty's Ministers proposed to extend the now contracted limits of the
 303
 MR. SPOONER  trusted the House would give him its attention for a few moments. He should have contented himself with a silent vote if he had not been directly alluded to by the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the hon. Gentleman who moved the Address. He was called on to explain why the prophecies which had been alluded to with respect to the currency had failed. The hon. Mover of the Amendment had left it to him to answer the currency part of the subject; but he had no intention at present of entering upon the question of currency. He was, however, ready to answer the challenge which had been thrown out. The hon. Gentlemen had said, that they on his (the protectionist) side had prophesied that free importations of corn would lead to an exportation of bullion, but that the reverse had taken place. He (Mr. Spooner admitted it); but there were causes for the great influx of bullion. The first cause was one which had frequently occurred. If hon. Members would look back at the various speeches delivered from the Throne since 1819, they would find them noticing alternate periods of prosperity and distress, followed at periods by an influx of bullion, which gave a stimulus
 315 l l l l 316 317 "Looking, then, at the question in this point of view, I retain my opinion, which I expressed some time ago, that it is of the utmost importance to the interests of this country that you should as fer as possible be independent of foreign supplies. By this I do not mean absolute independence, for that, perhaps, is impossible; and nothing, I think, would be more injurious than to pass such laws as would give rise to a general impression that it was intended to keep this country in absolate independence of foreign supplies. But, speaking generally, I say that it is of importance in a country like this, where the chief subsistence of the labourer consists of wheat, that if we resort to foreign countries for our supplies, we take care that those supplies should be for the purpose of making up deficiencies rather than as the chief sources of our subsistence." 318 319 "An infallible sign of the decay of wealth is the falling of rents; and the raising of them would be worth the nation's care—for on that, and not on the falling of interest, lies the true advantage of the landed man, and, with him, of the public."
 MR. C. ANSTEY,  following the example of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, wished also to call the noble Lord's attention to another point. In reference to the passage in the speech of the Lords Commissioners relative to the settlement of the differences that had arisen between Austria and Russia and the Porte, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs might be congratulated on the noble position his Government occupied in the solution of those differences, though he (Mr. Anstey) could have wished our interference had been better timed, and had secured the total emancipation of the Sultan from the evil influence which we, in concert with France, had enabled Russia so long to exercise over him. But the subject to which he rose to call the noble Lord's attention, was that of the state of affairs in the principalities of Moldavia and Wallachia. In the capacity of mediator between the Porte and Russia last year, Sir Stratford Canning, our Ambassador, was enabled to bring about an accommodation—which he (Mr. Anstey), for one, regretted, being more willing that the question should have been decided in another manner—an accommodation in virtue of which Russia, undertaking to withdraw her troops beyond a certain number (limited, he believed, to 10,000), was to be allowed to occupy those principalities to that extent only down to the end of last year. Now, it was asserted, and most authentic evidence had been laid before him to enable him to judge of the probability of the assertion, that not a single Russian soldierhad been withdrawn—that the number of troops occupying these principalities at the date of the accommodation in question had been very materi-
 279
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  observed that considerable uneasiness had been caused among the persons engaged in the Greek trade, in consequence of reports which had appeared in the newspapers, as to the position of Admiral Sir William Parker on the coast of Greece. He wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, if he could give the House any information upon the subject?
 MR. T. GREENE  said, in reply to the first question, it was not very easy to define exactly the progress that had been made with the new House; but he supposed the principal object of the hon. Gentleman was to ascertain whether it could be completed during the present Session for the occupation of Members. He (Mr. Greene) had no
 271
 MR. EWART  wished to ask the hon. Member for Lancaster what was the present state of the new House of Commons, and when that House was likely to be ready for the reception of Members?
 MR. MONSELL  said, he would take the liberty, in the outset, of making a few remarks in reply to the statements of the hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat. As far as he (Mr. Monsell) recollected the course of the debate, the hon. Gentleman was the first who had the boldness to assert that the present misery of Ireland had been aggravated by their recent commercial legislation. He entirely disagreed in that statement. [An Hon. MEMBER on the Opposition benches: Why, that is stated in our Amendment.] That might be; but he had not heard the declaration made before by any hon. Member. He
 320 321 "That the agricultural labourer in Ireland continues to suffer the greatest privations and hardships, that he was still badly housed, badly fed, badly clothed, and badly paid for his labour. "
 SIR G. GREY  observed, that Government had received no such information.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, the noble Viscount had most successfully avoided the slightest reference to that question which, without disparagement to the others, he ventured to assert was by far the most important, namely, whether in that crisis of affairs now existing in Greece, the officers under the authority of Her Majesty's Government had or had not acted with the concurrence of France and Russia; the whole danger of the crisis (saying nothing of the credit or discredit of attacking a weak State, even in a just cause) being that of provoking a European war, if Her Majesty's servants had acted without that concurrence. The noble Lord had carefully evaded the point, satisfactory as his speech was on some others. He (Sir R. H. Inglis) trusted that he would state that whatever measures had been taken on the part of England had been taken, first, in accordance with existing treaties; and, secondly, with the concurrence of her allies
 285
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  was not a little surprised to hear the lamentable condition of the Irish labourer under protection in many parts of the country turned into an argument in favour of the measure lately introduced, for he had yet to learn that the free-trade measures had improved the condition of that class. His hon. Friend the Member for the county of Limerick had stated that the protection meetings had done incalculable mischief, and had set class against class. Connected as he (Vis count Bernard) was, with a large agricultural county, the central town of which had been the first to advocate this protective principle, he utterly denied the statement, for he had met at those meetings men differing in politics, and on all other subjects, but united on this. He regretted that he could not gather one ray of hope with reference to Ireland from the Queen's Speech. The existence of agricultural distress in this country had been admitted; but if the change in the law had produced mischief in England, what must be the aggravation of that mischief in a country already borne down by the pressure of a calamity lately inflicted on it by Providence? He could testify to the fact, that not only the agriculturists, but every class in Ireland, had suffered. He would venture to suggest to the Government that there were ways in which they might materially assist Ireland at the present time, by relieving that country from the enormous pressure of the grand-jury taxation and the poor-law instalments—matters
 323 l l s l l 324
 VISCOUNT NEWPORT,  not having had an earlier opportunity of addressing the House, considered it his duty to his constituents to express the great regret and deep dissatisfaction with which they, in common with a great portion of the people, would re-
 330 331
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, proceedings of this kind, which are directed to obtain from the subjects of one country compensation for injuries sustained by them, are carried on by the agents of that country, and it is not usual to make any appeal to the agents of any other Power. With regard to the hon. Baronet's allusion to Sir T. Wyse, I should say that those questions arose during the period when Sir E. Lyons was in Greece; they were pressed and urged by him without avail, and had been pressed and urged by Sir T. Wyse without avail. It is only in consequence of our experience that no efforts of either have obtained redress, that the interference of the Admiral Parker took place. With respect to the other question, the parties are both British subjects.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that for a considerable time past negotiations had been carried on with the Greek Government on the subject of compensation claimed by certain British subjects, as well as by inhabitants of the Ionian Islands, for wrongs inflicted upon them in Greece. Instructions had been given to Sir W. Parker that on his return from the Dardanelles he should proceed to Athens, and place himself in communication with Mr. Wyse, the British Minister at that Court, in order to support these demands. By the last accounts it appeared that a correspondence had been carried on between Mr. Wyse on the one part, and the Greek Minister on the other. Up to that time the result had not been satisfactory, but then the account left off. I may add that Mr. Wyse had gone on board the fleet, in order that he might be in a more proper position to act in concert with Sir William Parker, in enforcing the demands. I shall have no objection to lay before the House any papers connected with the subject which my right
 272
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, adverting, in the first instance, to the questions put by the hon. Gentleman opposite the Member for Buckinghamshire, and referred to by my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Sheffield, relating to Greece (though not put first in order), I would state—giving that explanation which the hon. Member desires—that the grievances for which redress has been asked have been chiefly these: —In the first place, there is a Mr. Finlay, who has been long established in Greece, and who had lands there, part of which was taken forcibly from him several years ago for the purpose of forming a portion of the gardens of the palace which King Otho was building. Mr. Finlay has been, for a long course of time, supported by Her Majesty's representatives, endeavouring to obtain proper payment for the land so taken. That payment, however, has never been got. That is one of the wrongs for which redress has been demanded. The other case is that of a Gibraltar subject—not a Portuguese Jew, as stated by my hon. and learned Friend—of the name of Pacifico. His house, in Athens, was violently broken into at mid-day by a mob, of which part were soldiers, in the service of the King of Greece, some gendarmes; the son of the Minister of War heading and encouraging them. The demands for redress in respect of this have not yet been attended with success. There were, be-
 280 281 282 283 284
 Sir F. T. BARING  said, it had been his intention to take the earliest opportunity of stating the course the Government intended to pursue in this matter. As time pressed, and it was necessary that Government should decide, the Admiralty took upon itself to despatch an expedition by Behring's Straits; and it was the intention of Government to send an expedition in search of Sir John Franklin to proceed from the eastward by Lancaster Sound. He thought it would be better for him to defer entering into the details of the course Government would adopt, and that he should state it in a paper to he laid before the House, because the details were not fixed. But he assured hon. Gentlemen that a good many of these propositions had been submitted to the Government, who had paid every attention to them. Of course, on a subject like this every one had his own project; but it would be the endeavour of the Admiralty to adopt that which they really believed would be most efficient for the purpose. He thought it right to state that in an expedition of this nature the pecuniary cost would not be a consideration in the slightest degree. Of course the time might unfortunately come when they would no longer have a right to risk the lives of men in such a search. That had been to him a subject of consideration; but from the opinion of those who were best able to form an opinion, he trusted there still was such a hope as justified the Government in taking every
 391
 SIR F. T. BARING  was understood to say, that no official communication had taken place with the American Government on this subject. His statement only had reference to those quarters in which the Government had officially applied for assistance in promoting this object.
 CAPTAIN PELHAM  wished to put the following questions to the Secretary of State for the Home Department: whether Her Majesty's Government had any intention of bringing in any measures for abolishing or altering the laws of settlement and removability, and the treatment of vagrants; for altering the rating for the support of the poor, either in reference to the area of chargeability, or the property to be assessed; or for transferring any of the charges now levied upon the poor-rate to other funds? His second question was, whether Her Majesty's Government will bring in any measure for facilitating the borrowing of money from the State, or private capitalists, by landowners in England and Wales, for the purpose of improving the condition of estates? The last question was, whether Her Majesty's Government intended to bring in any measure for facilitating the sale or exchange of landed property in England and Wales, in settlement, with a view to the relief or mutual improvement of estates, and the better cultivation of the soil?
 LORD J. RUSSELL : A Cabinet Minisister cannot be sorry for his expressions.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that the question was whether the incidence of taxation fell upon the owner or the occupier of land; and with respect to this question, the right hon. Member for Manchester blew hot and cold. It was too much the habit of hon. Gentlemen opposite to announce what they called a great principle—to declare that they were determined to stand by it, and on the following evening to do that which would practically abrogate it. It was only last week the Mover of the Address told the House, that the incidence of property fell upon the owner of the land. Now, this great principle was qualified by the right hon. Member for Manchester and the hon. Member for Montrose. The principle was a vital one, and hon. Members must not be permitted to blow hot and cold with respect to it.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, his hon. Friend the Member for East Sussex could not have been in the House when he addressed a few observations to it; therefore he begged to state to him that he did not say a single word in opposition to the measure introduced by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, but merely asked the right hon. Gentleman for a clear explanation of the principle on which he introduced it.
 MR. DISRAELI , seeing the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Poor Law Board in his place, wished to inquire when the report of the Commissioners on the operation of the law of settlement would be laid upon the table of the House?
 MR. DISRAELI  said, before the Motion was put, he wished to ask a question of the right hon. Gentleman who had introduced the subject in a manner so suspiciously silent. Last year when he (Mr. Disraeli) brought before the House the
 393
 MR. FREWEN  regretted that he was opposed in this matter by the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire and his friends. He had last Session supported the Bill of the hon. Member for Montrose on this subject, and since then he had received several communications from that division of Sussex which he represented, and from several farmers' clubs, thanking him for the course he had taken. The ratepayers in that division thought they had great cause of complaint, as the county expenditure from 1832 to 1843 had more than doubled, and had since 1843 further increased. It was one of the principles of the constitution that taxation and representation should go together. In the
 397
 MR. FREWEN  seconded the Motion.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  thought the sums expended as county rates were so small, that it was not worth while disturbing the whole machinery of local government on that account. The erection of lunatic asylums and gaols was already controlled by the Home Office, as were all other large items of county expenditure. The right hon. Gentleman was proposing a large machinery for a most insignificant object.
 MR. HORSMAN  wished to offer a very few words in explanation. He had been asked by the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, if the bishops are not the proprietors of the property entrusted to their hands, who then are its proprietors? He (Mr. Horsman's) answer was, that they were not proprietors, but trustees—it was not the property of the bishops, but of the Church, meaning by that term the congregation of the people at large. The difference between the hon. Baronet and himself was simply this—the hon. Baronet considered the bishops the masters of the Church; he (Mr. Horsman) considered them its servants. Now, he must say, that the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary and the hon. Member for Malton also, had shown considerable adroitness in endeavouring to lead the House away from the really important point before them. The right hon. Gentleman had noticed two points, which were both quite immaterial, and had misrepresented his (Mr. Horsman's) remarks. He said that he (Mr. Horsman) had impugned the character of the Members of the Committee, and stated that they went into the Committee with the intention not to do justice. Now, he must reply that he had said nothing of the sort. When he called upon the House to look at the recommendations of the Committee, he desired them to observe, at the same time, how that Committee was composed. It could not be said that it was a partial Committee, chosen from one party, and therefore not carrying the weight which a Committee of higher character would have done. What he said was, that the Committee was composed of Gentlemen of the highest character, of the greatest experience, and of the most established influence in Parliament; and that for those reasons its recommendations were entitled to more weight, because such a Committee could not be supposed to be hostile to the Commission. If he had not before expressed himself correctly, he begged now to say that it would have been impossible to select Gentlemen against whom it would be more difficult to found a charge. There was only another subject on which he would say a word, and it was in reply to what the right hon. Gentleman said as to a letter of his (Mr. Horsman's). Now there was one very good reason why he (Mr. Horsman) should not in his opening speech have noticed that letter. He had a public question to submit to the House, and he did not think those bringing it forward
 386
 MR. HORSMAN  rose for the purpose of bringing forward the Motion of which he had given notice; affirming the expediency of appointing paid Commissioners for the management of the property under the Ecclesiastical Commission. He had to express his sincere regret that the hopes which he had entertained that the labours of the last Committee would have resulted in a settlement of this question, had ended in disappointment. Though every succeeding day tended to confirm him more and more in his conviction of the necessity of improving the Commission and placing the temporalities of the Church in safer hands; it appeared that the probability of giving effect to that proposition was now more remote than ever, and he was, therefore, reluctantly obliged to call the attention of the House again to the subject. They were all familiar both with the character of the Commission and with its proceedings. They knew it to be a very potent, powerful, and irresponsible body; that it was charged with very important functions, and entrusted with the administration of immense funds. They knew that there was hardly a county in England in which it did not exercise some control over considerable estates, or a parish in England in which its intervention might not affect existing interests. In short, whether the temporalities of the Church, or the most sacred spiritual interests of the people, were taken into account, the Commission held a power more vast, more important, and more irresponsible than had been known in this country since the Reformation. Well, therefore, did it become Parliament to keep an eye upon that power—to define its character, to limit its operation, to regulate its use, and take every precaution against possible abuse; and the more so because it was obvious that from the present composition of that Commission, great abuses of one kind or another must arise. It could not
 349 350 351 352 353 354 355 356 Ego et Rex meus Ego et Episcopi mei 357 secundus tertius 358 359 l l l 360 361 362 363 364 365 366 367
 MR. HORSMAN : The chairman who drew up the report was the hon. Member for Malton.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he did not know for what a Cabinet Minister felt sorrow; but if ever it was felt by a right hon. Gentleman holding that office, this was the occasion for him to evince it. The expression used by the right hon. Baronet was a strong one. It was, that the hon. Member for Cockermouth had drawn upon his fertile imagination for some of his statements. Now, the allegation of his hon. Colleague was this: that the Committee had been granted on two conditions: first, that there should be no discussion at the time of appointing it; and, next, that the name of the Committee should be submitted to the Archbishop of Canterbury for approval. The right hon. Baronet had admitted, with reference to the former, that the Committee were appointed without any discussion, in consequence of the lateness of the Session, and that it was intended they should be appointed without any discussion; and, therefore, as far as that point was concerned, his hon. Colleague had not drawn upon his fertile imagination for his facts. The right hon. Baronet, with reference to the second point, had said, not that the names were not submitted, but that he did not know of their being submitted to the Archbishop of Canterbury. It was manifest from some portions of the speech of the right hon. Baronet, that he had misunderstood the hon. Member for Cockermouth, for that hon. Member had not intended by any of his observations to represent the Committee as an unfair Committee.
 377 "Considering the purposes for which the Ecclesiatical Commission was appointed, and the desire to increase the efficiency of the Church, would it not be desirable that all the revenues of the Church should be thrown into one common fund? —I do not think it would; for there had been a greater increase in the staff of bishops than in any other department of the Church. "Do you think that an increase of bishops would tend to the diffusion of more spiritual instruction to the people?—Yes. "More than adding to the small clergy?—Yes; my opinion is that if there were more bishops, we should get a charitable fund for the poor clergy. "How do you expect to attain that object?—By our calling on the laity to subscribe funds for the purpose."
 MR. AGLIONBY  promised to give full expression to his views on this most important subject when the Bill introduced into the House of Lords should have come down for the consideration of hon. Members of that House. He contended that the public were much indebted to the hon. Member for Cockermouth for having brought this question forward on the present and former occasions, because it was impossible that too much attention could be paid to the management of a large amount of property vested in the hands of the Commissioners, of which very little was publicly known, and probably much less would have been known, either as to the property itself or the mode of its management, had it not been for the hon.
 376
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that his hon. Colleague had placed his notice of Motion on the books before he was aware that a Bill had been introduced into the other House, and before it was even known that it would be brought forward there. The more the question was discussed, the better. The probability was, that had his hon. Colleague agitated it when the Commission
 378 l l l
 MR. AGLIONBY  had come to the conclusion that the whole of the interrogation on the opposite side of the House was a mere jest, because they had little to do that evening. He begged leave to inform the hon. Gentleman that they were not blowing any way but the one way. He did not care on whom the rate fell, but those on whom it fell should have a voice in the expenditure. He asked the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire whether he thought the magistrates or ratepayers could better administer the
 396
 MR. HEYWOOD  remarked that it was intended to leave the magistrate a large share of the power by the Bill.
 MR. WYLD  alluded to the large sums which had been expended in these exploring expeditions, and said that they had always gone on an erroneous principle, by proceeding from the east westward. This was but carrying out an old tradition which had existed some time in the Admiralty Office, about the discovery of a north-west passage. All who had studied the matter either theoretically or practically, knew full well that as the currents always set from west to east, the expeditions sent from this country had to encounter not only the perils of the season, but large aggregations of ice which had been partially broken up, and were drifted from west to east by the continuous flow of the current. He entertained a confident hope, in common with most who had studied the subject, that the expedition under Sir John Franklin was at this moment existing; and looking at what the course of the expedition had been, he must say, that the principal point had never yet been explored. Those who had looked at the subject, had a very firm assurance that the expedition was now existing on the southern point of
 392
 MR. J. E. DENISON  said, as the House had done him the honour, on his Motion, to grant a Committee to inquire into the composition and management of the Ecclesiastical Commission, and as the Committee did him the honour to desire him to draw up the report, he felt that perhaps he had in some degree stopped short of his duty in not taking an opportunity to bring the whole matter before the House. But it was a case of difficulty, of great magnitude and importance; and as the Government had consented to take the matter into their own hands, and adopt the recommendation of the Committee, he felt he should best accomplish the object he had in view, and best discharge his duty both to the Committee and the House, by leaving the Government, which was really the proper medium for doing so, to carry the measure through the House. He endeavoured in that Committee to conduct the inquiry to the best of his ability—searching for the truth, at the same time desirous of not creating unnecessary personal annoyance to any one. As something had been said in the course of the debate, of the members of the Committee, he wished to say that he felt he owed a great obligation to the two right hon. Gentlemen opposite for the fairness and candour with which they entered into the inquiry, and the great services which they performed on the Committee. If he had erred in not bringing this matter forward, he had erred from an anxious wish to save the time of the House, of which he was at all times a zealous economist. It was entirely contrary to his habits to make a speech, merely for the sake of speaking. He believed that everything that was necessary would be done by the Government. Some questions had been addressed to him by the two hon. Members for Cockermouth. The hon. Gentleman who introduced the subject asked him whether, as regarded the composition of the Committee, a sort of bargain had been made that the subject should be introduced without discussion; and he also asked him whether it was not another bargain that the names of the Committee should be submitted to the Archbishop of Canterbury? The right hon. Baronet has, I trust, explained to the satisfaction of the House, the real interpretation of the bargain. The only bargain I made was this—" If you will give me the Committee as an unopposed
 382 383 384
 MR. HENLEY  observed that the magistrates were responsible for the peace of the counties and the care of the gaols, and he hoped they might trust to the Government not to leave the responsibility of those matters in the hands of the magistrates, while they left the control of paying for them in other hands.
 MR. HUME  said, the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty had mentioned the Russian Government; he wished to ask, if efforts had not also been made by the Government of the United States?
 MR. HUME  said, the ratepayers in counties had an equal right with those in boroughs to control the expenditure of their rates. At present, the magistrates only had the control of the county expenditure, which was 1,000,000 l l
 MR. HUME  thought the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary had confined his reply to mere trifling, which was not worth noticing, passing over altogether those abuses which were charged, and ought long since to have been redressed. No less a sum than 128,000 l l l 375 l
 MR. BAINES  said, that the report was in the hands of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department, and would, he believed, be laid upon the table either to-night or to-morrow.
 MR. P. SCROPE  wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland relative to the recent administration of the poor-laws in the Kilrush union. He wanted to know what truth there was in the statements which he found made by local journals, that in that union all outdoor relief had been stopped on the 8th of December last? Several coroners' inquests having been held on persons who had died of starvation, it was resumed; but on the 19th of January it was again stopped, 12,500 persons having been in receipt of it. Deaths from starvation again occurred on the second stoppage of outdoor relief, and it was subsequently resumed, showing that, in the opinions of the guardians, it was absolutely necessary. He wished also to ask whether it was true that the guardians of the Kilrush union had altered the dietary of the inmates of the workhouse, and had fed them on turnips with half rations of milk? He had seen a statement, that, owing to the alteration in the dietary, the deaths had risen from four to ninty-five in the three weeks ending the 13th of January, and that, at the same time, the number of paupers in the infirmary had increased in an equal proportion. He wished to ask, lastly, whether, considering this mode of administering the poor-law, the Poor Law Board did intend to relieve the guardians of the Kilrush union from the responsibilities of that office?
 MR. MANGLES  said, that having been frequently consulted by the hon. Member for Cockermouth with regard to this question, and knowing and appreciating the motives which actuated the hon. Member in the course he had taken, and feeling also that the hon. Member had not had fair quarter extended to him, he felt it incumbent on him to address a few observations to the House. He had understood the hon. Member for Cockermouth distinctly to speak of the constitution of the Committee, not as disparaging it, but rather as an argument à  fortiori
 MR. C. ANSTEY , in seconding the Motion, begged to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty to the proposal of Mr. M'Cormick, surgeon of the  Erebus 390
 MR. M. GIBSON  moved for leave to bring in "a Bill to establish county financial boards for the assessing of county rates, and for the administration of county expenditure in England and Wales."
 MR. M. GIBSON  did not think that was quite the time to enter into the discussion to which the hon. Gentleman invited him. But he might be permitted to say, if it were true—as he had often heard from the hon. Gentleman—that the interest of the landlord and the tenant-farmer was one and the same, he surely would not object to the tenant-farmer having a voice in controlling the expenditure of the counties. This also might be admitted, that whatever on theoretical principles might be clearly shown to be the ultimate settlement as between landlords and tenants, after the rates had existed some time, yet the tenant had, in the first instance, to find the money. He would not go into a full discussion of the principle; but undoubtedly, if a large building, as a lunatic asylum or a gaol, had unexpectedly to be erected within a short period, and the whole sum neeessary had to be raised on security of the county rates, and had to be repaid by instalments raised by those rates during the currency of leases, tenants having such leases would have rather a strong interest in controlling the original expenditure, because in any future bargain between landlord and tenant they could not get compensation
 394
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the first question put to him by the hon. and gallant Member was one to which it was difficult to give a very explicit and categorical answer, without being subject to some misconception. The question of the law of settlement had occupied much of the attention of the President of the Poor Law Board, and in a very few days the information to which the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire had just referred, and which had been collected by his right hon. Friend the President of the Poor Law Board, would be in the hands of hon. Members. The
 345 l 346
 SIR G. GREY : What I said was, that, considering the matter to be one of detail, I thought it would be more in accordance with Parliamentary use to wait until the Bill before the other House of Parliament should come down to this.
 SIR G. GREY : But the hon. Gentleman did not dissent from the report, or express, until now, any doubt of its impartiality. Well, but the hon. Gentleman stated that this Committee recommended the appointment of a separate and distinct board, to be composed of three paid commissioners, to whom should be referred all business connected with the estates. Now, that was not the interpretation which he (Sir G. Grey) put upon the recommendation of the Committee. No doubt the Committee recommended a change in the composition of the Commission; that a considerable division of duty should take place; that business of a more purely ecclesiastical nature should be separated from the management of the property; but that to the united body should be referred the ultimate decision of all questions—the small committee managing in all its branches the property of the Commission, but still as a committee. To show that this was intended to be a committee of the Commission, and not an independent body, he need only call the attention of the House to one of the paragraphs of the report. It was as follows:—
 "That three paid commissioners should be appointed, two to be nominated by the Crown, and one by the Archbiship of Canterbury. That in order to constitute a quorum of the board, or of
 373 pro forma 374 pro formâ
 SIR G. GREY  said, that he would not follow the hon. Gentleman through the history of the Ecclesiastical Commission, which he had stated this evening with greater accuracy than on former occasions. The original Commission was, as the hon. Gentleman had clearly stated to-night, a Commission simply of inquiry, and limited to a small number of members. To the present Commission was confided the duty, not of inquiry, but of the administration of funds in accordance with rules laid down by Act of Parliament. Now as to the composition of the Commission,
 368 369 370 l l l l l 371 ex-officio 372
 SIR G. GREY  said, it was inconvenient to discuss this Bill without knowing exactly what it was. He did not intend to be inferred from anything he had said that he was favourable to the principle of excluding the magistracy from all interference in the assessment.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that to a certain extent he agreed in the remark that had been made, that if the Bill was one which the Government clearly meant to oppose, it was the best way to state that opinion when leave was moved for to bring in the Bill, in order to save the time of the House. But there were many Bills, in reference to which, from the short description given of them in the notice of Motion, and the brief statement usually made on moving their introduction,
 395
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  hoped the hon. Gentleman would withdraw his Motion. He would remind his hon. Friend the Member for Malton, that in respect to the appointment of the Committee, he, at the time, thought its composition was dangerous. He did not wish to undervalue the labours of that Committee, but the result had shown the dangerous course of the system which had been pursued. There was the case of the secretary, who was afterwards found to be connected with railway speculations to a large amount. He was connected by family ties with the solicitor of the Commission; and it came out that the secretary was irremovable. It was not right that a Commission entrusted with the administration of so large an amount of real property should be so constituted.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  would willingly rest the question on the grounds upon which the hon. and learned Member had put it. He had maintained last year, and he maintained now, that it was the owner and not the occupier of land who paid the rates. The magistrates of England were the principal ratepayers, and nothing was more unfair than the distinction which hon. Gentlemen opposite wished to draw between ratepayers and magistrates. As the general disposition of the House seemed to be in favour of the introduction of the Bill, he should not oppose it, but should reserve to himself the right to take what course he thought fit with respect to it at a future stage.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  observed, that one of the hon. Members for Cockermouth had come to the rescue of the other. The hon. Member for that borough who had last spoken, had said that such was the management—he had afterwards wittily said mismanagement—of the Ecclesiastical Commission, that it might be expected ultimately to get control of property to the amount of 9,000,000 l l 379 l 380 Arcades ambo! 381
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  begged to move for copies of any reports or statements from the officers employed in the Arctic expeditions, or from any other persons, which have been laid before the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty in respect to the resumption of the search for Sir John Franklin's expedition. It was not necessary, in making this Motion, that he should quote any precedent in its support. It was one in respect to which he hoped he should have the same cordial concurrence
 387 388 389 "Copies of any Reports or Statements from the officers employed in the Arctic Expeditions, or from any other persons, which have been laid be-fore the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty in I repect to the resumption of the search for Sir John Franklin's Expedition: "Of any plan or plans of search, whether by ships or boats, up to the present date: "Copy or Extracts from any Correspondence or Proceedings of the Board of Admtralty, in relation: to the Arctic Expeditions (since the date of the last Return to this House in 1849): "Copies of the Orders issued by the Board of Admiralty to the Captains Collinson, Kellett, and Moore, and to Lieutenant Pullen; and also Copy of the Instructions given to Dr. Rae, through the Hudson's Bay Company: "Of any Reports made by any officer or officers employed in the late Expeditions, and addressed to the Board of Admiralty: "And, of the latest chart of the Polar Sea compiled by order of the Board of Admiralty (in continuation of Parliamentary Papers Nos. 204 and 386, of Session 1848, and of Nos. 188 and 387, of Session 1849)."
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  would suggest to the Government not to suffer Bills to be introduced merely for the sake of being read a first and second time, of the impolicy of which they were persuaded, and the discussion of which would only waste the time of the House. He imagined this was a Bill to supersede the functions of Her Majesty's justices of the peace; he believed the Government was opposed to the project, and he hoped they would at once declare their views. If the Bill carried in it the seeds of dissolution, it would be the most merciful course to put an end to it at once. If the Government were opposed to the principle it involved, let them take the earliest opportunity of stating so.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, he would not allow the Motion to be agreed to without expressing his gratitude to the right hon. Baronet and to the House, for having concurred so entirely in the suggestion of another expedition being sent out in search of Sir John Franklin.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  was happy that it was in his power to give his hon. Friend's question an answer as satisfactory as, perhaps, he expected, and as it certainly was his desire on all occasions to afford to hon. Members; but it was impossible for him, at twenty-four hours' notice, and not having access here to papers which would have afforded more satisfactory details, to give precise information on the points which had been ennumerated with such remarkable minuteness by his hon. Friend. It was quite true that in December
 347 348
 MR. LASCELLES  reported Her Majesty's Answer to the Address, as follows:—
 "I thank you for your loyal and dutiful Address. "The expression of your sympathy in the loss which I and the Nation have sustained by the death of Her Majesty Queen Adelaide, is very grateful to my feelings. "You may rely on My cordial co-operation in your endeavours to promote the welfare and happiness of all classes of My people, and to preserve and improve the Institutions which, under the favour of Divine Providence, this Country has long enjoyed."
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he would shortly state the nature of the four Bills which he was about to ask leave to introduce for the amendment of the law in Ireland. The first Bill was for the purpose of regulating process and practice in the superior courts of common law in Ireland. The Act 2 William IV. was passed in order to produce uniformity of process in England; and the principal object of this Bill was to extend to Ireland provisions as similar to those existing here as the circumstances of that country would admit. In England, when a personal action was commenced, a writ of summons was issued, and the defendant was bound to appear
 399 capias ad respondendum nisi prius 400
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he would give the suggestion his consideration.
 MR. HEADLAM  thought that England also had some claim to improvement in the administration of her laws. In Ireland the Solicitor General would earn a great name for the improvement of the law of property, and there were many circumstances which rendered it important that similar measures should be introduced for the improvement of the law in this country.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  then moved for leave to bring in a Bill to simplify and improve the proceedings in the High Court of Chancery in Ireland. The Bill had been perused by the Lord Chancellor and the Master of the Rolls in Ireland, and both those learned persons had expressed their general approval of the objects of the Bill.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said,
 403 vivâ voce vivâ voce 404
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he now rose to ask for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the laws relating to registration in Ireland. He must, in the first instance, explain the peculiar defects of the present system, and then he would state what was the remedy he proposed. The House would observe, that the question of registration was different in England and in Ireland. In England, with the exception of Yorkshire and Middlesex, there was no proper system of registration. In Ireland there was a very stringent system; but it contained several important defects, which it was the object of the present Bill to remedy. In considering what registration should be, the important point was that you should have a register of every document and every fact connected with every person who had dealt with the land, and that those facts should be easily ascertained. The defects of the Irish register were, that the mode of registering was exceedingly inaccurate, and that the facts were most difficult to be got at. What was registered in the first instance was a memorial of the deed. He had not found that there was any desire to suppress facts in those memorials, but the persons registering only inscribed what they thought material, leaving you to ascertain the facts you might require as you best could. The great object in a register was to obtain an entire disclosure of the transaction; but in the present register you had it only mentioned that certain persons had dealt with the land. There were no means of establishing their identity, nor was any description of the lands given; so that whether the whole lands had been dealt with or only part, or whether other lands had been included, you had no means of ascertaining. These difficulties arose from the nature of
 411 l l l l l l 412 413 414
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  again rose and moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the laws concerning judgments in Ireland. It would be remembered that in the last Session of Parliament he brought in a measure on the subject of judgments, founded on the report of the Receivers Committee, which contained much valuable information. The evils of the law respecting judgments in Ireland were of two descriptions—the one as it affected the due management of land, and the other as it affected the power of disposing of it. By the existing system, a receiver might be appointed by any person who had obtained a judgment against the owner of the land, subject only to the limit of 150 l 415 416 ad infinitum
 MR. V. SMITH  said, that as the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, the great leader of the Protectionist party, had consented to put his Motion in a better position by the suggestion of a Jacobin free trader, a greater victory could not be taken by the hon. Member for Manchester than that of his present position, in which he had taught the leader of the opposite party what tactics he ought to pursue in that House. If the Amendment of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire were withdrawn, and the suggestion of the hon. Member for Manchester substituted in its stead, he should feel it his duty to oppose it, for this reason—they were not now in the position in which they were when the
 455
 MR. F. MAULE  begged to make a remark in reference to an observation made by the hon. Gentleman the Member for the county of Inverness. The hon. Gentleman had led the House to suppose that during the insurrection in Ceylon the task of performing a highly responsible duty had been placed in the hands of an officer (Colonel Drought) of no very long standing in the service. It was also complained that Major General Smelt did not repair to the post at which Colonel Drought was stationed; but the fact was that Major General Smelt's attention was devoted to the protection of the capital, and Colonel Drought, the senior officer in command in the disturbed district, was entrusted with the discharge of important duties there. Of what standing in the army did the House think; Colonel Drought was? He was of thirty-five years standing. He was an officer distinguished by his zeal in his profession, by his intelligence in the performance of the duties entrusted to him, and had served I thirty-three years on full pay.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, as I was the principal person by whom the understanding was entered into, the House will feel it is necessary for me to address them on the subject of the censure on my conduct which the hon. Gentleman opposite (the Member for Inverness-shire) has uttered. Now, Sir, in doing so I must beg to recall to the recollection of the House what happened at the end of the last Session of Parliament. The Committee came to a resolution after some Members of the Committee had left London, that it was expedient to appoint a commission to go to Ceylon, in order to examine witnesses. When that Motion was brought before the House, I opposed it, as one that would destroy all authority in the Island of Ceylon; and I said I thought that cither Lord Torrington should be immediately recalled, or the House should refuse to appoint the commission that was proposed. The House, as I believed, agreed with me in opinion that that commission ought not to be appointed; but in the course of that discussion it appeared that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire had moved in the Committee for a different and perhaps preferable course, that certain witnesses should be summoned before the Committee. Now, Sir, in speaking upon this subject, I said—I believe it was in consequence of something that fell from the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon—that I thought if the witnesses were named by the Committee, that those witnesses would be sent for, and be in attendance in the next Session of Parliament. The words I used on that subject, as I find them recorded, were—
 "That if the Committee were to meet again and propose to summon certain witnesses from Ceylon, there could be no difficulty in summoning those witnesses; and unless there was some physical impossibility, which was not likely, having them in attendance when the Committee met next year."— Hansard 445 446 447 448
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I cannot give my consent to the Amendment of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire being withdrawn. If it is not a censure upon the noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Office, I consider it a censure upon myself and the Government, and shall therefore oppose its withdrawal.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that if the last Amendment was a censure upon the Government, the present one was a censure upon the Committee. The more usual and natural course was to leave it to the Committee to decide what witnesses should be called, and he thought that the matter should be left entirely in the hands of the Committee. Why the House should interpose, or say by its resolution that the Committee were not to be trusted to decide as to what witnesses were to be called, he was not aware.
 MAJOR BLACKALL  said, that as far as his recollection served him, the reasons which influenced the Committee in deciding upon summoning Mr. Selby and Captain Watson, were, that those persons would be able to prove or disprove certain charges made before the Committee; one of which was founded upon certain letters containing expressions said to have been used by Lord Torrington; another of the charges being that Lord Torrington had communicated with Captain Watson, instead of, as is the usual course, giving instructions to the commanding officer. It was agreed by the Committee that those witnesses should be called, and the chairman was authorised to communicate with the Colonial Office as to the necessary witnesses to be ordered home to give evidence before the Committee to be appointed in the ensuing Session. The hon. Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, though he assented to that resolution, stated that evidence would be required to be given to show that the attendance of such witnesses was necessary. He regretted that expressions had been made use of in the course of the debate which seemed to assume that all the charges which had been made had been distinctly proved; and it was with extreme pleasure that he heard the testimony borne by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War to the conduct of Colonel Drought. In his (Major Blackall's) opinion, there was no person whose character would be a better guarantee that no act of cruelty or unnecessary violence would take place, or to whom at the same time the safety of the colony and the honour of the troops could be more safely confided than to that gallant officer.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, if the House will permit me to make a few observations on the Amendment which I have proposed, I shall feel obliged. There seems to be some reason for opposing that Amendment, because it contains a general disapproval of the Government, rather than of one single Member of it. For my part, I cannot recognise the principle, that the act of any individual Member of the Cabinet is
 454
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the question we have to consider to-day is, I think, of a very simple character, and should be confined entirely to a consideration by the House of the understanding that was arrived at between the Committee and the Government. I will make no reference to proceedings at Ceylon, of which we may, or of which we may not, have testimony; but I will endeavour to place before the House the question upon which I think we are called upon to give a decision and express an opinion. The House will recollect that on nearly the last day of last Session, when the Committee reported the expression of their opinion that a commission should be sent to Ceylon to report on certain circumstances, I mentioned that I had proposed a compromise in the Committee to the Under Secretary of State; and I recollect afterwards that the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon, approving of that compromise, regretted very much that the Under Secretary of State had not accepted of it. Nevertheless, the right hon. Gentleman did not, on the whole, think it best that the resolution of the Committee should be sanctioned by the House; but he expressed a very qualified disapprobation of the course we had recommended. What happened in the Committee appears to me to be quite decisive as to the intentions both of the Government and of the Committee; and no doubt for a moment of the meaning of the Committee and Government could be entertained, if the Under Secretary, in placing the circumstances before the House, had not so transposed the documents on which the merits of the question depend, that he conveyed to the House an impression exactly the contrary to what occurred. The hon. Gentleman said he had read the documents, but he happened to read first the document that occurred last. This is not a matter of argument but of demonstration: there can be no difference of opinion respecting it between me and the Under Secretary, nor in the House. The hon. Gentleman read this resolution as one that had been carried in the Committee; namely, "Motion made and question put, that the Chairman be authorised and desired to enter into a communication with the Secretary of State, as to the necessary witnesses to be examined in the ensu-
 442 amicus curiœ 443
 MR. HAWES : Sir, the hon. Gentleman
 428 429 "Your Committee is of opinion that it is a fit subject for inquiry, not merely whether the special grounds on which the increase in question was recommended still exist, but whether, all circumstances considered, a salary of less than 5,000 l l l l l 430 431 "That means should be adopted in the interval by the Secretary of State, to ensure the attendance before the Committee of the Queen's Advocate of Ceylon, Captain Watson, and such other witnesses whose evidence was necessary to explain and establish the circumstances under which martial law was recently proclaimed in Ceylon." 432 "The witnesses ordered by the Committee shall be in attendance; the other witnesses, inasmuch as I do not admit that you have the sole power of nominating them, I must leave for the Committee to decide upon when they meet. In the meantime there are witnesses who have been ordered home by the Committee, and the examination can be proceeded with. There are other important witnesses in this country who will fully occupy the interval." l l 433 434 435
 MR. HAWES  said, that although one mail left to-morrow, still that the ordinary mail would not leave till the 20th of this month. The mail of to-morrow would go by way of Bombay, and there would be but the difference of a few days in the arrival of that and of the one of the 20th. He was perfectly prepared to move the reappointment of the same members who formed the Committee of last year, and he was prepared to nominate them at once, so that they might meet to-morrow, when he would be ready to state his reasons for objecting to any witnesses, or naming others, which the Committee might please to decide upon. He would also state that several witnesses were ready to be examined before the Committee; and inasmuch as the parties against the Governor of Ceylon had had the whole of the last year to produce their witnesses, and to substantiate their charges, it was not exceedingly unfair that the Committee should now hear some of the witnesses upon the other side.
 MR. HAWES  moved for the reappointment of the Select Committee of last Session to inquire into the grievances complained of in Ceylon.
 MR. HAWES  said, that the Committee of last Session having made a report on that colony, he was not aware of any reason for instituting further inquiries respecting it.
 MR. HORSMAN  wished to put a question, of which he had not given notice, but perhaps the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department would be able to give an answer now. Allusion had been made on the previous evening to the late secretary of the Ecclesiastical Commission, and to some steps taken when the defalcation brought home to him had been discovered. He wished to know if it were true that the secretary had executed a deed of assignment before he went away? He had heard that the secretary did so, that the Government took steps to make him deliver up whatever he was in possession of, and that after executing the deed he was permitted to take his departure. He wished to ask whether this was true, and, if there were such a deed, whether there was any objection to produce it to the House?
 MR. F. FRENCH  said, that if these alterations were so essential, they should also be extended to England. The hon. and learned Solicitor General had been complimented upon the Encumbered Estates Act; but it could not as yet be said whether it was likely to work well or not. It seemed that additional expense was to be incurred when three-fourths of the business of the court was about to be taken away. Under no circumstances should there be the appointment of a new officer.
 MR. BAILLIE : Sir, before the Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies is agreed to, I wish to trespass for a short time on the attention of the House. Perhaps I ought to apologise for alluding, in the first place, to a matter in some degree personal to myself, but as it affects the privileges of this House, I hope I shall be excused for doing so. Among the papers presented to the House by the Colonial Office, with reference to the colony of British Guiana, there are two despatches from the Governor of that colony, in which the Governor and also the Attorney General of the colony, take upon themselves to criticise a speech said to have been delivered by me in this House, and which they allege to have quoted from the  Times 418 419 420 421 " Resolved 422 "The Pré, St. Albans, Nov. 28, 1849. "My Lord—In obedience to a resolution of the Committee which sat during the last Session of Parliament to inquire into the grievances of Ceylon and British Guiana, in which I was required to apply to your Lordship to procure the attendance of witnesses from Ceylon, for the further prosecution of the inquiry in the next Session, I beg now to state that it will be necessary, in addition to the testimony of the Queen's Advocate and Captain Watson, named by the Committee, to obtain the evidence of Lieutenant-Colonel Braybrooke, and Lieutenant Henderson, of the Ceylon Rifles; of E. S. Waring, Esq., police magistrate, and Mr. John Selby, advocate; and I have therefore to request that your Lordship will have the goodness to order these gentlemen to repair to England without delay, so that they may be able to attend as soon as possible after the meeting of Parliament.—I have the honour, &c. "HENRY BAILLIE." "Colonial Office, Downing-street, Dec. 3, 1849. "Sir—I am directed by Earl Grey to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 28th ult., requesting his Lordship to procure the attendance of the gentlemen you name, as witnesses from Ceylon, in addition to those already required by a resolution of the Committee of Parliament which in the last Session was appointed to inquire into the grievances of Ceylon and British Guiana; and I am to acquaint you that, in pursuance of that resolution, the two gentlemen therein named were directed to repair to England to give evidence, and that his Lordship, with the concurrence of the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury, informed the Governor of Ceylon that the expense which will be thus occasioned will be defrayed from the funds granted by Parliament to meet the charges of Parliamentary inquiries. But I am to add, that as Lord Grey is not aware that a Parliamentary Committee possesses the power of delegating to its Chairman the power of determining what witnesses are to be called for, his Lordship does not feel himself at liberty, without the express authority of the Committee, to incur the heavy expense which would be occasioned by directing the attendance of additional witnesses whose names you have given.—I have the honour to be, &c. (Signed) "HERMAN MERIVALE." 423 "The Pré, St. Albans, Dec. 9, 1849. "My Lord—In the debate which took place upon the report of the Ceylon Committee during the last Session of Parliament, your Lordship, in objecting to the proposal of sending a Commission of Inquiry to Ceylon, stated that the Government would be willing to procure the attendance of any witnesses who might be necessary for the further prosecution of the inquiry. In consequence of that understanding, the Committee passed a unanimous resolution, 'That the chairman be authorised and requested to communicate with Her Majesty's Secretary of State, as to the necessary witnesses to be ordered home to give evidence before the Committee to be appointed in the ensuing Session.' In obedience to that resolution, I addressed a letter on the 28th ult. to the Secretary of State for the Colonies, requesting that Colonel Braybrooke, Lieutenant Henderson, Mr. Waring, and Mr. John Selby, might be ordered to repair to England without delay, so that they might be able to attend the Committee as soon as possible after the meeting of Parliament. In answer to that application, I have received a letter from the Under Secretary for the Colonies, in which I am informed that 'Lord Grey is not aware that a Parliamentary Committee has the power of delegating to its chairman the power of determining what witnesses are to be called for; and his Lordship does not feel himself at liberty, without the express authority of the Committee, to incur the heavy expense which would be occasioned by directing the attendance of the additional witnesses whose names you have given.' I need not point out to your Lordship the very great inconvenience which this delay in sending for the witnesses must of necessity occasion in protracting this painful inquiry. It is not for me to pronounce an opinion upon the course which the Secretary of State for the Colonies may think proper to pursue; but if, as I am informed, Sir E. Tennent and Colonel Drought have been ordered home to give evidence before the Committee, I do not understand upon what ground a different course should be adopted with regard to the witnesses whom, at the desire of the Committee, I have named, and whose attendance cannot be dispensed with. I have no motive in thus addressing your Lordship, but an anxious desire faithfully to discharge the important duty that was entrusted to me; and I deem it to be a part of that duty to remind your Lordship of the understanding that every facility should be afforded by the Government for procuring the testimony of the necessary witnesses from Ceylon.—I have the honour, &c. "HENRY BAILLIE." 424 "Pembroke Lodge, Dec. 11, 1849. "Sir—When I assented to the proposal that the Committee should name the persons whom it was necessary to summon from Ceylon, and that the Secretary of State should give the necessary orders for their attendance in this country, it was not intimated that the chairman should be en trusted with the sole authority of naming the wit nesses on behalf of the Committee. Lord Grey has therefore properly declined to comply with this delegated authority, which, after all, perhaps, was not meant by the Committee to extend beyond a power of communicating with the Secretary of State, and did not imply a power of giving orders to the Secretary of State, which might occasion great expense and inconvenience.—I have the honour to be," &c. "J. RUSSELL." 425 "That unless all those who have held concealed the effects of Golahella Rata Mahatmeya, deliver over to me such property, or give information about the same without delay, such persons shall be killed, and their property confiscated. "A. WATSON, Captain commanding." 426 "On the 4th instant, a man who assumed the title of King, and who turns out to be the elder brother of the pretended King, who was crowned at Dambool, and who is still at large, was captured, and on the following day tried by court-martial, and shot." 427 "Nevertheless, the pretended King is not yet apprehended, and his brother who was at first believed to have been executed at Kornegalle, is also still at large, and the prisoner who was shot on that occasion was only one of the principal adherents of the impostor." ex parte
 MR. GRATTAN  inquired whether the measures proposed by the Government would at all affect the equity side of the Court of Exchequer in Ireland?
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he rose to offer one or two observations, which he should not have made but for the Amendment of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, who had not shown great tact as a leader in the resolution he had submitted. There was a pretty general opinion on both sides of the House that the course taken by Earl Grey, if not intended to evade inquiry, at least laid him open to strong suspicion of it; and he was sure no one on the bench on which he sat would be disposed to sanc-
 451 452 "Lord Grey is not aware that a Parliamentary Committee possesses the power of delegating to its chairman the power of deciding what witnesses are to be called for; and his Lordship does not feel himself at liberty, without the express authority of the Committee, to incur the heavy expense which would be occasioned by directing the attendance of the additional witnesses whose names you have given." 453
 MR. SADLEIR  conceived that the laws of the two countries should be assimilated as far as possible, especially those relating to real property. He thought it advisable to discourage as far as possible the practice of placing encumbered estates in the hands of court receivers, and that it would be advisable to substitute for it increased facilities for the conversion of that land, in order to pay off the debts. It was the interest of both the creditor and the
 417
 MR. SADLEIR  said, his experience led him to believe that the measure proposed by the Solicitor General would be attended with most important and beneficial effects. He had no doubt that one of the immediate consequences of the adoption of this Bill by the Legislature, would be the speedy extension of a similar measure to this country, because the evils which it was intended to remedy existed in equal force here as in Ireland. He had almost daily opportunities of witnessing the frightful oppression and wrongs to which agriculture and commerce were subjected in this country, in consequence of the absurd, unjust, and prolix proceedings of the Court of Chancery. There were three palpable and important defects in the Courts of Chancery in this country and in Ireland. Both those courts were defective in their modes of proof, in their modes of trial, and in their modes of appeal. The present Bill would, to a certain extent, though not to the full extent he desired, effect an amendment with regard to the mode of proof adopted in those courts. The hon. and learned Gentleman proposed to grapple, to a certain extent, with the prolix system of written pleadings, and to give a certain discretionary power to equity judges in Ireland to substitute for written depositions  vivâ voce
 MR. SADLEIR  said, he felt in common with a very large portion of those who were interested in the law reform of Ireland, the great services which the hon. and learned Gentleman had rendered by devoting so much of his time, ability, and industry to the removal of those legal impediments which so seriously stood in the way of agricultural improvement and the advancement of trade and commerce in Ireland. He (Mr. Sadleir) quite agreed in the principles which had been stated by the hon. and learned Gentleman. If he had anything to complain of with respect to the present Bill, it was that the proposed reforms were not more extensive. With reference to the question of service, he thought the hon. and learned Gentleman had been happy in the selection of those parties to whom he intended to confide the service of law process in Ireland. They were men who were appointed after a careful investigation into their previous life and conduct, and they were vigilantly watched over by the assistant barristers in each county. But one of the greatest and most serious evils connected with the service of law process in Ireland was the gross injustice that arose from the fact that, as the law now stood, it was wholly impossible to effect a service of law process upon a certain class of debtors in Ireland. He alluded to those who might be possessed of landed revenues in that country, and who might avail themselves of the premium which the present law held out for absenteeism. There was no speedy process for reaching persons of that description. With reference to the dreadful delays which took place in Ireland, and, perhaps, in this country too, with respect to the disposal of new motion trials, he wished the hon. Gentleman could devise some plan by which those new motion trials could be taken in the first instance, and not hang on from year to year. He Was happy that in the projected amendment of the law, the practice of compelling attorneys practising in the law courts in Ireland to be continually making affidavits would certainly be diminished, and he could wish it were done away with alto-
 402
 MR. HENLEY  thought it would be impossible to resist the extension of the measure to England. The Government had been obliged to introduce a Bill for the purpose of simplifying the mode of dealing with encumbered estates in Ireland; and he thought that one of the effects of some of their late legislation would soon be, to reduce the landed property of this country to a condition similar to that of the encumbered estates in Ireland. Before that event occurred, he thought it would be well to give them the advantage of the important machinery provided for Ireland. And when the same evils existed in England as in Ireland—and they had heard from the Member for the city of Oxford they did exist—he could not see why words should not at once be introduced into the Bill which would extend its application to England. If that were not done in its earlier stages, or some promise given of a similar measure for England, he would take the sense of the House upon the subject at a future stage. But it was certain that the union between the two countries would never be complete until the laws in both were made precisely the same. The making any difference was only continuing the evils under which the connexion between the two was now labouring. A reformation in the Masters' offices was most wanted in, England; but if they could not have that immediately, let them not at all events be shut out from the advantages that were about to be given to Ireland.
 MR. HENLEY  considered that it was scarcely possible, whatever arrangements might be made, that any full or complete inquiry could be made at all this Session. The delay of two months, or of ten weeks, which had been spoken of, was not the whole of the results of this refusal of the noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Office. They had been told that two witnesses had been sent for, and that, somehow or other, there were four or five others ready to be examined, which would occupy the time of the Committee till the arrival of the others. The effect of this would be, that the selected witnesses called to upset the case—if he might use such a term—would be examined first, and when the Session had nearly terminated, the witnesses would be called who were to establish the case. Such would be the practical effect—he did not say that it was intended it should be so, nor did he charge any one with any intentions of the sort; but no person would ever consent to go into an inquiry in which the adversary's case, which ought to he the reply, should be allowed to come out first, and throw discredit upon everything which they were going to state, before they had had an opportunity of stating their case.
 MR. HUME  stated, that the mails would leave to-morrow, and it would be desirable, in order to avoid any further de-
 458
 MR. HUME  moved the addition, at the end of the original resolution, of the words—"And that Lieutenant Colonel Braybrooke, Lieutenant Henderson, E. S. Waring, Esq., and John Selby, Advocate, he summoned to attend the said Committee."
 MR. HUME  would assure the bon. Member who had just sat down, that as long as he had the honour of a seat in that House, he would do his utmost to cause these atrocious proceedings in Ceylon to be sifted to the bottom. He need not be under any alarm that the inquiry would be abandoned; and he could promise the hon. Gentleman he should have full satisfaction before the Committee had done with the subject. The hon. Under Secretary of State had thought fit to interpret the speech of his (Mr. Hume's) hon. Friend the Member for Inverness-shire to mean that he wished to give up the case—he had no such intention. He would show the fairness of that which his hon. Friend meant to do. His hon. Friend had likened the proceedings in Ceylon to the proceedings in Hungary. The proceedings in Hungary were mild in comparison. He would prove it. If he ever uttered a speech in that House, he was ready to prove it, and he had done so. He might have made some he could not prove. He was not infallible. He did not wish to mix up the case of Ceylon with that of Guiana; but he would just observe that at the proper opportunity he would be able to prove that the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonics was entirely in error in what he said respecting Guiana. But with regard to Ceylon, that hon. Gentleman took upon him, with an unblushing effrontery such as be (Mr. Hume) never before witnessed, to say that this inquiry arose from "a mean conspiracy on the part of certain individuals in Ceylon." Did he intend to say that "a mean conspiracy" bad brought 5,000 petitioners in one case, and 39,000 in another, to ask for redress from that House? The truth of the allegation of those petitions he believed; and he asked hon. Gentlemen who might not be altogether so well-informed on the subject, to wait and see the proof, and then if there was one man in that House who would deliberately rise and say that that was not a fit and proper subject of inquiry, he should be utterly confounded. He should not therefore enter into details, but he should state the course which Go-
 436 437 438 439 440 l l l l 441
 MR. HUME  wished to know why British Guiana had been left out of the Motion this year?
 MR. MULLINGS  would give an instance which came within his own knowledge, of the oppressive nature of proceedings in the Court of Chancery. A gentleman left the country in the year 1817; he left the care and management of his farm to his brother, who continued to work it for him until the year 1822, when he returned, and received an account from his brother of the working of the farm, the balance at foot of the account being between 400 l l 409 l l l
 MR. MULLINGS  would throw out a
 401
 MR. NAPIER  said, that although he would not pledge himself to all the details of the measure proposed by the Solicitor General, he believed that it would be generally regarded by all parties in Ireland as very great boon. He considered that if measures of this kind were carried out in a fair spirit by both sides of the House, they would conduce very materially to the welfare of that country.
 MR. NAPIER  admitted the desirableness of assimilating the law of the two countries in regard to the registrations of judgments. The remedy proposed as to future judgments was somewhat startling. At present the judgment stood against all parties as the security to the creditor, and in Ireland it was the commonest kind of security; but it was now proposed to alter the law in this respect altogether. He thought some provision should be introduced with regard to costs, for he had known cases where large estates had been brought into court at the instance of one judgment-creditor to a small amount, a receiver appointed, and the estate saddled with the costs.
 MR. WALPOLE  could not help joining his voice with others for the extension of the operation of the Bill to England, if it should be proved to be a well-considered measure. The hon. and learned Member for Oxford city had intimated to the House, that the hon. and learned Member for Coventry, than whom there was not a person in the profession more qualified to pronounce an opinion upon the subject, was desirous of bringing in a Bill for the reformation of the Court of Chancery as soon as it could be prepared. But if Her Majesty's Government would undertake the production of such a measure themselves, he knew that no one would be more ready and willing than his hon. and learned Friend to communicate his views and intentions to them. In case the Government should think it advisable to extend the provisions of the Bill before the House to England, he was certain they would receive not only the concurrence of the Chancery practitioners in the House, but also that of the practitioners at large. In his opinion, they were bound to remedy evils of such magnitude as were admitted to exist in the practice of the Court of Chancery as soon as they were exposed. But the chief evils were not so much in the mode of pleading, as in the expense and delay of Masters' offices. The great disadvantages of these offices were, that, in the first place, no publicity was given to their proceedings; and, in the next place, that the proceedings by warrants were not carried on  de die in diem de hora in horam de die in diem 410
 MR. W. FAGAN  expressed a hope that the Government would consider the propriety of extending to Ireland the system of county court jurisdiction which had been established in this country.
 MR. M'CULLAGH  thought that the exposition given by the hon. and learned Solicitor General, of the purpose meant to be effected, by the Bill, would tend very much to allay feelings of distrust and dissatisfaction with which the public mind had recently been filled upon this subject in Ireland. An impression had for some time prevailed in that country that the Government entertained projects for the gradual, if not immediate, abolition of the courts at Dublin, and the centralisation of the supreme judicatures here. The introduction of any new measures dealing with those tribunals, was certain, therefore, to
 408
 MR. W. P. WOOD  viewed the introduction of the Bill with great satisfaction and delight, and he was only sorry that it was to be confined to Ireland. He was
 406 407
 MR. GROGAN  said, that the scheme proposed by the Government, as sketched out by the hon. and learned Solicitor General, would simplify proceedings in the Court of Chancery in every possible point
 405
 SIR G. GREY  was not able to answer the question precisely. When the existence of a defalcation was ascertained, his noble Friend the First Lord of the Treasury placed the Solicitor to the Treasury in communication with the Ecclesiastical Commission, in order that the most effectual steps might be taken for recovering whatever could be recovered. What the precise steps which had been taken were he did not know, but he understood from the Solicitor to the Treasury that he had taken those steps which he considered most efficient, in order to render the whole of the property available for that defalcation. No criminal proceedings had, however, been instituted against Mr. Murray, of whose present place of residence he (Sir G. Grey) was not aware.
 SIR J. GRAHAM : Mr. Speaker, as allusion has been made to me by more than one hon. Member during the progress of this discussion, I cannot remain silent; at the same time I am very unwilling to be dragged into this debate, into which more heat has entered than I think desirable, considering the official character of the inquiry in progress before a Committee of this House. Of that feeling I don't partake in the least degree. I know nothing of this matter, except what occurred in the debate at the close of the last Session—what I collected from the report already on the table of the House—and what I incidentally collected from other organs of public information. The matter which the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire more immediately presses on our consideration now, is a question as to the understanding which was arrived at in this House after the debate at the close of last Session. It has been my misfortune very often to be brought into hostile collision with the noble Lord at the head of the Government; but I must say, having known the noble Lord now for many years, that I know no man who is less capable, either in public or in private, of intentionally breaking any engagement into which he has entered; or any Member of the House who, from his constitutional principles, steadily adhered to through a long political life, would be so little disposed to impede, unfairly or consciously, any inquiry instituted in the Commons' House of Parliament, in their capacity of the grand inquest of the nation.
 449 450
 SIR. G. GREY : Sir, though the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield has not given me either any notice of his intention to bring forward this question, I wish to say a few words, being somewhat differently circumstanced from my noble Friend, as I had the misfortune to read some weeks ago the letter to the inhabitants of Cockermouth, to which allusion has been made. Having read that letter, I did, at the close of my speech the other night, notice the charge contained in it, though, at the same time, I felt that it was really beneath my notice. ["Hear, hear!"] I noticed it under the apprehension—I use the word advisedly—that if I had not done so, the hon. Gentleman might, in the course of the next twelve months, write another letter to his constituents taunting me with the fact that he had written the former letter containing a charge of wilful fraud against me, and that I had admitted its truth by abstaining from alluding to it. I read the letter, I confess, with feelings of astonishment, not un-mingled with shame—astonishment, not at the charge having been made, but that it should not have been made until the month of December or January last, referring, as it did, to a transaction that had occurred, according to the statement of the hon. Gentleman himself, in the last
 468 pro formâ pro formâ pro formâ
 SIR. G. GREY  observed, that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Stroud had communicated to him his intention to ask for leave to introduce his Bill, which he (Sir G. Grey) was prepared to accede to; but after the course he had taken in raising the whole question at issue when stating the principle of the proposed measure, the House could not be better informed upon it than they were at present; and
 478
 MR. V. SMITH  remarked upon the course taken by the hon. Gentleman, who first made a Motion for which he only obtained a seconder from motives of civility, and then imputed an interested bias to the whole House, because the universal feeling was against his measure. The hon. Gentleman talked of the House coming round to his view of the subject. He (Mr. V. Smith) would only reply that a case harder than that of the hon. Gentleman had not been heard of since the famous complaint made by the man who bemoaned his hard fortune in having to deal, whenever he was on a jury, with eleven obstinate and impracticable men. The fact was, there never was a time when so much attention was paid to the condition of the dwellings of the poor. The Bill proposed would work the greatest injury, and would only raise the rents; for even now there were cases where the owners of cottage property having obtained exemption from rates, at once laid the amount on the rents.
 MR. P. SCROPR,  seeing the feeling of the House, would not go to a division.
 MR. CAMPBELL  was sure the speech of the hon. Member for Glasgow had been productive of great pleasure on the other side of the House. The first point which presented itself on the consideration of the subject, was the disfranchisement of Sudbury. The hon. Member for Glasgow seemed to think that this circumstance had entailed a kind of privation on the constitution of the country. The hon. Member therefore proposed that this privation should be made up by their creating a new and large constituency. Now he (Mr. Campbell) wished to ask the House two questions on this subject. The first was, whether this proposed new constituency was calculated to improve the House of Commons?—and the second was, whether this new constituency was calculated to give representatives to a class of opinions or interests which had not been represented before? As an illustration he would take Birmingham, whose members represented a class of opinions which were entertained, as he believed, nowhere else in the British empire. He would also take the hon. Member for Manchester as an exponent of peculiar opinions as to the constitution of King, Lords, and Commons; and he (Mr. Campbell) must express his earnest hope, if such opinions were entertained in that borough, that they prevailed in no other town in the country. The hon. Member for Glasgow had not told them what peculiar opinions prevailed in these compact parishes. He (Mr. Campbell) would ask with what class of new boroughs was this proposed constituency to be associated? Was it to be a new metropolitan constituency? It was not a manufacturing district, as it was notorious that no manufacturing or commercial interest existed there.
 521
 SIR. G. GREY  said, it certainly appeared to him, from what had passed during the debate, that the House had not arrived at that precise degree of information which would warrant them in coming to a final decision on the question to which so important a Motion referred. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Cambridge gave notice of his intention to propose a clause in the Bill of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Glasgow if it should pass a second reading; but there was only a resolution now before the House, which had been recommended to them, not only by the arguments of the hon. Gentleman's speech, but by those which were set forth in the notice on the paper. The first question involved
 522 523
 SIR. G. GREY  replied, that with regard to the first of the two questions asked him by the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, he should appeal to the former course he had taken with regard to the Bill. He did not then support the whole of it, but he supported the portion which proposed to repeal certain obsolete statutes. He should repeat what he had then stated, that he did not think those obsolete statutes could ever again be enforced, and that they offered no safeguard or security whatsoever to the constitution. Whilst, therefore, he should wish to see them repealed, he did not think it made any difference whether they were repealed or not. As to the second question, with regard to the time of the House being wasted by the discussion upon the Bill, when there existed a very great doubt of its finally receiving its sanction, that, he considered, was a matter for the consideration rather of the hon. and learned Gentleman who introduced the Bill. He (Sir G. Grey) did not think it would be a sufficient ground for his opposing it; but if the hon. and learned Gentleman would take his advice, he would refrain from persevering with it. But if he went to a division, and the majority of the House were opposed to the introduction of the Bill, the time of the House might be saved.
 SIR. G. GREY  said, he hoped after what had passed, the Motion for Adjournment would be withdrawn.
 MR. LAW  joined in the application of his hon. Friend, and trusted the right hon. Baronet would, by his answer, enable the House to escape from the nuisance which would otherwise be found to exist on Wednesdays. He hoped the House would be saved from the torture and infliction of hearing repeated speeches from his hon. and learned Friend on this subject; for his hon. and learned Friend, even when he had no opponent, was ambitious of anticipating objections that were never raised or meant to be raised. Last year he (Mr. Law) met the measure by a simple nega-
 531
 MR. LAW  thought it a fatal objection to the Bill that it retrospectively made such marriages legal, and legitimated the issue of them. A greater violation of the law, in his opinion, could not be offered than in the present measure. But his opposition to the Bill would be founded on higher principles—on the opinion, as expressed by the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, that it was contrary to the notions of the Church of England, and he should have thought, until he heard the opposite opinion, contrary to all Christian notions from the earliest times, and contrary, also, to the Jewish notion. The so-called marriages already contracted were mere void ceremonies; it was, in fact, a concubinage which had been entered into by those parties in violation of the existing law, and they might as well legalise the cohabitation of any number of persons with their mistresses for the last ten years, and say, that if they went to church all should be reckoned as if they had married ten years ago—
 "Conjugium vocat; hoc prætexit nomine culpam."
 MR. S. WORTLEY , in moving for leave to bring in the Bill of which he had given notice, said, he believed he should best consult the convenience of the House by refraining from entering upon the merits of the question. When he had introduced a measure upon this subject, upon a former occasion, he had deemed it respectful to the House to make a statement of his views; but, as a general rule, it was not a convenient course to discuss the principle of a Bill on the first reading. He would therefore merely state that the main object of this Bill was the same as the former one; but to meet the more important objections that had been made by some of his Friends around him, and by some hon. Gentlemen opposite, he had introduced Amendments, the purport of which he would state. One of the Amendments which he intended to introduce, would have the effect of protecting parties to marriages recently contracted, from any consequences arising out of the law of the land, as well as that of rendering their issue legitimate; the second would have reference to the clergy. Now, one of the chief objections to the former Bill was, that it protected the clergy from the consequences of celebrating these marriages. He did not now mean to interfere in that respect with the law or the discipline of the Church, but leave it to the clergy to celebrate those marriages or not, according to their own consciences, without any fear of civil consequences, the law of the Church being left as before. He had felt that there was force in the objections made last Session, and, after deliberation and consultation with his friends, he had come to the conclusion that it would be wise to omit those provisions to which such objections had been made, and to leave the rules and discipline of the Church perfectly untouched by the Bill he now proposed. It was not his intention to interfere at all with the Church. He reminded the House that in the course of last Session, after three nights of full debate, the main object of the measure had been sanctioned by a House consisting of 320 or 330 Members.
 MR. S. HERBERT  could not but feel that the measure was now brought forward on different ground from that of last Session, affecting, as that did, both the civil law of the country and the ecclesiastical law of the Church of England. Speaking for himself as a member of the Church of England, he had not only no wish to see the law altered, but he must deprecate an alteration of the law which, so far as it affected his religious communion, would have a mischievous effect on society. But here, having to deal with persons of other communions, who did not recognise the same ecclesiastical law—with the Roman Catholics, who by dispensation tolerated marriages such as those proposed by the Bill—there being also Protestant churches in Europe and Protestant denominations in this country, who recognised the validity, ecclesiastically speaking, of such marriages—it was impossible not to feel that the civil law which declared the illegality of such marriages, bastardised the children, and imposed a heavy penalty on persons who, by contracting them, did not contravene the tenets of their religious persuasion. The proposition made last year was so objectionable that it was not then in his power to support the Bill. It was a direct interference by Parliament with the discipline of the Church, of which he was a member. No body, however trivial its objects, could maintain itself if it was not to be allowed to uphold, for its own purposes, its own discipline, and the by-laws by which it was to be governed. He thought the proposed interference by Parliament so objectionable, that no advantage to be derived from other parts of the measure could induce him to give it his sanction. But this great alteration having been made, the change being to affect the civil law only, without touching the ecclesiastical law, he thought it would be an ungracious act towards religious denominations dissenting from the Church of England to say that this Bill, so affecting their civil
 527
 LORD C. HAMILTON  had never said the Hungarian constitution was not an old one. It took date seven years after Magna Charta was granted, namely, in the year 1222. He heard the noble Lord the Member for Marylebone say the Hungarians were always independent, and always enjoyed that constitution. The ignorance charged against the noble Lord was, that he did not seem to be aware that at the first battle of Mohatz the Turks appended Hungary to their empire; that for a century and a half a Turkish Pasha dictated laws from Buda; and that the ancient constitution was restored to Hungary by the House of Hapsburgh.
 LORD D. STUART  said, as his noble Friend the Foreign Secretary had assured him that he was prepared to lay on the table of the House a considerable number of the
 504 505 506
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he rose for the purpose of making the Motion of which he had given notice, on the subject of the recent negotiations relating to Hungary, and the events of the late Hungarian war. He believed he consulted the convenience of the House by seizing the earliest opportunity for bringing forward this subject, rather than by deferring it to a later period of the Session, when they would be too fully engaged with other business to be inclined to devote their time to matters of foreign policy. His object was to obtain information on the subjects which had excited the attention and the greatest degree of interest in this country and throughout Europe. The noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs had on a former occasion explained with great dearness the principles on which foreign affairs were managed under the English constitution; and he told the House that under this constitution the largest discretion was always granted to Her Majesty's advisers in the conduct of diplomatic negotiations, but, at the same time, that discretion was subject to the revision of Parliament, which revi-
 481 de jure de facto 482 483 l l 484 "The sad consequences of this plot manifested themselves everywhere, but nowhere more dreadfully than in the remote mountain districts of Zalatuya. "The civil officers of these parts were suddenly surrounded by wildly fanatical Wallachs, arms in hand. In this state of things, above 1,200 faithful servants of their Sovereign assembled. They were of all ranks, from the highest to the lowest, old and young, accompanied by their wives and children. All joined in the purpose to proceed together to the town of Enyed, at several hours' distance from Zalatuya, to be sheltered from the wild hordes, which were ready to attack every one who chanced not to be Wallach, and who were another than a peasant's coat. It was yet at some distance from Zalatuya, when the officers were overtaken by a great troop of armed Wallachs. Not willing to oppose those who pretended to be acting in the name of the monarch, a negotiation was entered upon. Its result was, that the emigrants agreed to deliver up their swords and muskets, under condition that they should not be prevented from freely proceeding to Enyed. Before the disarming was completed, the evening had come on. "Several carriages were laden with the arms, and they waited for dawn to continue their journey. In the night, the Wallachs sent a messenger to the commander, who was an Austrian officer, at Zalatuya, to inquire 'what they should do
 485 "When the peremptory order of murder arrived, the riotous people itself was thunderstruck, and for a long while no one attempted to break the pledge of a free passage. Both parties hesitated for some instants to take any decided step; at last the disarmed set themselves in motion. Slowly the procession advanced, until some circumstance, which has never been precisely ascertained, was considered by the Wallachs a signal to attack. "Now followed a horrifying scene. One part of the disarmed were cudgelled to death, others pierced through with pointed mountain-sticks. Some hanged on trees were mangled with hayforks; others thrown into pits were buried under blocks rolled down upon them. Women and maidens were mutilated and murdered in the most dreadful manner. "The slaughter lasted long. Rainbold, a German, the inspector of Zalatuya, to whom clung his wife and two grown-up daughters, not seeing any possibility of averting their dreadful fate, drew out his double pistol, which, more distrustful than his companions, he had retained, shot down first his two daughters, loaded again, shot his wife, and lastly killed himself. The haste and the excitement, in which he achieved this awful deed, rendered his hand uncertain, his mutilated wife survived this horrible catastrophe, and related it. Of 1,200 persons, about 110 remained wounded amongst the bodies of their comrades. Of these survivors, about 70 or 80, most of them women, one, the wife of the judge Csás-zár, bleeding from countless wounds, dragged themselves before the gates of the fortress of Gyula Jehárvár (Karlsburgh). But the commander of this place, which was occupied by Austrian troops, drove the exhausted victims, with blows, from the gates, where, after having been refused entrance, they sunk powerless to the ground. "These horrors never were punished by the Austrians, and when some months later, Pucher was driven from Transylvania by General Bern, and Csanyi, as Hungarian commissary, sentenced several of the instigators and perpetrators of the above-mentioned bloodshed to be hanged, the correspondents of the Austrian party filled the papers of foreign countries which declamations on Hungarian terrorism." 486 487 488 489 490 de jure de facto de jure de facto 491 —"from the moment that in Moldavia and Wallachia law shall have been established and guaranteed, the troops shall be withdrawn from them, to go and occupy immediately the strictly defensive position which they occupied before." 492 493 494 495 496
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The hon. Gentleman says he has made a charge, and that he reiterates it; but he does not state to the House what that charge is. He refers to some letter which he has written to his constituents, and he says that he reiterates what he states there. What I think the hon. Gentleman should do, if he wishes to prove any charge against my right hon. Friend or me, is to come forward and state what his charges are, and to ask for a Committee to investigate them. I shall not oppose the appointment of such a Committee when he has made his charges and satisfied the House that there is a case for investigation.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, as the hon. and learned Gentleman has come down to this House for the purpose of reading a paper making a personal attack upon my character, I think it would at least have been civil—perhaps right to the House—that he should have given me some notice.
 463 464 465 466 pro formâ 467
 LORD NAAS  objected to going into Committee on the ground that the Bill had not been printed, and he thought it an objectionable measure.
 MR. COCKBURN  said, he hoped his noble Friend the Member for Marylebone would not press his Motion, but would rest satisfied with the assurance of the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, that he would produce such papers as would throw sufficient light on the course of policy pursued by the Government in these matters. Otherwise it would seem to him that his noble Friend would imply a doubt of the perfect propriety of the course of conduct adopted by Her Majesty's Government. He thought the explanations given by the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, on the present occasion, and on a former occasion, when he made a speech that gave great satisfaction to the House and to the country, should be a sufficient guarantee that the course pursued by Her Majesty's Government, and by the noble Lord, towards Austria and Russia, in the present instance, was such as became the honour, the dignity, and the interests of this coun-
 508 509
 MR. STAFFORD  said he could bear testimony to the necessity of the case.
 MR. STAFFORD  remarked, that as the hon. Gentleman had gone so fully into the details of the measure, and as it appeared to be in effect the same as that the House had decided against in former Sessions, he hoped the hon. Member would not attribute any want of courtesy to him if he proposed to take the division on the Bill at the present stage, which the hon. Member had selected as the opportunity for taking the discussion upon it. He believed there was no disposition, nor would it be wise, on the part of the House to lessen the amount of property on which the relief of the poor and other local burdens must fall. He also objected that the effect of the Bill would not be to relieve the occupier, but to put so much in addition in the shape of rent into the pockets of the owners of this description of property.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that he had indulged the hope that this unnecessary debate would before this time have arrived at its natural conclusion; but the observations which the hon. and learned Gentleman had just made, rendered it necessary for him to say one word in vindication of the course—the proper course, as he thought—which had been taken by the noble Lord near him (the Member for Tyrone). He congratulated the hon. and learned Gentleman upon the friendship and sympathy which he and his friends felt for a President of a House of Lords, and especially for bishops. Such indications of right feeling in such a quarter must be very satisfactory to the Conservative party. The hon. and learned Gentleman had read to the House a list of some victims of the unhappy and unfortunate civil war which had taken place in Hungary. They must all deeply deplore such events, but they could form no opinion from such circumstances whether the course which the hon. and learned Gentleman advocated was a just one. The catastrophe did not in anyway prove whether the persons who were victims were criminals or heroes. He might open the  History of England 512 513 514 515
 MR. HORSMAN : Sir, the noble Lord, and still more the right hon. Baronet, have in their speeches, done that which I shall very carefully avoid; they have infused a great deal of warmth and heat into the discussion upon a question which I intend to make one merely of facts and evidence. As I said the other night, I have been some years in this House. I wrote a letter deliberately. I knew the high position held by those who were affected by the charges I made. I knew the cheers they were sure to meet with in this House when they alluded to those charges. I knew the sympathy that men standing in their position ought to command in this House when charges so seriously affecting their charac-
 469 470
 COLONEL DUNNE  stated, that if the present Motion were pressed to a division, his hon. Friend the Member for Cork would move an Amendment in favour of giving the two new representatives to places in Ireland. He wished to make this observation for the purpose of showing that the Irish Members were not inattentive to their duty on the present occasion.
 COL. DUNNE  remarked that the Bill was read a second time by mistake.
 LORD G. HAMILTON  said, that there was nothing in the noble Lord's first address which called for any serious observation. Any person acquainted with the history of Hungary must be aware of the extraordinary errors into which the noble Lord had fallen; and the condition of the House—the empty benches, and the frigid manner in which page after page of the observations he had read to the House from a bulky manuscript were received by the few who remained to hear him—demonstrated the little interest which was felt in the subject; but, for the honour of the House and the country, he (Lord C. Hamilton) hoped he would be supported in calling upon the noble Lord, if he believed in the truth of the insinuations which he had thrown out against the Austrian Government, of entertaining the base and inhuman design of assassination, to come forward like a man, and make the charge distinctly and without circumlocution. An accusation of such extreme gravity ought not to be introduced into a sort of reply made on withdrawing a Motion. The noble Lord had employed the usual phrases of an old woman's tale, "it was strongly reported," and "it was seriously believed," that somebody came to the place where Kossuth was residing, and had a mysterious interview with his cook, and, because the wine afterwards was supposed to present an unusual appearance, it was assumed that it had been tampered with. It was derogatory to the dignity of the House that such a gross charge should have been insinuated by one of its Members against an old ally of this country, and one which in past days bad stood by us bravely and faithfully. What! impute to the Emperor of Austria the intention of carrying off by poison unfortunate men whom circumstances had compelled to take refuge in Turkey! The House must, he was sure, have listened with indignation to the base calumny directed against a Government which, with all its faults—and he was not there to approve of all the proceedings of Austria—had always acted in an upright and open manner, and had often been to this country a useful and faithful ally. He would stake his existence as to the groundlessness of the charge, which could only have entered into the mind of a man who, like the noble
 507
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that if he had not risen immediately after his right hon. Friend to oppose his Motion, it was not because his opinions had undergone any change upon this matter, but because his right hon. Friend, not having stated the new grounds on which he intended to rely for the support of his Bill, he thought it better to wait until the question would come again before the House before stating his grounds of objection to it. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had told them that he would act on the law of God as written on the heart alone—
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that then the argument of the hon. Gentleman came to this—that he would set the restrictions made by the law of affinity entirely aside. It was plain that the hon. Gentleman had not read the chapter in Leviticus, and he should therefore advise him to do so before the second reading of the Bill came on.
 MR. GRATTAN  rose to adduce another instance of punishment inflicted under the authority of the Austrian Government, in order to allow the noble Lord the Member for Tyrone another opportunity of displaying his generous humanity and fine national feeling. The case was described in a paper which was from authority—not from a bishop or a president, but—a lady. [ A cry of "In our immediate neighbourhood an army of Hungarians, amounting to 10,000 men, with 40 cannons, surrendered at discretion. Two days afterwards, some Imperial troops, a detachment of Liechtenstein's Light Horse, commanded by a captain, a native of this town, entered Ruskley. I was torn from the arms of my husband and children, from the hallowed sanctuary of home, and hurried before no judge—but I, a woman, a wife, a mother, in my own native town, before the people, who were accustomed to treat me with
 518 "I can write this without dropping my head for shame. But my husband killed himself. He drew a pistol and shot himself."
 MR. BAGSHAW  observed, that as a petition had been presented in the course of the evening from Sudbury for the re-enfranchisement of that borough, he felt bound to state, as he first drew his Parliamentary breath in that place, that he knew that a large body of young men had grown up in Sudbury, who would never be guilty of such practices as had been alleged against the late constituency; they, therefore, wished their right of choosing representatives should be restored to them.
 MR. MACGREGOR  hoped the House would have the same patience with him which they had had with the Motion just disposed of. His case was simply this.
 519 l
 MR. MACGREGOR  said, that after the statement of the right hon. the Home Secretary, and after the recommendation of the hon. Member for Montrose, he should not press the matter to a division. So great a population could not remain long unrepresented in Parliament. He was
 524
 MR. ROEBUCK : Sir, I wish to ask a question of the noble Lord at the head of the Government and of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and, as the hon. Gentleman the Member for Cockermouth is also present, I would beg to solicit his attention also. No doubt it must be in the recollection of the noble Lord opposite, and of the right hon. Gentleman, that some time since a letter signed "E. Horsman" appeared in the public papers. In that letter—and the reason I put the question is, because I believe the honour of the House is concerned, and that the sooner some explanation of a remarkable circumstance like this is given the better for all parties, and more particularly for the honour of the House and the Administration—the letter charges the noble Lord opposite—I beg the noble Lord's pardon for making use of such phraseology, but such are the terms here—charges him with something like a fraud. The charge is not mine; I hope the noble Lord will under-
 461 "But the subsequent proceedings were still more strange. Interviews were sought with the Prime Minister, and a representation made to him of the unlooked-for character of the Bill; and its objectionable clauses having been pointed out, it was urged that it could not give satisfaction, or be accepted as a settlement of the question, unless framed more in accordance with the recommendation of the Committee. Lord J. Russell took time to see the Archbishop of Canterbury, and replied to me by arrangement on the following Tuesday in the House. His words were to this effect—that having conferred with the Archbishop, he was now ready to adopt the alterations which had been suggested to him, and having done so, he expected the Bill to pass without further opposition. Nothing could be a more satisfactory declaration to us that our suggestions had been adopted, and that the recommendations of the Committee would now be carried out in the Bill. And when the noble Lord proceeded to say that he should invite the House to go into Committee on the Bill  pro formâ pro formâ 462
 MR. BROTHERTON  moved the adjournment of the House.
 MR. BROTHERTON  was also of opinion that this Bill would inflict great injustice. In Salford, there were more than 10,000 houses, 9,000 of which were under 10 l
 MR. HUME  seconded the Motion.
 MR. HUME  said, that in the course of the last Session he had presented a petition from the inhabitants of the four parishes, which contained their view of the case. They looked upon the House as incomplete—as wanting two Members—and they considered that according to the constitution of the House the proper number of its Members ought to he completed, and they suggested that the two Members should be elected from their parishes; and they prayed that they might be created into a metropolitan borough for that purpose. He (Mr. Hume) considered that they were in a worse position with regard to representation than any other portion of the country; and he thought that they ought at the time of the Reform Bill to have received equal consideration with Marylebone, and to have been included in the change. We had been acting contrary to the prinples alleged at the time of the Reform Bill. When a general reconsideration of the system of representation took place, the present inconsistent method must be altered. He had expected that the noble Lord at the head of the Government would have avowed the intention of Government as to reform of Parliament, and that he would soon take the opportunity of stating a general plan. The power of the Peers half filled the House, and the promise of the noble Lord had not been fairly and properly kept. Still, however, he advised the hon. Gentleman not to divide the House on the present occasion.
 MR. HUME  could state, from information he possessed, that there were individuals possessing property of this kind to a large extent who made a point of getting their cottages exempted from the rate, and laying the amount on the rent. Anything in the way of exemption had only led to abuse. He believed there was a general desire to improve the physical condition of the poor; and he knew of many who would gladly erect comfortable and wholesome cottages for their occupation, if they could be made to return, he would not say 5 or 4, but even 2 per cent. In this matter it was in the power of the Government to assist materially, by taking off the duty on
 480 l l
 MR. SULLIVAN  seconded the Motion.
 MR. P. SCROPE  observed, that he had not intended to raise any argument at this stage of the measure, nor was he aware that he had said more than was necessary as a justification for its introduction: if, however, it was the pleasure of the House to reject the measure at once, he must submit, though he had not anticipated such an opposition. He was aware that in a House composed mainly of landowners and ratepayers, it was impossible that the feeling should not prevail, that to relieve the smaller houses from the rates, would increase the rate on the higher classes of houses. He knew that was the general feeling in the country, and that
 479
 MR. P. SCROPE  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to exempt dwelling-houses below a certain value from local taxation. He stated, that it was similar to the Bill which he had brought under the notice of the House on the same subject on a former occasion; but he had reason to hope for more success for it, or at least for a more candid and attentive consideration of its merits now than he had been then able to secure. He said this because all parties now admitted that the condition of the great mass of the people was not what it ought to be, and that the remedy for the evil ought not to be of a merely charitable nature, but that the Government ought, if possible, to devise some legislative means for improving the position of the labouring classes. There existed a great deficiency in the house-accommodation of the labouring population, not merely in the towns, but in the rural districts, and not merely in the quality of the habitations, but in their numbers. He might appeal in proof of this being the case to the reports of Committees of that House in recent years, to the reports of the Poor Law Commissioners, and of the Board of Health. He might appeal to the able letters that had
 471 Times Morning Chronicle "The inadequacy of cottages leads to evils of the most serious kind to the poor. I do not know anything from which the poor suffer so much, in every possible way, as regards their health and as regards their morals—comfort being wholly out of the question. The great destitution there is of cottages in many parts of England, if the Committee directed their attention to that subject, would be perfectly appalling to them. The medical officers of unions could give evidence upon that point, which, I think, would surprise the Committee. I have made inquiries upon that point, and it is my firm belief that in the southern counties of England, where the population is so rapidly increasing, at the rate of something like 200,000 a year, cottages are absolutely decreasing in number; certainly they are not increasing. "Mr. Denison: Where do you suppose the increasing population to find dwellings?—They find dwellings where fever and vice and crime of every sort is generated. They find dwellings by huddling together in numbers of six, seven, and eight, in rooms scarcely sufficient for one or two; that is, where dwellings are found. The evil has already, in my opinion, reached its acme. "Chairman: Is that evil more or less observable through all the districts of which you are assistant commissioner?—I think it is observable in all; in some more than others, unquestionably." 472
 MR. M. MILNES  said, the hon. and eloquent Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire had been compelled, with all his ingenuity, to adopt a line of argument quite unworthy of his intellect, namely, vindicating certain atrocities by citing others equally wicked. He was surprised that that Gentleman should have recalled to them the past events in the commencement of the last century, when, after the rebellion of 1745, even with an adverse Sovereign on the Throne, he believed not more than twenty-five noblemen suffered execution. That took place 100 years ago, and he would then ask, were the Austrians determined to recede one hundred years in the world's history? He regretted
 517
 MR. SLANEY  gave credit to the hon. Gentleman for his humane and benevolent intentions, but believed that, instead of improving the condition of the poor, and advancing their interests, his plan would tend rather to depreciate their condition. To pass this Bill, would, in his opinion, be to offer a bonus for the worst class of houses, and to stop that progress in improving the dwellings of the poor which was now in operation.
 MR. MANGLES : I said no such thing. What I stated was, that we sought to create a sacred feeling by Act of Parliament with regard to a wife's sister, which God had implanted in our hearts towards sisters in blood.
 MR. MANGLES  said, that the only passage from the Scripture that was relied on in opposition to this Bill, had in his opinion quite an opposite interpretation, and they had the best of all human testimony that it was so in the fact that those to whom that law had been delivered took the same view of it for which he contended. There was another point which he thought had not been before raised, and it was this. He believed that the law as it stood opera-
 528
 MR. ANSTEY  moved for leave to bring in a Bill for the repeal of penal Acts against the Roman Catholic religion. The hon. and learned Member said, he would make no statement of the nature and purport of the measure, further than saying that with some verbal alterations it was substantially the same as that which, the year before last, reached the second reading.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  saw no reason, after what had occurred, to alter the opinion he had expressed on a former occasion as to the conduct pursued by Her Majesty's Government with respect to the extradition of the Hungarian and other refugees now in Turkey. He was glad to see that upon this occasion they had broken through the line of policy adopted for many years of truckling to Russia, and he hoped they would continue to do so. He saw that the noble sentiments expressed by the Sultan had not failed to make a due impression upon the Cabinet, and he hoped the impression would be a long and lasting one. He could not help saying that the accommodation agreed to was unsatisfactory; but he could not conceal from himself the difficulties alluded to by the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs. He could not forget that the chief difficulty to which he had adverted, though not in express language, was created by the treaty of 1841, and that, with the stipulations of that treaty staring them in the face, it was impossible for their Ambassador, or the French Ambassador, to offer to the Sultan that prompt and immediate assistance which would be necessary
 502 "Am I, the Master of this Empire, to be debarred from the exercise of aright enjoyed by my meanest subject, and in the exercise of which I dare not disturb the meanest vassal? Sooner let me cease to reign; sooner let the Empire perish than be so degraded." 503
 MR. C. ANSTEY  seconded the Motion.
 MR. W. FAGAN  seconded the Motion.
 MR. MONSELL , in moving that the Speaker should leave the chair for the purpose of the House resolving itself into Committee upon this Bill, begged to state that the object of it was to alter the law with regard to certain collections of county cess. The collectors were obliged, on their appointment, to give their bonds with
 533
 SIR DE L. EVANS  had said nothing with respect to the nativity of John Sohieski, but he believed that Hungarian troops were chiefly instrumental on that occasion in rescuing Vienna.
 SIR DE L. EVANS  was confident that the emancipation of the Greek people was an event which neither the majority of that House, nor the majority of the nation, would look back to with regret. His noble Friend the Member for Marylebone had been accused of historical ignorance; but when the assertion of his noble Friend, that Hungary had an ancient constitution, was contradicted, he ventured to say, without making any pretensions to historical knowledge, that the assertion implied no ignorance whatsoever. The constitution of Hungary was an old one. [Lord C. HAMILTON: I never said the contrary.] That was one of the points on which ignorance was imputed. The noble Lord alluded also to the misfortunes of the Hungarians in the wars with Turkey. But he forgot that the Hungarians conferred benefits on Austria similar to those which he said Austria had conferred on Hungary. He forgot to tell the House that John Sobieski was the man who relieved Vienna, and saved Austria. Was it, or was it not, that Hungary had possessed one of the most ancient constitutions in Europe? [Lord C. HAMILTON: Certainly.] With reference to the execution of Hungarians by the Austrian Government, the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire spoke of the uncertainty of information on such matters, and thence concluded that they ought not to indulge in strictures on the Austrian Government. He alluded to what had occurred in Ceylon and the Ionian Islands; but if severities had been inflicted in these two dependencies of this country, was there any reason to believe that they would be vindicated by a majority of that House? That one of the most bloody and horrible lists of punishments ever put on record, should be treated so lightly as it had been attempted to be treated by the hon. Gentleman, was a matter of extreme astonishment. The Government of Austria
 516
 SIR. R. H. INGLIS  observed, that whatever support the Hungarians might have given to the House of Hapsburgh, John Sohieski, at least, was not a Hungarian—he was a Pole. He rose merely to make the remark, lest it should go forth that these statements of the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Westminster had, by passing uncontradicted, received the unanimous assent of the House of Commons.
 SIR. R. H. INGLIS  appealed to the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary, to say in the first instance whether he was now prepared to support or to oppose a Bill which last year Her Majesty's Ministers concurred with the House in rejecting. If the right hon. Gentleman would at once express his intention to oppose it, he would save himself and many other Members the vexation of coming down to the House week after week upon a fruitless waste of time.
 SIR. R. H. INGLIS  said, that sooner than the principle of the measure should receive the assent of the House, as he apprehended it would if the introduction of the Bill were permitted without discussion and opposition, he would himself oppose the Motion. He was sanctioned in his opposition by the opinion of the House, as expressed on a former occasion. When his noble Friend behind him, who was inferior to none in talents and character, asked leave to introduce such a measure, he felt bound to resist it, and the House rejected the proposition. He placed his objections to it on three grounds: that it was an alteration of the law of the land, an alteration of the law of the Church, and an alteration, if man could make it, of the law of God. It was a violation of that which he believed to be scriptural truth. But it was not necessary for him to take ground so high; it was enough to justify his opposition to the measure that it was equally against the law of the land, and of the Church; but he believed it was equally against the feeling of the great body of the people, and it certainly was against the unanimous feelings of one sex in this country. How often had this Bill occupied the attention of the House before? The result of it all was, that the Bill was adjourned for six months—in other words, abandoned. He appealed to his hon. Friends the Members connected with Scotland, and particularly him whom he might term, without disrespect, that venerable Member for Scotland the Member for Montrose, whether the public sentiment of that division of the empire was not against the change? Did anybody deny that? Did anybody deny that the almost universal feeling of the women of the empire was against it? Did anybody deny that a very large proportion of the men of the country were against it? When the principle of the Bill was, for the first time, carried last year, leave only having been given on former occasions to bring it in, it was by a majority of no more than 33, and he believed there was a growing feeling against any secular legislation on the subject. He hoped there were many who would feel that this question, if not a scriptural one, as he contended it was, was so much connected with religion that the voice of its ministers ought to be heard upon it with great respect, whilst those who constituted the great body of professing Christians in this country,
 526
 SIR. W. SOMERVILLE  observed that if the Bill were to pass at all, it was necessary that no time should be lost. Everybody seemed to agree in the necessity of passing such a Bill, and, therefore, unless hon. Gentlemen really intended to throw out the Bill, he hoped they would go on with it to-night.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, my noble Friend has travelled over so wide a field, that I am persuaded the House will not expect I should follow him in detail through all those various important transactions to which his speech has related. I can assure my noble Friend that it is the wish of Her Majesty's Government to give all the information upon those transactions which it may he consistent with the public interest, and consistent with those courtesies that are due between Governments and countries, to afford. The Motion with which he has concluded embraces so large a mass of correspondence, comprising not only all the confidential communications of Her Majesty's Government to our Ambassadors and Ministers abroad, but also communications between other Governments, of which knowledge may have been given to the Government of Her Majesty, that I trust my noble Friend and the House will think I am not asking too much of their forbearance if I entreat them not to press the Motion in the words in which my noble Friend has put it, but to allow me to select out of that great mass of papers such documents as may explain to the House the course which Her Majesty's Government has pursued, without giving details which would be inconvenient to the public service, or laying before the House those confidential communications that may have
 497 498 499 500 surveillance 501
 LORD J. RUSSELL*  said: I believe there are few Members of the House who do not consider it expedient that, at this early period of the Session, a declaration should be made by the Government of the general policy it means to pursue with regard to our colonial affairs. So many statements have been made on the subject, such a variety of views, of interests, so many various facts have been put forward, that it is, beyond doubt, desirable and necessary that Her Majesty's Ministers should not delay to declare what are the opinions they entertain as to the great colonial affairs committed for the time to their charge, and as to what should be the permanent colonial policy of this country. In undertaking this task, I am appalled by its magnitude;
 536 537 538 "Further know ye, that we, for us, our heirs and successors, have authorised and appointed the said James Earl of Carlisle, and his heirs (of whose fidelity, prudence, justice, and wisdom we have great confidence) for the good and happy government of the said province, whether for the public security of the said province or the private utility of every man, to make, erect, and set forth, and under his or their signet to publish, such laws as he, the said Earl of Carlisle, or his heirs, with the consent, assent, and approbation of the free inhabitants of the said province, or the greater part of them, thereunto to be called, and in such form as he or they in his or their discretion shall think fit and best. "We will also, of our princely grace, for us, our heirs, and successors, straightly charge, make, and ordain, that the said province be of our allegiance, and that all and every subject and liege people of us, our heirs, and successors, brought or to be brought, and their children, whether there born, or afterwards to be born, become natives and subjects of us, our heirs, and successors, and be as free as they that were born in England; and so their inheritance within our kingdom of England, or other our dominions, to seek, receive, take, hold, buy, and possess, and use and enjoy them as his own, and to give, sell, alter, and bequeath them at their pleasure; and also freely, quietly, and peaceably, to have and possess all the liberties, franchises, and privileges of this
 539 "Among the various objections to that nobleman's (Marquess of Halifax) political principles, we find the charge most relied upon for the purpose of injuring him in the mind of the king was founded on the opinion he had delivered in council, in favour of modelling the charters of the British Colonies in North America upon the principles of the rights and privileges of Englishmen. There was no room to doubt (he was accused of saying) that the same laws under which we live in England should be established in a country composed of Englishmen. He even dilated upon this, and omitted none of the reasons by which it can be proved, that an absolute government is neither so happy nor so safe as that which is tempered by laws, and which limits the authority of the prince. He exaggerated, it was said, the mischiefs of a sovereign power, and declared plainly that he could not make up his mind to live under a king who should have it in his power to take, when he pleased, the money he might have in his pocket." 540 541 542
 COLONEL THOMPSON  would propose a question, an answer to which would be interesting to large classes in the country. In the colonial constitutions which are to be, is provision made for admitting the aborigines and their descendants to the full enjoyment of political privileges, on their complying with reasonable conditions? It was clear, for instance, that the New Zealander stood in precisely the same position as our British ancestors did to the Romans. If then he chose to "clothe his pink'd and painted hide," and conform to the rules and habits of English society, was the way open to him to the privileges of a "true-born Englishman," like any other of the elements out of which that heterogeneous being had been compounded?
 MR. SCOTT  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Vice-President of the Board of Trade had justly observed, that nothing was of greater importance than that our discussions on colonial matters should be conducted in that House with temper and caution; for that whatever occurred there was sure to reach the colonies, and there to be criticised and commented on. If, then, it were desirable that they should avoid falling into inaccuracies in the heat of debate, how much more important was it that statements deliberately and authoritatively
 609 Sydney Morning Herald Morning Herald 610 611
 MR. HAWES  begged to call attention, in the first place, to two petitions signed by certain landowners and inhabitants of New South Wales. The petitioners stated that the 5 & 6 Vict., the Act establishing the constitution of New South Wales, was brought in and passed after serious deliberation; that it had only existed for five years, and was welcomed as a boon; and both prayed that no changes in this constitution might be made without their consent. There was also a petition to the same effect from Van Diemen's Land, objecting to any constitution but that conferred on New South Wales, and the Governor and Council of that island were also favourable to a single chamber. Now, New South Wales was the largest and most populous of their colonies, and what was the constitution it possessed? He was not going to defend a single chamber; he agreed that the old constitution was preferable, but what was the constitution that was so highly popular in New South Wales? The Legislative Council was elective, with this exception that one-third of its number consisted of nominees, the other two-thirds being elected by the people. It followed from that, that it was essentially a popular constitution, the numbers of official to elected members being in the ratio of one to two. If his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Sheffield referred to the papers, he would see that the question of a single and double chamber had been debated in the Council of New South Wales, and there was a very narrow division—the double chamber being negatived only by a single vote. That was evidence clearly that there was a strong feeling in the colony of New South Wales prevailing in favour of a double chamber, for the minority was so large that it was only over-ruled by a single vote. But on examining the division it would be found that nine of the elected members voted against a double chamber, and only four for it. So the elected members decided two to one against the double chamber. His defence of the proposition of the Government, therefore, was, that the single chamber was acceptable to the colonists, and that it worked well, and they thought it right to rest their measures on an established and tried constitution that had given satisfaction. In taking that course, was it decided by Parliament that there should be a single chamber? If hon. Gentlemen referred to the Bill of last year—and the Bill of this year in this respect was the same
 593 594 l 595
 MR. HAWES  said, that as the right hon. Member who had just resumed his seat had quoted incorrectly the opinion of Sir W. Denison, the Governor of Van Diemen's Land, with the permission of the House he would read some passages from the same despatch referred to by the right hon. Member, in order to show the error into which he had fallen:—
 "In the face of this it would almost seem needless that I should say anything more upon the subject, as the chances appear to be that the Bill will have passed long before your Lordship can receive this despatch; but as delays may take place, and as your Lordship may not be able to carry the Bill through Parliament in the present Session, it will be but just to the members of the Executive Council, and to myself, that I should explain to your Lordship the grounds upon which we recommended the adoption of a form of government similar to that at present existing in New South Wales, without attempting to give an opinion as to the advantages or disadvantages contingent upon the adoption of that particular form. These reasons may all be summed up in the simple fact that the form was established in New South Wales, and that the Australian colonies are so connected together—so identified with each other, as far as the character and habits of the people are concerned—as to make any change in the existing system of representation, if applied only to one colony, a matter of very doubtful policy. The probability would be, that such a change would be looked upon with suspicion and dislike, and for that very reason would not be carried into effectual operation."
 MR. HAWES  had satisfaction in stating, that under British rule aborigines were entitled to every privilege of British-born subjects, and in fact were such whenever they complied with provisions made and provided.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that he cordially concurred in the sentiments which had been expressed by previous speakers, that this debate should be conducted with calmness and moderation; for if ever there was a debate which called for a display of calmness and moderation, and the absence of all party feeling or spirit, it was that of to-night. He fully believed that the consequences of this debate, in the course of the present Session even, would be either to rivet for ever the attachment of our colonies to the empire, and to relieve this country, wholly or in part, of her military burdens and expenses, or to exasperate the colonies, to disappoint their cherished anticipations, and perhaps to lose many of them for ever. After the very able and lucid speech of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and the debate which had succeeded it, he felt that it would be something like presumption in him to occupy, at length, the time and attention of the House; but he could not refrain from expressing his congratulation to the House, to the country at large, and to the colonies, that there was at last found in this country a party desirous of promoting extensive reforms in our colonies, and that there was a recognised channel now established for giving expression to the public opinion of the colonies in this country, which had already succeeded so far as to force the noble Lord at the head of the Government to place in its proper position of prominency among the debates of the present Session this great colonial question—which had already forced the Government of this country to modify very essentially the principles which it had previously laid down in the Constitution Bill—and which he hoped would at last succeed in placing the interests of the colonists upon a surer and sounder basis. With respect to the Colonial Reform Association, the noble Lord had made some remarks upon it; but his criticisms were of so mild a nature that he (Mr. Adderley) could hardly quarrel with them. The noble Lord had
 603 604 605 606 Sydney Morning Herald 607
 MR. AGLIONBY  observed, that the noble Lord at the head of the Government had made a remark on what he called the somewhat dubious policy of the Colonial Reform Association. Now he (Mr. Aglionby) saw no dubious policy at all in the proceedings of the Association; and he believed that its principles were based on truth, and that its action would be useful to the country. He could not help thinking that it would do good, both by encouraging Her Majesty's Government to persevere in the course which they had adopted, and by calling the attention of the public, and of Members of that House, to the subject of colonial reform. He did not think the worse of the Association for wishing to have accredited agents from the colonists. Information was much wanted, for the Colonial Office now relied on the statements made by governors, who did not always agree in opinion with the population over whom they presided. A very important remark had been made by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, that it was both difficult and dangerous to give one form of government in one colony, and a different form in another. But he regretted to observe, that, with respect to New Zealand, the noble Lord held out no hopes of a constitution, except under its present nominee form, until the 7th March, 1853. Would that be tolerated? He ventured to say that the noble Lord would
 608 in toto
 MR. BAILLIE  said, it was not his intention, on the present occasion, to enter into any general observations on the very important subjects which the noble Lord or the hon. Baronet had brought under their notice that evening. Indeed, he should confine the very few remarks he had then to make, to one only of the colonies which had been mentioned by the noble Lord. The noble Lord had entered into a statement with respect to the constitution which had been granted to British Guiana, and declared that the franchise in that colony had been considerably increased. Now, as he (Mr. Baillie) believed the noble Lord, doubtless from the multiplicity of the subjects which he had to bring under the notice of the House, had been misinformed on the question, he would beg leave to make a statement of the real facts of the case to the House. The Committee which sat to consider the grievances of British Guiana, recommended that an alteration should be made in the constitution of that colony; but it also recommended that that alteration should be made in
 581
 MR. LABOUCHERE  hoped the few remarks he would address to the Committee would be ill strict harmony with the same calm and dispassionate tone which he rejoiced to find the House had observed hitherto, in the discussion of the highly important subject brought under its notice by the noble Lord—a tone which he trusted would prove an augury of the manner in which colonial subjects were to be discussed this Session, and which he thought it of the deepest importance they should ever observe, when it was considered that an incautious remark, or an excited expression, although made in that House without any such intention, might yet have the effect, when it reached the colonies, of producing incalculable mischief. He was particularly anxious to address the House, having borne a share, as a Member of the Committee of Privy Council in Trade and Plantations, in recommending to the adoption of the Government the two important measures that were submitted to the House relating to the Australian colonies and to British Guiana. And he wished to refer to some remarks made by the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark, which he thought likely to create an erroneous impression that ought to be removed. He was quite ready to concede the general principle of the propriety of the mother country giving the most ample powers of self and free government as regards all matters strictly connected with their local affairs to those of her colonial dependencies which were peopled by the English race; and he rejoiced that the Government, after so much vague declamation had been used on this subject, had had an opportunity of proving that its professions were not mere empty words, whilst it at the same time solicited the advice and assistance of the House on these difficult questions deeply affecting the interests of a great and distant colonial empire. And he thought no fair and candid man would hesitate to admit, however he might differ from the views of the Government with regard to the details of these measures, that with respect to their scope and tenor, Her Majesty's Ministers had been animated by a sincere desire to give freedom—constitutional freedom and local self-government in the amplest possible manner—to the inhabitants of these vast and growing colonies. He had heard, he confessed, with considerable surprise, very great censures passed by the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark on the plan which the Government had proposed for
 583 Sydney Herald Sydney Herald "Those of our readers who have attentively perused the long and elaborate report of the Committee of the Board of Trade, published in our columns in May last, will no doubt agree with us in thinking it one of the ablest and most consolatory documents of the kind ever laid before a colony. To what extent other British colonies may have experienced kind treatment from the Home Government it is not for us to say, but certainly we must testify that never before has the colony of New South Wales received so large a share of Ministerial consideration, liberality, and kindness as it has in the present instance. Her Majesty in Council has been graciously pleased to concede to us nearly everything we have asked for." 584 Victoria Colonist "It must be highly gratifying to Earl Grey and the rest of Her Majesty's Ministers to find that the boon granted by them to the Australian colonies in the new constitution before us, has diffused such a general satisfaction throughout the province of Victoria. All the newspapers are unanimous in their expressions of approval, and there is not even one solitary instance of dissent." 585 "That the contents of the despatch dated July 31, 1847, from Earl Grey, Secretary of State for the Colonies, has excited in the breasts of your Majesty's petitioners indignation and alarm, as by it they learn that the electoral franchise enjoyed by them under the Act of the Imperial Parliament of 5 & 6 Vict., cap. 76, was about to be abrogated and superseded by a crude experiment no less at variance with the principles of the British constitution, than absurd and impracticable in a population dispersed, and located, as are the inhabitants of New South Wales. Second to none of Tour Majesty's subjects, in glowing loyalty to Tour Majesty's person, and deep veneration for the principles of the constitution of the parent State, as seen in operation in Great Britain, Tour Majesty's petitioners are unconscious of any adequate reason for depriving them of that dearly cherished birthright of a Briton, the power of electing his representatives in the councils of their country. That an Act effecting the change propounded by Earl Grey, would deprive Tour Majesty's petitioners of that power, and thus be in truth to them a Bill of pains and penalties, without a pretence that any conduct of theirs has merited punishment. That Tour Majesty's petitioners claim the right to enjoy, as nearly as circumstances will admit, the full benefit of the principles of the British constitution, and humbly and earnestly implore Tour Majesty to be graciously pleased to interpose your high authority to prevent this colony being made the field of theoretical experiments in legislation. That, as born subjects of Your Majesty, they conceive themselves entitled to all the blessings and benefits of Britons; and they have, therefore, a right to expect that no alteration in the constitution of the colony shall be effected without the previous assent of those whose liberties and property must be affected by it. Your petitioners, therefore, most humbly pray Tour Most Gracious Majesty will not assent to any alteration of electoral franchise of your subjects in this colony, which may have the effect of diminishing the rights they now enjoy, nor any such important changes in the form of their government, which shall not have been previously submitted for the opinion, and received the approbation, of the colonists." 586 587 588
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he should be sorry to allow this occasion to pass without taking the opportunity of expressing his opinion upon a subject on which he had bestowed a considerable degree of attention. He understood the noble Lord at the head of the Government to have done two things that night: first, he had explained the general policy intended to be pursued by the Government with respect to our colonial possessions at large; and, next, he gave us an illustration of that general policy, in the shape of a specific measure. In support of the general policy which he was about to adopt, he had taken a review of the past history of our colonial system; but, by a most curious and extraordinary fatality, he had altogether omitted from his historical sketch the most important part of all our colonial history, namely, the colonisation of the present United States of America. The noble Lord moved that out of his path, and confined his observations to a certain charter given to Lord Carlisle in the reign of Charles I. with respect to one of our West India possessions; but if they had a policy at all in their colonial government, it was to be found in those remarkable charters which were granted to the United States of America. The hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark stated to the House that those charters were simply general powers conferred on the colonists whereby they might make unto themselves a constitution; but that was not the case. The charters given to those colonies were most peculiarly definite and specific, and
 589 590 591
 MR. HUME  looked on the present debate
 601 602
 MR. ANSTEY  agreed with the hon. Baronet that the veto of the Colonial Secretary ought only to be given to acts of the colonial legislatures affecting imperial interests. The hon. Baronet proposed to abolish the Colonial Office under one name, and to renew it under another. His scheme proposed to abolish Earl Grey, and to transfer his functions to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. [Sir W. MOLESWORTH: No, no!] He understood the hon. Baronet to say that in those cases where a question arose as to whether the local legislature had exceeded its functions by trenching upon the prerogative of the Crown, the decision was to lie with the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. [Sir W. MOLESWORTH: No, no!] Then he had been very much misled. But if so, the scheme left them without even the assistance of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, in order to ascertain whether the interference of the Crown was called for or not; and they would have litigation without end, not of a peaceful, perhaps, but almost of an armed character, between the Crown and the colony. If, however, the impression which he had first received of the plan was a correct one, then its adoption would be simply to transfer the Colonial Office from Downing-street to Whitehall. He thought the true objection to the plan proposed by the noble Lord at the head of the Government for the Australian colonies was, that it contemplated the creation of a council one-third of whose members should be nominees of the Crown. He was, however, prepared to accept for the present even a much worse scheme than had been proposed by the noble Lord. If the council elected under this Bill proceeded to exercise the powers with which they were invested, he thought the noble Lord, acting in conformity with those sound, enlightened, and statesmanlike views which he had that night enunciated, would not advise Her Majesty in Council to countermand the alterations they might see fit to make. Speaking more particularly with reference to Van Diemen's Land, the operation of the scheme would be this—that one-third of the members would be the nominees of
 580
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that the hon. Member had made an explanation, and had read some extracts; he wished, however, that he had continued reading a little longer, for he had just stopped at a very interesting part. The passage which he (Mr. Gladstone) had read, was the continuation of the letter. The object of the letter of the Governor of Van Diemen's Land was to show that it would be dangerous to alter the government of Van Diemen's Land from a single to a double chamber, while only one chamber remained in New South Wales; but he stated—and if the hon. Member had read on he would have seen the Governor's reasoning on the subject, which was as follows:—
 "Without, therefore, wishing or presuming to give an opinion on the general question of the best form of legislative body, I may say that, under the peculiar circumstances of these colonies, I should most strenuously recommend the adoption of a second or upper chamber."
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that it was not his intention at that late hour of the night to enter into any general view of the colonial policy as laid down by the noble Lord at the head of the Government at the commencement of this debate; neither was it his intention to enter into any defence of those gentlemen who had associated themselves together under the name of the Colonial Reform Association. There might, perhaps, be points in the constitution of that society which were open to criticism; but he thought that at any rate it was entitled, in all fairness, to the credit of having
 596 597 598 "Without, therefore, wishing or presuming to give an opinion on the general question of the best form of legislative body, I may say that, under the peculiar circumstances of these colonies, I should most strenuously recommend the adoption of a second or upper chamber." 599 600
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH : Sir, the noble Lord at the head of the Government commenced his speech by explaining the principles on which our colonial empire was founded. He then stated facts bearing upon the population and commerce of that empire, and from thence inferred that it would not be to the advantage but to the detriment of the kingdom, were our colonial possessions to be abandoned. In most of the observations of the noble Lord with respect to these points, I entirely agree. The noble Lord then proceeded to explain the future colonial policy of the Government; but I must say, that in some respects the explanation was one which I did not distinctly understand. The noble Lord spoke of granting constitutions to the colonies, and he referred to certain old colonial charters giving power to the colonies in whose favour they were granted to frame their own constitutions. If the noble Lord intends to adhere to the principles of the
 568 569 570 habitants 571 572 573 574 575 576 577 578 579
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that in rising, in pursuance of the notice which he had given, in compliance with a pledge made at the close of last Session by his right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Home Department, to move for leave to bring in a Bill to restrain Party Processions in Ireland, he should take the opportunity of briefly stating to the House the reasons which induced the Government to ask for this measure; and he would also shortly describe the nature of the Bill. The
 612 613
 MR. GREY  objected to the Bill, because it would still leave the whole power of managing important funds in the hands of the corporation of Newcastle, the Bill providing that nine out of the seventeen commissioners to be appointed should be members of the town-council of Newcastle.
 MR. ORD  supported the Bill. The corporation of Newcastle were now willing to give up the right which they had so long enjoyed of the exclusive administration of the property, and to allow other towns to he associated with them in it, and he could not see, therefore, on what ground the principle of the Bill was objected to.
 MR. ORD  said, that the corporation of Newcastle had been for 500 years in possession of the property of which this Bill sought to deprive them, without any grounds whatever being shown to justify such a proceeding. He should, therefore, oppose the second reading.
 MR. CARD WELL  said, the House had two Bills before it, both for the improvement of the conservancy of the Tyne. The Bill just sanctioned travelled into no other object; but the Bill which they were now asked to sanction did travel into other ground, and sought to induce the House to refer to a Committee of five Members a question of property. The promoters alleged that the corporation of Newcastle misappropriated the funds, by expending two-thirds of them on the improvement of the streets of Newcastle; but if that were so, surely there was a legal tribunal before which the question ought to be decided, instead of bringing it before that House.
 COLONEL KNOX  seconded the Motion.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, he would be the last man in the world inclined to cast any reflections whatever on the persons engaged in these dangerous services; but he must say, the mode in which the allowance was at present made, was open to very grave objection. It was now proposed to do away with the distinction between the amounts awarded for every private killed, and every private captured—20 l l l 663 l
 SIR F. T. BARING  hoped the House would permit him to say that he had made no observations in reference to the character of the service. There would be but little delay in laying on the table of the House the papers which they had got. The hon. Gentleman had asked for the legal papers. They had not got them officially; but he (Sir F. T. Baring) had learned from the newspapers that the parties came before the recorder of Singapore in the usual manner, and he stated distinctly that he must have further evidence that they were pirates, as he was not satisfied on that point. In consequence, further evidence was given to him, and a commission was appointed to make inquiry on the spot. Subsequently, when counsel stated that they were ready to give further evidence of piracy, the recorder stated that he was perfectly satisfied they were pirates.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, that all that was wanted was some proof that these men were pirates. The fear that people had respecting this head-money was, that it held out a temptation to men who were going about the world in command of Her Majesty's forces to say, "Is there anybody we can kill for you under the name of pirates, and charge them in the bill?" The people were anxious that every possible means should be taken to sift these things. He could suppose a case where some men, finding two tribes at war, might take one side, and say that all the rest were pirates. These were reasons which made the public regard with great jealousy and suspicion the payment for such services as were now in question.
 MR. RICARDO  said, that what had passed in the course of the debate had demonstrated how impossible it was at that stage to discuss a Bill which was dependent on its details for its proper working; at the same time, he must admit that, considering the constituency represented by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Liverpool, that hon. Gentleman had met the proposition of the Government in the most moderate manner. There was only one point on which he must observe as to what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman. The hon. Gentleman intimated that, in his opinion, the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman would render more difficult the competition which we had now to meet with foreign countries in consequence of the trade being thrown open. He (Mr. Ricardo) believed that if there were any point at all on which we laboured under a disadvantage in that competition, it was from the notorious incapacity of some of the masters and mates of British vessels. He did not accuse the masters and mates of mercantile vessels generally of incapacity. He knew that some were better qualified for this duty than those of any other service in the world; but it would be foolish to shut their eyes to the fact that there was a slur cast on the mercantile marine of England by the conduct of some of the masters and mates in the service, and he could not conceive any difficulty arising to them from the adoption of a system that would place them on such a footing as to get rid of the slur. He understood, from the observations of the hon. Member for
 684
 MR. HBADLAM  considered, that the changes proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, entitled him to the thanks of the shipowners of the country. He (Mr. Head-lam) did not agree with the hon. Member for Liverpool in his objections to a system of central management; for he believed that under such a system the funds were likely to he administered with far more justice and fairness than was the case at present. He concurred with the hon. Member for Montrose in thinking that the share of control which was proposed to be given to the Trinity Board would be very objectionable; for, although that board nominally contributed 25,000 l "2.  Resolved
 SIR D. NORREYS  denied that the nonexistence of leases was not entirely because the tenants were disinclined to accept leases; the landlords were equally disinclined to give leases. He thought the Bill would disfranchise many freeholders.
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  said, that as to the question referred to by the last hon. Member, the guardians would have the power of making a fair valuation in six months. The only objection he had to the Bill was, that the rating of 8 l l l l l
 SIR D. NORREYS  hoped the inquiry would be extended to Ireland. It was ascertained that the poor in Ireland preferred the gaols to the poorhouses, such was the System of discipline.
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  hoped that the right hon. Baronet would do justice to Ireland. He hoped the inquiry would be extended to the gaols of Ireland.
 LORD ASHLEY  said, that, in reference to a notice which appeared upon the paper of that day, he would beg, with the permission of the House and of his hon. Friend the Member for Cockermouth and the noble Lord at the head of the Government, to make a few observations. Perhaps he might be permitted to interpose his good offices between two Gentlemen whom he had the honour of knowing, and regarding whom he could declare that the highest and most honourable motives regulated both the private and public conduct of each. The House, he was sure, would agree with him in deploring that any difference of opinion should have arisen between two Gentlemen who stood so high in public estimation as the noble Lord and the hon. Gentleman the Member for Cockermouth, who still, he was sure, notwithstanding what had occurred, entertained feelings of mutual respect and kindness for each other. He did not think the differences between them would be adjusted by the method proposed. His hon. Friend the Member for Cockermouth proposed to move for a Committee to which the whole case was to be subjected. Now, what was the character of the evidence to be laid before the Committee, and what was the business which it was to decide? A large proportion of the case must, of necessity, concern matters that took place without the walls of the House. And what did take place within the walls must consist in a great measure of a few verbal communications made in haste, and probably during debates upon other subjects, one or two angry expressions which his hon. Friend the Member for Cockermouth had used under the stinging influence of the defeat
 637 638
 LORD C. HAMILTON  feared that by too widely extending the operations of the Committee, they would mar the efficiency of its inquiries. He thought, therefore, that it would be better to reserve the inquiry as to Ireland until another opportunity.
 LORD C. HAMILTON  expressed his regret that the right hon. Gentleman had not accompanied his statement on this measure with some observations which might induce the House to hope that he was prepared to take steps to improve the present state of the valuation in Ireland, and make it more uniform. It was not now in a state which fitted it to be made the permanent basis of a franchise.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that although the questions the hon. and learned Gentleman put had been distinctly answered the other day, he would endeavour very shortly to explain what were the views with which his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies had moved for the appointment of the Committee of which he had given notice. As he (Lord J. Russell) understood the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon, what he meant was this—that he supposed by the resolution the chairman of the Committee should communicate to the noble Earl the Secretary of State for the Colonies with respect to the witnesses whom he and the Committee should think necessary to have produced before them. Accordingly, the Committee next day agreed on two witnesses being summoned, one of whom was Captain Watson. And they had been summoned in consequence. But if his hon. Friend the Under Secretary of State had been told, when that last resolution of the Committee was moved, "Now, mind this resolution means that your chairman of the Committee is to have absolute power over the Secretary of State, and is to order him, during the next six months, to do as we please, and he is to have no discretion or option "—why, then, his hon. Friend would have refused to agree to any such resolution. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Newark would, he thought, hardly assert that it would not be a great stretch of the powers of the Committees of the House if they had complete control over the Secretaries of State. If there were three Committees appointed at the end of the Session, and that the chairman were to have power over the three Secretaries of State, with respect to ordering any witnesses they pleased, he was sure that was a stretch of authority to which the House would object. With regard to the proceedings of the Committee, he could only say that when they sat they would have full power to summon the witnesses, and every facility would be given to them by his noble Friend the Secretary of State to arrive at the facts of the case. But if the hon. and learned Gentleman thought that in the inquiry there was one part of the question to be entirely disregarded—and that was the defence—and that there was nothing to be heard on the part of the defence—it was not the condition on which he (Lord J. Russell) assented
 650
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, I certainly received the impression from the letter which was read to the House the other day, that the hon. Gentleman the Member
 640
 LORD J. RUSSELL  had to request the indulgence of the House with reference to a statement which had been made in the House, which had occasioned considerable pain to an hon. and gallant Officer, who, it would be remembered, had been alluded to in the course of the debate on Wednesday last, in reference to the affairs of Ceylon—he meant Captain Watson—who was the son of a distinguished officer, and who had himself been for more than twenty years an officer in the Army, and who was now attached to the Ceylon Rifle Brigade. The statement, as reported in the public papers to have been made by the hon. Member for Inverness-shire, on the occasion he referred to, was—
 "We have heard much from the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire about the savage proclamations of Field Marshal Haynau and others. But listen to the proclamation I am about to read—a proclamation of one of Her Majesty's officers in Ceylon, entrusted at the time with the full and responsible power of deciding the question of life and death with respect to the subjects of that colony. The proclamation is as follows: 'That unless all those who have held concealed the effects of Golahella Rata Mahatmeya, deliver over to me such property, or give information about the same without delay, such persons shall be killed, and their property confiscated.—A. Watson, captain commanding.' Now, I ask the House, is this a proclamation for the destruction of mad dogs or of human beings? I confess, Sir, when this proclamation was first brought under my notice, I was perfectly astounded. I could not believe such a production possible, and thought there must be some mistake. But there is no mistake about the matter. I have in my possession two of the original proclamations, signed by Captain Watson's own hand—proclamations which have received the full sanction and cordial approbation of Her Majesty's Government; and those Gentlemen who are so ready to denounce Austria for her acts, are the supporters of that Government."— Hansard 642 "22, Craven Street, London, Feb. 7. "My Lord—Owing to absence from London, it was only this morning that I saw in the morning papers of yesterday the very cruel and unjustifiable attacks which are stated to have been made on my character by Mr. Baillie and Mr. Hume—who have coupled my name with acts of atrocity more suitable, as they say, for the 'destruction of mad dogs,' than becoming proceedings which involve the lives of human beings. In attendance as I am, pursuant to a summons from Ceylon, and about to be examined before a Committee of the House of Commons, appointed to inquire into recent events in that island, I cannot but feel deeply wounded by this ungenerous attempt to damage my reputation, and discredit my testimony by anticipation. Nor will your Lordship fail to perceive the prejudice to justice which must ensue from bringing forward such imputations in places where I have no means to meet and repel them, instead of reserving them for the approaching investigation, when opportunity would be afforded me for defence; and, in any event, the charge and its refutation would go together for the decision of the public. The evidence on which I have been thus assailed, is a document said to have been produced by Mr. Baillie, described as a 'savage proclamation,' and purporting to bear the name of 'A. Watson, captain commanding.' It threatens with death and confiscation of property all persons who should fail to make disclosures as to the abstraction of the effects of Golahella Rata Mahatmeya; and Mr. Baillie is said to have declared that all doubts as to its authenticity are effectually set at rest by his possessing 'two of the original proclamations signed by Captain Watson's own hand—proclamations which have received the full sanction and cordial approbation of Her Majesty's Government.' Had opportunity been afforded me by Mr. Baillie, before thus pledging his own veracity and impugning my honour, I should have informed that Gentleman, as I now do your Lordship, that the document in question is utterly spurious; that I never issued or authorised such a proclamation; and that he has been misled by an unprincipled forgery. The other allusions which have been made to supposed acts of mine, by both Mr. Baillie and Mr. Hume, are alike devoid of all foundation in fact, and so soon as an opportunity shall have been afforded me in the approaching Committee, I shall have no more difficulty in disposing of them than I have in denouncing the fictitious proclamation by which these Gentlemen have been so grossly imposed on.—I have, &c. "ALBERT WATSON, Captain, Ceylon Rifle Regiment. "To the Right Hon. Earl Grey, &c."
 LORD NAAS  thought that an inquiry into the state of the gaols in Ireland was absolutely necessary, and it might be right to add the names of certain Members who might aid in such inquiry. The average number of prisoners had increased enormously since 1847. He had no other course but to move that the word "Ireland" be added.
 MR. STAFFORD  wished it to be understood that, in offering no opposition to the first reading of this Bill, no one was pledged to its principle—or that part which the right hon. Gentleman had chosen for the principle—or the details of the Bill, particularly as to the amount of qualification. The present state of Ireland—although he admitted the present was a season opportune in some respects for the introduction of a Bill of this kind—was a reason  pro tanto 701
 MR. DISRAELI  said, it was not his intention to oppose the nomination of the Committee, and he would refrain from reviving the debate of the other day as to the affairs of Ceylon; but as the noble Lord at the head of the Government had made an observation respecting the conduct of the chairman of the Committee for
 652
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that there was not one hon. Gentleman in the House who had ever asked for the suppression of the defence. What they were anxious for was, that the defence should not be brought on before the evidence for the accusation had been concluded. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had represented the matter as if the Committee had delegated powers to their chairman to dictate to the noble Earl the Secretary for the Colonies what witnesses he was to call. This was not the case. The noble Lord had stated the matter more fairly when he said that there were two courses open for the noble Earl to adopt. He might assume that the Committee had instructed their chairman either to consult with him as to what witnesses should be called, or to dictate to him what their names were to be. Now, the noble Lord had, upon the present occasion, brought forward only the second of these interpretations. But, in his (Mr. Adderley's) opinion, the noble Earl the Secretary for the Colonies had no right to assume that the Committee had instructed their Chairman to dictate to him. What the Committee had done was this—they had instructed their chairman to consult with the noble Earl upon the subject. When the Committee met after the discussion in this House, they had suggested the names of two witnesses; but on these gentlemen being mentioned, the whole Committee immediately said that there were others absolutely necessary, especially for the elucidation of matters relating to the long continuance of the enforcement of martial law. It was said to be impossible to get these witnesses without writing to Ceylon; and, as it had been determined that a Commission should not be sent out, the only alternative was to write out to the colony. That was the only course the Committee could take; it was the course which, he believed, had been agreed to by the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary to the Colonies, after considerable discussion; and he confessed that he had felt astounded when the hon. Gentleman repudiated the arrangement. The only course open to the Committee was to send out to the colony, in order to procure the necessary witnesses, and afterwards communicate with the noble Earl at
 651 l l
 MR. C. PEARSON  said, that if it was to be understood that the object of this Motion was to take out of his hands the proposal which he had made last Session, he should take the sense of the House on the question. In that case he would not be compromised. He would, on an early day, submit to the House a specific Motion, unless in the mean time the right bon. Baronet consented to mould the terms of the inquiry so as to embrace his object. That there might be no mistake, he would repeat his former statement, that under a sound system of prison discipline the criminal class, which now cost the nation 450,000 l l s d l s l s l l 705
 MR. PEARSON  hoped the House would not deprive the Committee of the advantage of knowing what great improvements the system of prison discipline had attained in Ireland, and if the noble Lord who had moved the Amendment called for a division, he would give him his support.
 MR. CARDWELL  did not wish to throw any obstacle in the way of further discussion upon the Bill, but trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would give him au assurance that the day for the second reading of the Bill would not be fixed so early as to prevent ample time being afforded for considering those alterations which had been made in the Bill of last Session. The right hon. Gentleman had paid a compliment to those whom he (Mr. Cardwell) had the honour to represent, and had spoken of an institution in the town of Liverpool which existed for the purpose of carrying out, by voluntary exertions many of those objects which he proposed to carry out through the instrumentality of this Bill. The right hon. Gentleman had also stated that he had endeavoured to mitigate some of the objections which had been urged against the Bill of last Session. He (Mr. Cardwell) trusted that he had been perfectly successful in his endeavours to remove the causes of opposition. But it would be at least premature to say, that he had collected from the right hon. Gentleman's speech how this desirable object was accomplished. By the Bill, as he understood it, the masters and captains of all the merchant vessels would be made the mere creatures of the Board of Trade, inasmuch as the master of every sailing vessel in the country would not he able to go to sea unless he could first obtain his certificate from the Board of Trade. All those who had hitherto commanded vessels were to have certificates; but no person for the future could become a master or captain of a vessel who had not received a certificate that he had passed an examination, from examiners to be appointed by the Board of Trade. Then, again, every master who may have obtained his certificate, whether on account of his previous service, or of his having successfully passed his examination, would be completely in the power of the Board of Trade, as he would be liable to have his certificate withdrawn by that board for any offence. [Mr. LABOUCHERE: Only if the offence were proved before a competent tribunal.] It would still be in the discretion of the Board of Trade to decide whe-
 681
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that when a proposal of this sort was announced to them for the first time—a proposal from the Government to make from the Consolidated Fund a grant of 30,000 l 697
 MR. HORSMAN said : Sir, if I understand aright, the House seems unanimously to accede to what is proposed by the noble Lord the Member for Bath. And I must hold it to have decided that it is not desirable to go into the inquiry for which I came down to move. If that be so, I bow at once to the declared wish of the House; but I must at the same time ask it to indulge mo for a few moments of explanation before it passes to the Orders of the Day. The question now remains in this state—that I brought charges against the noble Lord at the head of the Government and the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, which I am not permitted to prove, or called on to retract. Now, I must say, if the matter is to be left in this state, it ends in a manner not altogether just to the noble Lord whom I have accused; and, not ending in justice to him, it would not end satisfactorily to my own feelings. I therefore think that, as there are certain passages in the letter alluded to which have been understood to convey something move than I intended, I ought to state what is the interpretation I should have wished to be put upon them—how far I meant to go in my charge against the noble Lord—and how far I am now prepared to withdraw the imputation which was supposed to rest on his personal honour. I did not intend to make, not did I make, any allegation whatever as to the noble Lord's motives. I did not intend that any such construction should be put on my letter; and perhaps it would be more satisfactory to show that what I am about to say is not mere formality and compliment, if I were to tell the House and the noble Lord what I really did mean and what I felt. I did not intend to say that the noble Lord had wilfully and designedly done that which he knew to be dishonourable. I believed the real fact to be that he was annoyed and irritated at my persevering in my Motions upon the Church; and that he rather courted the opportunity of showing bow he could with impunity dispense with the courtesies of Parliamentary usage in the case of a Member who had not a party at his back; and that he incautiously indulged
 639
 MR. FRENCH  was surprised at a Bill which, for the first time, introduced the
 702
 COLONEL DUNNE  seconded the Motion.
 MR. SCULLY  was glad to find that the right hon. Gentleman appeared at last in earnest on this subject—that he was at last aware of the absolute necessity of passing a Registration Bill for Ireland. He (Mr. Scully) trusted that the right hon. Gentleman was really in earnest, and that he meant to pass his Bill, notwithstanding the objections of hon. Gentlemen opposite with respect to the state of the poor-law valuation—objections in which, he confessed, he did not see any very great force. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would not postpone his Bill on account of any such reasons as those, for in Ireland it was really a question, as matters now stood, of whether they should have any franchise or none. Whilst he said this, however, he bore his full testimony to what had been stated by the hon. Member for Northamptonshire as to the distress in those parts of the country to which he had referred; and he hoped they might—indeed, it was most essential that they should—have an early discussion in that House on the state of Ireland, which he considered had not been sufficiently pressed upon their attention, either in the Speech on opening the Session, or in any of the speeches of those who had addressed the House on that occasion. The state of that part of the kingdom, its wants and its grievances, were such as to require the introduction of measures by the Government calculated to raise the social condition of the people,
 703
 MR. BAILLIE  observed, that he would not go into the question of the justifiability of proclaiming martial law in Ceylon, as that subject was not now fairly under the consideration of the House. The hon. and learned Gentleman, however, who had just spoken, had said that certain charges were being made against the Government. The hon. and learned Member spoke of there being charges, but he did not know what those charges were. What charges had been
 657
 MR. BAILLIE : Sir, I have only this
 643 Cries of
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  observed that any system of franchise founded on the present valuation must entail monstrous injustice, because it would differ in almost every district. He begged to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland to the inequality which existed in that respect, and to assure him the people would see the injustice of it.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, he had been over Reading gaol, where the separate system prevailed, and he had been over the only gaol in Ireland where the same system obtained; and he must say that the discipline of Belfast gaol was superior to that of Reading gaol. There was, for instance, a system of hard labour combined with a separate system.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he had again to trespass upon the attention of the House for a few moments, with regard to a measure which was of great importance to the mercantile marine of the country, but upon which he felt himself incompetent to express an opinion. He had now to move a resolution for leave to bring in a Bill for regulating the admeasurement of the tonnage and burden of merchant shipping. It was obvious that in dealing with this subject, scientific knowledge was required, to
 698 699 "3.  Resolved
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the right hon. Baronet had been more successful in pointing out the difficulties of the question than any practical remedies. Of the difficulties of the case he was well aware, and he knew how strong was the objection raised by local interests to any settlement of the question that involved the principle of centralisation—a principle, however, without which he was convinced it would be impossihle to arrive at any satisfactory conclusion. With the greatest reluctance he had proposed to increase the contributions from the sailors; and he should not have done so unless it were accompanied with a grant of 30,000 l l
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, there were only two points to which he wished to refer. The first was with regard to what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman the Member for Liverpool. He assured the hon. Gentleman that, before the second reading of this Bill, ample time should be given for the consideration of it. With regard to what the hon. Member for Montrose had said as to the education of seamen, it was quite true that in the Bill he had proposed there were no prospective provisions for the establishment of naval schools in our ports. He should be most unwilling to encumber a subject already difficult enough by the introduction of a system—a very grave one, and which required very deliberate consideration. But the hon. Gentleman was aware that, under this Bill, there would accrue certain funds over and above what would be necessary for the support of the shipping officers, and he did propose to take a general power in the Bill which would enable the Board of Trade, if it were found advisable, and there should appear to be a wish for it with the public, to introduce such a system. His hon. Friend the Member for Liverpool had said he objected to the Board of Trade interfering with the Sailors' Homes. There was no wish to interfere with them when he found them so well conducted as was that at Liverpool, to which not less than one sixth of the sailors of that port resorted; so far from endeavouring to set them aside, he would take them up, and appoint the shipping officers managers of them. He believed that these homes, such as the Sailors' Home in Liverpool, might be the means of doing a great deal of good, and he by no means wished to supersede, discourage, or interfere with them. The hon. Member for Stoke-upon-Trent had asked him for a more distinct explanation as to the registration of seamen. What he proposed to do was, to engraft upon the
 685 "1.  Resolved
 MR. LABOUCHERE,  in moving a resolution upon which a Bill should be founded for the better regulation of this fund, said, he now approached a subject of the greatest difficulty, of which he felt conscious. It was that of the condition and prospects of the Merchant Seamen's Fund, and the measures it might be desirable to adopt with regard to that subject. He need not remind those Gentlemen who were at all acquainted with the feelings of the sailors of this country, how deep and how just was their dissatisfaction with the condition and management of that fund. It had been the subject of repeated inquiries on the part of the House and by a Royal Commission. It had been the subject of several Bills, brought forward by several Governments; but he was sorry to say the evil still remained, not only unabated, but actually increased and certainly increasing in amount, until the matter was brought to a state in which it had become absolutely impossible for the Government to refrain from laying it fully and completely before the House, and calling upon them to adopt such measures in regard to it as in their wisdom they might think proper. He would shortly state to the House what had been the past history of this fund. It dated from 1746. Before that time the merchant seamen contributed to Greenwich Hospital 6 d 686 d d s 687 688 l s l l l s l s l s l l 689 "1. Of the whole Fund.—Value of existing pensions, 506,586 l s d l s l l s d l s l s l l s d l s d l s d l s d l s l l s d s 690 l 691 l d d s s d 692 l l s d
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that it was again his duty to call the attention of the House to several questions of the greatest importance to the maritime and commercial interests of this country, and to state the views of the Government on several subjects which materially affected the in
 667 668 669 670 671 672 Minerva 673 "On the one side are gentlemen possessed of wealth, and intent, I mean not unfairly, upon augmenting it, conversant in business, and possessing the means of calling in the aid of practical and professional knowledge. On the other side is a set of men generally ignorant and illiterate, notoriously and proverbially reckless and improvident, ill-provided with the means of obtaining useful information, and almost ready to sign any instrument that may be proposed to them; and on all accounts requiring protection, even against themselves. Everybody must see where the advantage must he between parties standing upon such unequal ground, and accordingly these special engagements, so introduced into the mariners' contract lean one way, to the disadvantage of the mariners, and to the advantage of their employers, by increasing the duties of the former, and diminishing the obligations of the latter." l 674 675 "We, the undersigned, beg to testify to the exertions you have used in promoting the efficiency of the Act for the shipping of seamen in this port. Notwithstanding the difficulties you have had to encounter, you have met them successfully; and we are persuaded the result will be much in favour of the British seaman and of the trade of the port." "Having the honour of holding the office of shipping master for this port under the Colonial Act, I trust I shall not be intruding on your valuable time if I attempt to lay before you the result of its working up to the termination of the second year. Our port has, indeed, been so long notorious for plundering crimping practices, that it was completely at the mercy of those who considered every ship and every seaman their common prey. At the commencement of the office duties, every conceivable obstruction was thrown in its way by those whose career of plunder was about to be checked, and I had also to regret the want of cordial support from others. The evidence before a committee of the legislature last session proved the office to have rescued the shipping interests from the plunder of 50,000 l 676 677 678 679 680
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that though his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose might be somewhat angry, yet he felt mite convinced that that hon. Gentleman
 660 661
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, it must be clear to the House, from the present discussion, that the Committee was going to its labours under difficult circumstances. The hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, the hon. chairman of the Committee, and the hon. and learned Member for Newark, had all said they were conscious—they were sure—that there was to be a power employed by the Government to interfere with the investigation submitted to the Committee; that the official powers of the colonial authorities were to be employed for the purpose of braving the investigation. Now, that was the charge. That was the grave charge brought against the Government at the present moment; and each of the Gentlemen who had made it, with the exception of the hon. and learned Member for Newark, were Members of the Committee; and they all said that they were going into the Committee, that they were Members of it and that they were going to make the investigation. Why, the whole proceeding was one that would be characterised out of doors as inconsistent upon their parts. The idea of going into a Committee, preceding it with a charge against the Government, and saying they could not do justice, that they were sure to be misinterpreted, and stopped, and that they could not obtain a thorough investigation, seemed strange. The real proceedings on the part of those Gentlemen ought to be, to refuse to be Members of the Committee. In justice to themselves they ought to make a statement to that effect. They charged the Colonial Secretary and the Under Secretary of State with an intention to prevent the investigation of truth: and he wanted to know if ever there was a charge more grave brought against a Government, or one which, if true, would tend to disgrace the character of a Government more than that? Upon what ground had that charge been made against the Government? Because he held that when a certain number of Members of the House of Commons got up and made a charge against the Government of that description, so grave, he supposed they had got evidence in support of their opinion. He presumed that they would not hazard imputations—that they ought to be grounded on some conviction in their minds resting on evidence; and if he charged a Member of the Government with dishonesty, he hoped he would have evidence in support of the accusation. Well, here were five Members charging the Colonial Secretary with the most se-
 654 655 656 Laughter
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that not one Member in a hundred of those present
 636
 MR. J. STUART  expressed himself unable to see how the House could possibly discharge its duty unless they had some assurance from the Government that the future proceedings of the Committee, if, indeed, it was to proceed at all, should be conducted in such a way, and under such circumstances, as really to elicit the truth. Circumstances more extraordinary than those under which the Committee was about to be reappointed, had never occurred. The present Motion was for a renewal of the Committee appointed last year to examine into certain grave charges and allegations. But without witnesses, or any facilities being afforded for the production of witnesses, the reappointment of that Committee was an idle ceremony. The statements of Members of it proved that all endeavours hitherto made to procure the attendance of the necessary witnesses, had been utterly baffled. He did not mean to say that no witnesses had
 645 "Tour Committee regret that, from the termination of the Session they have not been able to conclude their inquiries into the grievances in connexion with the administration and government of Ceylon, and especially into the causes of the late insurrection in that colony, and into the means adopted by the local Government for its suppression; but, from the gravity of the circum-stances which those inquiries have elicited, your Committee express their opinion that it is expedient that they should be reappointed next Session to pursue their investigation, and that means should be adopted in the interval by the Secretary of State to ensure the attendance before the Committee of the Queen's Advocate at Ceylon, of Captain Watson, and such others whose evidence may be necessary to explain and establish the circumstances under which martial law was recently proclaimed in Ceylon, and to give information as to all proceedings which were thereon adopted by the Government." 646 Hansard "He, therefore, could not support the Motion now before the House; and, indeed, he did not think that his hon. Friend would press it, if the noble Lord at the head of the Government would give the House an assurance, on the part of the Government, that, at the commencement of the next Session, he would consent to the reappointment of the Committee, for the purpose of pursuing the inquiry. In that case, the Committee could meet on Monday, and communicate, through their chairman, with the Secretary of State for the Colonies, both with respect to papers and to additional witnesses that they would think necessary, when the Committee met again at the commencement of next Session."— Hansard 647 "That the chairman be authorised and requested to communicate with Her Majesty's Secretary of State as to the necessary "witnesses to be ordered home to give evidence before the Committee to be appointed in the ensuing Session." "Whether your Lordship has received any copies of the proceedings of the courts-martial (including details of the evidence taken upon the trials of the prisoners), which were held in Ceylon in 1848, and information, private or public, of
 648 "In reply I have to request you to acquaint the Committee that I possess no information which is not contained in the papers already before them on any of the points mentioned in your letter; and that with regard to the opinion I may have formed on these points, or the reasons which have led me to the conclusions I have adopted, I should not think it consistent with the duty imposed upon me by the office I have the honour to hold, to add anything to what I have said in the despatches which I have addressed to the Governor of Ceylon, and which have been laid before Parliament." 649
 MR. HENLEY  thought the object of the Committee was to ascertain the best mode of prison discipline; and he did not see why, if there was a better gaol in Ireland or Scotland, the Committee should not inquire into this, as well as the best gaols in England. By the terms of reference, the Committee would not be empowered to take into consideration any case but such as might arise in England alone.
 MR. HUME  said, he approved of the plan of centralisation alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman, but dissented from the provision that they ought to supply this fund by substracting from the scanty wages of the seaman. Why not, as the Committee upstairs recommended, abolish the light-dues, and place a duty of 1 s d l l s 694
 MR. HUME  said, that long as he had been in that House, he never had heard a more tyrannical speech than that of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield. The hon. and learned Gentleman gave them his notion of what should be the law in the colonies—the will of Lord Torrington was to be the law in Ceylon. But it would have been well if the hon. and learned Gentleman was made aware that Ceylon had a constitution, and that Her Majesty sent out a Governor there with certain instructions, and that courts had been established there with English judges to preside over them. He agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman as to the general character of English lawyers; and he (Mr. Hume) was sure the hon. and learned Gentleman, at least, had shown the House his unfitness to preside over the administration of the law, or as a statesman. Was it not too much, after human blood had been shed and great barbarities had taken place, that those who advocated the cause of humanity were to be called popularity hunters? If there was any one in the House who deserved to be called a popularity hunter, it was the hon. and learned Gentleman himself. He remembered when the hon. and learned Member stood at the bar of the House advocating the cause of the rebels of Canada, and he would leave it to him to say how his language then was to be made to agree with that he had just made use of. He was one of those who held that, in the present case, the principle of fair play had not been maintained, and he thought that the public had a right to complain. They had
 658 659
 MR. HUME  said, the Bill might be of great use, or might be productive of great evil, according as its provisions were car-
 682 683
 MR. HUME  entirely agreed with the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty in the propriety of repealing this Act, and he thought some credit was due to the Government for the manner in which they had come forward and expressed their disapprobation of the system which now exists. He conceived that the principle on which this money had been given was wrong. It was, in his opinion, a reflection on the service that our naval officers and seamen would not do their duty if they did not get this additional reward. He agreed with the old adage that the pirate was an enemy to everybody, and ought to be put down. He wished the right hon. baronet to tell him when he could lay on the table of the House the papers he had moved for, because on them would depend whether he should call the attention of the House to this fraud which had been committed on the country by means of an Act of Parliament. He could not hold Government altogether innocent in this affair, when he knew that they had promoted the officer employed in this service, though there had been no despatches. He hoped that, before the House voted this 100,000 l 664
 MR. HUME  said, that the Amendment to the former Bill had been withdrawn from the feeling in the House that both Bills ought to be sent before a Select Committee; and he hoped the House would show by its vote on this occasion the feeling which it entertained of the preposterous course now taken.
 MR. HUME  said, that as one of those who had been selected to sit on this Committee, and as a Member of the Committee of last year, he felt bound to say that he could not expect that justice would be done to the important question which it was the object to investigate. When the noble Lord at the head of the Government objected to the recommendation that a Commission should go out to Ceylon and there examine on the spot the parties who were best able to give evidence, he (Mr. Hume) took the opportunity of saying that, as it was the prayer of the petitioners—and he had presented four petitions on the subject to the House—that evidence to prove their allegations should be taken by a Commission on the spot, because in no other way could a full and fair investigation of the facts be obtained, a Parliamentary Committee only would not be satisfactory. The noble Lord, however, objected to that, and left it to the Committee to send for evidence; and then he (Mr. Hume) suggested that if it really was intended by the Government to have a fair inquiry, the party whose conduct was impugned should have leave of absence, or retire from his station as Governor of Ceylon, in order that he and those under his control might not have it in their power to interfere to prevent such evidence being sent to England as might he necessary to elucidate the question. The noble Lord thought that that would have been an im-
 644
 MR. HUME  said, that the second Bill just alluded to had been reported to the House last Session, after seventeen days' consideration in Committee, and had received the sanction of the House, though at too late a period to allow of its being-pressed forward.
 MR. COBDEN  said, he had presented a petition from a public meeting in London, calling the attention of the House to the subject of the Borneo massacres; and now as they were promised papers on the subject, he should not prejudge the case. But he could not allow the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Admiralty to pass, that they were going to have a Bill brought in to pay 100,000 l 665 primâ facie 666
 MR. SPOONER  said, there was another Bill on the paper, the "Tyne River Conservancy Bill," and he hoped the hon. Gen-
 635
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  said, he could have no objection to the inquiry being made into Reading gaol, as to the possibility of effecting any improvement in that prison, and he believed that such inquiry would be satisfactory to his brother magistrates; at the same time, he did not pledge himself, on their part or his own, as to any specific plan, but he thought that some amendment might be made in the system at Reading. He was glad that the subject was to be taken into consideration by a Committee of that House. He perfectly agreed with the right hon. Baronet
 707
 MR. W. FAGAN  was opposed to the system of centralisation, as suggested by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, and concurred with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Dover in his regret that the right hon. President had not brought the same measure which he had introduced two years ago, for he thought the shipping interest of this country and of Ireland would contribute 1 s d s
 MR. MONSELL  said, his objection to the appointment of the Committee was, that a very important portion of the empire was excluded from the benefit of this inquiry. He expressed his surprise that the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary should have made such a proposition to the House without including the gaols of Ireland. They were bound to apply some immediate remedy to the present most disastrous and disgraceful state of things in that country. He would, therefore, entreat of the right hon. Gentleman to add the word "Ireland" to his Motion.
 MR. GROGAN  said, that up to a certain point he agreed with the principle of the measure, but he considered that to make it beneficial it would be necessary to introduce one general system of valuation throughout Ireland. He asked, was it intended that parties should be placed upon the register who were simply rated, or was the previous payment of the rates to be required?
 SIR G. CLERK  observed that, as Vice-President of the Board of Trade, he had introduced a Bill on the subject. The right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had taunted him for not bringing it forward sooner; but from the objections taken to the most important part of the measure, which agreed with the present one in regard to centralisation of management and equalisation of pensions, it was found necessary to drop the Bill. The right hon. Gentleman might experience opposition from the outports where some funds were perfectly solvent—others the reverse; and many had been formed by liberal donations from parties who desired to benefit persons connected with their own port. He feared an attempt was made to do too much with small weekly or monthly subscriptions. Few sailors were fit for service after 45 or 50; a seaman was fortunate if he were employed ten months in the year, and the fund raised from payments of 1 s s d s l l s d l l l 695
 SIR G. CLERK  said, he thought it might be very proper to introduce a measure for the purpose of modifying the present law on the subject of head-money; it might be very proper to define the occasions upon which it was to be payable, and the amounts to be paid. For British subjects found on board enemies' ships in time of war, head-money could be claimed; it could also be claimed for pirates. Now, when the Act of George IV. was passed, the Spanish colonies had but just asserted their independence, and the Spanish Main was infested with pirates. There was then in that part of the world a vast number of pirates, and the most atrocious acts were committed. Respecting the prevalence of those crimes, many complaints had been addressed to the Government by the Association of Lloyd's, and England was certainly not able at once to put down those nests of pirates; but eventually, at great expense and loss of life, they were put down. The amount was and ought to be large for the capture of individual pirates, for, generally speaking, they deserted their ships, and it became, therefore, the more difficult to seize them. The principle of awarding money to officers and seamen in the British Navy was almost as old as the Navy itself; and he believed the amount of head-money during the whole of the war had remained without alteration from the reign of Queen Anne. He was quite ready to say, that the naval service of England did not require any such stimulus as head-money—they were always prepared to do their duty; but why take from them this species of reward? Their pecuniary advantages were not in other respects considerable, and he thought they ought not to be deprived of one like this, which they had so long enjoyed. It was true, that under the Bill of 1825 there
 662
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Lambeth had been rather hard upon him. The fact was, that it was not he who took the Motion out of the hon. Gentleman's hands. The Amendment last Session was moved by the hon. Member for South Leicestershire, and a large majority of the House seemed to think that an inquiry specifically directed to the plan of the hon. Gentleman was inexpedient, and that it ought to be enlarged so as to include the state of the gaols generally. He could assure the hon. Gentleman that, in making the present Motion, he had no idea of doing anything to sacri-
 706
 SIR G. GREY  moved for a Select Committee to inquire into the rules and discipline established in prisons in England and Wales. He said it would be recollected that late in the previous Session the hon. Member for Lambeth moved for a Committee to inquire into the merits of the specific plan which he desired to have adopted with respect to the treatment of prisoners. In the debate which took place on that occasion, an Amendment was moved by the hon. Member for South Leicestershire, for the purpose of making the inquiry general, instead of confining it to any particular plan. To such an inquiry, he (Sir G. Grey) consented; but, as it appeared improbable that it could be brought to a close during the short remainder of the Session, the Amendment was withdrawn on the understanding that at the commencement of the present Session he should himself move for a Committee in the same terms. The Motion before the House was not identical in terms with the Amendment of the hon. Member for South Leicestershire, some exception having been taken to those terms, but they were similar in substance, and embraced the same matter which was inquired into by the Committee of the House of Lords which sat several years ago on the same subject. He hoped that no objection would be offered to the Motion.
 SIR G. GREY  was anxious that the Committee should not be encumbered in their inquiries. If it were the sense of the House, however, that one Committee should inquire into the state of gaols throughout the united kingdom, he could have no objection. He should be happy to be a member of that Committee, and to give his best attention to the subject.
 SIR G. GREY : Sir, I am very happy to hear the terms in which the hon. Gentleman the Member for Cockermouth has retracted his charges; and, for my own part, I must say, that I regret that, feeling the injustice of the imputations conveyed in his letter against my noble Friend and myself, I expressed myself in terms of undue warmth. I can assure the hon. Gentleman, that in the discussion of these
 641
 SIR H. VERNEY  would recommend hon. Members to read upon this subject the work written by Sir Stamford Raffles, who knew more of the condition of that part of the world than the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, or any other Member of that House. His work was full of statements of the piracies that were taking place in the Eastern seas, and proved that no commerce could be safely carried on there unless these pirates were exterminated. Piracy in these islands was reckoned an honourable profession; and if we or any other country desired to carry on commercial transactions between Australia and China the extermination of these pirates was absolutely necessary.
 SIR W. CLAY  explained the course which had been taken by Lord Ellenborough's Commission, of which he had been a Member, and confessed that, paternity apart, he should have preferred a measure founded upon that report to the present plan. At the same time, that even was preferable to allowing the fund to fall to the ground. He quite agreed in the propriety of cutting off the pensions to widows except in the case of accident or drowning. With regard to pensions to the seamen themselves, it might often happen that an excellent sailor might, through accident, be prevented from following his avocation at an early age. The Commission, feeling this difficulty, had used no other qualifying term than "disabled." He thought, that, in order to do justice, it would be necessary to give a large discretionary power to those who should have the distribution of the fund.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that the payment of rates due up to the 1st of January must be made before the parties could be placed on the register.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE,  in rising to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the laws for regulating the qualification and registration of Parliamentary voters in Ireland, said, it would not be necessary for him to enter into any lengthened details, inasmuch as he had twice before obtained leave of the House to lay this Bill—in substance—on the table, but which, for unavoidable reasons, it was found impossible to proceed with beyond a second reading. He might, however, say, that the necessity of some such measure had increased since the matter was last under consideration; and they had now arrived at that point when it was absolutely necessary, if they meant to have constituencies in Ireland at all—and, as they lived under a constitutional Government, he presumed it was meant to have them—that some alteration should be made. He had said that it was unnecessary for him to go into any statement of the details of the measure, for, when he first brought in the measure, he explained fully the grounds on which it was proposed to legislate, and the particular nature of the provisions of the Bill. He did not now propose any material alterations from those provisions. It would be remembered that when he brought in the previous Bill, he said he proposed to abolish all franchise resting on occupation, and to substitute for it a simple rating qualification, fixing the value at 8 l l 700 l l
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he must join with his hon. and learned Colleague the Solicitor General for Ireland in requesting the hon. Member for Carlow not to press this question to a division. He protested against the House at all entertaining a question of this description except there was a direct charge of corruption brought against the public officer. It was not to be contended that that House should sit as a court of appeal upon his acts on the ground merely that he exercised his discretion on the part of his client, for he could not fairly exercise that discretion if his acts were to be made the subject of inquiry in that House or elsewhere. They would fetter his discretion, which should be left totally unfettered, for otherwise he could not act fairly and justly towards his clients. He had assisted in the trial of many political offenders, and had often given instructions to strike the names of gentlemen off the list of jurors; but there never had been the slightest discussion in that House as to the undoubted right of those who acted for him to strike the names of twelve persons from the list. He wished the same mode of law to be applied to the two countries. If there was to be a Select Committee, let it not be to investigate a particular case; but let it be an inquiry bearing on some general measure applicable to the two countries, and if the system was defective, then have one general measure for the reform of the law in both countries. At a period when
 724
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  confessed that he was a little taken by surprise at the warmth exhibited by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Coventry, but he was quite aware that this was only the beginning of a great deal of opposition which the Bill would have to encounter. He could not say, however, that the observations of his hon. and learned Friend had quite convinced him that the Bill was so defective as he represented. His hon. and learned Friend said that the proceedings by petition was objectionable, because it was nothing more than proceeding by bill. If so, it certainly would not be more objectionable than the present mode of proceeding. The objection that a petition had not the sanction of counsel's signature might be obviated, when the Bill got into Committee, by requiring counsel's signature to a petition. His hon. and learned Friend said that statements might be introduced into a petition which would not appear in a bill; but it should be borne in mind that the Court of Chancery had the power of striking out any portion of the proceedings which was not relevant to the matter in issue, and of making the parties pay for the improper introduction of that matter. Their jurisdiction extended as much over petitions as over proceedings by bill in this respect. And it should be recollected that the costs of the proceedings by bill were in proportion to its length, which was not the case in petition; and one of the greatest reforms in the Court
 732 vivâ voce 733 l 734
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  was disposed to admit that there was a great deal of force in what his hon. and learned Friend had urged, and he had no doubt that the Treasury would accede to the claims of these Gentlemen. He could not, however, give any promise on a subject which it was not within his province to determine. He should propose to commit the Bill  pro formâ bonâ fide o
 LORD ASHLEY  begged to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department to the recent decision in the Court of Exchequer upon the meaning and power of the Factory Act, and to ask whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce a measure declaratory of the meaning and intentions of the Legislature in passing the Act, or to take any other steps to obviate the very evil consequences of that decision?
 MR. HAWES  said, that the accounts which had been received stated that one of these convict vessels arrived in Moreton Bay at the same time with (he believed) two or three emigrant ships, and that the convicts were all engaged at good wages before any of the free emigrants. Since then we had had accounts of another shipload of convicts arriving, and they had all been engaged also, and their conduct, so far as he knew, had been satisfactory.
 Mr. SCULLY  seconded the Motion.
 MR. SCULLY  considered the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General for Ireland no answer to the arguments of the hon. Member for Carlow. The hon. and learned Gentleman rested his argument merely on this—that this was merely the ordinary case of a civil action; but the real question was, whether the practice of selecting none but those who were called "pure and loyal men," professing only one religion, was to be continued or not. He could state, from personal knowledge, that that practice had prevailed in the county which he had the honour to represent (Tipperary); and although he admitted that it offered no insult to particular individuals, it was still a wrong to the Catholic religion, and as the representative of a Catholic county, he felt bound to protest against the system. At the trial of Mr. Smith O'Brien, at Clonmel, in September, 1848, among the first one hundred names called, there were found only five Catholics; but at the spring assizes for the same year, when there were no political charges, out of the first seventy-five names called, twenty-three were Catholics. The only remedy for the evil was to give strict instructions to the Crown solicitor to state in open court fairly and manfully his objections to any juror, and see if the objections were sound or not; and if an Act of Parliament was necessary for the purpose, one should be passed. The present partial system weakened the respect for the law in Ireland, where a man, even although he might have been fairly convicted of murder, was looked upon as a martyr, if he had been tried by a sectarian jury; and until a total change in the jury system was introduced into Ireland, discontent and social disorganisation must be expected to continue.
 MR. TURNER , in explanation, said, that he did not allude to the Bill of last year, but to that of the present year. He did not intend, in the hasty expression he had used, to give any personal offence,
 MR. TURNER  said, that he was as anxious to avoid the delays and expense incurred in the Court of Chancery in Ireland, and he would add, of the Court of Chancery in England, as his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General; and he hoped, either immediately before Easter or immediately afterwards, to introduce a remedy for the delay and expense occasioned by the proceedings in the Court of Chancery in England. Having made that statement, he would mention also that the remedy which he desired to see applied was a sound, safe, and practical remedy. But on looking into this Bill, he must say that it appeared to him, as well as he could form a judgment upon it from the time which he had been able to bestow upon its consideration, that the remedies which it contained were calculated to do more mischief in the Court of Chancery, to create more delay, and occasion more expense, than under the present system. He spoke on that subject without the slightest prejudice, for he could assure the House that the very scheme of the proceeding by petition on which this Bill was founded, was the original scheme which he himself entertained for a reform of the Court of Chancery in England, and to which he had given the most anxious attention. His hon. and learned Friend proposed to base
 728 l 729 "And when the opinion of the court is desired in any matter in which any infant, idiot, lunatic, married woman, or any person uncertain, unknown, or not to be found, is interested, it shall be lawful for the Master of the court in rotation to direct the presenting of such petition by way of special case, on behalf of the infant, idiot, lunatic, married woman, or such other person, and such direction of the Master shall be conclusive to all intents and purposes." 730 731
 Mr. HATCHELL  was quite prepared to admit that the hon. Member for Carlow, in bringing forward his Motion, was actuated solely by the desire to conciliate the people of Ireland, and reconcile those differences which had so long prevailed in that country. He lamented that anything should have occurred to lead to the suspicion that the striking and empannelling of juries in Ireland had been conducted unfairly. But the fact was that the case of Callanan and Cameron still remained untried, and he thought the House would agree with him in saying that it would not conduce to the strict administration of justice in that case at this moment to cast reflections upon the manner in which the jury had been appointed. The jury had been struck according to the forms of law, and they would necessarily feel embarrassed by an impeachment of the propriety of their selection. If the hon. Member's Motion were agreed to, a Committee of this House would be sitting and the trial itself be going on at one and the same time. It should be remembered that the case adverted to was not a question between the Crown and the subject in a criminal proceeding, but an ordinary case between subject and subject. It was quite a mistake to say that the striking of any gentleman off a special jury was casting any personal disrespect on him. It was not like the ordinary case of a juror being put by in open court when about to be sworn, but the attorneys of the respective parties having attended before the
 719 "Sir—In compliance with your directions, that I should acquaint you, for the information of his Excellency the Lord Lieutenant, with the grounds on which I reduced the jury list in the case of Callanan against Cameron, and whether I had struck off any juror on that occasion because of his religious persuasion; "I have the honor to state, for the information of his Excellency, that the case is a civil action brought by Mr. Patrick Callanan, a shopkeeper and boatowner, in Carrick-on-Suir, against Major Cameron of the 3rd Buffs, for an alleged forcible
 720 "In defending the action, counsel advised that the trial should not be had by an ordinary, but by a special, jury of the South Hiding of the county of Tipperary, and I obtained the necessary order for the purpose. "In the case of a special jury it is necessary, as you are aware, for the solicitors for each party to reduce the list of forty-eight names by twelve each, and I took off twelve names so as to leave those on who, from my own experience and knowledge, I believed best calculated to find a fair and impartial verdict. "Of the twelve gentlemen whose names I took off the list, I did not strike off any one of them on account of his religion, nor did it enter into my mind that several of them professed the Roman Catholic religion until I was informed that the matter had been mentioned in the House of Commons. The jury was struck in Dublin, and to convenience the attorney for the plaintiff the forty-eight names balloted for were reduced the day after they were drawn, so that I had no time to make any particular inquiry; but as the names drawn were generally of a very respectable class, I was well satisfied to leave on those whom I happened to have a knowledge of, and knew to be well qualified fairly to try the case. "In the performance of this duty, I exercised my best judgment and ability for the interest of my client, in the same way as I am confident any respectable solicitor would have done. This was a civil case between party and party, and there are no official directions whatsoever to guide the Crown Solicitor relative to this duty. The law requires that twelve names shall be struck off, even without reasons; and that where special reasons have guided the Crown Solicitor to any particular juror, it has not been usual publicly to state the reasons which influenced him in the discharge of his duty, though I can and do conscientiously state that it was done by me entirely irrespective of religious distinctions, and solely for the benefit of my client, as I was bound as a professional man to do." 721
 Mr. SADLEIR  explained that he had studiously abstained from adverting in any manner to the merits of this case; and as to his observations regarding Mr. Kemmis, he appealed to the House whether he had not gone out of his way to acknowledge Mr. Kemmis to be a perfect gentleman, and of great amiablity of character in his private capacity.
 MR. SADLEIR  felt he ought not to take a division on the subject that night, not precisely on account of the reply which he had received from the Government, but from the thin state of the House. The Solicitor General for Ireland had abandoned the broad constitutional ground on which he (Mr. Sadleir) had put the question, and had endeavoured to lead the House away upon collateral and technical issues, and had said that the Irish people never should have heard of what went on in the office of the gentleman whose duty it was to preside over the jury ballot. Now, the hon. and learned Gentleman was a man of mature experience, he had grown gray in years, and was familiar with the prejudices and feelings of his countrymen; and yet he had endeavoured to mislead English Gentlemen, and to delude them into the erroneous notion that in an action in which a private individual Roman Catholic was plaintiff, and the Crown was substantially the defendant, the mode of procedure adopted by the Crown officer in striking the jury could be cushioned in Ireland. Knowing, as the people of Ireland did, that the practical working of the system enabled the Crown to exclude Roman Catholics from the jury box, every Irishman looked with anxiety to the conduct of the Crown Solicitor in such a case as that of "Callanan against Cameron." Secrecy in Ireland in such a case was an utter impossibility. He (Mr. Sadleir) disclaimed casting any imputation on the conduct of Mr. Kemmis as a private gentleman, or saying that there had been any legal defect in these proceedings; but, as the law stood, a discretionary power was vested in the Crown Solicitor, and the charge he made against Mr. Kemmis was that he had not exercised that discretionary power wisely, fairly, or justly. He (Mr. Sadleir) felt he had a right to complain that he had never received a copy of Mr. Kemmis's letter, although the subject was brought by him before the House last Session, and had since been much discussed in Ireland. Mr. Kemmis had represented that he was not aware of the religious opinions of the nine gentlemen whose names had been struck out of the jury list, and that he had not taken off those names because they were Roman Catholics. He (Mr. Sadleir) supposed he
 726
 MR. SADLEIR , in rising to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the facts connected with the striking of the special jury in the case of "Callanan against Cameron," reminded the House of the circumstances which took place at the State trials in 1844, not very unlike those to which he had now to ask the attention of the House. A meeting was held in Ireland on the occasion of those trials in 1844 to protest against the exclusion of Catholics from the jury; and, among the names of the parties on whose requisition the meeting was called, were those of the present Attorney General for Ireland, Sir T. Wyse, Sir T. Redington,
 714 715 nisi prius 716 717 718
 MR. HUME  thought it was unwise, impolitic, and improper to bring forward any judicial question in that House except on specific grounds. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General asked who complained of such a thing being done in England; and his (Mr. Hume's) answer was, no one; because in England the juries were justly struck; but there was no comparison to be made in that respect between England and Ireland. Why had Sir Colman O'Loghlen made a regulation that no man should be challenged as a juror on account of being a Roman Catholic, but because the fact of a man being a Roman Catholic, was formerly deemed a sufficient ground for striking him off the panel? Wherever such acts were committed, or where there was even a suspicion of such acts having been committed, the Government should not wait until they were goaded on by individuals, but should voluntarily do their best to remove all grounds of complaint. The fact of the Orange party being allowed to trample under foot the Roman Catholics, had been the cause of great discontent, and he trusted he would see the time when that system would be put an end to—when Protestant and Catholic would alike enjoy the civil rights they were entitled to, and
 725
 MR. NAPIER  said, the precise question before the House was this—a special jury was applied for in a civil action. The
 722
 MR. NAPIER  made an appeal to his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General, on behalf of some of the officers of the Irish Court, who had been appointed to their offices during good behaviour, which was considered equivalent to a freehold; but who, under the 37th Clause of this Act, were to receive compensation at the mere discretion of the Commissioners of the
 727
 MR. KER  begged to make an observation with respect to what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose, in reference to the Orange party in Ireland. He begged to enter his protest against that party being supposed to have any association with, or to be affected by the acts of the Solicitor General of a Whig Government in Ireland. It was possible that the Orange party themselves might hereafter be found complaining, and for the same reason that the Roman Catholics complained on the present occasion.
 MR. W. FAGAN  admitted that it would be difficult to contradict Mr. Kemmis's denial in his letter of having been influenced by any religious bias; but he considered that the charge of partiality was justified, when they remembered that in a list of forty-eight gentlemen for the county of Tipperary, out of ten Catholic names upon it, nine were struck off, and that some of the nine happened to be some of the most influential and leading men in the county. He had great respect for those at present intrusted with the administration of affairs in Ireland; but he must say that the system of jury packing had prevailed in that country during the last two years; and the present case arising out of recent political events, Mr. Kemmis, who was known to have strong feelings against the Catholics, was believed to have been influenced in this instance by his religious prejudices. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General for Ireland had found fault with
 723
 SIR G. GREY  replied, that he had only received the transcript of the shorthand writer's notes of the decision in the Court of Exchequer just as he was entering the House that evening; and he, therefore, had had no opportunity as yet of becoming fully informed as to the grounds upon which the decision was founded. He was anxious last year to introduce an Act to reconcile the differences existing between the various clauses of the Factory Act; but he found that the persons who held extreme opinions on both sides were averse to any such interposition, and that they were anxious to have the decision of a superior court of law upon the interpretation that should be put upon the Act. That decision had at length been obtained; but, as he had already stated, he had not as yet had time to see upon what grounds it rested.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  wished to ask his hon. Friend the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies a question, in opposition to a statement recently made in the House. Is it, or is it not, the case, that such was the excellent character with which a convict ship lately approached the coast of Australia, that, even before the convicts were landed, almost all were engaged in the employ of respectable settlers, who came on board for the purpose; and this, in the case of convicts, when two, if not more, emigrant ships were already alongside? He referred to the convicts on board the  Hasheemy
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  said, that he had given notice of a Motion on the present condition of our colonies, the immediate necessity for a reform of our colonial system, and that the colonies should have the power of self-government. But on Friday night last the noble Lord at the head of the Government had wisely taken the subject into his own hands, and as a debate of considerable length had ensued, during which he (Sir W. Molesworth) had had an opportunity of stating his opinions upon the subject, he did not think he should be acting properly in taking up the time of the House with the Motion which he had upon the Paper for that night. He, therefore, would not submit to the House the resolution which he had intended. At the same time, he might be permitted to say, that although nothing could be, in his opinion, sounder or more liberal in its general principles than the plan of the noble Lord, yet he was sorry that the
 713 "For Copies or Extracts of any Correspondence between the Colonial Office and any of the Authorities in Australia, Van Diemen's Land, or New Zealand, relating to the removal of Mr. Sidney Stephen from the Bar of Van Diemen's Land, and his appointment as a Judge of the Supreme Court of New Zealand."
 COL. THOMPSON  said, the Act for the establishment of this railway had been obtained on the ground of its promising increased accommodation to the public, particularly the less opulent classes. And now this Bill was brought in, to repeal those obligations. He further called the attention of the House to the introduction of a clause confirming to the directors the power of opening parcels to see if the sender had inclosed two parcels instead of one. It would be just as reasonable to propose to enact, that every man should be obliged to make up his parcel to a hun-
 735
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, that having moved this Bill, in the absence of an hon. Friend, in his absence he should withdraw it.
 COL. THOMPSON  would not press for a division now,
 MR. C. LEWIS  asked the hon. Gentleman
 737
 MR. C. LEWIS  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the laws relative to the management of highways in England and Wales. During the recess a Bill had been prepared having regard to the considerations which had arisen during the discussion on the Bill of the preceding Session, of which he would state the principle to the House. The difficulty of combining turnpike roads and highway roads had been so great in the latter Bill, that the Government had resolved not to attempt it. The present Bill was therefore limited to parish roads and highways, and did not refer to turnpike trusts. The details into which he would enter sufficiently showed the importance of the question, and the magnitude of the sums involved. In 1837 the total expenditure on highways in England and Wales, amounted to 1,113,434 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 747 748 749
 MR. RICE  considered that on several accounts the proposed measure would improve the state of the law. He approved of the Bill upon two grounds; one was that its provisions were compulsory, the other that it would do away with parish surveyors. He was sure that the Bill of his hon. Friend would be found simple and effective; but before he sat down he wished to inquire to what extent it was proposed to invest the guardians with the control and management of the highways.
 MR. B. B. DENISON  approved of the compulsory plan. The permissive system was worth nothing. Though some of the details of the measure might be open to objection, he thought that, under it, the country would have better roads than heretofore.
 MR. V. SMITH  had no doubt that the plan suggested by the right hon. Baronet was the best, if it were only practicable to carry it out. There were many objections to the boards of guardians, who might interfere injuriously with the supply of labour. He had more faith in a paid surveyor, as proposed to be appointed by this Bill. That officer would be likely to employ useful labour, and no other. He hoped it would not go forth to the country that a paid surveyor would entail additional expense on the districts. Such an impression was quite erroneous, as the present surveyors, though nominally unpaid, were not unpaid in reality. They received frequent votes of money from the parish vestries, and were also paid by jobs they had to perform in repairing the roads. As to the combination of the two rates, there was this objection to that plan—that we would not know how much was spent under the name of poor-rate, and how much under that of highway rate; and as long as the farmers could throw the burden of the poor on the highway rate, they would be always ready to do so. That was an argument in favour of the right hon. Baronet's suggestion; but if the right hon. Baronet had had the experience which others had acquired on this subject, in Committee upstairs, he would then have been aware of the extreme difficulty of discovering a proper remedy for these evils. He hoped that it would be shown that this measure would throw no additional burdens on land, because he was sure it would not be suffered to pass, if that would be its effect.
 MR. C. LEWIS  wished to say a few words in reference to some remarks that had been made in course of the discussion. The Bill intended to enable the guardians to elect the paid surveyor, and fix his salary; and they would also be empowered to remove him, if his conduct called for his dismissal. That, he apprehended, would amount to a moral as well as a legal control over that officer; but if any additional words could be inserted to strengthen the intention of the clause, he would be quite ready to adopt the suggestion. To come to another point—he had already stated that he proposed to entirely abolish the highway rates by name, and require the overseers of the poor to make a rate for the purposes of the highways, and pay the money over to the board of guardians; but he did not propose any change in the incidence of the rate. Clauses were introduced into the Bill by which the rate would be made to fall on property exactly identical with that which was now subject to highway rate. He admitted the justness of the strictures of the right hon. Baronet opposite, the Member for Tamworth, on the union boundaries, and on the poor-law guardians as managers of highways; but he felt that this was a case where they had only a choice of difficulties; for whatever course they could recommend, valid objections would be urged against it. He fully admitted that if they had now for the first time to make a separate provision for the highways, it would not be advisable to adopt the poor-law area for the purpose; but, on the whole, after much consideration, he had come to the conclusion that the plan he now proposed was the one least open to objection. In reply to the hon. Member for Dover, who had inquired what control the guardians would have over the paid surveyor, he (Mr. Lewis) stated that they would elect him, they would have the power to fix his salary, and to remove him. With respect to the highway rate, he proposed entirely to abolish it under that name, and to require overseers of the poor to make a rate for the purpose of maintaining the highways, which rate it would be their duty to hand over to the boards of guardians; but he did not propose to make any change in the incidence of the rate, which would fall upon property just in the same manner as at present. He begged to thank the House for the manner in which the Bill had been received. He was glad to see so general
 755 res Integra,
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that as it was now so late, there could be no chance of a decision before six o'clock, when they could proceed no further, and the practical consequence might be, that the right hon. Gentleman would be in no better position than if he had accepted the proposition I for an adjournment. The right hon. Gentleman had asked him whether the Government would throw some light on the question; which meant, as he understood, that Government should fix a day for the second reading. He (Lord J. Russell) regretted he could not accede to the suggestion, as he thought there was hardly a sufficient number of days for the Government business which had been announced. He must think, however, that some portion of delay, to enable the country to know the nature; of the measure, and the important consequences which would result from it, would not be injurious. The hon. and learned; Gentleman the Member for Sheffield had asked what was the disposition of the Government with regard to the principle of representation contained in the Bill. He (Lord J. Russell) could only answer that he was so strongly in favour of the introduction of that principle, that he should, when it came to the question, give his sup-port to the second reading. He would do so, however, without at all undertaking the defence of any of the details of the Bill; and, thinking it necessary that there should be a Select Committee to consider the details, it would be probably necessary also to take evidence before the Committee with respect to the present system.
 MR. FREWEN  observed, that many of the poor-law unions contained one or two parishes which were out of the county in which the greater part of the union might be situate, and for such cases it would be necessary to make provision. With regard to the most important feature of the Bill, he must say he did not consider that the poor-law guardians would be the fittest persons to undertake the control and management of the highways; and he thought this plan the more objectionable inasmuch
 750
 MR. FREWEN  moved the second reading of this Bill. He said that no person had a stronger objection to placing power in the hands of an irresponsible body than he had, but he believed that by adopting the system of the baronial sessions which existed in Ireland, and on which the magistrates and the higher class of ratepayers were associated together for the management of the roads, that considerable improvement might be effected. What he proposed was to associate the commissioners of assessed taxes with the magistrates of each district for the management of the highways; and he believed that such a plan would be much more advisable than the course that had been recommended of placing the roads under the care of the board of guardians.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  could assure the right hon. Gentleman, that when he spoke of the pressure upon him, he must be in error, if he supposed the counties thought him interested in their expenditure, or that they were interested in his Bill. The right hon. Gentleman now wanted to appear as the farmers' friend, just as those who had destroyed our colonial interest affected to be the friends of the colonies; but it would not go down with the country. The highest authorities as men of business assured him they could not master the details of the Bill, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would allow the adjournment to take place.
 MR. GOULBURN  did not think it right to throw out the whole Bill on account of one clause, and thought it had better be read a second time.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he had to solicit the indulgence of the House in a personal matter. He did not like doing so where it was possible to avoid it, but in this instance he had no other means of setting himself right before the public, and it was besides a matter which referred to the memory of persons who were dear to him. In consequence of certain observations which he had thought it to be his duty to make in that House a few evenings since on the subject of the recent proceedings in Ceylon, he found in one of the public journals, the  Morning Chronicle "Let us test Mr. Roebuck himself by the measure which he wishes to mete out to our colonies—we beg his pardon—to our conquered dependencies. We believe he lost a relative, amongst the ranks of the Canadian sympathisers, during the antepenultimate troubles in Canada. And we believe—and to his credit we say it—that he left no stone unturned to avenge his death, which he considered to have been an unjust act." 736
 MR. ROEBUCK  understood that the principle of the Bill was, that taxation should be represented. He very well understood the right hon. Baronet's remark that the Bill should be carefully considered, but the present issue was with respect to the principle. He wanted to know if Government were for that principle. If not, he could understand their desire to postpone the second reading. But if they approved of the principle, he could not see why they should suggest any delay in affirming it.
 MR. STANFORD  thought, also, that many clauses of the Bill would require great time and deliberation before the House could assent to them. He vindicated the conduct of the magistracy in the transaction of county business. For five or six centuries these gentlemen had discharged their duties with great satisfaction to the country; and, before any change took place in the present system, a case of great fraud, extravagance, and waste, should be substantiated against them. He concurred with many Gentlemen on his side of the House that taxation should go along with representation; but, without aspiring to any reputation as a lawyer, he could not but say the present Bill did not carry out that principle. Why should not the tenant-farmers, and all persons who paid rates, have direct votes in the election of members of the Financial County Board? The Bill also introduced a principle of antagonism in the composition of the board, by providing that it should consist of magistrates, and of persons not magistrates, in an equal number. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester had referred to the petitions in favour of a change; but the fact was, that the petitions were very few, considering the importance of the measure, and the petition on which the right hon. Gen-
 742
 MR. HENLEY  hoped the Bill would be postponed. He did believe the Bill contained the substance of the right hon. Gentleman's statement. The details actually involved the principle, and an adjournment would only save time.
 MR. HUME  was sorry to see this attempt made to postpone, and, by postponing, defeat this Bill. Were a new question involved in the measure, then, no
 743 Loud cries of from the Opposition
 MR. BUCK  hoped that sufficient time would be given to the country to consider the details of so important a Bill. He thought the measure now proposed was preferable to the Bill of last Session; but he was satisfied that no addition of the nature now proposed, ought to be made to the duties of poor-law guardians. They would form committees of their body upon whom would practically devolve the management of these trusts, and he thought it better on many accounts to put the management
 754
 MR. SPOONER  rose to put it to the right hon. Gentleman if he thought it would be proper to press his Motion, when he reflected that owing to the hasty manner in which the Bill had been introduced, only one day had virtually elapsed between the first reading and the present stage. The Bill professed to be the same as that of last Session, but it varied essentially in its details. He was favourable to the representative control of the county rates by the ratepayers, but he wished to see that principle affirmed with deliberation and care; and he was satisfied, if the House affirmed the principle now by reading the Bill a second time, they would not sanction the details. He therefore moved that the debate be adjourned.
 MR. SLANEY  approved of the proposed audit, and offered to the hon. Member who moved for leave to bring in the Bill the meed of his gratitude for persevering in so useful a work. He considered it a great improvement that each parish should pay its own quota, and he considered it also
 751
 MR. M. GIBSON , taking into consideration the quarters whence those recommendations came, would be willing to acquiesce in them, but he wished the House justly to consider the position of an independent Member who stood alone in the House. Delay in his case was the loss of the measure for the Session. It might be a month before he could get another opportunity of bringing forward the measure of which he had taken charge. Was he to bear the responsibility of not proceeding with it when it came before the House in the order of business? Was he to abandon the second reading without any reasonable ground except the arguments of authority, such as the suggestions of the right hon. Baronets the Member for Tam-worth, and Northumberland North? He hoped Government would relieve him from that responsibility. He really could not stand against that sort of pressure For his own part, he would prefer to go on and take the sense of the House now on the second reading. Would the Government assist him by naming an early day? Perhaps the noble Lord at the head of the Government might throw a little light on the question.
 MR. M. GIBSON , after presenting some petitions in favour of the establishment of boards for the control of county expenditure, proceeded to say, that he should not think it necessary to trouble the House with many observations in moving the Second Reading of the County Rates and Expenditure Bill, because the House was tolerably familiar with the subject, the Bill being similar to the measure which was before it last Session, both in its principle and in all its leading details; and he was rather taking up a measure which could not be completed last year, than introducing a new Bill. He had taken charge of the measure at the request of the hon. Member for Montrose, who brought it forward last year, and who, in fact, originated this proposal of a system of county councils to control county expenditure, analogous to the system introduced in boroughs to enable town-councils to control the municipal penditure. It was desirable, however, to remove a few misapprehensions which had arisen respecting this Bill. There had been an idea that, as an hon. Member had expressed it, it was to supersede Her Majesty's justices of the peace. It was not a Bill to supersede them, but to give the ratepayers in counties a concurrent control with Her Majesty's justices of the peace over the county expenditure; and it was entirely remote from his (Mr. Gibson's) mind, in promoting this measure, that he was in any way disparaging Her Majesty's justices of the peace, or wishing to supersede them in any of their judicial duties. Already we had the precedent of elected guardians and justices of the peace working harmoniously together, and engaged in controlling local expenditure under
 738 "The principle of the county rate seems open to serious objection upon the ground that the charge is imposed by persons not chosen by the ratepayers; no other tax of such magnitude is laid upon the subject except by his representatives. It is impossible not to admit that the persons who contribute to the county rate have little control over its expenditure. The administration of this fund is the exercise of an irresponsible power intrusted to a fluctuating body." l l 739 l l l 740 l l d d l l 741
 MR. DEEDES  reserved to himself the full power, at any future stage, of objecting to the details of this Bill; but he thanked the hon. Member opposite for having introduced such a measure to improve a system that was in many respects faulty. Although he was not certain that placing the control of the highways in the hands of the poor-law guardians would be the best possible course, yet he thought that plan must open the door to an improvement on the present system; for he could not but believe that a paid surveyor of a district would be more able to resist solicitations to employ the poor of parishes unprofitably, than the unpaid surveyor was now able to do. Under the present system, there was an extravagant expenditure of money, attended with great demoralisation of the people employed on the roads.
 SIR G. GREY  suggested, that one of two questions ought to be discussed—the question of adjournment of the debate, or the actual merits of the Bill. As to the Motion for adjournment, he, personally, should not have asked for the postponement of the consideration of the Bill; but he was not prepared to express any final or decided opinion with respect to its details. If the discussion were to go on, however, he would be ready to state, as to the principle of the Bill, the course he should deem it advisable to take. Still, he was not inclined to regard the demand for postponement as unreasonable. Whatever might be the course to be adopted by the House as to the Bill, it was obviously quite impossible that a measure of the nature and importance of that before them should receive the sanction of the Legislature without full consideration and discussion; while, if it were to be thought necessary that the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee, that Committee ought, he imagined, to be invested with the power of taking evidence. Upon the whole, he was inclined to think that the suggestion for adjournment should be adopted.
 SIR H. HALFORD  suggested to the right hon. Gentleman that it would be as well to substitute for his measure, a Bill exempting occupying tenants from the payment of rates altogether.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  understood that the charge for the highways would still fall on real property, and that, too, according to a wider area than the poor-rates. He apprehended that the Bill would add to the burdens on lands, instead of reducing them.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  deprecated a desultory discussion on a Bill of such importance. He wished to meet the measure in the fairest spirit; but was it not remarkable that a Bill of this magnitude, involving the monetary transactions of all the counties in England, should be forced upon the House only three days after it had been delivered to hon. Members? For his own part, he wished to obtain some information as to the probable working of the Bill in his own county, which information it was impossible he could be furnished with in time for the discussion, unless some delay were to be granted.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that it was very material that the House, in determining which course ought now to be adopted, should be influenced by those considerations which would most conduce to a full, satisfactory, and temperate consideration of this important measure. Now, he thought that if the right hon. Gentleman opposite (the Member for Manchester) would voluntarily acquiesce in the proposal made by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, that that course would much more conduce to such a temperate and full discussion, than, at that moment—nearly four o'clock—to open a debate upon the second reading. Let it be remembered that the proposal for delay came from a Gentleman distinctly declaring himself not to be hostile to the principle of the Bill, the principle of combining a representative system with the present method of managing the county rates. The Bill was only printed on Saturday last, and, although it was no doubt discussed during the last Session, yet surely it was not unimportant that there should be some time left to their constituents for the formation of public opinion as to the matter on its reintroduction. He asked for delay, not with the intention of defeating the Bill by postponement, but because he thought that the request was reasonable. Indeed, if it were not acquiesced in, he feared that a feeling would
 744
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he had discharged a painful duty when, in the course of last Session, he opposed the measure of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Herefordshire, though he gave that Gentleman full credit for the excellent motives which induced him to bring forward the former proposition. He had now much pleasure in giving his cordial support to his present proposition, so far as the introduction of the Bill went. The hon. Gentleman was entitled to much credit for devoting his time and attention to a subject not in itself very inviting. It appeared to him that the proposed Bill had been framed judiciously with reference to the compulsory combination of parishes, in lieu of the permissive principle. There might, no doubt, in some quarters, be a great unwillingness to change a long existing practice, and in others to part with present patronage. In what mode the combination of parishes should be effected, was a most important question. The hon. Member proposed to make the existing districts subject to the management of poor-law guardians. It would be premature to give a positive opinion on this subject, but it was one of the greatest importance, and it would be well worthy the consideration of the House whether district bodies could not be established for the management of the highways better suited to the discharge of the duties required from them than the present boards of poor-law guardians. These latter bodies had been established without any reference to their fitness for
 752 753
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  said, that every day he became more and more confirmed in the opinion that they could not find a worse management for highways than a board of guardians; and he was sure that it must lead to the employment on the roads of ablebodied paupers in excessive numbers. The surveyors would never be able to resist the pressure that would be made on them to employ the poor of the districts. The only part of the proposed measure of which he cordially approved was the repeal of Sir Charles Burrell's Act.
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  opposed the Bill, in which he said there were many clauses of an unusual character. A measure upon the subject of highways was about to be laid upon the table by the hon. Member for Herefordshire, and it would be the better course to allow the Government Bill to be seen before proceeding with the one proposed by the hon. Gentleman.
 MR. FAGAN , having first presented a petition from Cork, signed by 12,000 persons against the rate called ministers' money, and another to the same effect from Kinsale, said, that in rising to submit for the third time to the consideration of the House the Motion of which he had given notice, he would not occupy at any length its attention. It was not necessary for him to do so. The House was already familiar with the question. On the first year he brought forward this Motion, he detailed the grievance of the imposition of ministers' money on corporate towns in Ireland, which were principally inhabited by Roman Catholics—namely, Dublin, Cork, Clonmel, Limerick, Kinsale, Kilkenny, Drogheda, and Waterford; while the corporate towns in Ulster, such as Belfast, Londonderry, Carrickfergus, were free from the tax. He showed likewise that even in these eight Catholic towns the poor Catholic inhabitants were principally pressed on because inhabiting generally the old quarters of towns which had fallen one-fourth in value, while the valuation for ministers' money there remained the same, they were quadrubly assessed, while the new and wealthier parts of these towns which were inhabited principally by Protestants, were comparatively lightly taxed, because no matter how high the valuation of the houses they dwelt in, they could not be assessed for ministers' money beyond a shilling in the pound on 60 l l 764 765 l l l l l 766 l l l l bonâ fide 767 l l
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark had not spoken to the question immediately before the House, which was, not the propriety of abolishing transportation altogether, not the expediency of the conduct of the Government in reference to the Cape, but whether the House should take from the Crown the power now vested in it of defining the places of transportation by Order in Council, and make no provision for such places, but wait till the assent of the different colonies could be obtained, to know whether they could safely legislate to make them such places. The hon. Baronet was perfectly consistent in his course, for he had uniformly been an advocate of the total abolition of transportation; and, without considering what might be the insuperable difficulties which this Motion, if carried, would place in the way of the Government, or caring how they might be embarrassed, or what might be the result, he sought to achieve his favourite object of abolishing transportation altogether. Though he was perfectly consistent, yet this was not quite the opportunity for considering whether transportation should be abolished altogether, for they were discussing a Motion which admitted the necessity of transportation, but took away the power of the Government to fix the place. There was no Motion before the House, to discuss the principle of transportation generally, but merely to direct the power of the Crown; and the hon. Baronet sought to avail himself of this as a means of abolishing transportation altogether. If there was no better ground for adopting the Motion, the House, he apprehended, would pause before indirectly achieving an object of that description by a side-wind, and upon a collateral Motion. The hon. Mover had no such object. He sought to preserve transportation, and to give Parliament the power of fixing the places.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  would come to that immediately. He would not now discuss the propriety of the conduct of the Government with respect to the Cape of Good Hope. There was no allegation that could he supported by any breach of faith on the part of either Sir Harry Smith or the Government. Government sent the convicts; they were never landed, for immediately the dissent of the colonists was properly intimated, orders were given to send them on. He would not enter on that subject; there were difficulties enough in the question itself. The hon. Member sought by his Motion to repeal part of the Acts of 5 & 6 Geo. IV., which empowered Her Majesty, with the advice of Her Privy Council, to appoint any places in Her Majesty's dominions for the transportation of felons and others under sentence of punishment. This would repeal all the orders so made under this Act, there being no provision for the continuance of those places which had been already appointed as places of transportation. The simple object of the Motion was to take away from the Crown the power of appointing these places by Order in Council. The hon. Member did not profess to touch the third section of the Act. [Mr. ADDERLEY: Yes, I do.] If the hon. Member does not, this state of things would occur. The Crown would no longer have the power of transporting to places where salutary control and means of reformation were offered, but would retain the power of confining convicts in ships, or buildings, or other places, where they were without the means of control or reformation, by employment on public works or otherwise. The consequence would be, as their terms of transportation expired, they would be set at large, and become free men, but more contaminated than before. But if the hon. Gentleman proposed to repeal the section he had referred to, what became of the reformatory processes at Woolwich, Parkhurst, and other places? This power was given by the same section which enabled the Crown to appoint places either at home or abroad for the reformation or control of prisoners under sentence of transportation. By repealing those statutes, and making no provision in lieu thereof, he would repeal the whole of those rules, and prevent the Government from employing prisoners at Woolwich or elsewhere. If it were pro-
 794 795 796
 MR. LAW  felt, unfortunately, that he could not support the Motion of his hon. Friend who had introduced this question to the House; but at the same time he felt that it might be a very proper course
 798 799
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that before the House came to a division on the subject, he would place fairly before the House the difficulties in which the Government were at present placed, and which, he thought, would not be at all diminished by the Motion which the hon. Member for North Staffordshire had brought forward. It was proposed to repeal a particular part of an Act of Parliament, whereby Her Majesty in Council was empowered to send transported convicts to certain places, according to Her Majesty's discretion, within Her own dominions. At the same time, it was not proposed by the hon. Gentleman to repeal other parts of a former Act, which conferred the same power, nor was it proposed to repeal the Act passed a few years since, which gave power to Her Majesty to send convicts to Gibraltar, and by which, also, transported convicts might be sent to work in any places within Her Majesty's dominions. If that was so, he could
 801 802 803 "Although I have been informed that this ship is to arrive, and my general instructions will be to land the convicts, still I do not propose to land them, but to keep the ships in which the convicts are sent until I receive further orders from the Government at home in what way I am to dispose of them." Neptune 804
 MR. STAFFORD  seconded the Motion.
 MR. ADDERLEY  had said that Sir Harry Smith had been made to "appear" to have broken his word.
 MR. ADDERLEY  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal part of the Act 5 George IV., relative to transportation of felons. He was not now about to raise the general question of transportation, or to propose anything which should lead to an abandonment of that mode of punishment. The object of his Motion was simply this, that when for the future it should be necessary to make choice of a new penal settlement (and by that he did not mean the revival of an old settlement, but the breaking of new ground), that choice should be made not by the Colonial Secretary, but by Act of Parliament. He desired to state at once to the House that his present proposal had been suggested by the recommendation of those great petitions from the Cape, which he had lately had the honour to present in this House, and which Lord Stanley had presented in the other House of Parliament, and supported with so much eloquence. Those large petitions, emanating from public meetings and municipalities in South Africa, not only prayed to be taken out of the category of penal settlements—they not only asked the revocation of the Order in Council making them so, but they prayed the repeal altogether of the Act of the 5th Geo. IV., enabling the Colonial Office to make any fresh penal settlements, and prayed further that the question should thereafter be left to the discretion of Parliament. The noble Earl at the head of the Colonial Department had, in the most frank and manly; manner, acknowledged his error, and revoked the Order in Council, and he (Mr. Adderley) would be the last man to revive anything tending to resuscitate those feelings of irritation which had arisen in consequence of that Order in Council. He knew it might be said that, the inhabitants of the Cape having defended themselves from the danger of being made a penal
 778 779 780 781 782 783 784
 MR. ADDERLEY , in reply, said, that the numerous petitions which had been presented from the Cape, had suggested to him the propriety of bringing forward his Motion. Those petitions had emanated from the unanimous voice of the whole population of Southern Africa; and he considered that nothing could be better adapted to found his Motion upon than petitions of so weighty a character as those to which he had referred. With respect to the proceedings at the Cape, he merely used them as an illustration, and had no intention whatever of arguing from the particular to the general. If, however, more illustrations were required, they were to be found in the colonies of New South Wales, Norfolk Island, Van Diemen's Land, and every convict colony which had ever belonged to England since its first settlement in New South Wales. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had well maintained his reputation for chivalry for taking up the cudgels so manfully in favour of Earl Grey. Upon that subject he (Mr. Adderley) was well satisfied to leave it to the opinion of the country. The noble Lord had sneered at the people of the Cape for thinking that they would be contaminated by the sight of a shipful of
 805 Neptune Neptune 806 807
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that the argument of the right hon. Gentleman was, that the colonies ought to be satisfied with being made penal colonies, because the Queen had power by an Order in Council to revoke the order which made them so. He must say he did not agree in that view of the case. He did not mean by his Bill to strike a blow at the system of transportation, but to strengthen it. His proposition referred to new penal colonies—districts which were quite uninhabited. He said most sincerely that he had no intention to make this Motion a vote of censure on the Government, and therefore he thought it unfair that he should not be allowed to lay this Bill before the House.
 MR. ADDERLEY  regretted the hon. Member had not been present during the debate, as, had he been, he would clearly have perceived that his Bill intended nothing at all supposed by the hon. Gentleman.
 MR. ADDERLEY : Only to name the place, providing it was a new one, leaving to the Government the responsibility of
 793
 MR. COWAN  was glad to hear the obnoxious nature of the tax was admitted by Her Majesty's Government; and he was much disappointed, after the expectations which had been held out, that so little progress had been made in respect to the carrying out this question. Two years ago a Commission had been appointed to proceed to Edinburgh to inquire into the annuity tax of Edinburgh. A report had been given in about a year ago, and he had frequently put questions to the noble Lord on the subject, but had never obtained a satisfactory reply. If that House wished to secure the confidence and respect of the people of Scotland, they should proceed to inquire into the circumstances which were so grievous to the people of Edinburgh particularly.
 MR. AGLIONBY  agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General that this was not the time to consider the system of transportation. It was too serious a question to be got rid of by a side-wind. It was a question which probably before long it would be necessary for the Government to have under consideration, and until the Government propounded their plan, it was desirable they should abstain from discussing it. With regard to what had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman as to the prerogative of the Crown, he (Mr. Aglionby) was not prepared to say that the prerogative of the Crown was in the slightest degree affected by this proposition; and his opinion was confirmed by high authority. Neither in  Blackstone Burn's Justice 797
 COLONEL RAWDON  said, he was a member of the Established Church, and had a great veneration for the faith he professed; but he thought that the subject now under discussion resolved itself into one of justice, and that the House would be guilty of continuing an injustice if they exacted from the Roman Catholics, as they were doing, a tax for the support of Protestant clergymen. Some hon. Gentlemen on the opposition benches had recently signed a manifesto, headed by Lord Glengall, in which they promised to inquire into the various grievances of Ireland. This, then, was the time for testing their sincerity, for now they had an opportunity of inquiring into one of those grievances, without, at the same time, injuring the Church in any respect. He was sure that if the tax were abolished, other temporalities would easily be found, to afford the requisite stipend to the clergy, and therefore he should vote now, as he had voted in former years, in favour of the Motion of the hon. Member for Cork city.
 MR. STANFORD  wished, in giving his vote against the Motion of the hon. Member, to guard himself from any supposition that he was in favour of the abolition of transportation. He was only anxious, in the course which he adopted, to endeavour to bring about some beneficial alteration in the mode in which the system was at present carried out.
 MR. BROTHERTON  seconded the Motion.
 MR. HUME  contended that the question came before the House under different circumstances from those which surrounded it last year. Her Majesty had since visited Her Irish subjects, and had promised them in Her Speech at the opening of the present Session that their grievances should be redressed, and what was defective in the government of that country should be remedied. The right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary admitted this impost to be a grievance, and yet he refused to remove it. This was a grievance, too, which extended to Scotland. Charles II. established a similar impost in Edinburgh and Montrose; and on behalf of his constituents and the inhabitants of Edinburgh, as well as on behalf of the people of Ireland, he demanded the abolition of this unjust and partial tax. It was not the amount he looked at, so much as the principle. The whole amount levied for ministers' money in Ireland, he believed, was not more than 16,000 l l 772
 MR. HUME  said, that while he was prepared to support the Motion of the hon. Member for North Staffordshire, he certainly dissented from the opinion of the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark, who had expressed a desire to see transportation altogether abolished. But, while he was in favour of transportation as a means of punishment, he was anxious that the present system of carrying it out should be discontinued, and that it should not be carried on in defiance of the wishes of the colonies to which the convicts were sent. The recent events which had taken place at the Cape, showed, in his opinion, in the strongest manner, the folly of giving the power at present held by the Colonial Secretary to any one individual. If the Cape had been appointed by Act of Parliament as a place for the reception of the convicts, there would have been none of those large public meetings, or of those exciting and irritating acts, which had placed the colony in a state of almost actual rebellion against
 800 Sydney Gazette
 MR. NAPIER  thought that the nature and character of this tax were much misunderstood. It was not personally a tax on Roman Catholic occupiers. It was continued on the settlement of property in the time of Charles II, and it was a very different charge from what was generally supposed. He admitted there was much inconvenience in the collection of the money. He admitted, that in many cases the clergy had forbore their rights, rather than hazard any disagreement with their parishioners. But the fact was, that this money was originally put on corporate towns in Ireland at the time when they were exclusively Protestant; and by an Act of Charles II. the whole property was remodelled, and the course taken was this:—People who had been dispossessed of property in the towns, got property allotted them outside of the towns, and the corporate towns were inhabited by English settlers. The Crown had then the whole fee of the property, no one had any right in it but Charles II.; and having invited English settlers to these towns, he then provided that there should be a charge on the House for the purpose of supporting certain of the clergy. And so far from those who received this money ever preaching doctrines which were obnoxious, he would appeal to both Roman Catholics and Protestants whether there could be a more diligent, useful, or benevolent body of men to be found in any part of Ireland. The charge being on the owners of houses, on whom else could they put it? No substitute for the ministers' money had ever been proposed by anybody, though the question had been discussed year after year. His hon. Colleague and himself, in Committee, had agreed to exempt small tenements from the impost; but as to the removal of the tax, there having been no substitute named, he was confident that no man with a sense of justice would do this. A right rev. Prelate had regretted that there should be another Parliamentary confederacy on foot against the Church of Ireland, and observed that they who knew the effect of the sad tithe war of 1832 should be cautious how they proceeded in such a course. The ministers' money was provided form the Church Temporalities Act, when Mr. O'Connell was in the House. He was willing to remove any inconvenience in the mode of collecting for small tenements; but he
 774
 DR. POWER  seconded the Motion.
 DR POWER  could state that payment of this tax was often obtained by distress and sale of the goods of poor Roman Catholic artisans. The right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary appeared to say that the difficulty in the way of removing the tax, was the impossibility of finding a substitute. His hon. Friend the Member for the city of Cork, however, though not hound to do so, had pointed out that substitute. But was it not a heartless mockery to tell the people of Ireland they were to pay the tax because the most richly endowed church in the world was unable to provide for a few of her clergy? The time was coming when the whole question of the Irish Church would be thoroughly sifted. Ireland must be held by force, and not a man could be reduced from the army maintained there by this country so long as the Established Church, which was the cause of all the misery and bloodshed that had taken place, was allowed to continue. He believed the Government wished to do justice, and the people of Ireland were persuaded it was the sincerest wish of their Sovereign's heart to redress their grievances; but that temple of peace to which the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth had once alluded, would never arise till its foundations were laid on the ruins of the Established Church.
 MR. ANSTEY  rose amid loud cries of "Divide!" He had but one question to put to the hon. Gentleman, which would not occupy much time, before they proceeded to a division. He wished to put this question, because upon the answer which it should receive would depend his (Mr. Anstey's) vote. Some observations, in the reply of the hon. Member who introduced the Bill, led him (Mr. Anstey) to infer that the object of the Bill would be to prevent Her Majesty's Government sending convicts to the colonies which they had already determined upon not sending them to, but, instead, to deluge the other colonies with them. Was that the intention of the Bill or not? Perhaps it might he otherwise. Did the hon. Gentleman mean to move the abolition of transportation altogether, and to provide a substitute, as in that case he (Mr. Anstey) would be prepared to support him? Or, did his Bill go to abolish transportation in some colonies to the detriment of others—say Van Diemen's Land—which altogether were certain to be ruined and demoralised?
 MR. EWART  moved for leave to bring in a Bill for enabling town councils to establish Public Libraries and Museums. He said there was scarcely any country in Europe so inadequately provided with public libraries as England; and, in submitting the present Bill to the consideration of the House, he was supported by, he might say, the unanimous resolution of the Select Committee appointed last Session. That the metropolis and the large towns of this
 760 761 762
 MR. KEOGH  merely rose to make a few observations in reply to what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin. It seemed to him that the hon. and learned Gentleman, and those who acted with him, though very ready to declare, in general terms, that they were quite prepared to remove the impost, would be likely to find some special objections when the time came to test their sincerity. They would be sure to object to the occasion, to the time, or to the want of a substitute. The right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary had already suggested, indeed, that no substitute had been pointed out; but it was incumbent on Government, when a grievance was admitted by them—a grievance which the Protestants were as anxious to remove as the Roman Catholics—to find one, and not to let it rest on a private individual, or an independent Member of the House. There was something very suspicious about the declaration of readiness to remedy the grievance, particularly when the hon. and learned Gentleman brought in the case of the anti-tithe war. There was no connexion whatever between the two cases. If the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary was, indeed, anxious for the repeal of the impost, why did he seek to prevent discussion? He was astonished to hear the argument of the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin, that when the impost had been first established, the owners of houses were all Protestants. Would the hon. and learned Member say that they were all Protestants now? A more monstrous proposition had never been put forward, when it was known what a mass of houseowners were Roman Catholics. The Rev. J. Elmes, the Protestant rector of St. John's, Limerick, who was examined before the Committee of which the hon. and learned Gentleman was a Member, said he believed that when the enumeration of houses took place in 1782 and 1846, 99 out of every 100 houseowners were Roman Catholics. How could the hon. and learned Member with any face, then, say that ministers' money was not injurious to Roman Catholics, because it only pressed on the owners of houses? He trusted the House would force on the attention of the Government the necessity of removing an impost which
 775
 MR. MONSELL  said, that his object in rising was to reply to the observations of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary. That right hon. Gentleman fully admitted a grievance, while he refused to redress it. Now, in the case of a Turnpike Bill, the right hon. Gentleman's argument for the previous question might be a good one; but when a large number of the people were deeply interested, he thought that the course adopted on the Treasury bench was anything but satisfactory. He, would like, however, to quote the authority of a much-respected and beloved prelate' on the subject. He alluded to the Bishop of Limerick. The Bishop of Limerick expressed a decided opinion that if, instead of the present mode of payment, there was a fixed stipend, diminished by one-fourth, much of the difficulty would be obviated. It would appear, also, from a letter which had been addressed to him from the Bishop of Down and Connor, that when that prelate was connected with a parish in the city of Limerick, the great bulk of the payers of this tax were Roman Catholics. The evidence taken before the Committee also went to show that as large an amount on account of ministers' money was paid in respect of houses valued at 60 l l l 773
 MR. MONSELL  wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland with reference to the condition of the paupers in the Kilrush union. When a question was put on the subject a few days ago, the right hon. Baronet led the House to believe that the statements then made as to the miserable and starving condition of those unfortunate persons were exaggerated, and said, that at the time they were alleged to be in such a frightful condition there was a large amount of accommodation available in the union workhouse. He (Mr. Monsell) had since received accounts from Kilrush, from which he learned that the number of deaths in the workhouse in November, 1849, was 50; and in the month ending the 3rd of February, 1850, the number had increased to 120. He was also informed that in the week ending the 2nd of February, 40 persons died, 28 of them from dysentery, and that more than one-half of those unfortunate persons had not been a month in the workhouse; and also that a large number of persons who had repaired to the workhouse from distant parts of the union had been compelled to return to their homes without food or relief. He therefore begged to ask whether outdoor relief had been stopped in the union at two separate periods; whether there were funds in the hands of the guardians at the time of the last stoppage; whether the number of deaths he had stated was correct; and whether it was true large numbers of persons, amounting to several hundreds, had been sent back from the workhouse without their cases being considered by the guardians?
 SIR G. GREY  must say that the hon. Gentleman had brought forward the subject again in the same spirit of fairness, and with the same temper and discretion, as in last Session. He only regretted that, the circumstances being almost identical, he was compelled to take the same course as on the former occasion, and move
 770 771
 SIR G. GREY : The hon. Gentleman said the Cape had been made a penal settlement; but it did not follow because these convicts had been sent there that the colony had been made a penal settlement. Convicts were sent to Gibraltar, but that was not a penal settlement. Convicts were also sent to Bermuda. The hon. Member, however, might say, they were not sent there under the powers of the clause he wished to repeal. This was the
 786 787 788 Neptune 789
 Sir G. GREY  said, the hon. Member for North Staffordshire had very truly stated his Motion to be a matter which concerned the Secretary of State for the Home Department rather than the Colonial Secretary; but he did not understand how the course he had taken, or the measures which he had proposed, could do other than increase their embarrassments in dealing with convicts under sentence of transportation. The hon. Member proposed to repeal the power given by statute to the Crown to fix places, under Orders in Council, to which convicts might be conveyed; but he did not propose any substitute for those places, except such substitutes as Parliament might hereafter name. The hon. Member proposed to repeal the clause in the Transportation Act, 5th of Geo. IV., cap. 84, which gave the Queen in Council the power of which he complained; but there were statutes imposing sentences of transportation, and which gave the judges as to some offences no discretion respecting the passing sentence of transportation beyond the seas. He would ask the hon. Member how it would be possible to carry these sentences into effect if the power now existing in the Crown to carry them out were taken away? This power of fixing the places of transportation had existed in
 785
 SIR G. GREY  observed, that what he had said was, that Her Majesty had power to revoke an Order in Council by another Order in Council, and he wished to know whether the hon. Gentleman meant to take that power away by the Bill which he proposed to introduce?
 SIR G. GREY : I understood the hon. Gentleman opposite that he was mistaken in that imputation.
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH : What was the fact? It was literally true that Sir Harry Smith himself said he had been obliged to break his word. At page 4 of his despatch he used these words:—
 "This (the sending of convicts to the Cape of Good Hope) places me in a most delicate and painful position; having pledged myself in the Legislative Council to the colonists, upon the faith of your Lordship's despatch of the 7th of August, they naturally look up to me to fulfil that pledge, which it is now out of my power to do." 791 "It is difficult to form an adequate conception of the frightful degree of crime which the above tables express in New South Wales and Van Die-men's Land. Suffice it to say, that in proportion to the population of New South Wales, as compared with that of England, the number of convictions for highway robbery, including bushranging, exceeds, in proportion to the population, the total number of convictions for all offences in England; that rapes, murders, and attempts to murder, are as common in New South Wales as petty larcenies in England. In short, in order to give an idea of the amount of crime, let it be supposed that the 17,000 offenders who were last year (this was in 1839) tried and convicted in this country for various offences, before the several courts of assize and sessions, had all been condemned for capital crime—that, in addition, 7,000 had been executed, and the remainder transported for life—that, in addition, 120,000 other offenders had been convicted of the minor offences of forgery, sheep-stealing, and the like—then, in proportion to their respective populations, the state of crime and punishment in England and in the Australian colonies would have been precisely the same." 792
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  said, the question was whether the Colonial Office ought or ought not to possess the power of appointing places for the transportation of convicts? The hon. Gentleman the Member for North Staffordshire proposed to deprive it of that power; and he agreed in the Motion, thinking that the Colonial Office had proved itself not well qualified to exercise that power, and could not be safely entrusted with it. In proof of that proposition, it was only necessary to refer to the conduct of the present Colonial Secretary with regard to the Cape of Good Hope, and to read one of two despatches—either the despatch of Earl Grey, of the 30th of November, 1849, or that of Sir Harry Smith, of the 5th of September, 1849. From the latter, it appeared that on the 7th of August, 1848, the present Secretary of State for the Colonies sent a circular to certain colonies, offering them a certain description of convicts—ticket-of-leave men—as a boon, and stating that none should be sent unless the colony in question, especially the Cape, approved of their being so sent. And Sir Harry Smith was directed to take immediately the best means of ascertaining the feeling and opinion of the colony on the subject. Sir Harry Smith immediately brought the matter under the attention of the Legislative Council of the colony, and therefore made it known to all the colonists. In so doing, he pledged his word that no convicts should be sent to the
 790
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that on a late occasion, when his hon. Friend the Member for Stroud put to him a long
 759
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY  would venture to express a hope that the reduction of the number of the poor receiving outdoor relief, had not been effected in such a manner as he had been informed it had been in the union of Kilrush. He was credibly informed that numbers of the wretched people had come a great distance, some eighteen or twenty miles, to; have their cases investigated at the workhouse, and were obliged to return without having them investigated. If the Government found, upon inquiry, that the guardians in that district did not do their duty, they should establish vice-guardians to afford some chance to the remnant of the people of escaping from perishing.
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  said, the hon. Member for Birmingham had stated that his constituents were always asking what was the matter with Ireland? That question
 863
 MR. HEADLAM  said, that his hon. and learned Friend had contended that this House could not, or at any rate ought not, to interfere by legislation, because the Lord Chancellor of Ireland had power to make orders which would have the same effect as the enactments of the Bill. He (Mr. Headlam) contended that the Lord Chancellor of Ireland had no power to make such order. And he further argued that even if the Lord Chancellor of Ireland had such power, still it was no reason why the House should not legislate upon the subject. For it was quite clear that no such power had been exercised, and no such orders had been made, nor was there the least reason to suppose that such orders would be made without the interference of the Legislature. Consequently, as the Lord Chancellor of Ireland had power to make such orders, it was no reason why the House ought not to proceed with the Bill; but the least investigation of the Bill would satisfy the House that the Lord Chancellor could not thus proceed by order; for instance, by the 15th Section it was provided that in certain cases the orders of the Masters in Chancery should have the effect of orders of the Court. Now it was quite out of the question to contend that the Lord Chancellor could, without the assistance of the Legialature,
 871 vivâ voce; fortiori 872
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  would trespass on the House only for a few minutes, whilst he addressed himself to one or two observations which fell from the hon. and learned Member for Newark, although they had been already sufficiently answered by the hon. and learned Member for Athlone, and his hon. and learned Friend who had just sat down. It was impossible that the hon. and learned Gentleman could think that the provisions of this Bill could be carried into effect by the Lord Chancellor of Ireland without a statute. If he meant, indeed, that such reforms as he thought expedient could be carried out without a statute, he might be correct; but he (the Solicitor General) feared that such reforms would be very slender. To state, however, that that which was proposed to be done by this Bill could be effected by any Lord Chancellor without a statute, was a proposition which, he ventured to say, the hon. and learned Gentleman did not intend seriously to assert upon his responsibility as a lawyer. The hon. and learned Gentleman had thought fit—he would not say to make a direct attack upon the Lord Chancellor of Ireland—but indirectly he had said that which he was sure, if he had been a little better acquainted with the system of the law in that country, and the way in which it was administered by the Lord Chancellor, he would have been the last man to say. The hon. and learned Member for Athlone had fully replied to that observation, and he (the Solicitor General) felt that he should only be doing an injustice to the Lord Chancellor of Ireland if he thought it necessary to add his feeble voice to what had been already said. The hon. and learned Member for Newark had been
 879 880 881
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  could not consent to the request of his hon. and learned Friend. He knew what the effect of submitting a measure to a Select Committee was. He would endeavour to adopt, as far as he could, every practicable suggestion; and he would gladly communicate
 882
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he did not think the hon. Gentleman gave the House much encouragement in the progress of those reforms into which they had embarked, when he met the first measure for the abolition of an office and the reduction of a salary of 1,200 l l 884 l
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  entirely dissented from the statistical details brought forward by the hon. Gentleman opposite, and contended that by the Bill before the House a saving of 1,200 l
 MR. CLEMENTS  thought every Member connected with Ireland ought to feel grateful to the noble Lord and his Government for the proposition of setting the unions on their legs again, and relieving them from the fear of the sheriff's officers. One of the great difficulties incurred in the western unions arose from the enormous extent of business imposed on the board of guardians by reason of the great size of the unions. One union comprised 178,000 acres. How was it possible that any board of guardians could satisfactorily administer the affairs of so extensive a union? It was four times the size of an ordinary union in England, and twice the average size of Irish unions. The boundary commissioners recommended the formation of fifty new unions. The noble Lord said
 840
 MR. BOUVERIE  objected to the Bill, because it would make the secretary of bankrupts chief registrar of the Court of Bankruptcy, and would so perpetuate the latter office. He agreed in the necessity of abolishing the office of chief registrar as an absolute sinecure, for all the business the registrar was expected to do was performed by the accountant of bankruptcy, who had a salary of 1,500 l nil
 MR. SCOTT  said, he had a question to ask relating to a statement contained in the report from the Select Committee of the Legislative Council of New South Wales on Crown lands, dated the 2nd of October, 1849. That report stated that a gang of desperate and hardened ruffians had been sent out to New South Wales in an emigrant ship in the course of last year, and that they had not only been sent out by the Government, but that the land fund of the colony had been expended in paying the cost of their passage; that they had been received and escorted on board by police; and that their conduct both on board ship and on shore had been most ruffianly and disgraceful. They complained that 350 l
 LORD C. HAMILTON  did not rise to oppose the proposal of the noble Lord, but to express his regret that it had not been carried further. It was well known that there were largo tracts of land in the south and west of Ireland, lying in a state of non-cultivation owing to arrears of rates. The consequence of no rates being collected on these lands was, to augment the rates on the others. Now he thought that if these arrears of rates were placed on the same footing as the arrears of insolvent unions, and loans were made, to be repaid in the same manner as by such unions, the effect would be that large portions of land now lying waste would be put into cultivation, and a considerable amount of labour employed on them.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : In proposing the Motion which I shall submit to the Committee respecting the Government advances that have been made of late years to Ireland, and likewise with respect to the present state of distress in unions in Ireland, I will endeavour, as far as possible, to spare the Committee many of the details upon those subjects that have been laid before the Government, and will rather give the Committee a general view of the present state of Ireland, and of our proposals with respect to the advances that have been made to that country. All those who are acquainted with the state of Ireland during the last few years, must be aware that a change of the very greatest importance has taken place in the condition of that country. It will be recollected that, a few years ago, the question of the condition of Ireland related to a state of things which was, in many respects, exceedingly melancholy, and to which no remedy seemed to be applicable by the Legislature. At that time the greater number of the labouring class in that country
 824 825 l l l l l 826 l l l l l l l l l l l 827 l l l l l l l l l s l l l l l l l l 828 s s s s s s s 829 l l 830 l l l l l l l 831 l l 832 l l l l l l l l l 833 "1.  Resolved "2.  Resolved l
 LORD J. RUSSELL  did not think the hon. Gentleman's speech had at all suffered from that delicacy which he said he felt when speaking of Ireland. The hon. Gentleman generally spoke out pretty boldly when touching upon Irish subjects. The hon. Gentleman could not have been present when he (Lord J. Russell) made his statement in the early part of the evening, because if he had he would have learned what the reasons were upon which he (Lord J. Russell) proposed that the present advance should be made; and he would also have known that he (Lord J. Russell) stated that Ireland was not now suffering from famine. The hon. Member said it was a grant; for, whenever any money was asked for Ireland, there was no chance of its ever being repaid. They heard the same language last year; but the House consented, notwithstanding those forebodings, to advance 250,000 l l l
 LORD NAAS  felt himself constrained to advert to the most extraordinary charges against individuals brought forward by the hon. Member for Manchester. He declined to mention names; but he had declared that certain proprietors in Ireland were using every means in their power to evade payment of the poor-rates; that they were paying their keepers to keep the bailiffs out of their houses; and these charges were brought against Members of that House. Now, he asked whether it was fair for any Gentleman to stand up in this way and make such charges without giving names, so that the class against whom they were made might have an opportunity of vindicating themselves? He asked him whether he would or would not state the union, at least, where these acts had been committed, in order that some Member might move for papers to show whether the accusation was founded in fact or not? Then the hon. Gentleman stated that Ireland paid a less measure of poor-rate than England did. [Mr. BRIGHT had only put a hypothetical case, believing that on the whole of Ireland the average rate might be lower than in England.] The hon. Gentleman had given them to understand that Ireland was taxed in a lesser degree for the poor-rate than England was. He might talk of putting a hypothetical case and taking averages, but no person who heard his statement could, if he believed it, come to any other conclusion than that the Irish people were taxed in a lower degree than the people of England. Now, perhaps he had never read the protest entered by the Earl of Rosse on the Journals of the House of Lords with reference to the rate in aid. That document showed, on the question of local taxation, that the rateable property of
 858 l l s l l s d
 MR. COCKBURN  said, the hon. and learned Member for Newark had been pleased to direct one or two sarcastic observations towards him, as though his particular branch of practice did not render him conversant
 876 877 878
 MR. DISRAELI  said that he was, and he was glad to have called the right hon. Gentleman's attention to a matter connected with his own department, of which he had been ignorant. The volume also contained a list of the brothels in Manchester, while returns of the utmost importance connected with the trade and commerce of the country were withheld—the most recently furnished being, as he had already observed, only down to the year 1847.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he should take that occasion to put the questions to the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, of which he had given notice on the preceding day, with regard to the returns given to the House by the department over which the right hon. Gentleman presided. He wished to receive some information from the right hon. Gentleman as to the cause of the delay that had taken place in furnishing these returns. They were now in the middle of the month of February, and yet the monthly return for December had not yet been circulated, while the general summary for the year had only been printed that morning. There was also another publication of the Board
 820
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  felt as much for the Irish poor as any man; but when he saw increasing distress in this country, arising from want of due consideration on the part of Ministers, and want of purpose
 838
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that he should oppose the Bill at a future stage.
 MR. FRENCH  complained of the unfounded censure endeavoured to be cast by
 834 835 l l l 836 l l l l l l l
 COLONEL DUNNE , as chairman of a board of guardians, had never seen any instance of partiality in the collection of the rate to one class more than another. There were disputes about the payment of rates with parties who refused to pay, and who were known by the term of "immediate lessors;" and he thought that if these parties could avoid paying the rates they were perfectly right in so doing. He wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland what were the arrears of poor-rates in Ireland; whether the amount was not extremely trifling, and whether, in fact, the poor-rates in Ireland were not, on the whole, better collected in Ireland than in England? The fact was, the poor-rates were collected with great severity in Ireland, and the arrears were trifling, whether due from owners or occupiers. He felt grateful to the noble Lord for the propositions which he had made that night, which he thought would be excessively beneficial to Ireland. The debts incurred in Ireland by the unions had chiefly arisen from the poor-law and its administration, which was needlessly expensive. If the House wished to get rid of these debts, they must go to the root of the evil, and get rid of the present
 850 l
 MR. MUNTZ  thought that it was anything but a matter of surprise that Irish Gentlemen should be thankful for the proposal now made by the noble Lord at the head of the Government to advance them more money. Placing himself in their position, he could well feel how fair and reasonable it would be for him to support the views of Her Majesty's Government in this respect. There was, however, another party who were very much dissatisfied with
 861 862
 MR. TURNER  very much regretted that the hon. and learned Gentleman would not refer the Bill to a Select Committee; for had he done, so, he should have had no hesitation in voting with him. Under the circumstances in which he was placed on the present occasion—unable, on the one hand, to agree to the second reading of the Bill, from a full conviction that it could not be carried out; and unable, on the other hand, to agree to the proposition of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Newark, he should decline voting on either side. He assured the House, that, so far from having any desire to defeat the Bill, any time or sacrifice which he could make to obviate the delay and expense of the Court of Chancery, should be readily given.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  was glad that the hon. Member for Manchester had made this charge against some of the landed proprietors, magistrates, and Members connected with Ireland, because it had elicited an answer from the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for that country, showing that Ireland had paid at least her share of this tax, and even a larger proportion than England had ever done. He was glad that this malicious and unfounded charge had been brought forward, and had received such a retort. He unhesitatingly asserted that in that part of the country with which he was connected, no undue favour had been shown to the landlord, the magistrate, or any other person; and if the hon. Member had made proper inquiries, he would have received the same assurance with respect to a vast majority of the unions. He felt thankful for the vote which Government had proposed, and hoped that their future measures for Ireland would be brought forward in a similar spirit. There were several points of difference between the poor-law of Ireland and the poor-law of England which he would desire to see adjusted. The expense of educating the children of the poor in England was paid out of the public funds, while in Ireland it was paid out of the poor-rates. In England half of the expense of medical relief to the poor was paid out of the Consolidated Fund; while in Ireland the whole expense of medical relief was paid out of the local taxation. A return which he intended to move for, would, he believed, show that in England assistance was given for the purpose of pauper emigration out of the
 854 855 l
 MR. GRATTAN  said, he was of opinion that Ireland had been born for a better state of things than that of being beggar, and that Providence never intended she should be the recipient of alms. She had got a fine climate, an excellent soil, a hardy people, the finest harbours in the world, and honesty in dealing, and morality at bottom. And, yet, with all these benefits and blessings conferred upon her, she was now at the door of England begging for bread. He despised the situation. An able writer had said, "The first foundation of friendship is not the power of conferring
 841 l 842 any 843 De non apparentibus et non existentibus eadem est ratio l l Fas est et ab hoste doceri Grâce à Dieu, la France n'est pas encore abiméc dans la misère commel' Irlande 844 l
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  could not congratulate the hon. Member for Manchester on the result of his recent visit to Ireland; or quote, in reference to him, the language of the poet—
 "Returning from a finished tour, Full ten times wiser than before." 849
 MR. HERBERT : What would the hon. Gentleman say if he (Mr. Herbert) were to take him to task for refusing a price for a bale of cotton or a foreign order which he thought below its real value? Now he (Mr. Herbert) would not seek to palliate or excuse the conduct which the hon. Member had ascribed to certain Irish landlords, among whom were several Members of that House; but he called upon him to give up the names of the authorities upon whom he had accused them. If the hon. Gentleman would not do that, he (Mr. Herbert) said that to stigmatise them in the manner he had done was a calumny, and the most cowardly of all calumnies, because it was anonymous.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  declared that neither he nor his noble Friend the Member for Kildare felt themselves identified with the persons against whom the charge had been made by the hon. Member for Manchester. On the contrary, they disclaimed it, and felt that parties guilty of such conduct ought to be held up to public odium. They thought such a charge ought not to be brought forward against any body of men; but so far from identifying themselves with it, they disclaimed it. The party guilty of such conduct should be shown up, and the Government that
 860
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that with the exception of the last question, the hon. Member had been good enough to give him notice of the nature of the information which he required. The first two questions related to the delay which the hon. Gentleman alleged had taken place in the returns furnished by the Board of Trade. He could assure the hon. Gentleman that he was under a misapprehension if he supposed that any delay had taken place this year as compared with preceding years. On the contrary, he had had the curiosity to ask for an account of the date of presenting these returns in past years, and he
 821 822
 MR. LABOUCHERE : Is the hon. Gentleman now alluding to returns furnished by the Board of Trade?
 MR. BRIGHT  wished to make one or two observations before the debate on this subject was disposed of. He thought the speech made by the noble Lord at the head of the Government to some extent satisfactory, inasmuch as it showed, what he (Mr. Bright) believed to be the fact, that in some parts of Ireland there was some improvement visible from the disastrous condition of the last three or four years. He could comprehend the kind of claim which hon. Members thought they had for the 300,000 l 846 "William Burke, occupier of nineteen English acres. This man is wretchedly poor, but his land is well tilled, he and his family have been in the fever, and I am sure he will pay." 847 l s s s s s l l l s l 848
 MR. BRIGHT  said that they would not pay their rates, and therefore the policy they pursued was a very foolish one. and did not entitle them to the consideration of that House.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the Committee would see at once that the statement of the right hon. Baronet had nothing whatever to do with the statement he had made. Everybody throughout Ireland knew, that to speak of Ireland on the whole was an entirely different thing from speaking of the unions, about which he had given the House information. Taking the whole of Ireland, the rate would be found to be low; and were he to argue, as some hon. Gentlemen had been arguing, he might say that the Government had very small cause indeed to come to the House for an
 856 l l 857
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that the clause of the Act, which defined what the law was with respect to the recovery of the rates, agreed with the statement which he had first made, and with the information he had received from the poor-law authorities in Ireland [the hon. Gentleman here read the 17th and 18th clauses of the 12th and 13th Victoria, c. 104]; the authorities to whom he referred described the process of law to be exceedingly tedious. In one of the unions to which he alluded it was stated to him by the vice-guardians that there was extreme difficulty, in consequence of the tardy operation of the law, in obtaining the payment of the rates, although they did their best to collect them. Therefore it was that he said there ought to be a more rapid mode of recovery if the Government came to that House to ask for advances.
 MR. HATCHELL  said, he was not a Member of the House when the Bill was introduced.
 MR. SADLEIR  said, that by the Act of last Session most summary powers were given to the boards of guardians for the recovery of arrears of poor-rates, as against the owners of land in Ireland; and if any fault was to be found with those powers, it was that they were too excessive. Any judgment obtained under that Act would become not a judgment or incumbrance upon the land, of the date of the judgment, but would stand in an unparalleled position as a first charge upon the land. Every precaution had, therefore, been taken by the Commissioners to confer upon the hoards of guardians the most stringent powers for the enforcement of arrears of poor-rates upon owners of land. With respect to the statements made by the hon. Member for Manchester, confounding, as they did, two different classes of landlords, he believed that they would, if indulged in, do more to retard the prosperity, industry, and recovery of Ireland, than any statements or any legislation, however mischievous, which could be conceived by the basest enemy of the country.
 MR. STUART : The hon. and learned Gentleman was a Member of the House when the second reading was moved. Did any Member of the Opposition then come forward and say that it was necessary
 869 870
 MR. J. STUART  wished to state to those hon. Members who came from Ireland what this Bill was. He would take the liberty of asking them whether they knew what they were about to do in voting for this Bill? If he could show that its effect would be to increase the expense and delay of litigation, and to interfere with matters which ought not to be regulated by the direct interference of Parliament, although under its control, such a Bill ought not to be passed. From the feeling of the House, he thought it highly probable that his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General would succeed in carrying this Bill through the present stage; but he asked it of the fairness of Irish Members in that House, to apply their understandings to one
 865 866 867 868
 MR. STUART , in reply, said, he would not put the House to the trouble of a division, and his reason for not doing so was this, that there was a clause in the Bill (the 28th) which gave full power to the Lord Chancellor to make all the necessary alterations, and he intended, when the Bill was in Committee, to move that it should consist of that clause only. He, therefore, begged to withdraw the Amendment on the present occasion.
 MR. TRELAWNY  remarked, that the noble Lord at the head of the Government had omitted to state that half the relief to the poor in Ireland was supplied by England. ["Oh, oh!"] He would maintain the truth of the proposition, that so long as the distress arising from the famine lasted in Ireland, the people of this country, in addition to their own poor-rates, contributed one-half of the expense of supporting the poor in Ireland. [Sir H. BARRON: It was a loan to a portion of the united kingdom.] It came to the same thing, for what was the meaning of a loan to Ireland? He objected to the phraseology adopted by the hon. Member for Manchester when he spoke of the Irish landlords refusing to let their land on reasonable terms. He could not understand how a free-trader could consistently with his own doctrines, use such language. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland had said that the amount of money actually raised in Ireland under the poor-law was 96 per cent of the whole charge. [Sir W. SOMERVILLE: 94 percent.] If that was the case he could not understand on what principle it was that the noble Lord came down to that House and asked for an additional grant from this country for the relief of the Irish poor. He had always conscientiously opposed these grants, and should take the same course on the present occasion.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that as there had been so strong a manifestation for law reform by the Government, he hoped a change had not come over the spirit of their dream, as he feared it had if he were to judge from the provisions of this measure. He felt himself compelled to call the attention of the House to one of the offices connected with the office of Lord Chancellor—namely, that of Secretary of Bankrupts. The 5th and 6th Victoria created certain deputy-registrars, and made this provision, that in the event of the decease of the person called registrar, the Lord Chancellor should fill up the office of
 883 l l l
 MR. MULLINGS  said, it had been truly stated that under the Act 5th and 6th Victoria, there were to be six registrars; and it was provided by that statute that at the death of the chief registrar one of the other registrars should fill the office. If, therefore, instead of perpetuating the office of secretary of bankruptcy by promoting him to the office of chief registrar, they filled that office by advancing one of the deputy registrars, a saving of 1,000 l l 885 1,9001
 MR. P. SCROPE  looked upon the measure as a great indulgence to those unions which were indebted in large sums of money and were unable to pay. But the people of England had some interest in the matter, and if the time for the repayment of these loans, which amounted to nearly 5,000,000 l d s 839
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, he did not rise upon that occasion to offer any objection to the second reading of this Bill, the introduction of which he had seen with very great satisfaction, because he believed it was an opinion almost uniformly entertained in the Court of Chancery that a very extensive system of reform, proceeding on such a principle as was incorporated in and attempted to be carried into effect by the present Bill, was absolutely necessary to restore efficiency and complete utility to the Court of Chancery both in England and Ireland, and for the purpose of clearing an institution in many respects amongst the most useful and important to the country of the very serious defects which made recourse to it so costly and difficult, that if those defects were not removed, justice in that very important department would be very soon in a degree of discredit which it could not be for the welfare of the country should be permitted to continue. He did not think that that was the most convenient stage to enter into a particular discussion of the details of this measure, and he should not then have intruded on the attention of the House but for the circumstance that he thought his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Coventry, who was then absent, had been greatly misunderstood—he had almost said misrepresented—not by his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General, but elsewhere, with reference to the part which he took on this subject some evenings ago. He believed it was perfectly well known to every one connected with the Court of Chancery in England, that his hon. and learned Friend was as anxious for the reform of the abuses that had crept into the administration of justice in that court—or he, should rather say, for the removal of the obstacles to justice that now existed there—as any person; and if it were supposed that his hon. and learned Friend was insensible to reform in that court, it was an impression most erroneous, and founded
 864
 MR. WALPOLE  agreed that some reform—and an extensive reform—was required in the Court of Chancery both in England and Ireland, and he should give his hearty support to measures for carrying out that reform. He begged to suggest, however, to the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General that he should refer this Bill to a Select Committee, for the purpose of putting it into the proper shape for carrying out the object which everybody had in view. It was of the utmost importance that all the provisions should be most carefully examined, and that, in his opinion, could only be satisfactorily done in a Select Committee.
 MR. KEOGH  said, that as the hon. and learned Member for Newark had flung his challenges very boldly about the House, and was rather imprudent and discourteous in asserting that there were not four men in the House who understood the subject, especially when he recollected that the hon. and learned Attorney General for England, the hon. and learned Member who introduced the Bill, the hon. and learned Solicitor General for Ireland, the hon. and learned Member for Coventry, the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth, the hon. and learned Member for Southampton, and the hon. and learned Member for Newark himself, were all present. He believed that the anticipations of the hon. and learned Member were unfounded. He had asked the House had the Encumbered Estates Bill effected their object, and made several lively remarks upon a single estate not having been sold as yet under its provisions. He (Mr. Keogh) would ask the hon. and learned Member, however, how long had that Bill been in operation? Why, only four months. What would have taken place if a bill in Chancery had been filed for the same period. Why, the hon. and learned Gentleman must be perfectly well aware, if he filed a bill in one of the simplest causes, four years, and not four months, should elapse before a sale could be effected. He (Mr. Keogh) knew of a suit where the bill was filed in the year 1794, in which the estates were not sold yet. Suppose a bill were filed in the Court of Chancery in England, what time would it take? [Mr. STUART: Six weeks.] In Ireland it would take two months. If the plaintiff chooses to amend his bill, two months more. If a single party in the suit dies, there must be a bill of revivor filed. He happened to be attending professionally before the Commissioners for the Sale of Encumbered Estates. It was necessary to produce a certificate from the Court of Chancery showing the state of the case. The extent of the Bill was twenty-three skins of parchment, and there was a supplemental bill of seventy-two skins. There were sixty or seventy defendants in that suit, but there was one circumstance worthy the attention of the hon. and learned Member for Newark, that the same counsel who signed the original bill, signed also twenty-five answers of the defendants. No English lawyer in that House could, and certainly no English layman could at all
 873 874 per se 875 vivâ voce "With respect to the administration of the estate of a deceased person—with respect to the foreclosure and redemption of mortgages—with respect to the appointment of new trustees—with respect to the appointment of guardians and the allowance of maintenance to infants—and with respect to such other branches of the said jurisdiction as the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, with the assistance of the Master of the Rolls in Ireland, by any general order to be made as hereinafter provided, shall from time to time direct to be within the scope of this Act, the Court may, on the application of petitioners, and on the production of such affidavit or verification as aforesaid, by order made in a summary way, and without notice to any other parties, unless the Court see fit to direct any such notice to be given, refer the said petition to the Master in Ordinary of the said court in rotation, either generally or with such special directions with reference thereto as to the Court may seem fit."
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  said, that hon. Gentlemen opposite had unnecessarily identified themselves with the charge made by the hon. Member for Manchester. For one, he felt grateful for the proposition now made by Ministers, and must protest
 859 l s d
 MR. MONSELL , in explanation, said, as to the statement made by the right hon. Baronet, that the Commissioners were not responsible for the contracts, begged to call his attention to the fact that the poor-law inspector, Mr. Lynch, was present at the time, and that there was also a temporary inspector there. If they were not aware of it, it was the fault of their own officers; and if they had been aware of it, and they could have prevented the contract from being made, he could hardly doubt they would have done so.
 MR. MONSELL  cordially thanked Her Majesty's Government for the measure which they had introduced, for without some such enactment it would be impossible
 837 l l
 MR. W. P. WOOD  commenced his observations by reading an extract from the evidence of the present secretary of bank-' ruptcy, the object of which was to show that when the fiats would be abolished, there would be nothing for the clerks to do. It was perfectly true that by the Bill before them a saving would be effected, but by that Bill they were perpetuating the office of chief registrar, and were attaching one useless office to another to perpetuate one of them. As long as the present secretary of bankruptcy continued to fill the office, there would be a saving; but then, again, the Lord Chancellor will be in a position to appoint a perpetual chief registrar. They might not detach him as long as he held the office, but he believed the days of that office were numbered.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he thought a full and satisfactory answer had been given to the hon. Member for Manchester, and he hoped that when the hon. Member next undertook to lecture the owners and occupiers of land in Ireland, he would think of the full and crushing reply he had had upon this occasion. He trusted the hon. Gentleman would also come to the conclusion that a short tour of two or three months could not qualify any man, however able he might be, to put himself in the position of a philosophical lecturer. If the hon. Gentleman bore in mind that the proprietors who refused the offers which had been referred to were themselves bearing the loss, and also the accumulated pressure of the rates, he would find that it was contrary to the soundest principles of political economy to allow such a state of things to remain: and if he also bore in mind that these persons went to Ireland to get land at what they called a dead bargain, and that they wished the proprietors to part with their land for seven years' value, he would cease to be surprised. The hon. Gentleman had blamed Government for not giving power to seize the lands of
 853
 SIR G. GREY  had not seen the report of the Committee to which the hon. Gentleman referred. He was, however, happy to assure the hon. Member that the statement was altogether without foundation. No persons of the character described in that report had been sent out as colonists either at the expense of the colony or of the Home Government. He had no doubt, however, that the circumstances which had given rise to the statement were these:—About twelve months ago the magistrates in the neighbourhood of Ashton addressed a communication to him, representing that certain married men with families, who had given evidence in the previous year against persons who had been tried for riots and disturbances in that part of the country, had been subjected to so much annoyance in consequence that they were anxious to emigrate, and the
 823 l l
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to guard himself against being pledged to the principle of the measure to be introduced, because he had assented to the resolutions. He apprehended that there was a debt of 4,783,000 l l l l
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, it appeared to him that neither the chief registrar of the Court of Bankruptcy nor the secretary of bankrupts had anything to do, and he therefore did not see how the House, with any pretensions to economy, could perpetuate such offices.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  thought the hon. Member for Manchester had fallen into a not uncommon error, in considering the uncollected rate as arrears. The hon. Member saw it stated, perhaps, that there was a certain amount of uncollected rate in a certain union, but he was not to consider that as arrears, but as a rate in process of collection. The returns showed that the collection of the poor-rate in Ireland was exceedingly close, and the greater part of the uncollected rate would be found to be due by the immediate lessors, or, as the hon. Member called them, by the "landlords" in Ireland. It was true that there was no power of levying the poor-rates upon the owners of the land by a distress; and if the owners and occupiers were to be, as the hon. Member recommended, both put upon the same footing, it could only be by taking away the power of distraint upon the occupier—a course which the hon. Member for Manchester would not recommend. The whole collection of poor-rate in Ireland, since the establishment of the poor-law in that country, had amounted to more than 7,000,000 l 851 l l l 852
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE , in explanation, said, that in mentioning the proportion of rates collected in Ireland, he had in some respects overstated the case, and in others understated it. He had said that 95 per cent of the whole rates had been collected since the poor-law came into operation, thereby leaving the house to understand that four per cent had been lost. That was not so; for he ought to have deducted a portion of the rate now in course of collection. The real state of the case was this: Of the rates made previous to the last rate, there had been 94 per cent, collected and lodged; the remaining 6 per cent was not lost, but 4 per cent of it had been carried as arrears into the last rate. Of the entire collection since the law had been in force, only 2 per cent had been declared irreclaimable. Therefore, though he might have overstated the case one way, he had rather understated it in the other. That was the real state of things, and it fully bore out the inference he had drawn.
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  thought it would be a great advantage if the number of instalments were increased, so as to lighten the pressure upon the unions generally. He thanked the noble Lord for the measure of relief which he proposed to give to the people of Ireland. The noble Lord had that evening given them a great boon, and he had enhanced its value by the period at which he had brought it forward. He (Lord Bernard) had for a considerable time been the chairman of a board of guardians. He knew the working of the poor-law; and he had no hesitation in saying that, so long as a union was in debt, it could not advantageously manage the expenses of its poor. With respect to the gentlemen of Ireland generally, he was happy to say that they began to see the necessity of attending more closely to business than heretofore. He wished to add, that he hoped the present would prove
 845
 MR. S. WORTLBY  said, he was responsible for the delay, being desirous of introducing a clause of great importance, similar to the one proposed last Session by the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth.
 MR. V. SMITH  said, that he thought by this time the subject had been pretty well threshed out. But, after the speech which they had just heard of the hon. Member the Under Secretary of the Colonies, he was really at a loss to know what it was they were discussing. The whole of this debate had originated upon a single clause of the Bill, and he certainly had never before heard of a debate upon a single clause of a Bill upon which everybody was agreed, or rather upon which everybody agreed. The hon. Member the Under Secretary of the Colonies had stated, that the governors of the colonies, Her Majesty's Ministers, and, indeed, everybody, was in favour of a double chamber. Then, why not let them have a double chamber? They were about, in spite of all these unanimous opinions in favour of a double chamber, to vote them a single one. But what was the defence put forward by the Government for this conduct? It was, that the present constitution had given satisfaction to the colonies. How had that satisfaction been expressed?
 1013 Sydney Morning Herald 1014 l 1015
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  was glad the right hon. Baronet had brought forward this measure, as nothing was more wanted in Ireland than an Act clearly defining the duties of both landlord and tenant.
 MR. SCOTT  said, he did not propose to offer such an opposition to the Motion as would, if carried out, defeat the purpose of the measure—his object was rather to obtain more certain information as to the wishes of the colonists on the subject. He was anxious to improve the government, and to extend liberty to the inhabitants of our Australian colonies; and he admitted that no measure had ever before emanated from the Colonial Office, conferring so large an amount of civil liberty as the present. But there were constitutional questions in the Bill so important that they must be considered before the principle was affirmed. It certainly was the interest, and he believed it to be the duty, of every State to give to its dependencies institutions similar to those which it enjoyed itself. That was the best mode of extending our empire, and cementing the affections of our colonies to us. Our connexion could not long continue with colonies to which we gave institutions essentially differing from our own. They were now about to give to the colonies of Australia a new constitution; but what he complained of was, that there was not in that constitution a single feature in common with our own. The constitution they were about to confer on the Australian colonies assimilated rather to the Republican Government of France, or the federal form of government prevailing in the United States, than the constitution of England. This was the point to which he wished, chiefly to draw attention. There were various questions involved, as the prerogative of the Crown, the veto, and others which were too intricate to venture upon at that stage of the measure, and into which he would not enter. The Bill before them contemplated the existence of one chamber in New South Wales instead of two; and the argument on which this change from our own constitution was based, was the wish of the colonists themselves. The Government stated their own opinion that two chambers were preferable to one; but they surrendered their own opinion in deference to the wishes of the colonists. But he maintained that no sufficient evidence has been given that such was really the desire of the people of the colonies. Now, let the House look at the constitution which Her Majesty's Government were conferring on the colonies of Australia. One-
 977 978 divide et impera 979
 MR. S. WORTLEY  said, that the Bill was substantially the same as that of last Session, and that the alteration he had made did not affect the principle. He should very shortly have an opportunity of laying it before the House.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  moved that upon every alternate Thursday Orders of the Day have precedence of Notices of Motion on the Paper. There had been a gradual decrease from eleven in 1846, to eight in 1849, of Government Motions on Thursdays. His opinion was, that the arrangement now proposed would be the one most convenient for the House. The Amendment placed on the Paper by the hon. Member for Sutherland would most probably answer the object of the Government, but he did not think it would be so convenient to the House.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that his only object was to get the Bills through that House in time for their careful consideration in the other House of Parliament. Thinking his Motion the best calculated to effect that object, he must oppose the Amendment.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, I think I never heard a speech marked by so many errors and mistakes, with regard to constitutional theories, with regard to history, and with regard to practice, as the speech just delivered by the hon. and learned Gentleman. He has called to our attention the Act which was passed for the separation of the two provinces of Canada; but I think the hon. and learned Gentleman could not have chosen a more unfortunate model than that Act to ask us to follow. Sir, the consequence of that Act was, that the Government of Canada, being divided into a legislative council named by the Governor, and into a popular assembly named by the people of Lower Canada, who were pent up in Lower Canada, and divided from Upper Canada, there was, for a long series of years, the most bitter dissension between the council and the assembly; and at length that constitution came to an entire stop, owing to the impossibility of making the two parties act together; and the result was, that even a sufficient number to form a House could not be collected in the popular assembly. And that is the model which the hon. and learned Gentleman wishes us to follow. [Mr. ROEBUCK: It was only for the logical precision with which the constitution was drawn that he had commended it.] With regard to the logical form, if we can provide a measure calculated practically to benefit the people, I think I would give up something in point of logical precision as regards language, for the sake of the substantial benefits of good government. The hon. and learned Member says, that at the commencement of this Bill various Act a are recited and referred to. I think that this is only a characteristic of this Bill, which is common to many other Bills. Nay, more, the hon. and learned Gentleman says it requires care, attention, and legal knowledge, in order to understand this Bill. Why, I don't mean to say that persons careless and inattentive will alto-
 991 992 993 994 995 996
 LORD J. RUSSELL  begged the hon. Gentleman's pardon, he did not say so.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  would remind the hon. Gentleman that the practice he condemned so strongly had existed since 1840. During the last ten years the Thursdays, from a certain period of the Session, had been given up to the Government; but by the arrangement now proposed, by beginning earlier, and taking only each alternate Thursday, probably fewer days would be taken than in former years.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  did not think it advisable to defer the report, and thought the hon. Member would be better able to make his objections when the Bill was before the House. Although there were thirty unions in which distress existed, it would be wrong to say that the distress was confined to those unions, and that other unions might not require the assistance which this vote of a sum not exceeding 300,000 l
 MR. DISRAELI  looked upon Motions of this sort as systematic attacks on the privileges of the minority, which had always been regarded as the only hope of a suffering community. He could not understand why hon. Gentlemen should new so willingly and shamefully surrender privileges which had ever been their greatest boast. For his own part, he did not consider either the Motion or the Amendment entitled to their approbation; he protested altogether against surrendering the notice days, which alone afforded to independent Members the opportunity of bringing under the consideration of the House matters often involving the most important public interests, and should take the sense of the House against the proposed order.
 MR. HAWES  moved the Second Reading of this Bill.
 MR. HAWES  said, that he would venture to anticipate that the present debate was one which would give great satisfaction to the colonies. The desire which had been manifested from all parts of the House to frame—whatever the differences of opinion among hon. Members on other subjects—constitutions satisfactory to the colonies, could not fail of giving satisfaction to the parties concerned. One of the objections which had been urged against the Bill was, that it proposed to establish a form of constitution in the colonies, not exactly similar to those generally existing, and not in exact accordance with what had been called the British constitution. Now, upon the subject of the double chamber, with respect to which this objection had mainly arisen, hon. Members would find that, if they took the report of the Committee of Privy Council, the opinion of Ministers of the Crown, the governors of the colonies, and even many of the colonists themselves, there would be found to be a general concurrence of opinion in favour of the double chamber. He was perfectly ready to make that admission, and those who differed from him in opinion might take the full benefit of that admission. Well, then, it might be asked, why had the Government departed in the present Bill from the usual form, especially when there was such a unanimity of opinion in favour of the double chamber? The answer was to be found in the fact that, in order to make any alteration in the existing constitution of the colonies, it was necessary that the representatives of each colony should be first consulted on the subject. The people of New South Wales were content with their present form of government, and the legislature of that colony had formally and authoritatively requested that if any alterations were made in their constitution, they should be first consulted upon the subject; and it was absolutely essential, before making any change in that constitution, that they should be consulted. In the case of the
 1011 1012
 MR. ADDERLEY  would offer but a very few observations to the House, as the arguments seemed to have gone so much one way. Almost every one seemed to be agreed that the grounds for giving only one chamber to the colony were insufficient. The hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies stated that there were two reasons for giving this new form of constitution of a single assembly, which had induced the Government not to give way either to their own wishes or to the arguments of others: and those two reasons were, that it was the wish of the colonists to preserve their existing form of constitution; and that it was necessary to have a representative basis. Now, the question of the express wishes of the colonists had been disposed of. It had been set aside. And, if he were allowed to quote two passages from a book that was before the House, he would show that there had been an entire misconception, on the part of Her Majesty's Government, of some of the information which they had received. In the report of the Privy Council, dated 1st May, 1849, it was said that—
 "Custom appears to have attached the colonists to a single chamber; public opinion in New South Wales seems to be opposed to any alteration." "anxious to have a constitution as nearly as possible like that of the United Kingdom." 1016 1017 Democracy in America
 MR. SPEAKER : There is no course I know of to enable the hon. Member to bring the question before the House.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it was not competent for an hon. Member to make any other than a clerical alteration in a Bill which had once been introduced and read La first time.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP,  having already stated his objections to the resolutions now before the House, would not repeat them on the present occasion. But when the
 1021
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  thought they were going backward every day, and all he could hope for was, that they would soon arrive at that state when they could not get worse, for then there would be some hope of amendment.
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  wished to know, as a grievous attack had been made on his character in another place, by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, whether any course was open to him by which he
 970
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that many Irish Members would shortly be obliged to go home to attend the assizes, and it was, therefore, most desirable that the discussion on this important measure should be fixed for a period when as many Irish Members as possible could be present.
 MR. G. SANDARS  begged to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs if it were true that the Danish Government had refused to renew the armistice of the 10th July last; and if so, whether the noble Lord considered, as a natural consequence, that there would be a renewal of the blockade of the Prussian ports of the Baltic and the Elbe? He had seen a statement in the public papers, since he had placed his notice on the Paper, to the effect that the Danish Government had consented to a renewal of the armistice on certain terms. He wished to know whether that statement was correct; and if it were, whether the noble Lord would state the nature of the conditions upon which Denmark had consented?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he would forbear from going into the details of the Bill, because at that stage it was not desirable to go at any great length into a discussion of the measure itself, but to confine that discussion to the principle. He apprehended the general principle was to enlarge the powers of the present legislature, so as to enable the colonists to frame a constitution for themselves which they might send to this country for confirmation, if confirmation to it here should be considered advisable and proper. The hon. Gentleman who had just spoken stated his belief that it would be more satisfactory to the colony that we should frame a constitution for it resembling that which Her Majesty the Queen had been advised to grant to the Cape of Good Hope, that of having two chambers. He (Mr. Labouchere) presumed to doubt whether that hon. Gentleman, in the present state of the colony, did actually represent the wishes and feelings of those of whom he was the agent in this country, for, from all the means Her Majesty's Government had had of judging of their wishes, they were quite contrary to what the hon. Gentleman had just stated to the House. The hon. Gentleman had said that there was no support of the single chamber in the papers already laid upon the table. He (Mr. Labouchere)
 980 981 982
 MR. WYLD  said, he did not see why Canada and Van Diemen's Land should not have representatives in the British House of Commons, or why they might not be treated in all respects as distant counties of one great kingdom. In his opinion, Parliament would not be doing justice to the colonies or to the empire if they did not admit those settlements of Englishmen to equal privileges with the other portions of the great empire over which Her Majesty ruled. He by no means thought that that House would suffer either in dignity or efficiency by admitting representatives from the colonies.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he perfectly agreed with the right hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat, that in the present stage of the measure the House ought to confine itself to a discussion of the principle, and not enter upon the details. Now, the right hon. Gentleman had said, that in his opinion the principle of the Bill was simply to give an enlarged power to the existing legislature in the colony of Australia. He had stated, in so many words, that there being in the colony a certain form of legislature, the powers were now restricted by which the parties might act, and that the whole object and intent of the Bill was to take this legislature and give them a sort of unlimited power in making constitutions for themselves, which constitutions were to come home and receive the assent of the Crown. That was the principle of the Bill. Now, he (Mr. Roebuck) at once objected to that principle. Remark how the right hon. Gentleman wished to proceed. He wished the House to proceed—first, by making legislative councils in a great measure nominated by the Crown, with hardly any power from the people in the colony, and afterwards, when that was done, to give to these nominees of the Crown, or at least a large portion of the nominees, the great powers of legislation which that House (the House of Commons) ought itself to exercise. He complained of the Government, and would complain of the House, if it were so contented to divest itself of its great powers of legislation, so far as the dependencies of the Crown were concerned; for, if it were so contented, hon. Members would be confessing their own ignorance and weakness, and saying they were not fit for the government of the colonies. [Mr. HUME: Hear, hear!] He was astonished to hear the hon. Member for Montrose cheering this statement, as if he (Mr. Roebuck) had been saying something which was opposed to the liberties of the
 983 984 985 986 987 988 989 990
 MR. STANFORD  said, that the noble Lord in introducing the measure before the House took a review of the history of our colonies; but he should have been much better satisfied if the Prime Minister of this country had thought proper to pay Some tribute of approbation to the enterprise and the energy of the men by whom our colonies had been founded and acquired. The noble Lord ought to have said something of the hundreds of millions of money expended in the acquisition of those colonies; he might have told the House that a great portion of the national debt had been contracted on account of them; neither had he done justice to the period of Elizabeth's reign, in which so many important colonial acquisitions had been made. He told them nothing of the treasure that had been expended, or of the lives that had been lost, in the acquisition of those colonies. The noble Lord, however, in the course of his speech soon quitted history for commerce and statistics; but it unfortunately happened for the credit of his information on these subjects,
 1020
 MR. HUME  said, that the question now before the House was, whether they would
 1009 1010
 MR. HUME  was anxious to preserve those popular rights, in regard to the manner of conducting the business of the House, which at present existed, and thinking that the feeling of the House was in his favour he would divide.
 MR. HUME  could only say, that since 1840 there had been a greater arrear of business at the end of each Session than had ever been known before. It appeared to him that they were progressing year by year in making inroads on those rules and regulations which those who used to be looked upon as authorities had often declared to have been framed for the protection of the people.
 MR. HUME,  in the absence of the hon. Member for Sutherland, would move the Amendment of which notice had been given. He complained that the time allotted to individual Members was gradually curtailed, and urged that the Amendment of the hon. Member whom he represented on that occasion was a compromise which the Government ought not to decline.
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, there was no evidence before the House that due efforts had been made to collect the rates due in these unions. On the contrary, it appeared that there had been great remissness, and he thought the vote ought to be postponed until the House had received further information on the state of these unions. All they knew at present was that the debt of these unions amounted to 300,000 l
 MR. M. MILNES  said, that he thought Her Majesty's Government deserved praise for giving so large and liberal a permissive power to the colonies. He did not believe that any of the old American States had ever received a charter equal in liberty to that now offered to the Australian colonies: nor that in the history of the world a measure had ever passed which placed so completely in the power of colonists the conduct and choice of their future government as the Bill before the House. As to the objections raised to the Government for not having given two chambers to the colony, were they to do so, would they not, seeing that the colonists were satisfied with the present system, be rather allowing their own prejudices to interfere with the future destiny of the colony? Was it not much better to allow the colonists to modify their own forms as they found convenient? Besides, whilst talking about two chambers, hon. Gentlemen did not all mean the same thing. If the formation of a constitution resembling that of this country meant anything really like, it presupposed the existence of elements for an aristocratic chamber, like the House of Lords. It meant—if it meant anything—two chambers like the two Houses of Parliament, a lower Representative Chamber and an Upper Chamber, aristocratic in its composition, and either hereditary or nominated by the Crown. But there was nothing analogous existing in any colony. The elements were totally wanting, and the attempt to manufacture such a system amounted just to that "constitution-mongering" of which some hon. Gentlemen had spoken. They saw in America that most wise and eminent body, the Senate; but to attempt to form such a body at once in Australia would be doing just that of which hon. Gentlemen opposite were so fond of charging Her Majesty's Government. They saw in France the system of a single chamber lately adopted by the choice of the entire people; and in leaving to the Australian colonies the choice of one chamber or two, they were doing just that which was essential, considering the democratic nature of the insritutions which those colonies must adopt. He was anxious to express his gratification, that in the course of the debate not a word had fallen which might induce the colonists to believe that there remained in the mind of Her Majesty's Ministers the least reservation of those principles of interference with internal colonial affairs which had so long
 1019
 MR. SPOONER  reminded Ministers that many measures, in the hands of private Members last Session, were obliged to be postponed altogether, in consequence of there not being a sufficient number of days on which such measures had precedence. He considered this was an attempt to stifle the voice of private Members which ought to he resisted.
 MR. MANGLES  gave his very cordial support to the measure brought forward by the Government, because he was persuaded they had a sincere intention to give free institutions to those colonies that are in a proper state to receive them; but at the same time he could not conceal from himself the fact that they had made a great and serious mistake in the measure they proposed, so far as it regarded the constitutional chambers, and he believed the reasons they gave in support of that proposition were founded on a serious fallacy. It was said that the people of New South Wales had given their sanction to one chamber; but his opinion was, that they never had the opportunity of making the selection, or thought that two elected chambers were attainable. Would they be satisfied when they heard that two chambers were given to South Africa? He was sure they would most willingly accept a similar constitution. He thought there was a great fallacy running through all the analogies that had been drawn in reference to this measure. It was assumed that the House of Lords were the nominees of the Crown. They might have been at some remote period nominees of the Crown, but they were now no more nominees of the Crown than any other Gentlemen around him. And in what a different situation they stood from the gentlemen nominated by the Governor of Australia to the Legislative Council, who held their offices for five years only, and were removable at the end of those five years entirely at the pleasure of the Crown. He did not wish that the House should throw out this measure, because he considered it to be a large step in advance.
 MR. ANSTEY  considered that, in discussing this question, they should not refer to the opinions of governors, but should refer to the opinion expressed in public meetings of the inhabitants of New South Wales, the only Australian colony in which this experiment had been tried. That opinion was unequivocally spoken against a single chamber composed in part of elected representatives, and in part of nominees of the Crown. The last papers from that colony brought an account of public complaints of the attempt to reintroduce into that colony British convicts; and Mr. Lowe, at a meeting on the subject, declared, amidst the applause of the thousands that surrounded him, that no confidence could be placed in the Legislative Council so long as one single Crown nominee was allowed to sit in it; and he said the nominees of the Crown were so despised by their brother members, that it was difficult to get for them a fair share of the courtesy of the house. The experiment had been tried, and he must say it had resulted in a sense unfavourable to renewal of that experiment; yet the noble Lord at the head
 1008
 MR. M. GIBSON  considered that a Thursday at the beginning of the Session was much better worth having to a private Member than one at the end, while the latter was as valuable to the Government as the former, inasmuch as they could always secure a House. As one who had some interest in the matter—for it was his duty occasionally to trouble the House—he was desirous that the Thursdays should be continued to private Members as long as possible in the early part of the Session, and that they should be given up to the Government at a more advanced period. On a recent occasion he had experienced the inconvenience which the limited number of days now allotted to private Members occasioned, having been obliged to postpone a measure of some considerable importance for a month. He was inclined to support the Amendment, seeing, as he thought, a growing attempt to limit the power of independent Members in that House.
 MR. F. PEEL  thought it at all events to be so stated in the report of the Committee of Council, upon which this Bill was acknowledged to be based. If that was so, he (Mr. F. Peel) approved of the wisdom of the course which had been taken. He did not think they should be justified in legislating on any abstract notions, or upon general reasoning, or even upon the conclusions of historical experience, against the expressed wishes or the peculiar circumstances of the colonists. But he could not so readily admit that the colonists had expressed their wishes on this matter in that clear and unmistakeable way which would alone justify in his mind a deviation from the usual type of colonial governments. The opinions of the colonists of New South Wales might be collected from four distinct sources: from themselves, in their public meetings; from their organ, the legislative council; from the executive council; and from the Governor of the colony. With respect to the sentiments of the people of New South Wales, so far as they could be collected from the resolutions arrived at in their public meetings, he thought it was in the middle of the year 1847 that Lord Grey first communicated in a despatch to the Governor of New South Wales his proposition for remodelling the constitution of the colony. That scheme met with great opposition, and excited much discontent. It undoubtedly contained a proposition for dividing the legislative body into two branches; but it was not against that part of the scheme that the indignation of the colonists was directed. It was against that portion of it which proposed to place the legislative council and the district councils in the mutual relation of representative and constituent. It was to that portion of it which proposed to deprive the colonists of the franchise they then enjoyed, and reduce them to the condition of mere primary electors—to give them only a right of electing the district councillors, by whom again the representatives in the legislative council were to be nominated. He ventured to say that in no petition, contained in the papers which had been laid on the table of the House, was there any opinion expressed adverse to the legislative authority being shared by two
 999 "That this council is disposed to view favourably the proposition of separating the deliberations of the nominees of the Crown from those of the representatives of the people." "My own opinion, confirmed by that of the most experienced and unprejudiced persons who have watched the working of the present constitution of the colony is, that the assimilation of the constitution of this colony to that of the older British colonies, where distinct legislative bodies exist, would be generally considered to be extremely advantageous to its interests." "Without, therefore, wishing or presuming to give an opinion on the general question of the best form of legislative body, I may say that, under the peculiar circumstances of these colonies, I should most strenuously recommend the adoption of a second or upper chamber." 1000 1001
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  hoped he would find an apology for addressing the House in the importance of the measure
 997 998
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the present proposition was to give every alternate Thursday, from the 11th of April, for Government business; this would give the Thursdays for the first three months of the Session nearly to private Members. The Government were desirous of having the extra day at an earlier period than heretofore, in order that they might he able to send up measures of importance to the Lords before the end of the Session, when they were frequently thrown over, for want of time to consider them. It should be remembered that, besides the two notice days, private Members had the Wednesdays for bringing forward any Bills which they had in charge; and, when they talked of Government days, he believed there was now a general desire, which Ministers were anxious, as far as possible, to meet, that Government should take charge of all measures of public importance, instead of leaving them in the hands of independent Members; therefore, the country in general were interested in affording them facilities to bring forward their business at as early a period in the Session as possible.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  hoped that his right hon. Friend would now let the Bill be printed and distributed as it had been read and ordered by the House to be printed.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  must now appeal to the Speaker. His right hon. Friend said, in substance, that the printing of the Bill had been delayed because he wished to frame a clause in concurrence with the views of the hon. and learned Member for Devonport. He had very great respect for that hon. and learned Gentleman, and he knew by experience the value of his support; but he contended that, though any Member, having obtained leave of the House to prepare and bring in a Bill on any subject, might take days, weeks, or months for the purpose, he could not, when once he had brought up such Bill, and when the House had received and read it, make any alteration whatever in it. It was no longer his property, any more than that of any other individual Member, and could not be altered by any one. The House alone could then deal with it.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  wished to ask his right hon. and learned Friend the Member for the county of Bute, when the Bill for legalising the marriage of a widower with his late wife's sister, which Bill he had unhappily obtained the leave of the House to introduce, would be delivered to Members? That leave was given on the 7th instant, and the Bill was read the same night; and short as the Bill was—one sheet only—it had not yet been printed.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS,  not being one of those who were disposed to die on the floor of the House, concurred entirely in the proposition of the noble Lord.
 SIR R. PEEL  admitted that in the ab-
 974
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  said, it appeared to him that it would be wise policy on the part of this House unanimously to assent to the principle of this Bill, and to show to the Australian colonies that they were anxious as speedily as possible to give them the benefit of representative government. Therefore, in his opinion, it would be better to offer no opposition to the first stages of this Bill, but that all questions concerning the form of government, and the powers to be delegated to the colonial authorities, should be carefully considered in Committee. He thought, however, if this course be adopted, it was not too much to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and the noble Lord should consent to give, full opportunity to discuss the details of this measure, and to propose amendments to it. Did the noble Lord assent to this? If so, it appeared to him (Sir W. Molesworth) that before the Bill is discussed in Committee, the noble Lord should alter its shape and form. For in its present form many of the most important questions with regard to the government of the Australian colonies could not be directly raised upon the clauses of this Bill, but only indirectly by reference to the clauses of a former statute upon which this Bill was founded. The noble Lord's Bill was founded upon the constitutional act of New South Wales, 5 & 6 Vict, c. 76. The Bill first repealed one portion of the Act, then continued another portion of it, then altered and amended a third portion of it, then added several new clauses, and then applied this statute, so altered and amended, so curtailed and augmented, to the separated colonies of New South Wales and Victoria, and to all the other Australian colonies. Certainly, in its present shape and form, it was a confused Bill. It was not possible for an hon. Gentleman to understand it, unless he had previously almost learnt by heart the Constitutional Act of New South Wales. On the other hand, if he began by reading the Constitutional Act, he could not tell what portion of it was to continue to be law till he had carefully studied the Bill of the noble Lord. Therefore, if an hon. Member wished to make himself acquainted with the details of the noble Lord's measure, he must go backwards and forwards from the Bill to the Constitutional Act, and from the Constitu-
 1002 l 1003 1004 "1. An explicit recognition of the right of the
 1005 l "In consideration of them the colony of New South Wales would be willing to pay for such military force as, in the judgment of the Colonial Assembly, might be necessary for its protection in time of peace." Sydney Herald 1006 1007
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, he had to move for leave to bring in a Bill to provide compensation to tenants for improvements effected by them in certain cases, and to amend the law of landlord and tenant in Ireland. Important as the subject was, and although it had been on three separate occasions introduced into Parliament, it was, nevertheless, true that no Government Bill had ever undergone a complete discussion in that House. Bills had been introduced in 1845 and 1846 into that and the other House of Parliament; but the Bill brought into the Upper House had never come down to the House of Commons, and the Bill introduced into the House of Commons was never read a second time. In 1848 he had the honour to introduce a third Bill, which was read a second time, but only with a view of referring it to a Select Committee, in which it received many improvements. That Bill So amended by the Select Committee was returned to the House; but the Session was then so far advanced that it was impossible to proceed with it, and the Bill was thereupon dropped, without having undergone a fill and complete discussion in the House.
 1022
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  was anxious to know whether the operation of the Bill with respect to compensation for improvement was to be retrospective? [Sir W. SOMERVILLE said that it was not.] For any measure which should take away the tenant-right of Ulster would be regarded by the people of that province with feelings of hostility. He should not be disposed to give his assent to any measure which withheld compensation either for past or existing improvements. This question of tenant-right had taken a deep root in the county of Down, although agitation was
 1023 bonâ fide l l l l l l 1024
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  presumed the House would remember that the convention of armistice between Denmark and Prussia was to last for six months, and terminated in January last. Her Majesty's Government proposed to the two parties to continue that armistice for six mouths longer. There was objection made to it in the first place on both sides; but on the 16th of this month, he received a communication from the Danish Minister here, transmitting a despatch from the Danish Government, intimating their willingness to consent to the proposal, upon condition that all the parties concerned should concur in acknowledging that armistice, and that the conditions of the armistice should be faithfully carried into execution. There had been differences between the two parties as to the detailed execution of some of the conditions of the preceding armistice, which differences had never been adjusted up to the moment when it expired. The parties the Danish Government required to be consenting to the prolongation, he apprehended, would be the Prussian Government and the Central Power at Frankfort. There might be some difficulty, he was apprehensive, with respect to the latter; but he had instructed Her Majesty's Ministers at Berlin and Frankfort to recommend the prolongation of the armistice. Sufficient time
 971
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, that a Post-office clerk of the last century would be uneasy in his grave at the thought that two pieces of paper could be sent under the same cover for a penny. Why was the wrong to be continued by railway proprietors after it had been given up by the Post Office? The railway proprietors had an almost unlimited power of fixing their own prices for single parcels; and with this they ought to be content. The public had a right to look to the Government for assistance in putting down this foolish wrong on the industrious community.
 MR. A. ANDERSON* : Mr. Speaker, in rising to explain to the House my reason for not now moving the Amendment on the Motion of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, which stands on the paper in my name, as well as the reasons which induced me to give notice of it, I must not omit, Sir, in the first instance, to express my humble acknowledgments to that hon. Gentleman for the condescending courtesy which he has evinced towards me, in kindly volunteering to enlighten my ignorance and instruct my inexperience, by statistical information on corn and taxation, extending to so remote a period as the year one thousand and five; and at the same time to assure him that his courteous offer has had no influence whatever on my determination not to press my Motion on the consideration of the House on the present occasion. 1069 1070 s 1071 —"the bane of agriculture, the Wight of commerce, the source of bitter divisions among classes, the cause of penury, fever, mortality, and crime among the people." s s s s s 1072 1073 s 1074 vice versâ 1075 l l 1076 l l l l l l l l l l l l s s d 1077 s d l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1078 l l l
 MR. RICE  said, that agreeing with much that fell from the hon. Proposer of the Motion, had he, instead of moving for a Committee of the whole House, moved for a Select Committee to consider the burdens thrown upon the landholders, he would most decidedly have supported his Motion. But he begged to tell hon. Members, that if they expected to obtain relief from the burdens that oppressed them, they should entirely abandon all hope of returning to protection. As long as hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side adhered to the cry of protection, so long would they fail to obtain relief; for that House would
 1084 1085
 MR. DRUMMOND : Sir, I feel that it would require greater powers of mystification than those which are possessed by the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, or even by my hon. Friend who opened this debate, if either of them, singly or jointly together, could persuade the farmers at this moment that they were not suffering distress. I know not what the hon. Member for Manchester means by "exciting a cry" in the country. If he means that I have ever, directly or indirectly, told the farmers that I could obtain for them relief, or that I have ever encouraged them to hope for a reversal of that policy which has been pursued for some years past, I tell him that he is wholly mistaken. It is many years ago since I said that the moment peace was established it would be impossible for a continuance of years to keep prices upon an average higher than those upon the Continent. I have maintained that to this moment; but the farmers do feel themselves to be deeply afflicted. It has not been myself, or any of my friends, who have excited them. On the contrary, the little influence which I have amongst them has been used to allay excitement. They have declared plainly and openly that they were betrayed by the men in whom they had trusted. They have felt deeply the injustice of elevating a faction into power upon their shoulders, and their being themselves kicked off ignominiously as a useless footstool. The farmers are plain-spoken men—they call language of that sort treachery, and those who use it traitors. But I do not defend such language—I regret it, and have done something to stop it. I deeply regret that animosity should remain; for many of the persons whom they accuse are my personal friends; and, independently of that, I am sorry to see a body of able men condemned, however justly, to political inanity. But that which both sides of the House have declared to be essential policy, is that justice should be done. You ought to have done something to those who were affected by your policy—to mortgagees, to those who hold large tracts in the country, to those who have paid just before the year of change heavy fines for church leases, and who have been distinctly defrauded by the Act. This is not the first time that
 1107 1108 s s 1109 d 1110 coute qui coute! "Si possis recté, Si non, quocunque modo rem." Laughter, and great confusion, in the midst of which Mr. Speaker repeatedly called Members to order 1111 "It holds its primeval rights from nature's charter, Not at the nod of Manchester."
 CAPTAIN DUDLEY PELHAM  apologised for trespassing on the House at that late hour, but he wished briefly to express his opinion, that if they were to reconsider the question of poor-law taxation they must be prepared to examine carefully into the whole question of the liability of property to be rated. He believed that the proposition of transferring the rates to the Consolidated Fund was not a sound one, and that if they were to have a national rate it must be a direct tax, in the form of a property and income tax. He believed that if such an arrangement were adopted it would not be open to the objections applicable to a proposition for fixing the rate on the Consolidated Fund; and that it would be found compatible with a continuance of the system of local management which it was so desirable to maintain. He believed there were two ways of dealing with this question of the poor-rates—that they might confine themselves to the present system of assessing property; but at the same time most materially relieve the landed interest by altering the laws of settlement and removal, and establishing a union liability and a union rating, conjointly with necessary measures of economy; or else by adopting a uniform or a graduated scale of rating on all property and income. If they assume that the expense of maintaining the poor amounted to 5,500,000 l s d s d 1112
 MR. CHARTERIS  said, it was his intention to vote for going into Committee. It had been contended by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, and he supported that view, that it was unfair there should be greater burdens on real property than on personal property. The hon. Gentleman had based his claim on agricultural distress. He (Mr. Charteris) believed that distress was great, and he deplored its existence; but he differed from the hon. Gentleman to a certain degree as to the cause, and did not believe that it was permanent. But why should be come to the House  in formâ pauperis ad misericordiam 1066 1067 1068
 LORD J. MANNERS  said, the hon. Member who had last spoken must be regarded as belonging to the perfectionist school of politicians, for he had refused to support the Resolution of his hon. Friend the Member for Buckinghamshire on the ground that if it were carried a certain amount of inequality of taxation would still remain. Now, if the hon. Member's objection were justly founded, still it was no valid reason why he should decline doing all that lay in his power to remove the distress. He must say, that, until he heard the speech of the right hon. the Secretary for the Home Department, he thought that all hon. Members of that House, admitting as they did that distress existed, and that all right hon. Gentlemen and noble Lords who complained that accusations were brought against them charging them with being indifferent to that distress, would have joined with his hon. Friend the Member for Buckinghamshire in his reasonable proposition—a proposition not founded on injustice to any class of the empire; for if it were true, as it was asserted by hon. Members, that Manchester and Leeds paid their just share towards the taxation of the country, then the proposition of his hon. Friend would afford them the same benefit which he sought to confer on the other parts of England. The speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary showed that he felt the pressure of this argument, for in the early part of his speech the right hon. Gentleman appeared to be combating imaginary arguments made use of by somebody or other on some former occasion. In fact, in listening to that portion of the right hon. Gentleman's speech relative to the exemption of stock in trade, one could not help feeling that the arguments used were the right hon. Gentleman's entire stock in trade. The right hon. Gentleman had taken two main objections to the proposition of his hon.
 1094
 LORD J. MANNERS  would ask, were there no agricultural labourers in Durham, and was not the mining interest included amongst those classes whose prosperity had been so vaunted in the Speech from the Throne? What, had the President's Message already had power to prostrate the mining industry of the North, and add 10 per cent to the pauperism of Durham? The right hon. Gentleman had wished his hon. Friend the Member for Buckinghamshire to alter his proposition, but stated, that if he would propose
 1095 1096 "He was willing to admit that, when it was found that persona possessed considerable property in the large manufacturing towns, that property ought to be made to contribute assistance towards local charges, and in so doing the burdens would be more equitably distributed." 1097 l s l s d l s d l 1098
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he thought it better always to appoint the earliest day possible on such occasions, and he had therefore suggested Thursday.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  observed, that the passage was—
 "It is with regret that Her Majesty has observed the complaints which, in many parts of the Kingdom, have proceeded from the owners and occupiers of land."
 MR. STAFFORD  moved the adjournment of the debate, and said that he understood that the noble Lord at the head of the Government had agreed to allow it to proceed on Thursday.
 MR. DISRAELI  hoped that the debate would be both continued and concluded on that day.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I have to present a petition from 200 owners and occupiers of land, who recently met at Great Marlow, representing the unprecedented depression of all classes connected with the land, begging the House to remedy their sufferings, by placing them, firstly, on an equality, in point of taxation, with their fellow-subjects; and, secondly, in their own market with the foreigner. I have also a petition from the Buckinghamshire Society for the Relief of Real Property, signed by nearly 1,000 members, but, having perceived an informality, I am prevented presenting it. Mr. Speaker, the depression among the classes connected with agriculture, referred to by the petitioners whose prayer I have just now placed upon the table, continues. Since the meeting of Parliament, when that depression received no sympathy from Her Majesty's Government—I may say no recognition—it has become even darker and more lowering. The 300,000,000 l 1027 1028 1029 1030 1031 1032 1033 1034 l l 1035 l l l 1036 "For the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the effects of the laws for levying duties on the importation of corn and other agricultural produce from the year 1815 to 1848, both inclusive; also, into the relative amounts of taxation, local and general, which have been levied during the same period on agricultural and other property and incomes." l l 1037 l l l l l 1038 1039 1040 l 1041 l ad infinitum l l l 1042 l 1043 in formâ pauperis 1044 1045
 MR. SEYMER  said, that as he represented one of the suffering agricultural districts, he did not wish to give a silent vote upon that occasion. He agreed with the hon. Gentleman the Member for Haddingtonshire, that the claim then advanced on behalf of the agricultural body was founded in justice; but he also thought that it was greatly enhanced by the distress which at present prevailed among that body. The farmers were proverbially a loyal body; but he begged leave to observe, that in this, the nineteenth century, they should look for no romantic feelings of loyalty, and that loyalty was best sustained by a sense of well-being, and an attachment to institutions under which men prosper. Farmers could not be expected to be animated by a very active spirit of loyalty if they suffered distress, and with distress injustice. The farmers and the agricultural labourers of Dorsetshire were told that their poor lands had been forced into cultivation by protection, and that those lands ought to be converted into sheep-walks. What, he would ask, would be the situation of a farmer with capital, occupying 1,000 acres of
 1080 "That any such disturbance in agriculture as must follow a total repeal of the corn laws, must lead to unfavourable results, not only to the agricultural interest, but to all those numerous classes which were identified with that interest." 1081 Morning Chronicle 1082 l l l 1083
 MR. BRIGHT  said: I must admit that the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire has been of a more practical character than usual. I think there have been fewer expressions that tended to mystify the House, and perhaps the country also; still I cannot refrain from expressing my strong belief that both the House and the country will discover that the grounds upon which the hon. Gentleman bases his Motion are altogether untenable. The hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, as I understand it, comes before the House with a proposition based chiefly upon the fact which many hon. Gentlemen
 1099 1100 l l l 1101 d s from the Opposition 1102 1103 1104 1105 Hansard 1106
 MR. J. WILLIAMS  objected to the right claimed by it of opening parcels when  in transitu 1026
 MR. T. B. HOBHOUSE  said, there were two points especially in the speech of the hon. Baronet who had just sat down on which he differed from him. In the first place, the hon. Baronet stated that the reduction in the expense of maintaining the poor had been caused by the lowering of the cost of provisions; whereas he (Mr. Hobhouse) contended, and hoped, ere he concluded, to show that it was partly owing to a diminution in the number of paupers. In the second place, the hon. Baronet had declared
 1090 Cheers from the Protectionists l l l 1091
 MR. W. BROWN  quite agreed in this view. It was so manifestly to the interest of the public, that no doubt whatever should be left upon this subject.
 SIR G. GREY : Sir, in rising to answer the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, I must begin by expressing the satisfaction I feel at the course he has taken in bringing forward thus early in the Session the Motion which he has now submitted to the House; and I think that the agricultural interests of England are indebted to him on more grounds than perhaps they themselves believe for the course he has thus taken. After all we have heard during the last few months of the propositions made at the county meetings held in so many parts of the kingdom—after all the confidence in the anticipations there expressed of the immediate, or, at least, early return to the protective system—after all the cheers elicited by the fervid eloquence of
 1046 ignis fatuus 1047 1048 "On a comparison of crime, as evidenced by commitments in England and Wales, in 1848 and 1849, it appears that the commitments in 1848 were 30,349; in 1849, 27,778; showing a decrease in 1849 of 2,571, or 8.5 per cent. On a comparison of the number of persons receiving parochial relief on the 1st of January, 1849 and 1850 respectively, it appears that the number was, on the first of January, 1849, 987,164; 1st of January, 1850,923,167; showing a decrease in 1850 of 63,997, or 6.4 per cent. On an analysis of the returns, it appears that there has been a decrease of crime in thirty-one counties; that there has been a decrease of pauperism in thirty-two counties; and that there are twenty of the above counties in which there has been a decrease both of crime and pauperism, comprising a population of 9,204,586, nearly two-thirds of the whole, while there are only nine counties (including four in Wales) in which there has been any increase both of crime and pauperism." "It was a most gratifying circumstance for him to be able to inform them that the number of prisoners fell considerably short of that which was generally contained in the calendar at this period
 1049 l 1050 "Information upon this subject (the state of the working classes in Scotland) from all parts of the country comes incidentally before the board in the course of investigations as to complaints of inadequate relief. The information derived from this source concurs with all the other information to which I have access, to establish the fact, that, except in some parts of the highlands and islands, the working classes of Scotland—agricultural, manufacturing, and mining—urban and rural, taken together, have not, during the four years that I have been connected with this board, been at any time so well off as they have been during the last half of 1849. There has been no other season within that time when the abundance of employment and the general adequacy of wages, with reference to prices, has enabled so large a proportion of the working population of this country to command an ample supply of the necessaries of life." 1051 s s 1052 l l 1053 "Stock in trade, therefore, was held to be liable as the only remaining species of property which complied with the conditions of being local, visible, and profitable. It was not, however, till a century and a half after the passing of the statute of Elizabeth that the liability of inhabitants to be rated for personal property was agitated in the courts of law. Lord Mansfield, whose judgments on subjects of poor-law were as admirable as those by which he gained so great a reputation in other matters, resolutely controverted the liability, insisting strongly that it was impossible to carry the liability into effect, and that if it were possible the practice would be highly impolitic. He described many of the anomalies which it would involve, and anticipated most of the practical difficulties which have since been experienced. Lord Mansfield said, in 'Rex  v 1054 1055 l l s d s d l l l l l l l 1056 "It is further to be observed, that the increase in the annual value of rateable property arises, not only from the improved cultivation of the land, and its consequently increased productiveness, but also, to a great extent, from the largo number of new houses and other buildings (such as manufactories and warehouses), as well as railways, canals, wharfs, &c, which are constructed from year to year. Accordingly, land, as such, pays a smaller proportion of the local rates in each successive year; and a larger proportion falls on the other sorts of rateable property. This fact appears from the table inserted in our ninth annual report, par. 27, which shows, that whereas the proportion of the poor's rates falling upon land was 69 per cent, and that falling on other property was 31 per cent, in 182G; the proportion falling on land was only 52 per cent, and on other property 48 per cent, in 1841." l l l l l l l l l l l 1057 l "The rate has been decreasing, the property on which it is levied augmenting, the relative amount apportioned on land diminishing, and the whole amount expended, as compared with the population, has been greatly reduced." l 1058 l l l l 1059 l l 1060 l l d d 1061 "In estimating the amount of the burdens to which real property is subject, the Committee have not deemed it necessary to attempt to draw a distinction between the owner and occupier of the soil, as representing separate interests. In many parts of the country they are actually identical, the owners cultivating their own property. Letting land to capitalists, instead of the owner cultivating it himself, is only a different mode of management; and all charges levied upon the land, whether paid by owner or occupier, reduce the net profits of their joint capital invested in the cultivation of it. The capitalist hires the use of the land and of the buildings necessary for the cultivation of it, as an instrument by which he may turn his capital to profit; and the price he offers is regulated by the liabilities he incurs in the employment of such an instrument. When those liabilities are easily ascertained, the capitalist can precisely calculate the consequent reduction in the amount he would otherwise pay for the use of the soil; but in cases where the charges fluctuate, and an approximation to their amount can alone be made, he subjects himself to the variation of those charges during the term of his occupation." 1062 1063 "My opinion is, that the best and most practical way of carrying that out is by doing that directly by a process which I pointed out formerly indirectly, namely, to lay an  ad valorem ad valorem 1064 1065
 SIR G. GREY : The noble Lord has mistaken my meaning, for I stated that no distress existed amongst the agricultural labourers. Durham is a mining, not an agricultural, county.
 SIR J. TYRELL : It was stated that they complained. Now this was followed by a statement of the great consumption of provisions and almost luxuries of life by the great mass of the country—who had so bodily rejoiced, as it were, and had been in the receipt of such immense advantages from the extreme depression in the price of provisions. But this, in fact, was the same
 1086 l Ministerial cheers 1087 s d. s l l l l 1088 l l 1089 Morning Chronicle
 SIR J. TYRELL  assured the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down that he was remarkably well satisfied with the speech which he had thought proper to make—as satisfied as the hon. Member himself could possibly be. He was not so sure, however, that he could consider it as a perfectly disinterested speech; for without imputing improper motives, he could not help remembering, when the hon. Member was analysing the resolutions of the Isle of Thanet Farmers' Club, that the Isle of Thanet was not very far from Dover. He therefore could not give the hon. Member credit for such great independence and utter absence of all considerations for the future as the hon. Member could wish. The hon. Member thought the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department as a triumphant answer to that of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire; but he must remind him that the hon. Baronet  bonâ fide
 MR. MOFFATT , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, that the object of it was, first, to remove the privileges which were at present retained by insolvent Members of that House not in trade; and, secondly, to deal with Members similarly situated who were in trade. Most persons agreed in thinking that it was very discreditable to Parliament that it should be the only sanctuary still existing in which fraudulent bankrupts and insolvents could take refuge. There could be no difficulty in proving the insolvency of a Member by the plan which he proposed. He had been, indeed, told that a great objection was, that parties might buy up judgments against Members, and so get
 1115 l l l 1116
 MR. S. ADAIR  observed, that there existed a general impression that speculative builders erected better cottages than were usually built by other parties, and at more reasonable rents. He trusted that the hon. Gentleman would persevere with the Bill—that he would make it compulsory and final. To leave the application of it discretionary, would be, as he thought, most inexpedient. He might mention to the House a case in which the collection of the arrears cost 17 per cent, and that cost fell, not upon the owners, but the occupiers. For these reasons then he thought it the most just and expedient plan that the owners should pay the rates.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  thought it was unnecessary for him to say that he approved entirely of this Bill, because, with the exception of fixing the maximum at 1 s s 1133 s
 MR. G. BERKELEY  said, that under those circumstances he was quite sure it would be a boon to the forest to have the deer destroyed.
 MR. G. BERKELEY  asked whether orders had been issued by the Commissioners of Woods and Forests for the destruction of the deer in the forest of Dean, and in the New Forest? And, if so, whether copies of the orders would be laid upon the table of the House, as there was no right to destroy deer in a royal forest without an Act of Parliament?
 LORD J. RUSSELL  considered that there were very considerable practical difficulties in the way of dealing with pluralities, especially in cases where no house was provided for the clergyman, and where the income was small. All that the House would do now by voting for the second reading was to affirm that further restrictions in the law permitting pluralities were requisite. His right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department had intended to bring forward a similar Bill to the present, and he should therefore like the Committee on the Bill to be postponed, until time had been given to the Government to consider the subject and confer with the Archbishop of Canterbury thereupon.
 MR. HAWES  said, that in answer to the question, which was one to which he attached very considerable importance, and which he did not at all regret the hon. Gentleman had brought under the consideration of the House, he should reply that the Government had as yet received no official account of the conduct of the officers of the barque  Indian ex parte
 MR. FREWEN : Yes.
 MR. FREWEN , in reply, said a communication was made to the Archbishop of Armagh last Session, and he was aware that it depended upon his Grace whether pluralities should exist in Ireland. He was happy to say that for the last twenty-two years not a single faculty had been granted by the Primate for the holding of pluralities in that country.
 MR. FREWEN  moved the Second Beading of this Bill. It appeared from a recent return, that there were 589 cases in which clergymen had been appointed to two livings since the passing of the last Act on this subject. This afforded a strong case for passing a Bill in order further to check the practice. He saw no objection to clergymen holding two livings when they were adjoining eadh other, and the population of both was small; and there were many cases of this kind where no inconvenience was sustained, because the people of one parish could attend the services of the other. He would ask the House to affirm, by their assent to the second reading, the principle that the present law was not sufficiently stringent, and that it was desirable it should be made more effective. The Bill which he had had the honour to introduce last Session on this subject passed a second reading; but, on account of the lateness of the Session, he was unable to carry it further. He had since received many letters from clergymen in different parts of the kingdom in favour of his Bill, one in particular from the prebendary of one of our cathedrals, pointing out abuses
 1128
 MR. PACKE  considered that the House
 1134
 MR. PACKE  would oppose the measure, thinking that agricultural Members in the present state of matters would require to have some protection against the stringent working of the bankruptcy laws.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  had a pecular desire to support the Bill. He did not see why a trader in the House should be exempted from the laws which affected traders in general. He would, therefore, support the second reading.
 MR. DIVETT  wished to ask the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies a question upon a subject which had been noticed already in another place, and of which he had given the hon. Gentleman notice. He had that morning sent a paper to the hon. Gentleman, which he had received from New South Wales, in which details were set forth of the most disgusting nature, regarding certain conduct of men and officers, which had taken place on board the barque  Indian 1114
 MR. DIVETT  said, that the reply of his hon. Friend would give general satisfaction throughout the country.
 MR. HORSMAN  wished to see the principle of doing away with sinecures and pluralities carried out to the utmost extent in the Church. His objection to the Bill was that it did not go far enough. He held it to be most important to give every parish a resident teacher, by which means a great stimulus was given to private benevolence. Where parishes were small, he would unite them into one for  quoad sacra
 MR. AGLIONBY  was of opinion that the discussion of these points had much better be postponed until the Bill went into Committee; he was bound, however, frankly to state that he could not continue his support to the Bill unless the right of voting were permanently secured to the occupier.
 MR. GOULBURN  entertained great objections to the principle of the Bill, and should move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. He admitted that there were few things more objectionable than contracting debts without the means of paying them. But if the question was to be considered as a moral one, there were a great number of offences just as bad, in a moral point of view as the nonpayment of debts, and with which the House was just as much called on to interfere. But the fact was, that the matter was one for the decision of constituencies, who were the best judges of whether or no a man's circumstances fitted him for representing them in that House. The Bill, if carried, would circumscribe the powers of the constituencies; for many a man under temporary circumstances of embarrassment, might nevertheless be chosen as a representative by a constituency having the fullest confidence in the integrity of his intentions. Many Gentlemen of limited means had thought it right, for the honour of their family, to take upon themselves debts which they inherited from their parents, and, if unable to discharge the obligation thus assumed within a limited period, they were to be liable to be expelled from the House as unworthy of a seat in it. A person in this unfortunate situation might even, under this Bill, be by law incapable of being re-elected. Besides, the measure if carried would revive the old disputes between the House and the constituent body of the empire, as to whether the former had the power of rejecting a
 1117
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that he had received a letter from Manchester—not, however, upon the subject of the present Bill—from parties who were deeply interested in the security and extension of the franchise; that communication stated that in many cases the landlord would not pay the rates, though his rents were regularly paid to him; and thus he might, either through neglect or malevolence, disfranchise his tenants. He did not hesitate to say that no man's franchise ought to be placed in that sort of jeopardy. If he paid his rent and did his duty as a member of society, he ought not to be disfranchised on account of the conduct of any other person. Then there was another ground of complaint fairly enough urged in the letter that he held in his hand, which was this: Landlords often compounded for the rates of houses which were under the value of 10 l
 MR. REYNOLDS  observed, that the right hon. Gentleman who spoke last had referred to the Municipal Reform Act for the purpose of showing that that statute Secured to the occupier the right of voting; but though the Irish Municipal Reform Act contained a clause copied from that to which the right hon. Gentleman referred, yet it did not secure to the occupier the right of voting. The occupier of a shop or of a tenement might claim to be rated, but that was not the point; occupiers ought to possess the franchise, no matter who paid the rates. His own case was this—he rented a counting-house; he served a notice desiring to be rated; at the same time, also, he offered to pay any rates that might be due; but he was told that nothing was due, which was giving him what in Ireland was called "a Quaker's receipt," being an ingenious mode of evading the stamp duties. Upon the subject of the notice which he served he had taken the opinion of counsel, and he had been told that his notice was insufficient, because it did not set forth the value of the tenement. Now, it was most absurd to require that a tenant should set a value upon the premises which he himself occupied. It might seem some-. what impertinent in him to speak upon a Bill which only affected England and Wales; but hon. Members on both sides of the House, who were only English Members, had continually interfered in the affairs of Ireland, and had spoken as if they meant to minister to all the social diseases on the other side of the water. He did not complain of such political doctor-
 1126
 MR. HENLEY  did not believe the measure would relieve the poor at all, but at the same time there might be places to which it would be applicable. It would be necessary, however, that in Committee the Bill should be more strictly guarded; for instance, a longer notice should be given when parties were to appear before the vestry, so that no parties should be taken by surprise. He would vote for the second reading, but reserved to himself the right of dealing with it on the third reading according to the state in which it then should come before them.
 MR. HENLEY  observed, that there were two distinct principles involved in the Bill, and it might be possible to agree with the first, and to entertain considerable doubts about the second. He had, himself, great doubts about the second branch of the measure, particularly after what had been said by the Attorney General, because it was quite clear, though the old distinction between grand and petty larceny had been admirably introduced by the hon. Member for Droitwich, that this Bill would be the commencement of a system for doing away with trial by jury. That, however, was a matter which might be discussed hereafter; and he thought, therefore, that the hon. and learned Member for Dundalk had taken a prudent course in not dividing the House now. With regard to juvenile offenders, as the great object of the former Bill was to prevent their contamination in gaols, he thought that sixteen years of age was the proper line of demarcation between the boy and the young man.
 MR. HENLEY  said, if Mr. Hume was prepared to act upon the principle he had laid down, he would consent to place this charge upon the Consolidated Fund, because not a single shilling could be laid out upon the erection of a lunatic asylum without the sanction of the Secretary of State for the Home Department.
 MR. HUME  said, the Secretary of State had nothing to do with the details.
 MR. HUME  said, that upon the same principle as that which had been urged by Mr. Spooner, the whole charges which now devolved upon owners and occupiers, such as poor-rates, county rates, and other rates, ought to be laid upon the Consolidated Fund. Too much had been already done in that way. He objected upon principle to any charge being thrown upon the Consolidated Fund that was not expended under the direction of Her Majesty's Government. Where the appropriation of the money was under the sole authority of the magistrates, it would be a perversion of principle to impose a charge upon the national taxes. He therefore protested against the doctrine of his hon. Friend. He had no objection to the present measure; it was a very small concern, and it seemed to him that it would be better to bring all these charges under one category.
 MR. HUME  said, that having voted for a Bill requiring a bankrupt to vacate his seat six months after his failure, he could not be said to favour the doctrine that Parliamentary privilege ought to shield a man from just legal process. This Bill would, however, be attended with great injustice in many of its bearings. He thought that no individual ought to be empowered to plead Parliamentary privilege when called upon to pay his debts; and he would be prepared to concur in any measure, so far abolishing that privilege; but he repeated that a great many cases would arise in which, from the arrangements of society, the Bill before them would operate most cruelly. He submitted that a Bill ought to be introduced for the purpose of remedying the evils to which he had alluded.
 MR. MULLINGS  supported the Bill, thinking that no person ought to have his property or his person exempted from legal process by Parliamentary privilege, so long as he was unable to pay his just debts.
 MR. NAPIER  remarked, that though quite willing to facilitate the proceedings of creditors against property, he apprehended that this Bill might place the votes of Members too much under pressure. A judgment was often given along with a mortgage, the rents might happen to be in arrear, and moneyed men might acquire undue influence over votes.
 MR. NAPIER  had found, from his communications with Ireland, that a measure of this kind was very much needed, in mercy to the poorer class of criminals who were now tried before a jury. They endured a punishment before they were put on their trial far greater than their offence deserved. He had received a letter from the assistant barrister for the county of Cork, in which it was stated that out of seventy-eight cases in the Crown book for the current sessions, many of the prisoners had been sent from distances ranging between thirty and forty miles. The letter went on to say that there was a man now waiting his trial on a charge of stealing a piece of timber valued at three-halfpence, and when he was discharged from gaol, he would be fifty miles from home. Another would be put on his trial for stealing twelve sods of turf, and he would be thirty-nine miles from home when released from prison. His opinion was, that the law at present in force was too severe on the lower classes. The magistrates had the power of adjudicating in a summary manner where offences were committed on the growing produce of the land to a very considerable amount, though they could not do so when it was severed from the freehold.
 MR. BAINES , referring to the Municipal Reform Act, said that it provided sufficiently for securing to occupiers the full right of voting, whether they were liable to the rates or not. The overseer must, under that Act, put the name of the occupier on the roll. He was sure that the hon. Member for Hertfordshire desired to secure to occupiers the indisputable right of voting.
 MR. BAINES  said, that if he agreed in the opinion of the hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat, that the Bill would press heavily on the poorer classes, he should be the last man in the House to vote for it; but he honestly believed it would not have any such effect. Under the present system, the owner of property on which there was an exclusion of rates contrived to get a higher rent than he otherwise would, and was the only person who benefited by the law, while the poor man did not gain any advantage from the exemption, and the public generally lost by it. And when the hon. Gentleman alluded to speculators running up cottages for the poorer classes, and concluded the Bill would prevent their doing so, he actually adduced one of the strongest arguments in favour of the Bill, because he called attention to the case of persons who in building laid out their ground in such parcels as they knew would be exempt from the rate, and thereby gained a benefit all their own. The Bill of the hon. Member for Hertfordshire was not, as the hon. Member for Stroud might have led the House to understand, a compulsory measure, rendering all persons, owners of cottages within a certain limit of value, liable to be rated. His (Mr. Baines's) opinion was, that if any fault was to be found with the Bill, it was that it did not go far enough; but it was a step in the right direction; and, as it would effect a certain amount of good, though not all that might be effected by improved legislation, he hoped the House would give their assent to the second reading. He wished to call the attention of the hon. Member for Hertfortshire to one point. By the 59th George III., c. 12, sec. 19, known as Sturges Bourne's Act, there was a power given to the vestry to pass resolutions by a majority, with the object that, in certain cases, the owners should be rated instead of the occupiers; and the evils which that Act was intended to meet, and which existed to a tenfold degree at present, were recited in the clause as follows:—
 "And whereas in many parishes, more especially in large and populous towns, the payment of the poor-rates is greatly evaded, &c., and it hath been found persons letting houses do receive much higher rents for the same, on the ground that the occupiers thereof cannot be effectually assessed to the poor-rates, and do thus obtain an undue advantage to themselves; be it enacted, &c., that the owners of all houses, &c., which shall
 1122 l l l l à fortiori l l l
 MR. P. SCROPE , believing that the deficiency of house accommodation for the poorer classes was most prejudicial to the interests of society at large, and that the proposed Bill would tend to augment the evil, was prepared to offer the second reading his decided opposition. The Poor Law Commissioners, Captain Robinson, Mr. Austin, and others, had reported strongly that house accommodation had not extended in proportion to the increase of the population. They stated that the proprietors disliked cottage property, as there was a difficulty in collecting the rates, and sometimes the cottages were pulled down. He admitted the difficulty of the present system, but he would rather endure it than submit to the alterations proposed by the Bill. He anxiously asked the Government to postpone, at all events, the consideration of it till they had disposed of the settlement question. It was no light matter, for it affected that large class of the people who were unable to pay the poor-rates, and were not paupers. If they rated the owners, they might depend on it the pressure of the rate would fall on the occupier. The rents received generally on this class of property did not return more than 2 per cent, and no person would build cottages for the poor in future, if he had to pay 4 s s
 MR. M. MILNES  considered that the objection which the hon. and learned Member for Dundalk had urged was one which militated against the principle of the Bill, and that he ought therefore to go to a division at once. He himself did not see what reasonable ground there was for objecting, in the case of juvenile offenders, to a summary jurisdiction on the part of magistrates, or to the infliction of corporal punishment. Neither did he see any reason why this summary jurisdiction over juvenile offenders should not be extended, as it was proposed by this Bill to extend it, from fourteen to sixteen years. He found that in nearly all the prisons in the country, juvenile criminals were classed as offenders under the age of sixteen years. The only fault he had to find with the Juvenile Offenders Act was, that the juris-
 1132
 MR. SPOONER  said, his objection to the measure was that this charge ought not to be thrown upon the landed property at all. Lunatic asylums were buildings in which the whole community had an interest. The charge ought, therefore, to be borne by the whole community, and paid out of the Consolidated Fund.
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  thought that if the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin had made out that this measure was absolutely necessary for Ireland, it would not be difficult also to show that it would be of great advantage in England. He had had some experience of the sematters, as chairman of the quarter-sessions in his district, and he must say that scarcely a session passed during which the grand jury did not, by memorial, complain that a number of trumpery cases were brought before them which any magistrate might easily have disposed of with perfect justice to the parties and to the community. The magistrates, however, had no discretion in such cases, for they were bound by law to send persons charged with those offences to take their trial either at the assizes or the sessions. He had seen cases where the articles stolen were so trifling in point of point of value, that a laugh was caused in the court. The hon. and learned Member for Dundalk, who, he thought, ought to take the opinion of the House on the principle of the measure now, if he meant to take it at all, objected to giving any further jurisdiction to the magistrates in summary cases; but, in point of fact, the magistrates had, in one respect, more powers at present than this Bill would give them. If, for example, a man were to break into a gentleman's garden and take the fruit from his trees, or break into his hothouse and take the grapes from his vines, he could not be tried by jury, but would be punished by the magistrates. He saw no objection to that part of the Bill which extended the summary jurisdiction to persons of 16 years of age, as he believed that many offenders escaped
 1135
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  declared that he was not at all satisfied in his mind that the present measure was right, or was better than the measures which he had opposed on previous occasions. He was much inclined to think with the hon. Member for Stroud that the effect of rating the owners would be to check what was so much wanted—the building of convenient cottages, affording comfortable accommodation for the labouring population, at low rents. The object of every Gentleman was to afford such accommodation at the lowest possible cost. If a labourer was unable from poverty to pay the rate, he could, Tinder the present law, go before the magistrates, with the consent of the overseers, and prove his inability, and they would then excuse him for the time being. It was also a very common practice for the overseers to take into consideration the state of cottage property in their district, and if they knew a certain number of persons were, from poverty and low wages, unable to support themselves, and pay rates, to come to a resolution not to charge them to the poor-rates. It was a common practice for persons who had laid by money in youth to purchase a plot of land and erect cottages on it, under an impression that the sort of tenants to whom they intended to let those cottages would never be charged with any rates; and he doubted whether, under the provisions of the Bill, they could fix any particular species of property with rates; he also had serious doubts whether the House ought to agree
 1124 ex post facto s l
 MR. SLANEY : Is the Bill prospective in its operation?
 MR. SLANEY  stated, that speculative builders often came into a neighbourhood where their presence was not much desired; that they ran up cottages and filled them with inhabitants, who competed with and often did great injury to the independent labourer, and thus the whole population of the district became more or less deteriorated. When he looked at the authorities which had given opinions upon these subjects, he found that thay were all in favour of such a measure as that before
 1125
 CAPTAIS JONES  did not think the Bill at all suited for Ireland, and considered that even if the present Primate of Ireland was favourable to it, his successor might not be so.
 MR. SOTHERON  felt it unnecessary to trouble the House at any length in moving the second reading of this Bill, as it passed through that House last year without opposition. Its object was to supply an omission in the Act of 1845, relative to pauper lunatic asylums. By the Act of 1828, on that subject, it was enacted that the rate should be charged be-
 1136
 MR. SOTHERON  perfectly concurred with the hon. Baronet who had last spoken, that the same principle which recognised the division of the rate between the owners and occupiers for the maintenance of lunatic asylums, equally applied to a division of the rate raised for erecting prisons and all other county buildings; and if his hon. Friend would bring forward a proposition for making the Consolidated Fund bear the expenses of all these county matters, he (Mr. Sotheron) would vote with him; but at present he wished to deal with what he understood to be an evil much complained of. The fact was, that the Bill passed in 1845 for providing for the expense of erecting these buildings, omitted a clause which was inserted in the Act of 1848; and all that he now intended to do was to re-enact that clause.
 MR. HALSEY , in reply, said, he intended to put in some clause or clauses that would have the effect of guarding the franchise, but he was not disposed to make the Bill compulsory.
 MR. HALSEY , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said that the House must he aware that a very great amount of property now escaped the payment of rates, and that, at the same time, the constant changes of occupation in small tenements caused immense trouble to the overseers. He had with him a letter from a most excellent magistrate of Bedfordshire, expressing the pain with which he signed warrants to distrain perhaps the beds of poor families for rates, and urging the expediency of charging them upon the landlords in the case of small houses. The existing law was really a premium upon idleness and dissipation, for the party who was made to pay was the industrious man who saved a little money and bought furniture. It was a mistake to suppose that if the rates were charged on the owners, the rents would be raised; but the comforts of the cottages would be increased. [The hon. Member read a letter from a parish containing a large quantity of cottage property, and an extract from the tenth report of the Poor Law Commissioners, in regard to the effect of an Act passed in 1841, empowering the overseers of Kidderminster to rate the landlords of small tenements.] He asked the House to mark the success of such a measure where it had been tried. The Committee of the House of Commons, in 1837, and the Committee of the House of Lords, in 1846, reported in favour of the view he had taken. He trusted he had shown the necessity which existed for an alteration in the law, and that the measure he proposed was calculated to effect such an alteration in a mild and beneficial manner. He hoped, therefore, the House would not re-
 1120
 MR. DEEDES  supported the second reading of the Bill, and hoped that the hon. Member for Hertfordshire would improve his measure by adopting some of the suggestions that had been made.
 MR. HAYTER  said, that there were no such orders issued regarding the New Forest, of which His Royal Highness the Duke of Cambridge was ranger, and over which the Commissioners of Woods and Forests had no power to make such an order. With regard to the Forest of Dean, over which they had full power, and where there was no ranger, there had been such universal complaints of the demoralising influence upon the people living around, produced by the opportunities
 1113
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  said, that he had given notice of an Amendment with respect to this Bill, but it was not his intention to move it upon that stage. His objections to the Bill were twofold in their character; he objected to the jurisdiction proposed to be given to the magistrates, and to the alternative punishment which it was proposed to inflict in certain parts of the Bill. He was far from being of opinion that some alterations were not required in the law as it now stood; but he objected to the proposal of giving increased power to the magistrates. With regard to the Juvenile Offenders Act, he did not think that it had been attended with the good results which had been expected from it, because the punishment which it authorised did not apply to offences committed by persons in the higher ranks of society. Juvenile offenders in the superior ranks of life had no temptation to commit larceny; and if the upper classes were not to be visited with a punishment which affected their sense of dignity and of corporal pain, then, he contended, that it was not fair that two justices should be empowered to administer a whipping to persons who stole a bunch of turnips, when they happened to be under sixteen years of age.
 SIR G. GREY  had no objection to make to the second reading. He believed that both the Primate of Ireland and the Archbishop of Canterbury were very desirous that some measure should be passed making an alteration in the law regarding benefices and pluralities. The Bill might, therefore, be read a second time; but the House must not be asked to go into Committee on the Bill until he had had an opportunity of consulting with others, with the view of proposing certain alterations in the Bill which would make it satisfactory.
 SIR G. GREY  had no hesitation in saying that he thought it would be extremely wrong if this Bill should operate in any way to the disfranchisement of any parties possessing the franchise, and be believed that nothing was further from the intention of the hon. Gentleman who brought in the Bill. His right hon. Friend the President of the Poor Law Board had said he thought a clause in the Municipal Bill would prevent it; but he would look into the subject, and if he were not satisfied that that clause would have that effect, he would take care that a clause for the purpose should be introduced. He hoped the hon. Gentleman would not name the Committee for an early
 1127
 SIR G. GREY  supported the principle of the Bill, but he did not consider that principle to involve the paying of the ex-
 1137
 SIR G. GREY  observed, that to a certain degree, Parliament had imposed a duty on the Secretary of State in reference to the erection of pauper lunatic asylums. The ratepayers in counties and boroughs were under the obligation of building those asylums, and the Secretary of State was bound to see that the obligation was fulfilled; but he had no control over the expense.
 SIR G. GREY  would observe that the discussion, last year, upon the subject to which this Bill related, showed the difficulty of carrying out the principle proposed without a measure applying with great harshness in many cases. Feeling how little prospect there was of the House ultimately agreeing to a Bill which would accomplish the object in view without involving still greater inconveniences and
 1118
 CAPTAIN PECHELL  said, that although he had found it necessary to oppose former measures on this subject, he should not oppose the second reading of the Bill.
 SIR H. HALFORD  agreed that the principle of the Bill was in the right direction, but he did not see why it should not be extended to the case of county rates
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  thought that the better course would be to withdraw the Bill than to allow it to pass a second reading, when there was every probability that alterations might be proposed in Committee which would entirely alter the character of the Bill.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  did not understand the principle upon which they were legislating on this Bill. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth when he proposed the repeal of the corn laws, also, for the partial relief of the agricultural interest, removed a portion of the charge for criminal prosecutions, which formerly fell on the county rate, to the Consolidated Fund. He (Sir H. Willoughby) thought the charge for lunatic asylums should be placed on the same footing. He could not conceive why this charge should fall only on real property, while all classes of the community were subject to the grievous calamity of lunacy. Not less than 12,708 persons were confined in the pauper lunatic asylums last year. He thought that it would be better to deal at once with the county rates than by a small measure like the present.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  begged to remind the hon. and learned Gentleman that under the Juvenile Offenders Act, a discretionary power was reserved to the magistrates either to proceed summarily or to commit for trial.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  moved the Second Reading of this Bill. He stated that he considered it one which would meet with the general concurrence of the House, its object being to introduce a considerable improvement in the administration of the law with respect to small offences. The Bill proposed, in the first place, to extend the provisions of the Juvenile Offenders Act, and to give magistrates the power of summary jurisdiction, irrespective of age, in cases of larceny below a very limited amount. With respect to the other portions of the Bill, it would be recollected that at the commencement of the last Session he had intimated his intention of bringing in a Bill of this kind, and the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General then stated that it was the intention of the Government to deal with the subject, they being of opinion that some alteration in the general law of larceny was imperatively called for. He had no wish
 1130 s l l 1131
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  said, he should support the measure, but he could not help remarking that, as long as he had been in the House they had had a Bill before them about highways, and another for rating small tenements; but he hoped the present year would dispose of both questions. Any
 1123 l l
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, there was no difference of opinion as to the desirableness of having a resident clergyman in every parish in the kingdom. It was easy to say that no two livings ought to be held together by the same person the aggregate value of which should exceed a given sum, except they were contiguous: but he saw in a recent return a case where six livings were held by one clergyman, the united income of which did not amount to more than 300 l
 MR. W. MILES  regretted to have heard what had fallen from the hon. Member for Oxfordshire, as, having sat for sixteen years as chairman of the court of quarter-sessions, he was fully convinced of the necessity of some such measure as the present Bill. With regard to the age of juvenile offenders, three years' experience had satisfied him that the discretionary power of magistrates might be advantageously exercised over boys under sixteen years of age. As to that portion of the Bill which related to cases in which the value of the article stolen did not exceed one shilling, he could assure the House that out of sixty or seventy cases at the quarter-sessions, there were nineteen or twenty of this kind, in which felonies had been committed by persons to save themselves for starvation.
 MR. G. BERKELEY  said, it seemed almost presumption in him to differ from what had been advanced by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon; but, representing as he did a large county, and being also thoroughly acquainted with tenant-farmers in several counties, he must do them justice as far as he could, though under such grievous disadvantages. The right hon. Gentleman said, if he (Mr. Berkeley) understood him correctly, that no great reduction, or in fact no reduction in wages, had taken place among the agricultural labourers of this country. [Sir J. GRAHAM: NO, no!] Well, then, of Cumberland. But the effects of free trade were not fully complete, and, taking the three counties of Glocestershire, Wiltshire, and Hampshire, with the agriculturists and tenant-farmers in which he was in constant communication, he must say that he knew the tenant-farmers were reluctant to discharge their labourers, whom perhaps they had employed for a number of years. They were pausing before they took that harsh step. It was not fair, then, to judge, under the present circumstances, of the full effects of free trade. What had the tenant-farmers done? In many instances in his own knowledge they had assembled their labourers, and said to them that times were so hard, and they were driven into such straits, that they must either discharge one-half of them, or keep on all at reduced wages; and, to the credit of the labourers be it said, they said in a body, "Keep us all; we are willing to work at reduced wages." The right hon. Gentleman also said that, in the long run, he thought free trade would turn out advantageous; but it was precisely what the tenant-farmers were anxious to find out—what was that long run? If the right hon. Gentleman had held out any hope—if they could guess at the end of their misfortunes, the farmers might, perhaps, be more contented; but they now
 1228 1229 s s 1230 1231
 LORD H. BENTINCK  said, he should not have risen at all, had it not been for the direct reference which had been made to him by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth; for he had not the vanity to suppose that, at that late hour of
 1263 1264
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, before the House comes to a division I feel it to be my duty to state—and at this late hour I shall do so very briefly—the reasons why, as a Minister of the Crown, I think it my duty to resist the Motion of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire. The hon. Gentleman came forward, and, in a speech the temper and ability of which have been generally acknowledged, has proposed to us to go into a Committee of the whole House on the subject of the poor-laws, with a view to such a revision of them as may mitigate the distress of the agricultural classes. The hon. Gentleman has told us that, if we go into that Committee, he will propose three resolutions—the effect of the first of which would be to transfer to the Consolidated Fund the whole expense of the establishment of the poor-laws; the second would transfer to the Consolidated Fund some half a million of other charges; and the third would place upon the general revenue of the united kingdom the cost of maintaining and providing for the casual poor. The hon. Gentleman reckons that upwards of 2,000,000 l. l. l. l. 1254 l. l. l. 1255 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. l. s. l. l. l. 1256 s. l. l. 1257 l. s. l. l. l. l. l. s. l. 1258 1259 l. 1260 l. 1261 "I fought for the navigation laws, but they are gone. Let us act with the spirit of Englishmen, and see whether we can't get better men to command our ships—whether we cannot build them cheaper, as well as improve their construction, and whether we cannot stand against the competition of the world." 1262
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that Her Majesty's Ministers who had spoken on the question, appeared to admit the existence of distress in the agricultural districts, and were also deeply sensitive to the charge of treating the existing distress with levity and indifference. There were now two questions to be decided—one as to the continuance of the distress, the other as to the best manner of remedying it. With respect to the question of the continuance of distress, he had observed that while the Speech from the Throne contained expressions of the greatest gratification at the cheapness of provisions, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and all the Members of Her Majesty's Government, present or past, had united to declare that the existing distress was only to be removed by a rise in the price of agricultural produce; and the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated it to be his confident opinion that prices would rise. The Tamworth manifesto spoke of temporary depression, and the Netherby speech of agriculture being "under a cloud." Now, what was the meaning of these expressions? What was the "depression"—what was the "cloud?" He wanted the line to be given where cheapness, instead of a blessing, became a curse to the community. The noble Lord and the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary had charged hon. Members with deceiving the farmers, by holding out hopes of a return to protection when they knew that was impossible. He denied that this was correct. The protectionists only said protection was a means to an end. The great object they had in view was to raise the prices of the produce in which the agriculturists dealt, to a remunerating point. It was, therefore, unfair on the part of Government to cast obloquy on them by as-
 1180 s. 1181 l s. l. 1182 s. s. 1183 "Further, it may be said, that the land is entitled to protection on account of some peculiar burdens which it bears. But that is a question of justice rather than of policy. I have always felt and maintained that the land is subject to peculiar burdens; but you have the power of weakening the force of that argument by the removal of the burden, or making compensation.  * * Hansard d. 1184 1185 1186
 MR. DISRAELI  replied: The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State, in following him the first night of the debate, had replied to a speech which he (Mr. Disraeli) had made in the House at the beginning of last Session; he also replied to a speech which he had the honour of making, in the county of Essex, during the recess; but the right hon. Gentleman, in his eagerness to meet all the points of the case, quite forgot to make any reply to the observations which he (Mr. Disraeli) made when he introduced this Motion on Tuesday last. The right hon. Gentleman said the Government were much disappointed that he had not proposed something definite respecting the Law of Settlement, which was rather singular, since, in the reports on the Law of Settlement by their own Commissioners, which the Secretary of State himself had just laid on the table, it was stated that although the general feeling of the country was against the Law of Settlement, as at present existing, yet opinion was equally general against any interference with that law, unless the Legislature, at the same time, interfered with the whole question of levying the rates for the maintenance of the poor. As that was a question which he (Mr. Disraeli) studiously and avowedly did not interfere with on the present occasion, his object being to avoid as much as possible all elements of controversy, he thought the disappointment of the Government at his declining to deal definitely with a subject on which the Government, and no one else, was prepared to legislate, was a disappointment which had rather been occasioned by unfoended expectations. The right hon Gentleman had also charged
 1265 1266 Hansard 1267 1268 1269 De Coronâ 1270 A laugh. 1271 l. l. 1272
 MR. J. WILSON  said, on the ground of justice he would join issue with the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He had thought the right hon. Gentleman, from the attention which he must have paid to the incidence of taxation, must have arrived at the conclusion, that, however unequal a tax was in the first instance, it was impossible for it to remain unequal. He would now come to another point, which had been much relied upon by the right hon. Gentleman and by other hon. Gentlemen. It was said that if landed property inherited those charges,
 1215 1216 Gazette s. l. l. 1217 1218
 MR. BUCK  thought that the fact of agricultural distress was almost too manifest to require any elaborate exertions to prove its existence. Landlords had reduced their establishments; farmers had in numbers of cases reduced the wages of their labourers and the amount of employ-
 1224 1225 l. l. 1226 s. s. l. l. d. d. 1227
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that concurring cordially, as he did, with his right hon. Friend who had just addressed the. House in the general opinions he had expressed with regard to the effect of our commercial policy, and having uniformly voted with him since the dissolution of the late Government on every important question affecting the trade and internal economy of the country, and attaching, as ha did, the greatest weight to the authority of his opinion, he felt it incumbent upon him to state briefly to the House the grounds of the vote he intended to give, inasmuch as on the present occasion that vote would be different from the vote given by his right hon. Friend. He felt the more bound to state his reasons, because he thought that his right hon. Friend, in the course he intended to take, appeared to be mainly governed, not by that which was in the Motion now before the House, but by that which was not in the Motion. His right hon. Friend had taken the course which was usually effectively taken in that House,
 1205 l. l. 1206
 MR. GLADSTONE  was happy that he had enabled his right hon. Friend to state that the expression he had used was an accidental phrase which did not altogether express what he felt, because if he (Mr. Gladstone) saw in the Motion now before the House the reversal of the policy of free trade, he should join with his right hon. Friend in offering the firmest resistance to such a course. He confessed that his view of this case was so weak, so mean, and so narrow, that he was almost ashamed to present it to the House after the gigantic picture which his right hon. Friend had drawn. But he did not consider he was giving up his discretion, nor that he was binding that discretion, by voting for the terms of the resolution announced by the hon. Gentleman. What he understood to be the purport of the Motion, and what he pledged himself to, was this:—The hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire urged that there was a considerable portion of the charges connected with the poor-law which might be transferred to the Consolidated Fund, without detracting from the advantages
 1207 1208 1209 s. 1210 1211 1212 bonâ fide 1213 l. 1214
 SIR J. GRAHAM : If I unguardedly used such an expression, it was not my intention to do so. What I said referred to the relief of the labouring classes from the great burden of taxation, and transferring that burden in part to the general revenue of the country.
 SIR J. GRAHAM : Sir, it is with very great diffidence that I proceed to address the House under these circumstances; and, if it is their pleasure, I shall readily give way to my right hon. Friend below me. ["No, no!"] I was not aware that he entertained an intention to offer his observations at this period of the evening, or I should not have risen to address you; but, having done so, I shall, in obedience to your call, venture to offer a few remarks en the question before us. The hon. Gentleman who has just sat down concluded his speech by observing that the question we are now called on to discuss is momentous; and I think he added that the cause he advocated was gigantic. Now, I think it is most desirable that we should fix, if it he possible, the precise subject we are to discuss, and therefore I shall not follow the hon. Member into the question of the game laws. I shall not even touch upon the Ten Hours Bill, much less shall I dwell on the question of landlord and tenant, and, even though the subject of Ireland be more germane to the matter, I shall still pass over the Irish portion of the discussion, to which the hon. Gentleman has invited us, thinking, with your permission, that I shall best discharge my duty by offering what I have to address to the House at this early hour strictly limiting my observations to the question before them. I agree With the hon. Gentleman who has just spoken, that the question we are really to discuss is a very large one; but if I thought it could be narrowed within the limits, clear and simple, which the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, who introduced the Motion, has assigned to it, I should have been perfectly willing to have rested my vote on the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department, who, in a clear, conclusive, and comprehensive manner—["Oh, oh!"  and cheers. 1190 l. l. 1191 l l. 1192 1193 1194 1195 1196 s. 1197 l. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. l. l. l. 1198 l. l. s. 1199 "Our poor country is in a lamentable condition. We are less clamorous on this side of the water, but our condition is most alarming. Our distress—the agricultural interest—is unbounded. All this is the result of a long course of bad government. I know that the Government is influenced by an honest desire to mitigate our evils, and to remove the causes; but the difficulties that surround them are the accumulation of a series of errors." s. s. 1200 formâ pauperis ad misericordiam l. l. l. l. 1201 1202 l. l. 1203 "I cannot, help calling attention to the altered position in which Glasgow is now to that in which it was placed a twelvemonth ago. At that period we were suffering under the ravages and the fears of a dreadful distemper, with trade not yet recovered from the shock of the monetary crisis, and the working classes still only partially employed. At the present moment the city is free from any great epidemic—with trade and confidence restored—with money cheap and provisions low—with the merchant and manufacturer full of hope, and the
 1204
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, whatever motives I might have for wishing to address the House upon a subject which has been brought forward with great ability, and with great moderation—whatever other motives I might have for wishing to address the House, the necessity under which I feel myself impelled to take a course different from that which will be taken by my right hon. Friend the Member for Oxford, is a sufficient reason for desiring to explain the grounds upon which that course is taken. For my right hon. Friend I have the greatest respect and admiration. I was associated with him in the preparation and conduct of those measures to the desire of maintaining which he partly attributes the conclusion at which he has arrived—from him I derived the most zealous, the most effective assistance—and it is no small consolation for me to hear from my right hon. Friend, although upon this particular Motion we arrive at different conclusions, that his confidence in the justice of those principles for which we in common contended, and which are the foundation of the commercial policy which of late years has been adopted, remains entirely unshaken. Sir, before I address myself to some remarks of my right hon. Friend, I wish to state, with respect to the agricultural interest, that I do not deny that it is suffering considerable distress, and that for that distress I feel, on every account, the warmest sympathy. [An Hon. MEMBER on the Opposition benches: Oh, dear!] Sir, I believe the House will be of opinion that I take the most becoming course in passing without notice the inarticulate sounds with which the hon. Gentleman has interrupted me, although those inarticulate sounds are, I admit, equally powerful with any arguments which the hon. Gentleman could adduce, and at least equally entitled to consideration. I shall not be disturbed, however, by him from entering upon the discussion of this subject with the temper which befits it. Sir, I know not why the hon. Gentleman
 1232 s. s. 1233 s. s. "At our to-day's market the trade generally ruled dull, and the turn in prices was in favour of the buyers, though we do not expect an important decline, the value of the corn being already too depressed to pay the rents of our farmers." 1234 "Prices of corn are for the present very low everywhere in Europe; but, taking into consideration the good quality of some produces of our growth, and of our best brands of flour, combined with the low freight obtainable now, we consider that our market deserves the attention of every one willing to risk interest of money at a low rate against the chances of a rise, whilst a further decline is quite improbable, as needy sellers have everywhere disposed of their crops, and also noticing that the continuance of the present prices in this part of France would soon involve the ruin of the landed interest." 1235 1236 1237 l. l. l. 1238 l. l. l. 1239 Lord Ministerial cheering. 1240 1241 l. l. 1242 Laughter, and cries of l. l. 1243 1244 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1245 l. l l. l. 1246 l. 1247 1248 1249 1250 1251 1252 1253
 SIR R. PEEL : I really am quite ashamed to trouble the House upon this matter. The noble Lord said, at a public meeting, that I had a direct and personal interest in proposing the repeal of the corn laws, because my property was three-fourths in the funds, and one-fourth in land. He now asks whether I have not something in mortgages? If it is any satisfaction to the noble Lord, I will tell him that I have not a single shilling on mortgage; and what I said to the noble Lord was this, that if he had reversed his statement that I had three-fourths of my property in the funds, and one-fourth in land, he would have been nearer the truth.
 MR. RICARDO  said, the whole of the capital required by this Bill did not amount to 100,000 l
 MR. RICARDO  said, the promoters of the measure had been canvassing for votes, and issuing handbills in the lobby of the House.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  stated, that he, as a county Member, was quite willing to accept the measure as far as counties were concerned, but he hoped that, so far as boroughs were affected, the Bill might not pass in its present form; he trusted, at the same time, that the eventual success of the measure would not be hazarded by unfairly pressing the objections which existed against it. The case of boroughs differed very materially from that of counties—for example, in boroughs an 8 l l
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  thought that an improvement might be made in the Bill, by the adoption of a system of parochial classification of electors, in preference to the old baronial plan.
 LORD C. HAMILTON  thought that some feeling of modesty on the part of the hon. Member who had just spoken, might have prevented him from making such a sweeping attack upon the landlords of Ireland. Although they might have some faults, he would appeal to the House whether their treatment of their tenants was not somewhat better than the mode in which the hon. Member had treated the inhabitants of Snigg's End? [Mr. O'CONNOR: My tenants pay no rent at Snigg's End.] He would admit that the representation required extension, but the House might run somewhat rashly into the other extreme. One of the main causes of the present limited number of voters in Ireland, was the extreme apathy on the part of many persons who were qualified to be on the register, but who failed to take advantage of the privileges which the existing law placed within their reach. From whatever cause it arose, there was at present a disinclination on the part of persons of all religious creeds, of all political parties, and of every station in life, to place their names upon the registry. This was one of the most remarkable symptoms of the present social state of Ireland.
 1302
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that if they postponed the Bill till after Easter, other measures would interfere with it. If some hon. Members were obliged to attend the assizes, that was no reason why they should give up other important public business.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I now rise to move for leave to bring in a Bill to make better provision for the management of the Woods, Forests, and Land Revenues of the Crown. I don't intend, especially in the absence of my noble Friend the Member for Bath, who was chairman of the Committee on this subject, but who is unable to attend the House, to enter at present on any long explanation of details. I shall only state generally the reasons which have induced Her Majesty's Government to think that the department may be better managed by means of the separation now proposed than by the continuance of the present system. 'Till 1832 there were different offices for the management of the land revenues of the Crown, the woods and forests, and for the department of the Surveyor General of the Works. It was thought expedient to unite these offices under three commissioners. But experience has shown that the combination of these offices has led to the imposition of very large and undue charges on the Land Revenues of the Crown for the purpose of public works, and that the First Commissioner of Woods and Forests being a person connected with a political party, is not so well fitted for the management of the department of the Woods and Forests as a person would be who was totally unconnected with a political party. What we propose, therefore, is to have in the first place three commissioners, two of them salaried, who shall have the management of the Land Revenues of the Crown and the Woods and Forests, and that none of them shall be capable of sitting in the House
 1319 1320 l l l l l
 LORD J. RUSSELL  stated that he proposed to postpone this Bill; in the first place, because be thought it desirable, as there was to be a question whether there were to be two houses of legislature, or
 1288
 MR. O'FLAHERTY , without pledging himself to the details of the Bill, thanked the Government for bringing forward such a measure. He trusted the Bill would not be postponed, but that the constituency of Ireland, now nearly extinguished, would be renovated as soon as possible.
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  must appeal to the Chair. This was going beyond the question. He was a Member of the Committee, and could say that the witness was not brought forward by the Government at all, but by the hon. Member for Kerry, and he came forward voluntarily.
 MR. HAWES , in answer to questions from Mr. Grattan, Mr. Divett, and Lord Ashley, said, in reply to the question of the hon. Member for Meath, who referred to the treatment of some Irish orphan girls who had gone out, that papers would be laid on the table which would show what had been done in regard to the matter; the Government were determined to investigate all such cases, and to punish guilty parties with the utmost severity. In the case of the  Ramilies
 MR. SPEAKER : The question is whether this evidence was reported to the House. As I understand the hon. Baronet, the evidence was not reported to the House: a majority of the Committee decided that it should not be reported to the House, and in that case it cannot be made use of here.
 MR. SPEAKER : I am listening to the explanation of the hon. Baronet. It appears to me that this was evidence offered to the Poor Law Committee, and it was decided by a majority of that Committee that it should not be reported to the House; and there is no question about it that the hon. Baronet cannot use that evidence.
 MR. SPEAKER : It may have been offered as evidence; but if it were not reported, the hon. Baronet cannot use it.
 MR. CARDWELL  was glad, as a Member of the Committee, that this subject had occupied the attention of the Government. He agreed with the noble Lord in thinking that there was no department of the public service in which there was greater scope for improvement. He thought the proposed arrangement was calculated to promote economy in the public service. The suggestion of the noble Lord as to showing, on the face of the estimates, the sum expended on any improvement for public works, was one with which he entirely concurred, for the greatest possible security would thereby be afforded that the money would be well laid out. He quite concurred in the propriety of separating the two departments. The objections discovered by the Committee did not apply to any particular period or to the time of any First Commissioner: it was but just to say this; but undoubtedly the evils and objections of every kind to which the system had naturally
 1321 "Did you find a difference of 785 loads between the actual measurement of trees cut down in 1848 and the estimated contents?" "Yes; 804 loads were the estimated contents, but the actual measurement was 1,539 loads." "Did it appear to you that a large quantity of timber had been stolen in broad daylight, in the most open manner?" "I believe so; no doubt of it; early and late, in the daylight and the dark, just as it suited. "Were the loads properly marked in many instances?—I don't think so in many; some of them were marked, but not what I consider properly. "Did you find that more trees were cut down than were authorised by the Treasury warrant?—In every case. "In every case that came under your observation?—I have looked back for three or four years, and I find it has been the custom, for some years at all events."
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  approved of this measure, as most opportune and necessary. He looked upon it, not as a measure of principle, but of policy. The promoters were afraid that, unless the county constituencies were enlarged, Ireland would return a majority of Protectionists; but they felt perfectly secure of the towns and boroughs. When the hon. Baronet the Member for Radnorshire talks of the rapid strides of democracy, he must tell him that the landlords of Ireland had always measured their property by the standard of political power, rather than by the public necessities and the State requirements. It was the resistance of the landlords to the development of the generous mind of the people of Ireland that had driven the people to a wild democracy; and he would tell the landlords that until the present system of quibbling government was done away with, we would never see the only proper and sound system of government established—a system of pure democracy. The landlords of Ireland could not say they were in the same position as the landlords of England: the English landlords were gentlemen, the Irish landlords were tyrants. He accepted this measure,
 1301 l l l
 MR. LABOUCHERE  objected to a clause in the Bill, which gave limited liability to those who engaged in the undertaking; but as its promoters had intimated to the Board of Trade that they were willing to alter that in Committee, he should not oppose the second reading.
 MR. FARRER  believed the principle of the Bill to be just and equitable, and said that, with respect to canvassing, there had been no mention of any opposition until the night before, so that there was very little time for soliciting votes in its favour.
 MR. FARRER  said, it was rather unusual, without a strong case being made out, that the House should refuse to send a Bill to a Committee upstairs, particularly such a one as the present, which held out a promise to afford very great convenience to the country. He hoped the hon. Member for Stoke would not persist in his opposition to the second reading, as he would have an opportunity of stating his objections in Committee.
 Mr. BRIGHT  said, that he was glad to find that there was a general understanding on the other side of the House which amounted to a general acknowledgment that some Bill of this nature was necessary, and that they had come to the conclusion that the condition of the representation in Ireland, which some years ago they would not allow to be amended, now required some improvement to be applied to it. But from observations which fell from hon. Members on the other side, he was induced to believe that they were disposed to make the offers of the Government much smaller than they were. Some of the propositions made by them were of a most extraordinary character. The hon. Member for the county of Dublin expressed a desire that the amount of rating to confer the qualification should not be less than 25 l 1303 l bonâ fide 1304 1305 1306
 COLONEL RAWDON  considered that no less a measure than this could remedy the great defects in the condition of the Irish constituency. He could not help observing that the hon. Member for the city of Dublin had been excited even to anger by certain portions of the Bill, while the hon. and gallant Member for the county of Dublin insisted upon a 25 l 1300
 MR. REYNOLDS  suggested the propriety of reconsidering those clauses of the Bill which had reference to the establishment of polling places, in order to consider whether a reduction of expense might not be made, by allotting a larger number than 300 voters to each polling place. The proposal, also, to establish separate polling places for freemen, would, in his opinion, prove a source of considerable expense in
 1318 l
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that this Bill could not give satisfaction in Ireland, it fixed the franchise too high. He should propose a 4 l l l 1292 l l l 1293 l l l l 1294 l l s d 1295 s 1296
 MR. SADLEIR  entirely concurred with his hon. Friend the Member for the county of Limerick in entreating the Government not to delay this Bill. The disgracefully small number of persons possessing the franchise in Ireland required that this Bill should be passed without delay. The present Bill was literally a transcript of the one before the House last Session, and yet hon. Gentlemen opposite were desirous of postponing it on the ground of surprise. Many districts of Ireland were almost entirely deprived of the franchise. In the county of Tipperary, which possessed a population little under 500,000, the number of persons entitled to vote was scarcely 400; and those 400 voters consisted principally of clergymen of the Established Church and rent-chargers. He was astonished how any hon. Members could argue that this Bill would tend to lessen the number of leases granted in Ireland. Hon. Gentlemen must know perfectly well that in a large portion of Ireland the conservative party, the chief proprietors of land, had been induced to withhold, on political grounds, from their tenants the protection and security of a lease. He thought this most injurious to their own interest, for it was a great bar to any improvement in the agriculture of Ireland. The Bill must necessarily encourage the system of granting leases in Ireland, and in conjunction with the other measures proposed by the Government and co-operating with them, it must necessarily encourage agriculture and industry in that country. He was surprised that hon. Members should have lost sight of the fact that the Irish people were, from the successful operation of a system of national education, eminently qualified to possess and properly to employ
 1314 l
 MR. W. PATTEN  was in favour of inquiry, and would, therefore, support the second reading.
 SIR J. YOUNG  begged to say, as chairman of the Committee, that the hon. Baronet was under a mistake.
 SIR J. YOUNG  approved generally of the principle of the Bill, one of the chief merits of which was that it made the registry system self-acting, and gave the franchise to a person having a certain amount of property. The decrease in the registry was no new thing in Ireland; it was observed as far back as 1838, and one main cause of it was basing the county franchise upon the lease of the tenant, instead of upon his valuation. He believed the effect of an 8 l l l
 MR. HUME  said, if this Bill was to do any good to Ireland, it must meet the wishes of the community there. The hon. and learned Gentleman objected to even this modified reform. His principal reason for rising was to point out to the House that this Bill could not do justice to Ireland. A franchise of 8 l l s 1291
 MR. NAPIER  said, he felt it his duty, before this Bill was read a second time, to call the attention of the House to a consideration of some of its more important clauses. The Bill was divisible into two parts. One concerned the qualifications of electors, and the other the registration. With regard to the latter part of the Bill, he did not intend to offer any observation, because, so far as the registration of electors went, the principle of having an annual registration was a good one. Any objection that he had to that part of the Bill, was on matters of detail. But with regard to that portion of the Bill which Concerned the qualification of electors, he objected to the Bill because it would alter the whole franchise of the kingdom. This Bill did away with the necessity of a beneficial interest on the part of the voter, and it made it compulsory on a man to take the franchise. The reason put forward for the Bill was, that the constituency in Ireland had dwindled away, and that unless they renovated the constituency through the instrumentality of this Bill, they would soon have no constituency at all. The population had diminished, and then they introduced the novel principle of increasing the county voters. The borough franchise was not substantially altered; but this Bill inverted the principle in which the county and borough franchise ought to stand, and did stand at the present moment. In the case of the borough franchise, no beneficial interest had ever been required; a man occupied a house or a warehouse of a certain value, and it was not necessary that he should have any beneficial interest. The case of the county franchise was different. The county franchise did not depend on a man's residence, but on his connexion with the locality in which his vote arose, and in addition to that, according to the constitution of this country, some beneficial interest had always been required of him, for the purpose of qualifying him to vote. Now, the change introduced by this Bill was, that it required no tenure whatever; but a man occupying premises which were rated to the poor-law at 8 l 1290 l l l s
 MR. NAPIER  hoped that as several Irish Members would be obliged to attend the assizes, the right hon. Gentleman would not name so early a day.
 CAPTAIN TAYLOR  thought the 8 l l 1299 l
 MR. W. FAGAN  did not rise for the purpose of entering into the merits of the Bill then before the House, but to entreat his right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland not to accede to the wishes of hon. Gentleman opposite to postpone the Bill. It was evident from the discussion that had taken place, that those hon. Gentlemen at the opposite side of the House intended to give the Bill the most determined and vigorous opposition. For two years they had had the present Bill postponed, and he could state that the consequence had been to diminish the franchise very considerably. In the city which he had the honour to represent, the franchise had decreased in the last two years, in consequence of the feeling of the people that the Government intended to introduce the present Bill, and in consequence of
 1308 l l l l 1309 1310
 MR. KEOGH  did not think any one could hesitate for a moment in saying that some such measure as this was absolutely necessary, on looking to the returns before the House. The population of England, at the present moment, was 15,000,000, and the constituency was 796,000. The population of Ireland was 8,175,000, and the constituency 72,796. So the population of Ireland was more than one half the population of England, and the constituency in proportion to each million in England was 53,000, while the proportion to each million in Ireland was somewhat about as many hundreds. Now, let them take the return of all persons entitled to the franchise under the present Bill. The entire amount of the constituency, if every person paid up the rates, would be 374,000. So that, supposing every person entitled in point of value should be put on the register, still there would not be a constituency in equal proportion to the constituency of England, considered relatively with the population of England and Ireland. That statement, he thought, should calm the feelings of those persons who thought the constituency of Ireland would be too large, and they might deduct from that 374,000 fully one third who would disqualify themselves by not paying the rates. With respect to the borough franchise, it had been said that the proposed franchise was too high. He considered, however, that it was impossible, consistently with the principle adopted of payment to the poor-rate, that the franchise could be made any lower. At present, it was very limited indeed. In Cashel the constituency was only 150; Downpatrick, 120; Ennis, 114; Lisburn, 164; Portarlington, 177; and Athlone, not more than 350. Some alteration was imperatively called for, and he would at all times be found ready to support any measure which sought to place upon a broad and substantial footing the constituencies in Ireland.
 MR. MONSELL  said, a suggestion had been made for establishing a difference in the qualifications of persons possessing leases, and those possessing none. The reason assigned for that suggestion was an anxious desire that the people of Ireland generally should have leases. One of the chief reasons why the number of voters in Ireland had been so greatly decreased was, that the landlords had refused to give leases to their tenants, in order to prevent them from having the privilege of voting. He hoped that the suggestion he had mentioned would not be adopted by the Government. [The hon. Gentleman then read an extract from the report of a Commission sent into Ireland during the period of Lord Stanley's holding office as Secretary for Ireland, which stated that the number of leases, in every part of Ireland visited by the Commission, was very small, and that there was a very general indisposition
 1313
 MR. PINNEY  moved the Second Reading of the British Electric Telegraph Company's Bill.
 MR. GROGAN  hoped the Government would not follow the suggestions of the hon. Member for Manchester, and refuse to listen to suggestions, simply because they came from that (the Opposition) side of the House. He thought that it should be necessary to make application before a man was placed on the registry, in order to prove that he had a desire to be upon it; for he thought it highly objectionable to put a man upon the roll contrary, it might be, to his own wishes. A distinction should be made in the Bill betwixt a man having occupation under a lease, and one who was merely a yearly tenant, in order that encouragement might be given to the granting of leases. He must say, also, that he thought 8 l s 1307 l l l l l l s
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  was understood to say that when the details came
 1322
 SIR J. TYRELL : If they refused to hear a few sentences from this Roman Catholic priest's evidence, he would withdraw it, but on some future occasion he would bring it forward. He could well understand the extreme anxiety of hon. Gentlemen opposite not to hear the observations he had to make; but in passing a measure
 1312
 SIR J. TYRELL  deprecated the course taken by the last hon. Gentleman, in anticipating so early determined opposition from his (Sir J. Tyrell's) side of the House. In reference to the statement made by the hon. Member for Manchester of the unhealthy influence of the Roman Catholic priests, he (Sir J. Tyrell) would read a few extracts from the evidence given by a Roman Catholic priest who was attached to the management of a large property in the Kenmare union, and who was brought forward by the Government in the Committee on the poor-law as a witness to whose evidence they attached great weight.
 SIR J. TYRELL  could assure the House that he would only address them for a few moments. This was a question with regard to a new Reform Bill, for there was an extension of the suffrage proposed for Ireland. The hon. Member for Manchester had stated that the influence of the Roman Catholic priests was very great, and the hon. Member for the city of Cork denied that view of the case. The Government, wishing to show the social condition of Ireland, produced before the Committee a
 1311
 SIR J. TYRELL : I don't set my authority against you; all I say is, that this was proposed to be evidence.
 SIR J. TYRELL  did not say it was evidence, but it was undoubtedly the opinion of a person of great influence and importance, as a Roman Catholic priest, with respect to the social condition of the Irish people, the cultivation of the soil, and the conduct of the Marquess of Lansdowne.
 SIR J. B. WALSH  said, the speech of the hon. Gentleman, the Member for the city of Dublin, convinced him that the hon. Member for Montrose was right when he said the Bill would not satisfy any party in Ireland. It disappointed those who were represented by the hon. Member for Dublin, and it excited grave apprehensions on his (Sir J. Walsh's) side of the House. The political effect of the measure would be to increase the numbers and alter the character of the Irish constituencies. An Irish farmer of 8 l 1297 s 1298
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, he had listened attentively to the remarks that had fallen from both sides of the House with reference to this measure, and it appeared to him that there was scarcely any one of them which did not apply rather to its details than principle: he said, "scarcely any," because his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the University of Dublin did, he thought, take exception to the time at which the measure was introduced, and he also objected to it on the ground that the franchise which it proposed to give was
 1316 bonâ fide 1317
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  moved the Second Reading of the above Bill.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that with respect to the expense of polling places, he should be perfectly prepared to consider any plan calculated to reduce the expenses attendant upon them. With respect to the baronial classification, it was a matter of extreme difficulty, but he had endeavoured to meet some of the objections previously urged against it, as far as he could.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  wished to ask his right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland whether it would be possible—in order to afford them information as to what the probable number of the constituency of Ireland would be—to lay on the table, before they went into Committee, any papers that could be obtained, possibly through the poor-law guardians, showing them what the constituency, in counties under an 8 l
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  would again appeal to the House whether the hon. Baronet was in order in making this statement?
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  rose to order. He appealed to his hon. Friend whether it was proper that he should go into such a question during the debate on this Bill.
 MR. P. WOOD  thought it right that the country should know what this measure was with regard to which so singular a course had been adopted. This was a measure which, having been before Parliament for the last three years—[An Hon. MEMBER: For the last fifteen years.] Yes, for fifteen years, but more especially during the last three years; and its object was to give to Ireland, the constituency which, owing partly to bad legislation and partly to unforeseen misfortune, had been reduced to 40,000 voters in a country of 8,000,000 persons. Such an extension of the franchise was certainly required as should make the number of electors amount to about 250,000. A good deal of machinery had to be put in Motion before the Bill could operate, and unless the first stop were taken before the 1st of June, there could not be any additional voters until November. He understood that the Irish assizes would not terminate until the 10th of April; and if the further stages of the Bill were delayed until that time, or until the middle of May, the effect would be to deprive the Irish people of the franchise for another year. He thought it unreasonable to ask for any postponement of the measure on the ground that Irish Members could not be present, when 75 of those Members out of 105 were now in London. If the postponement which hon. Members opposite asked for were conceded, it was perfectly clear that the Bill would have to
 1353
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  said, there was no instance of any party having resorted to those means with either credit or success. As an Irish Member, he did not think it his first duty to attend the Irish assizes; he had given the Bill his best consideration since Friday, and was prepared to go into Committee. The Amendments were principally as to the amount of the county franchise, which applied to the second part of the Bill; and there was time enough before Friday to put such Amendments on the paper. And if the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin wished the postponement of any particular clause, the Government, or the sense of justice of the House, would, doubtless, grant it. Already two hours had been lost in which a portion
 1354 in nubibus
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  thought, from the silence of the hon. Members on the other—the Ministerial—side, that they were gradually coming to a conviction that the conduct of the Government was unjustifiable. Those hon. Members had attributed to hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House motives and feelings for which there was no authority. They pretended to be acquainted with even the state of their stomachs—whether they had dined or not. Why, he took up the  Times 1368 l l l
 COLONEL KNOX  would ask, if it was not a perfectly valid objection that all the Irish county Members were absent when it was sought to proceed with a measure involving a total change in the representation of Ireland? He could not conceive anything more outrageous to the feelings of Irish Members than the hon. Member for Dundalk getting up to defend such a course of policy on the part of the Government. It seemed' to be forgotten that the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland,
 1384
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  said: Even if I were disposed to agree in every clause of the Bill now under discussion, I should feel it my duty, as a Member of this House, to protest against and oppose its introduction, from the very indecent and unconstitutional manner Her Majesty's
 1366 embarrass de richesse; 1367
 MR. SCOTT  thought the noble Lord had acted in a manner unfair to the House, unfair to the colonies (respecting which an important measure stood on the Notice-paper for to-night), and unfair to the Irish Members. When a measure affecting Scotland was brought forward, it was never an answer to the Scotch Members, although only fifty-three in number, to tell them they should have no time allowed for its consideration, because it had been introduced in previous years; but the learned Lord opposite, the Lord Advocate, if they brought forward measures affecting Scotland which the Scotch Members believed to be ill-judged and ill-considered, was obliged to withdraw them again and again, that time might be given for their consideration by the people of Scotland; and if in legislating for Scotland; and for the colonies, they waited to hear the opinions of the people most immediately concerned, he considered that they were bound, on the principle of "justice to Ireland," to postpone this measure until full and distinct information was in the hands of the Irish Members as to the feelings of their constituents. The noble Lord said the people of Scotland held county meetings on a particular day, to discuss legislative questions affecting their interests; but in Ireland no such custom prevailed. Well, he (Mr. Scott) considered this all the stronger reason why the Irish Members should be allowed an opportunity of collecting the sentiments of the people by the most available and legitimate means. Again, he understood that, in the course of a few days, the hon. Member for Montrose was to bring forward a measure to
 1386
 LORD C. HAMILTON  reminded the right hon. Baronet that the measure respecting tenant-right, which had been allowed to be postponed, was not a new measure. The former Bills on the same subject, and of a very similar character to the Bill of this Session, had been almost numberless. Therefore, there was no plea for refusing the opportunity to consider the measure in one case, and granting it in another.
 LORD C. HAMILTON  hoped that the Irish people would become acquainted with what was taking place in that House upon this occasion, and then they would know that the Government were attempting to deal with an important measure affecting the constituency of Ireland in a way in which they would not venture to act with respect to an English turnpike Act. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had not replied to the question whether any Bill of the same description had ever been brought forward in the same manner. Ireland was entitled to see measures affecting her interests receive the calm deliberation accorded to measures affecting other portions of the empire. She ought not to be treated as Ceylon had been treated—like a hostile community. But the discussion of this measure had been made to depend on the contingency of another Bill not being brought forward. No such uniform rating existed as the machinery of the Bill required, and the only evidence produced in support of it was a document which had, in all probability, lost its value as an authority in consequence of the changes now going on in the state of property.
 1373
 LORD C. HAMILTON  said, that not being in the confidence of the Government—not having, like hon. Members opposite, constant communication with the Government, hon. Gentlemen on that (the Opposition) side were not aware that the Government brought forward, last year, a Bill for the sole purpose of withdrawing it, and bringing it in again this year. The hon. Member for Carlow had spoken of this being the same Bill as the Bill brought in last year, except as to two clauses; but the hon. Gentleman was in error in supposing that merely introducing a Bill and then withdrawing it was the same thing as taking the sense of the House upon it. That was a new theory of constitutional legislation. This Bill had never been sanctioned by the House.
 LORD C. HAMILTON  said, it was natural he should wish to have an opportunity of consulting his constituents on so important a Bill. Hon. Gentlemen might sneer, and talk of his constituents  in nubibus 1355
 LORD C. HAMILTON  was in favour of postponement, upon the ground that there were considerable alterations introduced into the Bill now before the House, which tended to make it different, in some respects, from the Bills of former years—that it contained 122 clauses, with seven pages of arrangement clauses—and that it was only delivered wet from the printers on Wednesday last. He represented a large county in the north of Ireland, and had been precluded, by the haste now adopted, from obtaining the opinions of his constituents with reference to the measure.
 LORD J. MANNERS  asked if the convenience of Australia was to interfere with the convenience of the House? The hon. Member for Montrose put forward an incontrovertible argument for the postponement, when he said it was right to test public opinion respecting every important measure. He should move the postponement of the Committee to that day three weeks.
 LORD J. MANNERS  said, the hon. Member who had just resumed his seat had laid down a general proposition from which he was not disposed to dissent, namely, that the business of the House and of the country should not be postponed to suit the convenience of individual Members. And to that proposition he (Lord J. Manners) would add, that neither ought the convenience of Government to be consulted when important measures were before the House. According to an arrangement which had been made some days ago, a most important debate respecting the administration
 1362 bonâ fides sub silentio
 LORD J. MANNERS  said, the first clause of the Bill was the most important of all; and after that had passed, it would be too late then to repair the mischief when the absent Members returned from Ireland.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  then moved that the Chairman do now leave the chair and report progress. The hour was now too late (half-past eleven o'clock) to proceed with the discussion of the Bill. He proposed
 1387
 LORD J. RUSSELL  would not then discuss the question with respect to the motives that had actuated the opposition that night; but he really thought if hon. Gentlemen had any amendments to propose, that they should agree upon them, and give notice in due form. Of course he did not mean that they should state their views as to each particular clause. As to the postponement, he did not think it consistent with his duty to postpone the Committee longer than Friday next.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member had been made in so temperate a tone that it deserved some reply on his part, and he
 1364 l s l l l l 1365
 LORD J. RUSSELL  thought the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Staffordshire had certainly profited by the kindly suggestion of the hon. Member for Middlesex, that, as there was a disposition to discuss the affairs of Australia, hon. Members should make all the speeches they had prepared on that subject. To propose a question on Australia, and call on the Under Secretary for the Colonies to answer, seemed to the hon. Gentleman a good course to follow, but it was one to which he (Lord J. Russell) must decline acceding. When the affairs of Australia came before the House, he should describe what was the state of the law with respect to Western Australia. But the question now before the House was whether they should or should not go on with the consideration of the Bill relating to the elective franchise in Ireland. The hon. Member for Buckinghamshire had given an historical account, which was very amusing as an historical account, but which was open to criticism as to the facts. The noble Lord the Member for Tyrone told the House that the Bill was introduced last year by the Government for the purpose of withdrawing it, and therefore, as it was introduced only to be withdrawn, nobody thought it worth while to look at it. The fact was, it was introduced with the intention of being proceeded with, and carried through, if possible; but that was prevented by the discussion of other business. There was no reason why those who wished to pay attention to the subject should not have done so last year, or why the noble Lord the Member for Tyrone and the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire should have thought it unnecessary to look into the merits of the Bill. He (Lord J. Russell) did not see how the Government were to be answerable for the attention or inattention of hon. Gentlemen to Bills brought in, as the present Bill had been, last Session. It was surely fair to ask
 1378 cum notis variorum "The mischiefs arising from party processions, the defects of the laws regulating the relations of landlord and tenant, the imperfect state of the Grand Jury Acts, and the diminished number of electors for Members to serve in Parliament, together with other matters of serious consequence, would"— 1379
 LORD J. RUSSELL  had been asked by the noble Lord who had just spoken, to show a precedent for bringing in a Bill, having it read a second time, and going into Committee upon it in the following week. He would only say that such precedents were to be found in every journal of the House. But this Bill, as he had already stated, the main propositions of which the noble Lord was so anxious to have an opportunity of considering, was introduced on the 1st of May, 1848, and the main question contained in it was known to be whether the franchise, instead of remaining what it was at present, should be based upon an 8 l 1356 1357
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, I could hardly believe that the hon. Gentlemen who proposed that we should not go into Committee were serious, the main ground put forward—and a most insufficient ground for postponing any considerable Parliamentary measure—being, that the assizes are going on in Ireland. The noble Lord the Member for Colchester moved that the Bill be postponed for three weeks, but that would be just the time for the commencement of the Cork assize; and that being the case, I thought that the excuse of the assizes was merely meant to postpone this Bill for a very considerable time; and if it were postponed for a considerable time, and if we should then go into Committee, it would be interfered with by other measures, and it would be very difficult to dispose of it. The Bill has been before the House two Sessions, and the Irish people had a full opportunity of considering the principal provisions of that Bill. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin stated, that we were supposed not to be in earnest with this Bill, because it was not pressed forward last year; and, therefore, that no great consideration was given to the provisions of it in Ireland; but if we now postponed the Bill until after Easter, and if it were then interfered with by other measures, the hon. and learned Gentleman could say so still more truly, that there was not sufficient attention paid to the provisions of the Bill, and that we were not in earnest. It appears to me that a Bill of this nature, of which the main provisions have been for a long time before the House, and have been considered in Ireland, may be considered now in Committee. I don't know the use of bringing forward a Bill in one Session, and postponing it to another, unless it be that you obtain this advantage, that when you bring it on again you are not bound to treat it as
 1346
 LORD J. RUSSELL : My observations did not apply to the course taken with respect to the last Motion, but to the declaration that is now made by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire.
 MR. DISRAELI  said: Sir, the noble Lord complains of the course we have taken, and accuses us of obstructing public business. The noble Lord has referred to a passage still recollected in this House, in which the words he uses are to be found, but he did not finish the sentence. The individual by whom those words were used said, that "he was ready, and that he ought to be ready, to obstruct all measures injurious to the constitution and to the country." Sir, in my opinion that was a very legitimate description of the duty of Members of this House. But what is it that we have presumed to suggest? The noble Lord and his colleagues tell us that this is a Bill that was brought in last year; that, therefore, we must be presumed to be fully acquainted with it; and that one reason why the present Government introduces measures without the intention of carrying them, is to give hon. Gentlemen an opportunity next year of being masters of the subject. Now, that shows a confidence in the duration of Cabinets which a Whig Ministry could alone entertain. The noble Lord has also said that I have received my instructions elsewhere. Now, that is not a very constitutional nor a very courteous remark of the noble Lord. I understand that the noble Lord in his time has received instructions how to conduct himself in Parliament from many persons and from many places. But he cannot say, and he does not say, that we have received our instructions how to conduct ourselves from seditious clubs. The noble Lord, in a mode quite unworthy of him, has charged us with obstructing the business of this House in an unwarrantable manner, and has insinuated that we are guilty of factious proceedings. Now, the noble Lord is the last person in this House who ought to have made such a charge. I own I was surprised to hear this charge from the noble Lord when I remember that he was the person who brought forward a proposition in this House in which the fate of an Administration was involved—I mean the Appropriation Clause—and that when he had upset the Administration upon that clause, and when he took office upon it, the noble Lord had neither the conscience nor the courage to carry his policy into effect.
 1350
 MR. DISRAELI  said, it was some time since it had become necessary in that House to resist a tyrant majority; but, remembering the numbers who had voted in the minority, and looking at the nature of the division which had just taken place, he felt himself fully justified in the course which he had resolved to adopt. He hoped that the noble Lord at the head of the Government would yet consider the propriety of the suggestions which had proceeded from his (Mr. Disraeli's) side of the House, and not persevere in pressing forward a measure for the postponement of which there existed so strong a desire. He entertained this hope the more confidently as not one word had been said by the supporters of the Bill which in any respect met
 1344 coup de main 1345
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he did not rise to make any observations on the Bill itself, but to express his regret that they had not had that Parliamentary and distinct acquaintance with it which was necessary before they went into Committee. Generally speaking, he should be unwilling to deal with any subject of a material or political interest to Ireland but in a large and liberal spirit. He did not wish, however, to extend any favour to a measure which merely went to create an artificial suffrage, and he pressed on the Government strongly the necessity of postponing the Committee. There were five Bills relating to Ireland on the paper, which certainly was not a very felicitous arrangement, considering the Irish assizes commenced to-morrow, and that their recent legislation rendered it much more important now than at any previous time that Irish Gentlemen should attend the county assizes. The Bill was read a second time last Friday in a small and languid House, and they were prepared for a discussion on a very different subject that evening. Ministers might probably say the Bill was the same as that introduced last year; but it was impossible to suppose hon. Members had seriously studied an enactment which at the time
 1336
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that if he and his friends had lost the confidence and affections of the Irish people, by making this effort to secure in the transaction of Irish business the same courtesy and decorum which were observed in the transaction of English business, they must endeavour to bear that consequence as they could. Hon. Members opposite thought an increased franchise a universal panacea. His own opinion, if he were to give one on this Bill, was, that, large and liberal as the measure might be, if it were large and liberal, it was probably those who brought it in that would burn their fingers with their own invention. The more the franchise was enlarged the more were those turned out who were most eulogistic of extension of the franchise; and, whether in England or in Ireland, whatever experiments might be tried in either, many of those who were most loud-mouthed in the advocacy of such a measure as the present, might, when the newly-constructed Parliament was called together, most probably not be found among its Members. There was only one point now really of importance. Had Her Majesty's Government acted ingenuously towards the House in the conduct of this business? There were, he thought, ample facts before the House to enable them to form a candid and impartial opinion; and whether those who desired a postponement of the measure were beaten by numbers or not, there could be no doubt that, eventually, the judgment of the House and the country on the course which had been taken would settle down to a fair conception of the merits of the case. No one denied that the measure was one of great importance; if it were not so, it ought not to have been introduced at all. All the arguments, which had been repeated  ad nauseam 1374 Laughter from the Ministerial benches l from the Ministerial benches 1375 1376
 MR. ADDERLEY  wished to make but one remark, but it was an important one. It would be more advantageous to the business of the House if, when the Government
 1377
 MR. ADDERLEY  felt if the course which was pursued on that occasion by the Opposition was unconstitutional, he, for one, would not persist in it; but, on the contrary, he felt that the Government was not proceeding in a constitutional manner. The Government had jumbled the Bills they had introduced in such a manner that they hardly knew themselves what business would come on, and it was utterly impossible for independent Members to tell. Notice had been given that the Bill for giving a constitution to the free Australian colonies would be brought forward to-night; but this arrangement was changed the last thing on Friday, and it was announced that Her Majesty's Ministers intended to proceed with the Irish Reform Bill. That they should thus suddenly shift their ground, by passing from one important measure to another, was too much for the House patiently to submit to. What he complained of was, that the great subject of conferring constitutions on some of our most valuable colonies, and which
 1370
 MR. NEWDEGATE  would be exceedingly glad if some hon. Gentleman would explain the reasons why the Roman Catholic clergy, who had been such determined free-traders, had suddenly become protectionists.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  would remind the hon. Member for Middlesex, when he taunted the noble Lord the Member for Tyrone with his constituency, that he (Mr. Osborne) had joined a party who had promised him a new constituency in the room of that of Middlesex, when another election took place. The Health of Towns Bill, which had been originally introduced into that House, had been withdrawn before a similar opposition to the present, and an amended and improved measure adopted in its stead. The conduct of Government on this question would raise a suspicion that they were anxious to divert the attention of the country from those great questions with which it was now agitated. Government was endeavouring to get them into a false position before the country by inducing the belief that Gentlemen on his
 1359
 MR. NEWDEGATE  hoped the noble Lord would not press it until further time had been given to consider it. Nothing but a sense of duty would have induced him to make the appeal to the noble Lord, If the noble Lord would not find it utterly inconsistent with the business arrangements for the next week, he trusted that it would be postponed until then.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  felt it to be his imperative duty to persevere in opposing Ministers, whose only object in introducing the Bill was to keep their seats on the Treasury bench. The manner in which they attempted to smuggle this important measure through Parliament was disgraceful. They claimed a majority on the Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire; but if the paid occupants of the seats on the right of the Speaker's chair had not voted they would have been in a minority. Hon. Gentlemen might accuse him of being factious; but what they called factious he considered constitutional and proper; and the Opposition was bound to avail itself of all the
 1371
 COLONEL DUNNE  approved of affixing the franchise to the rating; but he could not help observing that the constituencies of the boroughs would by its provisions be reduced almost to nothing. He should be sorry not to see this Bill proceeded with, though he thought that no measure of such importance to Ireland ought to be disposed of in the absence of the Irish Members.
 MR. SCULLY  said, for the last few years since he had been in Parliament, Irish Bills had always been treated contemptuously, and were ever put off to the last moment; and now when the Government came forward with a Bill for Ireland, he was sorry to see his hon. and gallant Friend led away in this manner. He had heard no argument for postponing this Bill, but just the very reverse. They were told that this was an imperial measure, and a question for English Members to consider; and were there not plenty of Members there ready and willing to discuss it? As an Irish Member he felt it his duty to attend the discussion of imperial measures. Grand juries could discharge their duties without the presence of the Irish Members, but the legislation of the country could not go on without the Irish Members. He said it was their duty to be there. He said this—that it depended on their own conduct and the length of their speeches, if they were to go into Committee. They had already lost half an hour by this discussion, and he hoped no further would be wasted. An hon. and learned Irish Member on Friday said, that this measure should go through the House of Commons speedily, and agreed to the second reading to allow it to go without delay into Committee. He (Mr. Scully) said this was a strong argument in favour of the Government proceeding at once with the Bill, and he hoped it would not yield to the wishes now expressed for a postponement.
 MR. GOULBURN , as one of those who voted in the minority, must entirely protest against having voted for the purpose of obstruction; but the noble Lord the Member for Tyrone having stated that be wished to communicate with his constituents on the Bill introduced on Friday night, he (Mr. Goulburn) thought it but right to give him, and others similarly situated, an opportunity of doing so.
 MR. GRATTAN  said, the way in which it was wished to hurry forward this
 1341
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he was not one of those who was disposed to complain of a fair and legitimate exercise of the forms of the House. He had no objection to that which the majority sometimes considered a factious opposition. He had been in minorities which had divided several times when those who were opposed to him accused him of high crimes and misdemeanors. But it appeared to him that a minority should at least have something like a fair case. He had listened with attention to the arguments in favour of the course which hon. Gentlemen opposite pursued. That which had just been put forward by the noble Lord the Member for Tyrone had been most completely disposed of by the noble Lord at the head of the Government. It was the first time he had ever heard that the whole proceedings of that House were to be put in abeyance because some hon. Gentleman had not taken care to consult his constituents. Another argument was, that hon. Gentlemen wished to attend the assizes. But what could be more fanciful and absurd than to suppose either that it was absolutely necessary for the Irish Members to go to the assizes, or, if they should go to the assizes, that it was absolutely necessary for that House to postpone this important business on their account? The business of that House should be paramount to all other business; and neither lawyers going on circuit, nor Gentlemen going to attend the assizes or quarter-sessions, had any right, or pretence of right, to ask that House to put aside any important public business for their convenience. Then, with regard to the argument founded on their ignorance of the Bill, it was as groundless as the other was untenable. The noble Lord the Member
 1360 Laughter 1361
 MR. HERRIES  asked whether it was right, reasonable, or even decent, to persevere with the Bill under the circumstances already set forth? On Friday last, the House was led to believe that the Australian Bill would come on to-day; but that had been postponed, and an Irish Bill substituted. This, however, was not in reality an Irish Bill, but a Bill affecting the interests of the empire at large; and certainly those best able to advise the House respecting details concerning Ireland, ought to be in their places when it was discussed. The Habeas Corpus Act had been alluded to, but that had been passed at a time of great emergency. He thought the noble Lord at the head of the Government would be ill-advised if he pressed the Bill upon a House which was evidently unprepared to enter upon its discussion.
 COLONEL RAWDON  said, the Bill was precisely the same as the one of last year; and, considering the rapidity with which the Habeas Corpus Suspension Bill, which suspended the entire constitution of Ireland, was passed, he thought the House ought not to delay this Bill, which Ireland had been waiting for at least nine years.
 COLONEL RAWDON  expressed his regret that the question had been treated as a party question. The Bill had been sufficiently long before the House, and the people of Ireland could not forget that they had but 30,000 electors out of a population of 8,000,000, while there were in this country 1,200,000 electors. He regretted as a friend to good understanding all that had occurred that night.
 MR. REYNOLDS : The House was now about to go to the sixth division since Mr. Bemal had taken the chair. He supposed hon. Gentlemen over the way would not allow him to call their hostility to the Bill factious, unless he put the addendum of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, that it was a factious proceeding for a constitutional object. He could not conceal his surprise at the conduct of the hon. Member for North Staffordshire, who seemed so desirous of conferring elective chambers and constitutional privileges upon the inhabitants of a distant colony, but would withhold them from his fellow-subjects at home. [Mr. OSBORNE: "Tis distance lends enchantment to the view."] He thanked his hon. Friend the Member for Middlesex for reminding him of the line he had just quoted. He thought, from the zeal of the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Staffordshire in asserting the privileges of the people of another hemisphere, that he might have claimed him as a Repealer. Alas! Irishmen were not to claim his paternal solicitude. His sensibility and tenderness were for the Australians, not for the Irish. He would not say that hon. Gentlemen opposite were playing "fantastic tricks before high Heaven," but they certainly were proceeding in a manner likely to provoke unpleasant inquiry out of doors. He entertained no feeling of ill-will towards hon. Gentlemen opposite; but if he did so, he could be gratified to his heart's content, for they were following the example of a certain animal that would be nameless, who swam until he cut his throat. They were working out that principle. Some Irishmen believed that hon. Gentlemen opposite—the protectionists and their leaders—meant kindly to Ireland. This night's proceedings would effectually dispel that delusion. Hon. Gentlemen opposite placed themselves in a wrong position. For his own part, he sometimes supported and sometimes opposed the Government, but had of late regretted to see they were fast become politically insolvent—they were losing their political capital daily, and the
 1372 Gazette
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, he was happy to hear, from the lips of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, that he was disposed to look at any proposition affecting the Irish franchise in a favourable light. But that hon. Gentleman had used a phrase—namely, "artificial franchise"—the meaning of which he (Mr. Reynolds) should like
 1337
 MR. REYNOLDS  thought it his duty, as one of the Members present on Friday night, to say that he understood from the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin, that he did not intend offering any opposition to this Bill going into Committee. He (Mr. Reynolds) could assure the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, that he was very much mistaken, indeed, if he thought that on Friday night twenty-five of the Irish Members were asleep. He (Mr. Reynolds) rather thought that the hon. Gentleman himself must have been asleep.
 MR. SADLEIR  declared that the majority of Irish Members were anxious that the Bill should be passed without delay, and the vast majority of the people were anxious that not a day's postponement should take place. It was more important not to leave Ireland without a constituency than that Irish Members should attend the assizes. At present there were only 400 voters in Tipperary, most of whom were 20 l
 MR. SADLEIR  did not rise to prolong the discussion, but for the purpose of stating a fact of importance to the Irish people. He wished to state that in the Bill which they were then considering there were only two new clauses, which were separate and distinct from the Bill which had been before the House in 1849 and 1848. Therefore, there was not the slightest ground for complaint by Irish Members that they were taken by surprise; because these clauses did not in the least affect the principle of the Bill, the sense of which was contained in the first three clauses.
 MR. STANFORD  had heard with sincere pain and regret an hon. Gentleman on the Ministerial side term the opposition—the constitutional opposition—now offered by the large and powerful party on this side of the House, "an organised system of hypocrisy." He did not think it calculated to enhance the dignity of that House to bandy about such accusations. He had not learned Parliamentary tactics—God
 1385
 MR. HENLEY  retorted, that Gentlemen on the other (the Ministerial) side of the House wanted to make this a party question, and did not treat their antagonists fairly, for if the latter had wished to make it a party contest, it would have been easy for them, instead of letting the Bill pass its second reading on Friday, with merely a few passing remarks, to have made it the subject of five or six nights' debate, and to have got up fifty Irish discussions on the one subject. They had not taken that course, yet the noble Lord accused them of wishing to prevent the extension of the franchise in Ireland. On Friday night Gentlemen on the different sides took various views of what the franchise ought to be. The very first clause of the Bill contained the pith of the question, and the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown know that only one division could take place on the question, whether the word eight should stand part of the Bill. Surely it was but reasonable to give time to hon. Gentlemen who held different opinions on that point. It was hard in the noble Lord to say, because this course had been adopted to secure a fair discussion, that therefore hon. Members were averse to the extension of the franchise in Ireland. He regretted the noble Lord had assumed that tone, for it was not an inducement to the Opposition to refrain as they had, from delaying, by much discussion, the progress of future measures.
 MR. HENLEY  thought the noble Lord at the head of the Government would not be able to adduce any one instance that would at all answer what, in his (Mr. Henley's) opinion, were the unanswerable arguments which had been put forward by the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin. He (Mr. Henley) thought he might safely defy the noble Lord to produce any one instance where a Bill of
 1352
 MR. HUME  considered the business of Parliament of such paramount importance that it ought not to be stopped because of the absence of any Members. Many hon. Gentlemen attended from all parts of the country to perform their Parliamentary duties, often at great personal inconvenience. He admitted that the measure in question was an important one, and that full time should be given for its consideration; but, beyond that, the convenience of individual Members should not be taken into account.
 MR. HUME : But are we to have these florins or not?
 MR. NAPIER  said, there were two points in the Bill, one directing the registration,
 1339
 MR. NAPIER  wished to explain, and trusted that the noble Lord at the head of the Government would do him the justice to admit that he had pressed him on Friday last to postpone the measure to allow a proper opportunity for its consideration.
 MR. NAPIER  said, before the House divided he wished to make a few observations, which might have the effect of saving much valuable time. As far as he (Mr. Napier) was concerned, it would be much more convenient, and consequently preferable, to go on with the Bill that night than ten days or a fortnight hence, because, professionally, he was acquainted with all the provisions of the Bill. But he certainly thought that in the case of Irish county Members, who declared the measure came on them by surprise, and that they consequently required time to make themselves acquainted with its details, a postponement might be acceded to. ["No, no!"] He assured the House he was far from offering the present Bill anything like a factious opposition; yet he thought he would be acting an unworthy part did he express his disapproval of the means adopted by these hon. Gentlemen—means which the forms of the House sanctioned—in order to secure time for deliberation. He suggested that parts of the Bill might be gone into that evening in reference to which there was no division of opinion; and that the other parts, on which hon. Members for Irish counties might wish to confer with their constituents, should be postponed to a future night. The matter was one of serious, of vital importance; and, therefore, he entreated the noble Lord at the head of the Government to adopt his suggestion, and that the House would discuss with temper and patience the various details of the Bill.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, that the noble Lord the Member for Tyrone had told the House that he and other hon. Friends had come down to the House with prepared speeches on the Australian colonies; he would therefore suggest to those hon. Members who had taken an early hour for dinner, for the purpose of opposing this Bill, that it would be as well to introduce some new matter in the present debate, and to make those speeches which they intended for the Australian colonies in this debate; for he was sure that, as the only object of the opposition was to delay and obstruct the measure, a few speeches on the Australian colonies would be quite as apposite as the remarks which had already proceeded from that (the protectionist) side of the House. The noble Lord the Member for Tyrone said that he had had communication with his constituents on the subject of this Bill. Now he (Mr. Osborne), although he had had no communication with the constituents of the noble Lord, still knew that his constituents amounted to just 1,360 out of the enormous population which he represented, and of these perhaps not 800 were entitled to vote, and that this Bill, if carried into effect, would place upon the register of the county for Tyrone at least 14,600 voters. He was one of those who rejoiced at the delay which hon. Members opposite had given to the progress of this Bill, as it would show to the people of Ireland the real character of the opposition. There had been great apathy prevailing in Ireland from various causes, and he was much mistaken if these proceedings did not open the eyes of the people of Ireland as to who were their real friends. It
 1358
 MR. R. M. FOX  said, that all the workhouses had been searched for the purpose of finding persons who possessed 5 l l l 1340
 MR. SHEIL : The Master of the Mint is merely the manufacturer of the coinage. The Chancellor of the Exchequer it is who will determine on the issue.
 MR. SHEIL : I might insist, with perfect truth, that the Master of the Mint is not responsible for the design of a coin, and that the coin in question was approved by an Order of Council which I did not attend; but, although this is literally the case, it would be disingenuous on my part to shelter myself behind these allegations, when, in point of fact, whatever fault has been committed, has been committed through my instrumentality, which, in an assembly of English Gentlemen, I think it better frankly and unhesitatingly to acknowledge, rather than to rely upon the mere forms of office in my defence. The facts are simply these. The design of the new two-shilling piece having been determined on, and directions having been given by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that upon the reverse of the florin there should be inscribed the word "one florin" and "one-tenth of a pound," it occurred to me, that in order to make up for the complexity of the reverse, the obverse of the coin should be made as simple as possible, and I accordingly suggested to Mr. Wyn, the chief engraver at the Mint, that "Victoria Regina" should be alone inscribed on the obverse, and that everything else should be omitted. I found that upon coins struck at Calcutta, no other words than "Victoria Regina" were inscribed. On the copper coinage the name of the Sovereign only has been frequently inscribed. My suggestion was adopted, and accordingly " Fidei Defensatrix Dei Gratia 1335 Dei Gratia
 MR. ANSTEY  thought that the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had just sat down had not paid a very handsome tribute to his constituents when he said that not one of them understood the Bill under discussion, which was so exceedingly intelligible. He appealed to hon. Gentlemen not to wear the appearance, as they repudiated the intention, of a factious opposition. They were all agreed upon the principle of the Bill, and why not accept the proposition of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, which was so exceedingly reasonable? The Bill was not a new one, but was before the House last year. If a measure was to be postponed until constituencies could deliver their opinions upon it, the House would set a very dangerous precedent. The Bill in itself was intrinsically good, and therefore could not be open to the appellation of revolutionary.
 MR. BATESON  protested against the indecent haste with which the Government were about to smuggle the Bill through the House. He would not now allude to the merits or demerits of the Bill. It might be the best Bill that ever emanated from the fertile brain of an Irish Secretary; but, to his mind, the arguments advanced in favour of postponing the further stages were unanswerable. He could only account for this haste by referring to the division of Thursday night. That division perhaps alarmed the Government so much that they thought the safety of their darling idol, free trade, was jeopardised. If this were a Bill to feed the hungry or to clothe the naked, he could account for the fevered haste with which its stages were pressed forward; but such were not its objects. As a supporter of the union between the two countries, he must say that the conduct of the Government that night furnished an eloquent argument for the repeal of the Union.
 CAPTAIN TAYLOR  repudiated the idea that hon. Members at his side of the House were actuated by factious motives in the course they had been pursuing. An appeal had been made to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland to give some little time for the consideration of that measure; and, from the very courteous manner of the right hon. Gentleman, they
 1381
 MAJOR BERESFORD  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Master of the Mint whether a report was correct, that the issue of the new two-shilling piece, "the florin," had been countermanded by the authorities of the Mint?
 MR. W. FAGAN  denied that he had ever stated that his hon. and gallant Colleague had not the confidence of his constituents; but since it had been alluded to, he had now no hesitation in saying, that the hon. and gallant Member had not politically the confidence of the citizens of Cork. He admitted that he had been mistaken in saying that the chairman of the hon. and gallant Member's committee was a free-trader; but the gentleman who proposed him was a free-trader, and so was the hon. gentleman who subscribed the largest sum for his return. Would the House allow him to analyse the list of voters who gave their suffrages to the hon. and gallant Member? 400 of those voters were not protectionists. He thought, then, he was right in saying that protection had had nothing to do with the hon. and gallant Member's election; and, if a new election took place in the next two months, he ventured
 1369
 MR. FORBES  said, he should feel it his duty to move that the Chairman do now leave the chair. The Bill had only been introduced on Tuesday last, and was not read a second time till Friday, between which day and the present it could not be supposed there had been sufficient time for the consideration of the Bill; nor had the Government given notice of their intention to press it forward so hastily. There were not many important subjects before the House; and surely time might have been allowed for the consideration of this one. At a time when the agricultural interest was waging a struggle against the rest of the world with one hand tied, it was impossible that such a measure as this could be beneficial to Ireland. He should not act consistently with his duty did he not denounce the tyrannical course the Government was now pursuing, and persist in moving that the Chairman do leave the chair.
 MR. F. MACKENZIE  concurred in all the reasons for postponement which had been urged by every Gentleman who had spoken on his side of the House. But he thought the Committee must now he aware that the noble Lord at the head of the Government, in answer to the very temperate speech made by the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin, had made no concession on this point. In the course of his Parliamentary experience he had seen a great many contests of this description, and he differed from the hon. Member for Kerry, who said that he never knew an opposition of the kind which had been attended with success, whereas he (Mr. Mackenzie) did not recollect one which was not successful. He recollected the time when the former hon. and learned Member for Dublin, with only ten Members at his back, defeated the Government on a Motion for an adjournment. He recollected when the late hon. Member for Kendal (Mr. Warburton) succeeded in adjourning the discussion on the Copyright Bill, not on the ground that any of his friends were going to the assizes, but because they had gone to a Radical dinner. Though the conduct of the Government was unprecedented, the course taken by the Opposition was certainly not without precedent.
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  said, that the speech of the hon. Baronet who had just set down was not the only intimation they had that evening, that hon. Gentlemen opposite had some misgivings that the course they were pursuing was not well calculated to raise them in the estimation of the country. The hon. Baronet had complained that they were misunderstood. That was one of the evils of pursuing such a course. But the hon. Baronet, in disclaiming antipathy to the Bill, conld not surely have forgotten his own observations on Friday evening, which intimated tolerably plainly the course which he was inclined to follow with respect to it. In every division a fresh case of delay had been assigned by hon. Gentlemen opposite. Had the Bill been forwarded a stage that evening, as it very well might have been, by the time it reached its more important provisions hon. Members might have returned from the assizes.
 MR. GROGAN  said, the Gentlemen on his side of the House required more time to deliberate on the important measure then under discussion than from Friday
 1363
 SIR G. GREY  said, that upon the last night the opinion of many Irish Members upon the Bill was expressed, and that the majority of them were in favour of proceeding with the measure without delay. Not a dissentient voice had then been raised with reference to its principle, nor had any hon. Gentleman complained of being unacquainted with its details. Bills had undoubtedly been postponed for the convenience of Gentlemen attending quarter-sessions; but there was a wide distinction between sessions and assizes, for, in Ireland, the assizes spread over a period of six weeks, because they were not held simultaneously. The consequence of postponement would therefore be, that the Bill would be put off to so late a period of the Session, that the House of Lords could not devote to it such attention as it was desirable it should obtain from the Members of the upper branch of the Legislature.
 SIR J. B. WALSH  said, hon. Gentlemen opposite must have been perfectly aware that when they of the Opposition side had adopted that course, they had done so from a sense of duty, and had felt a strong justification for the policy they were pursuing, when, as a minority, they had recourse to those powers of delaying the proceedings of that House which its forms imposed. They had calculated on an ultimate and speedy appeal to public opinion, and had strong grounds for the course they had pursued when they ventured to disturb the proceedings of the House that evening. He ventured to address the House because he had been one of the few Members present on Friday, and he must say, from his experience of the proceedings of that House, that he never had been present on an occasion when the minority had been disposed to enter in a fairer spirit upon the discussion of the merits of that Bill. If their design had been to obstruct the proceedings of the House by a factious course, it would have been upon that discussion, when, he should say, a more temperate exposition of the merits and defects of the Bill was never addressed to Parliament than by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the University of Dublin.
 1382 1383
 SIR J. WALMSLEY  thought it would be much better if hon. Gentlemen opposite would proceed to discuss the details of this Bill, instead of wasting time on matters totally irrelevant to it. He trusted that the anomaly of having a constituency of only 30,000 voters out of a population of 8,000,000, would not be allowed to continue any longer.
 MR. W. MILES  said, it was generally admitted that an extension of the franchise was necessary, but he could not conceive that, when a moderate delay was asked, not for the purpose of frivolous and vexatious opposition, but of necessary inquiry, a Minister could refuse his assent to the appeal of the minority. He thought that when Western Australia was left without a constitution, the first duty of the Ministers would have been to have brought on the Bill for remodelling the Australian colonies; but they refused to go on with that Bill, because they perceived it would meet with great opposition in Committee, and because they thought that, backed by a large majority, they would carry without consideration their Bill for extending the franchise in Ireland. He thought that an opportunity for full and fair discussion should have been afforded to the Irish Members, who would be happy and willing to enter on the question if the noble Lord would give them time; and he could not but feel that in taking his present course the noble Lord treated them unfairly.
 MR. W. MILES  requested that the noble Lord would give time to hon. Members to consider the Amendments they might wish to make.
 MR. W. MILES  said, that if that (the Opposition) side of the House were, as the hon. and learned Member for the city of Oxford asserted, opposed to all extension of the franchise in Ireland, they would not have permitted the Bill to pass a second reading. By doing so, they admitted that the franchise of Ireland did not stand as it ought to do. The hon. Member ought to recollect that the ground on which the very first Amendment was moved to-night was, that the measure should be postponed for three weeks, so that the Irish constituencies should have thoroughly before them the amended Bill on which the assent of the House was asked. He (Mr. Miles) could not conceive that the noble Lord at the head of the Government could be more justified in acceding to a request to delay a Bill than in the present case; and the noble Lord must have seen from the minority in the first instance that the delay was necessary consistently with a fair discussion of the principles of the Bill. If the noble Lord did not assent to a postponement in this case, so as to give the Irish constituencies the opportunity of giving their opinion upon the measure, he (Mr. Miles) hoped and trusted the House would go on using those means which a minority had at its command to show the noble Lord that in this happy country a minority could not be bound hand and foot by a majority.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, he should be very sorry to do anything to inconvenience hon. Members, but thought the Bill before them stood in a very different position from other measures that had been introduced this Session. The present Bill had been before the House for three years, and he certainly had explained some of its provisions, particularly those relating to the amount of the franchise, and that there were no alteration in its most important features. No persons interfered with the progress of business so much as Irish
 1338
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  thought the hon. and gallant Gentleman who last addressed them, could not have been present when he (Sir W. Somerville) had answered the remarks of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire. He had then drawn a very wide distinction between the present Bill and the Bill affecting tenant-right. The latter Bill was quite a now Bill; it had been just printed, and had never been considered; and nothing could, therefore, be fairer than that time should be given to distribute it and allow it to be considered. But with this Bill now before the House, the case was very different, the Bill having been before the House on previous occasions. Why, in 1848 this Bill was read a second time, and stood for Committee. It contained this very first clause, the most important of all, as the noble Lord the Member for Colchester had stated.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  begged to call the attention of the House to the fact that it was not unusual to postpone Bills in which English Members were interested, when they had to leave town to attend quarter-sessions. Many Irish Members were deeply interested in the Bill, and yet Government called on the House to pass it through Committee in their absence.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH , having ascertained the sense of the House with regard to this question, and they, the Irish Members, having appealed, and appealed in vain, for a postponement, thought it was no use for those entertaining a different opinion from the noble Lord to offer any further obstruction.
 MR. FITZROY  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to extend the jurisdiction of the county courts to 50 l. l. 60 l. l. l. l. "There is now before the court at Colchester a person who has petitioned for protection as insolvent. He was plaintiff in an action at the last spring assizes at Chelmsford. Unfortunately, his case stood at the bottom of the list; his attorney and witnesses, twelve in number, were kept there a whole week. The consequence was, that though he succeeded in obtaining a verdict for 32 l. l. l. l. l. l. "The author wrote to a friend, whom he knew to have been recently a successful defendant in an
 61 l. l. l l. l. "The defendant paid 25 l. l. l. l. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. Times "There is not a single county court throughout the kingdom in which justice is administered in civil matters without the technical rules of special pleading, in which judgment is not also daily pronounced against that system. If these rules be unnecessary in actions for value under 20 l. l. 62 "The measure establishing the county courts had given great satisfaction to the public at large; but he deemed that it would not be safe, with the experience they had yet had, to extend the jurisdiction of the courts to 50 l. Hansard "Although he admitted that the courts had fully answered public expectation, he still doubted whether they would work as satisfactorily to that class of suitors who had hitherto resorted to them, in order to obtain a speedy remedy, after their jurisdiction should have been enlarged."— Hansard
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that as it scorned to be the desire of the House to accept the measure of the hon. Gentleman, he was not inclined to interpose any objection to the introduction of the Bill. But he felt it to be his duty, though he was aware that in so doing he exposed himself to some degree of unpopularity, to point out the
 63 l. l. l. l l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 64 l. l. l. s. l.
 MR. CLAY  said, with reference to an
 65
 MR H. BERKELEY  could not feel satisfied that this proposed extension of the jurisdiction of these courts would not have the effect of setting aside the present courts altogether. He confessed he entertained great fears on the subject. He was very doubtful whether it was possible to admit the bar to practice in these courts without altering the nature of the judges who presided in them. He trusted that Her Majesty's Government would not yield an inch from the position taken up by the hon. and learned Attorney General.
 MR. DRUMMOND  admired the wisdom of any Minister of the Crown who abstained from expressing an opinion upon a question like the present before the financial statement of the Government had been made:
 74 l. l. l. 75
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  suggested that a private Bill should be brought in for each railway, when the House could see what property was required to be taken. Another point to be considered was, that the Sanitary Commissioners had a plan in preparation which would shortly be laid before the House. Under these circumstances, he should recommend the withdrawal of the Motion.
 MR. MOFFATT  brought forward the Motion of which he had given notice. He said, in making this Motion, he had no intention to cast any slur upon the Board of Trade, but some alarm was felt in certain quarters in consequence of new and very extraordinary powers having been assumed by the Board of Trade with respect to the mercantile marine, and a desire was therefore felt to know who it was who really constituted the Board of Trade, and what were the functions of the board.
 MR. MOFFATT  thought that the explanation just given by the right hon. Gentleman precluded the necessity for the return being made.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  was prepared to support the Motion, but he perfectly agreed that it would be better now to defer the discussion.
 MR. LAW  was glad that, as leave was to be given to introduce the Bill, an opportunity would be afforded at the different stages to inquire how far a body not immediately responsible to Parliament should interfere with the education of the Church. He did not collect from what the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman meant to convey any censure on the hon. Member for Middlesex, even to the extent to which the hon. Member for Middlesex censured himself; for he did not understand the hon. Member for Middlesex to say that the education at Cambridge was not good in itself, but to adduce himself as an instance that a good education might be thrown away. It was gratifying to find an hon. Member who confessed he had thrown away great advantages had had great advantages since, for he could not have enjoyed the confidence of the electors of Middlesex, unless he had
 58
 LORD ASHLEY  would remind the House that Parliament last year devolved upon the Board of Health the duty of preparing a scheme in relation to this subject. That scheme had now been prepared, and on the next day, or Thursday, a sufficient number of copies would be ready for Members. It was the result of much and anxious inquiry, and surely it would be very undesirable to proceed with any Bill upon the subject before Members had had an opportunity of considering that scheme.
 LORD C. HAMILTON  approved of the views of the hon. Member for Montrose, but regretted that he should have taken an opportunity of introducing the subject, hardly calculated to do justice to the importance of the cause he had undertaken. He regretted that the hon. Gentleman should have adopted so limited and partial a view, because the question now before the House was not the whole that the working classes had a right to expect during the present Session. No question bore so strongly upon the moral and social well-being of the industrious classes as those connected with the materials for erecting their dwellings. For this reason he again regretted that the hon. Gentleman should have confined his attention to that which did not meet the case, whilst the evasions which might be the result, as pointed out by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade showed how dangerous it was to deal with such a question partially. He hoped, then, that the hon. Member would not think that those who opposed the present Motion would not vote with him in the ulterior measures which he might expect to carry.
 LORD D. STUART  thought it creditable to the Government that they had given permission to the hon. Member for Lewes to introduce the measure. They had withdrawn their objections to its consideration, and it was possible, when the Bill came to be farther discussed, that the Government might give way still farther, and allow it to be made law. The country desired that the jurisdiction of the county courts should be extended—whether it was right or not was another question—and he thought the Government were perfectly right in taking the course which they now proposed to adopt. The Secretary of State for the Home Department and the hon. and learned Attorney General had asserted that this was a most dangerous measure. Now, he held in his hand a return which showed that very few causes ranging between 20 l. l. l. l. l. 67 l. l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  rose, and the hon. Baronet resumed his seat; Sir, as my hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford seems to have expected that some Member of the Government should rise and state what view he took of the Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Oldham, I do not hesitate to say that I should hope the House will not refuse permission to the hon. Gentleman to bring in his Bill. I think no one can doubt, in the first place, the importance of the subject, and, in the next place, no one could say that education is in such a state in England that no further measures are required—that there is not much to be lamented in the present deficiency of the means of education—that there is not much that good men deplore, even in the education that is given, though perhaps there is more to deplore in the absence of education amongst the great masses of people whose instruction, and still more whose training and religion and morality, deeply concern the welfare of the whole community. If such be the case, the only question that remains is, whether the hon. Member for Oldham has approached
 46 47
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  replied, that he should be glad to hear the opinion of independent Members as to the question of adjournment. Private Members were placed under great disadvantages in cases of this kind. This was the third time that he had given notice of the present Motion, and it was the first occasion upon which he had any opportunity of being heard; he should therefore have been better satisfied if a decision could have been come to, but as the hon. and learned Gentleman who spoke last recommended adjournment, he had no alternative but to accept the advice of the hon. and learned Gentleman, whose junior he was upon this occasion, and who must understand better than himself the feelings of the profession, and to acquiesce in the Motion for postponing the debate.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said: Towards the close of last Session he had occasion to bring before the House the grievances of the journeymen bakers. He then expressed a fear lest, Parliament being so much in the habit of considering questions of a superior magnitude, he should experience some difficulty in obtaining its attention to one involving the interests of what, comparatively speaking, was a small section of the community. Upon the present occasion, he was about to request the attention of the House to the case of a still smaller class: he meant the attorneys and proctors of this country, by moving for leave to bring in a Bill to abolish the certificate duty which was now annually levied upon them, and which they considered to be unjust and oppressive. 18 19 "He rose because his tax upon dogs had been alluded to. He owned he should be indeed well pleased to see both dogs and attorneys subject to duty. He coupled them thus together, because he thought them both articles of luxury, and that those who made use of them ought to pay for it; indeed he had long wished to see a tax put upon hairdressers and men-milliners, and all those engaged in effeminate occupations." l. l. l. l. l. 20 l. 1. l. l. 21 l. 22 l. l. 23 "The Incorporated Law Society have received numerous complaints that attorneys, practising in a limited and inferior class of business, derive emoluments from other attorneys, who are unable to take out their certificates, and who practise in the name of such certificated attorneys, and participate in the profits of the business, contrary to the express provisions of the statutes, and to the injury of the public. By these means, they not only evade the payment of the duty, but commit act" of malpractice, and of oppression, against the poor suitors of the court, and generally escape punishment. For, if complaint be made against the attorney, in whose name the malpractice took place, he denies that he authorised the use of his name, and, generally, there is no sufficient evidence to contradict him." l. l. l. l. l. 24
 MR. COCKBURN  had come down to the House prepared to support the Motion of the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex; but he quite concurred in the impossibility of pressing the Motion after the appeal made by the right hon. Gentleman the Se-
 27
 MR. COCKBURN  thought that this was a question which ought to be considered irrespective of personal matters, and therefore he regretted that the hon. and learned Gentleman who spoke last should have thought it necessary to allude to the choice of a representative made by the electors of Middlesex in the manner he had done. This he would say, that whoever the electors of Middlesex might have rejected, they had good reason to be satisfied with the integrity and intelligence of the hon. Member by whom they were represented. He protested against the proposed measure being considered, as the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford had misrepresented it, as simply a plan of education which had regard only to this world and to this life, and having no reference to a future state of existence. The hon. Member for Oldham appeared to be as deeply impressed as any one in or out of the House with the importance of a religious education. He fully concurred in the desirability of uniting as far as possible secular with religious education. But, looking at the vast number and infinite varieties into which religious opinion in the country was divided, it was perfectly impossible to combine secular and religious education, as a State measure, into one system of education. It could not be done. What would the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford adopt as a system of religious State education? Of course his plan would be that of having the religion of the State inculcated as a part of education. But that system would exclude all
 56
 MR. NEWDEGATE  begged to inquire whether he was right in understanding that under the Bill an inspection was to take place with respect to the secular education of every school of every kind and denomination; and that on the report of the inspector that the education given to the children of a certain district by those schools was not sufficient, it would then be competent for the Government to establish schools on the principle proposed by the hon. Member for Oldham, and rate the inhabitants for the establishment and support thereof?
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  said, he could
 15
 SIR F. THESIGER  said, although he certainly felt it would be almost useless to resist the suggestion of his right hon.
 26
 MR. AGLIONBY  had listened with some anxiety to know why the Bill should not be allowed to go to the second reading. If he understood the right hon. Gentleman, there was no provision for the compulsory taking of land; it was merely permissive. He did not see any use in waiting for the report of the Board of Health, as they knew perfectly well what the report said.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, the hon. Member for Manchester had certainly come forward in a very candid manner to explain that portion of his statement which had reference to an hon. Member of that House. He (Mr. Herbert) was not aware that the hon. Member was about to make the explanation, otherwise he would have read a letter from a gentleman of large property in the district of Ireland alluded to, controverting other portions of the hon. Member's statement. But, at the proper time, when the Bill was again under discussion, he would controvert that statement.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, it was always an ungracious task to oppose any hon. Member laying his plans before the House, particularly when that hon. Gentleman had devoted great trouble to it. He was aware that the hon. Gentleman had taken great trouble with this Bill, and he had done him the honour to inform him of the contents of it; but what he had informed him certainly led him (Mr. Labouchere) to think that the Bill ought not to be introduced. He believed that the House had laid down a useful rule, that where there was no chance of carrying a Bill, it was better to refuse to allow it to be brought in than to allow it to go to the second reading.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that if he objected to the return now moved for, it was not because he had the least desire to refuse information respecting the constitution and functions of the Board of Trade, but because there were no Parliamentary grounds made out for the production of this return, and because, if agreed to, it might form an inconvenient precedent. The functions of the Board of Trade had been very fully described by Mr. J. Lefevre in his evidence before the Miscellaneous Estimates Committee, and the information sought by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Dartmouth was, therefore, rather to be sought for there than furnished to the House in the shape of a return. At the same time, he would admit to the hon. Member that it was not the practice of the Board of Trade to transact business ordinarily as a board, following in this respect the practice of the Board of Control and the Poor Law Board. A great deal was done on the single responsibility of the President, and for ordinary purposes it consisted of the President and Vice-President of the Board; but on great and important questions the advice and assistance of the leading Ministers and other Members of the Government were called in.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that his hon. Friend had very frankly stated what his object was in bringing this question before the House. Had he not so stated that object, it would have been difficult to collect, from the terms of the Motion itself, what his intention really was. His hon. Friend said he wished to obtain the expression of an opinion from the House in favour of a repeal of the duty on bricks, and therefore he (Mr. Labouchere) would address himself to the speech of his hon. Friend, rather than the exact terms of his Motion. The House would remember that but a short interval would elapse before his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer must state the views of the Government relative to the taxation of the country, and what questions of taxation they were prepared to entertain; and he thought they would agree with him that it would not be expedient, during that interval, to discuss any specific proposals with respect to particular taxes. On that ground alone he should be prepared to resist the Motion before the House; but even if his hon. Friend's proposal was thought expedient—if it should be the opinion of the House that the best use of the surplus would be to devote it to the repeal of the duty on bricks, he should still object to the expression of that opinion in the terms proposed by his hon. Friend. His hon. Friend, seeing the difficulties in the way of placing his proposed limit of 4 l. l. 73
 MR. LACY  merely wished to bring in this Bill, in order that it might be seen and considered side by side with the report of the Board of Health. He believed that the House would find, upon consideration, that without such a measure as he proposed, they would never be able to carry out any compulsory Act for preventing interments in cities and towns.
 MR. LACY  moved for leave to bring in a Bill for promoting extramural interments. As this title did not disclose the nature of his proposal, he had thought it right to communicate with the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade upon the subject, and would now explain to the House that what was to be proposed in this Bill was, that, under certain limitations, railway companies should be allowed to establish cemeteries; that having called their shareholders together, and got their sanction to it as a commercial speculation, they should be at liberty to buy waste land at a distance from London; and, if the Railway Commissioners, after hearing parties likely to be affected by it, gave leave, that they should open cemeteries there, not expending more than a certain sum upon the project. He could not see how it would be possible to take all the inhabitants of this metropolis to one national cemetery down the river; and if each of the London railway companies saw it to be a good speculation, it would be convenient to all parties that there should be five or six cemeteries. The railway companies would have the advantage of the remuneration from the conveyance of persons to the funerals. He hoped the House would not be alarmed at the violation of the abstract principle, that such companies should keep to their own business, but would allow the Bill to be brought in and considered.
 MR. WYLD  said, the hon. Gentleman proposed by this Bill to make available railway communication, by which means cemeteries might be established ten or fifteen miles from London; and he was surprised that the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State should oppose the Bill. The report of the Board of Health could not interfere with it. In that report, they proposed to have a large public cemetery on the banks of the Thames, which was a revival of the project of Mr. Chadwick.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, it would be in the recollection of the House, that when the noble Lord at the head of the Government proposed advances to the distressed Irish unions, he (Mr. Bright) had made some statements with regard to the difficulty of collecting poor-rates, in the west of Ireland, from persons moving in the upper ranks of society. Among these statements was this one—that he learned, while in the west of Ireland, that an hon. Member of that House, the representative for an Irish county, had made over to a near relative certain goods and chattels, the furniture of a house—that was what he meant—for the purpose of saving them from the seizure of the parties authorised to collect the poor-rates. The authorities on which he made this statement were, he had every reason to believe, competent and well qualified to give correct information. He had not had an opportunity since to communicate with them as he should, of course, hereafter do. But he had had a communication with the hon. Member to whom he had referred, who had laid before him facts, and allowed him to see documents, from which he was bound to believe that that part of the statement which referred to the transfer of any portion of this property to his relative at all, or for any such purpose, was not founded on fact—that, therefore, his informants were either ignorant, or they had misapprehended the facts. He came forward, therefore, without communicating with the gentleman from whom he received the information, relying on the statement of the hon. Member, and anxious, the first moment it lay in his power, to retract that which would detract from any gentleman's character, to make this public statement. The last thing he desired to do was to say anything unnecessarily to offend; and on the occasion in question he had studiously avoided names, and simply brought what
 17
 MR. PLUMPTRE : At all events, it was evident that the hon. Member thought the means provided for the education of the rising generation were very defective, and that point he (Mr. Plumptre) was not inclined to dispute. The hon. Member stated that he did not intend to meddle with existing schools; his object was evidently prospective—to fill up the gaps observable on the face of the educational-system by the erection of new schools. These new schools, as he understood, were to be open to persons of all religious denominations, but in them no religious instruction whatever was to be given. [Mr. W. J. Fox: No, no!] That, in fact, religion was to be systematically excluded. The religious instruction of the children was to be left to their parents, or such other persons as might think fit to interest themselves in the matter. Not only that, but the inhabitants of a district in which a school was established were to be taxed to the extent of 4½ d. d.
 MR. PLUMPTRE  understood the hon. Member for Oldham to have stated that only one child in every thirteen in England received any education.
 MR. J. WILLIAMS  said, it was not an uncommon thing in the trade to which he belonged to sue persons owing 30 l. l. l.
 MR. HENLEY  regretted to find that the hon. and learned Attorney General had given his sanction to the introduction of the Bill. It would be only consuming another night in discussing its principle, if the Government was prepared to throw it out at a future stage. It was admitted on all hands that these courts had worked extremely well; and so sure as the sun was in the heavens, if they extended their jurisdiction they would destroy their utility. It was on that ground that he opposed the measure. He wished to know whether hon. Members who were disposed to do away with imprisonment for debt for all sums under 20 l. l.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the petition in question had emanated from a number of parties in the county of Oxford, and that it appeared to express the opinions of the petitioners against the land scheme of the
 16
 MR. HUME  was most anxious that no difference of opinion should then be raised on the Bill, which had been so ably introduced by his hon. Friend the Member for Oldham. However, he could not refrain from declaring his conviction that his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford had largely misstated, probably not understanding, the nature of his hon.
 51 52
 MR. HUME  hoped that the same unanimity which had prevailed in the House with regard to the last two measures would be extended to his Motion. Those who had been in Parliament some time knew that when there was a surplus in the Exchequer, a great number of appeals were made to the Government for relief from pressure. He had stated on the first night of the Session that he conceived some relief for the labourer was more called for than any other, and urged upon the House the necessity of adopting some measures for the amelioration of the condition of the labouring classes, and more particularly as regarded the improvement of their habitations. He had alluded to the strong desire which had been manifested by the higher classes during the last two or three years to increase the comforts and promote the health of the labouring classes. With this view also, they had established boards of health, and had directed the removal of nuisances, and had passed Acts of Parliament to promote to a very great extent the carrying out similar objects. Among other
 69 70 s. s. s. l. l l. l. l. l. 
 
 Years. England. Scotland. Ireland. 
 1840 … £504,881 £18,498 Nil 
 1841 … 431,256 11,762 Nil 
 1842 … 383,700 9,350 Nil 
 1843 … 348,177 7,104 Nil 
 1844 … 439,183 10,792 Nil 
 1845 … 545,202 16,665 Nil 
 1846 … 619,752 18,670 Nil 
 1847 … 661,815 19,514 Nil 
 1848 … 445,672 10,173 Nil 
 1840 … 444,552 11,900 Nil 
 £4,813,190 £134,428 Nil 71 l. l. 72 "That this House, taking into consideration the condition of the cottages of the labourers of this Kingdom, and the want of adequate accommodation for their families, is of opinion that a Drawback should in future be allowed on the Bricks and Timber employed in the construction of cottages, as a means of lessening the expense of their erection."
 MR. HUME  replied: He said, he had obtained his wish—that of ascertaining the feeling of the House upon this most important question. The House had ox-pressed itself decidedly in favour of the entire repeal of the brick duty, and he should hereafter move its total repeal, in lieu of the present half measure, and expected that he should then be successful in conferring a still more general benefit on all classes of the people.
 MR. MULLINGS , as a retired practical lawyer, would give his cordial support in favour of bringing in the Bill. He did not, however, agree with the hon. Mover, that all the great expenses incidental to the superior courts went into the pockets of the attorneys. The pleadings alone were enormous to bring the case to an issue. The parties went down to the assizes with all their witnesses, having previously given enormous fees to their counsel. They were then often obliged to wait for several days before the cause could be tried. For all these proceedings the attorney did not get one farthing beyond the money he expended; and, at last, he perhaps had the pleasure of recovering 50 l. l l. 68 l. 501. l.
 MR. NAPIER  was rather surprised to hear the hon. Member for Middlesex fasten on the University of Cambridge the bad habits which he appeared to have acquired. Although the hon. Member might have found opportunities for indulging in vicious pursuits, he might also, it was to be hoped, have found occasion for the development of virtuous habits. The hon. Member had adverted to the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford's observation as to the conduct of the population of Middlesex on the 10th of April; but perhaps the intelligence of that district might be judged of by the representative they turned out, and the one they put in. The House would have an opportunity, on the second reading of the Bill, of fully discussing the whole system of national education; and he trusted that the same spirit would be preserved which had marked its introduction. He concurred in some part of the hon. Mover's views, but differed from him at that point where he wished to separate secular from religious education. The proceedings of the Lancashire Association were of great importance. He had looked into its proceedings, and had derived much advantage from it, because, although there were many things with which he could not agree, still
 55
 MR. HEYWORTH  supported the Motion, and hoped the time would speedily arrive when duties would be taken off all articles which entered into the consumption and occupation of the people. He contended that the removal of the brick duty would conduce to employment, and the expansion of trade and commerce.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  agreed with the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government that they would best do their duty by, the Bill on the present occasion by not entering generally into its details. In fact, the Bill was so misrepresented and so misunderstood, which, he doubted not, was the cause of the misrepresentation, that they were not in a position to discuss it. However, he could not sit still without paying his tribute of gratitude—humble as that tribute might be—to the hon. Member for Oldham, for the manner, the able and statesmanlike manner, in which he addressed himself to the question that evening. It had seldom been his lot to listen to a speech with such unmitigated satisfaction, or to one which would tell more powerfully throughout the country. It was necessary he should apologise to the hon. Member for the University of Oxford for having interjected an "Oh" whilst he was speaking; but the fact was that he was surprised to hear the hon. Baronet attempt to draw a contrast between Prussia and this country. It was because the people of Prussia were highly educated, without possessing a representative system, because, in short, taxation without representation prevailed in that country, that the recent political convulsions there naturally occurred. It was a pity that the hon. Baronet should have revived the old worn-out topic of the 10th of April, which the Secretary for the Home Department had worked so unmercifully on many occasions. The rebellion of the 10th of April could be paralleled by no other rebellion on record except that of Lord Grizzle's in  Tom Thumb. 54 d. d. d.
 MR. M. MILNES  said, that were he to set about replying to the observations of the hon. Baronet who had last addressed the House, it might have the effect of provoking a general discussion, which, in the present stage of the measure, was not at all necessary. He took it, that on the occasion of the second reading of the Bill full and ample opportunity would be afforded hon. Members of expressing their opinions in reference to the important question—the establishing more universally than heretofore a system of secular education. He felt certain the hon. Gentleman who brought forward the measure, as well as many others who would support it, could not but feel aggrieved at the imputation that they disregarded religious education ill the measure then submitted to the House. However, they did consider that religious and secular education rested upon different grounds; that one was capable of enlargement, and susceptible of encouragement, whilst the other was not; and that the State might interfere with one when it could not with the other. He wished to place before hon. Members the case of the Lancashire School Society movement, which, he believed, originated with a few private gentlemen, but which nevertheless progressed until it found an atmosphere wherein it expanded and flourished. Looking at the beneficial results that were likely—he might say certain—to result from the Bill, and also considering the able and temperate manner in which it had been introduced to the House, he should declare that he would be prepared to give the measure his most full and cordial support.
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  agreed with the noble Member for Tyrone, that it would not be prudent at present to press this Motion to a division, and, looking at the state of the House, he did not think that any vote at present given would indicate the general sense of that branch of the Legislature. Not long since the hon. Member for Montrose had asked him if the present proposition would be a good agricultural Motion, and he admitted that it might be; and as the hon. Member inquired if he thought that Members on that (the Opposition) side of the House would support such a Motion, he replied that they might; and as the hon. Member for Montrose was now about to build some cottages himself, he thought such a Motion would be paving the way to make it a good speculation. As to the value of the cottages, the bricks of which he would exempt from duty, he did not see how that could be satisfactorily ascertained; and, further, he wished to know what was the definition of a cottage—how many rooms must it contain? With respect to drawbacks, the principle was not new, and he thought that the whole matter
 78
 MR. SLANEY  would not have ventured, after the able, temperate, and eloquent speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat, to address the House, had he not been one of those Members of that House who, in 1837, were appointed to make inquiries into this important subject. After a careful consideration of the evidence which had been laid before the House, he believed that the hon. Gentleman had not overdrawn the picture of the destitution of the poorer classes of this country with regard to education. The conclusion which a Committee, chosen from both sides of the House, had come to was, that it was absolutely necessary that education should be provided for at least one in eight of the population. They said in Manchester that 1 in 30 was educated; in Leeds, 1 in 27; and in Birmingham, 1 in 26. So that if they took the average of the most populous towns in the kingdom, it would be found that instead of one in eight of the population being provided with education, only one in twenty-six or twenty-seven was provided for; and if the calculation was applied to London, the deficiency was very little less. He ventured to say that the increase of population having gone on so rapidly, he did not believe that any greater proportion of the humbler classes were now provided with an adequate edu-
 45
 MR. MITCHELL  concurred with the view taken by the noble Lord the Member for Tyrone, because justice could not be done by the Motion. Still if it were pressed to a division, he should support it. He had risen, however, principally in consequence of some remarks from the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade from which he must dissent. The right hon. Gentleman considered it the duty of Members not to bring forward any question affecting taxation until after the Chancellor of the Exchequer had made his financial statement. This was expected to be on the 15th March. But suppose the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the
 77
 MR. THORNELY  brought up a report from the Committee on public petitions. "Your Committee have to report to the House, that Mr. Henley, one of the Members for the County of Oxford, having stated to the Chairman, that a Petition from Charterville, in the parish of Minster Lovell, in the said county, presented by him to the House on Thursday, the 14th of February, and ordered to be upon the table, had not been reported by the Committee; "The Committee have to submit to the House, that they directed inquiries to be made into the said matter, the result of which is, that the said Petition was taken from the Table of the House by Mr. Feargus O'Connor, one of the Members for Nottingham."
 MR. THORNELY  said, that the report had been agreed upon yesterday morning, and would have been brought up at the sitting of the House, had the hon. Member for Nottingham been in his place. He (Mr. Thornely) understood, that last night the petition had been restored to the table, after having been absent from the House for eleven days.
 MR. W. J. FOX  begged to move for leave to bring in a Bill to promote the secular education of the people in England and Wales. He said he could not approach this subject, to which he had undertaken to call the attention of the House, without a deep sense of its difficulties. Those difficulties were indeed not the same as in former years. There were many points he was now entitled to take for granted with which he need not trouble the House. It was no longer necessary to prove that education was good—good for the individual, and for the community; that it leads to the abatement of crime and to improvement in manners and morals. Now, although it was held by many that on the one hand it was the duty of Government to educate the people, and on the other that education was a religious question, and that religion was voluntary, and should not have the interference of Government, yet between these extreme opinions there was, he apprehended, a large number of persons who held that although the Government should
 28 l. l. l l. 29 "the support of schools continues a matter of greater difficulty than the building of schools, as it is found easier to rouse men to one great effort than to induce them to give a steady and lengthened support." "the state of its finances had become more depressed, and the Committee had been compelled to suspend their operations for the present in building and enlarging schools. They had also considered it prudent to make reductions in the instances of St. Mark's College, Chelsea, and the Battersea training institution; and they also fear that they will be compelled to diminish the supply of teachers at the very time when the exigencies of the Church require that they should be increased." 30 d. d. 31 "Taking the men's signatures by marks in the marriage registers in England and Wales (1844) as indicative of ignorance—Middlesex, Surrey, and Cumberland, are above the average of instruction by 59·7, 53·2, and 52·1 per cent. Bedford, Monmouth, and Hertford are below, by 53·0, 53·3, and 53·8 per cent. Nearest the average are Warwick and Chester, being above 0·3 and 0·4." 32 33 "While the total increase of commitments from 1837, 38, and 39, to 1842, 43, and 44, was 23 per cent, the increase in the wholly ignorant was only 11·6 per cent; and while the decrease in the total commitments from 1842, 43, and 44 to 1845, 46, and 47, has been only 13·2 per cent, the decrease in the wholly ignorant has been 15·6 per cent." 34 35 "I am compelled again to confess that the proportion of convicts who have been educated in some sort, as compared with those totally uneducated, is fully as high as that which exists between those classes in the general population—a fact which should lead to the inquiry wherein the popular education is defective." "Of the 500 prisoners 178 had attended some sort of school upwards of four years; 58 less than four; 193 less than three years; and 71 not at all, being a little more than four years' schooling on an average to each. Their attainments, however, will show the miserably defective character of the instruction which they received; for I do not think that the scholars, with some exceptions, were of much inferior intellect or much worse disposed than the generality, whilst their position as criminals, convicted of most serious offences, seems to argue that their moral and religious training was oven more discreditable. Only 359, upon admission, could read with any degree of intelligence an ordinary book. A larger number could follow another person reading, as in divine service, with the Bible and Prayer-book in their hands, but in the way of learning to read rather than with understanding or ease." "However essential such a training may seem to any course claiming the name of education, it
 36 "It is consistent with my own experience, and, I believe, with that of all other inspectors, that there is most religious knowledge in those schools where the reading of the Scriptures is united in a just proportion with secular instruction, and where a distinction between the functions of the day school and the Sunday school being observed, something of that relation is established in the school between religious principles and secular pursuits which ought to obtain in the after-life of the child. This is a grave error which confounds religious knowledge with a religious character, and that no ordinary sacrifice which is made of the veneration due to the word of God, when it is constantly applied to a secular use." "Religious instruction is advanced in proportion to the proficiency of children in other studies, and so far as outward observation goes, the best effects are produced upon the moral principles and conduct." "Out of 12,786 children who were present at the examination, I find that 2,891 can read the Scriptures with ease, and that 651 can read books of general information with ease and fluency." "In a large proportion of them the books in general use are of a religious kind; and even when others are introduced, the supply is generally very scanty. I need scarcely say that it is impossible for a teacher, however earnest and intelligent, to raise the standard of instruction in his school, and to have it in an efficient state, without an adequate supply of books and apparatus." "I cannot speak favourably of the actual amount of knowledge possessed by the children, or the general efficiency of the schools. The standard of instruction is very low. Upon the whole, they possess a fail amount of Scriptural knowledge." 37 "Very few of the teachers were able to read well, and that it was manifest the state of instruction in these schools was in general very imperfect." "had been enabled to procure a sufficient supply of Bibles, Testaments, religious formularies, and books of religious instruction, other lesson and text-books were often either not found in elementary schools, or only to a very limited extent." "They will be men, I think, fond of study and desirous of self-improvement. Whether in the estimate they may have formed of the subjects proper to the education of the industrial masses of the country, or in the knowledge they may possess applicable to it, they will be found equal to the exigencies of the times, remains to be proved." "To this list of books required may be added a work on the elements of political economy for the use of teachers; and a very simple book on the same subject might be advantageously put into the hands of the children. This is a topic which is now beginning to be discussed among all ranks; and it is impossible to over-estimate the importance of early imbuing the minds of persons with some maxims on this subject, in order to prevent their imbibing any of the false and pernicious theories which are now broached. How to foster the accumulation of capital in a country, and protect it when accumulated, and at the same time to prevent the manual labourer from being unduly ground down and oppressed, is felt to be one of the great problems of the day; and if the science of political economy cannot solve this problem it can at least prove to the capitalist that it is always, in the long run, his interest to care tenderly for his workmen; and it can demonstrate to the workmen that they are equally dependent on the capitalist." 38 "After the particular attention which I gave to this subject, both in England and Scotland I can say without any exception that in those schools where religious creeds and forms of faith and modes of worship were directly taught, I found the common doctrines and injunctions of morality, and the meaning of the preceptive parts of the gospel to be much less taught and much less understood by the pupils, than in the same grade of schools and by the same classes of pupils with us," "The clergy are becoming more and more convinced that where the education of the million has been carried furthest, the people are most regular in their attendance on public worship, most zealous in the defence of their theological opinions, and most liberal in contributing funds to the support of their pastors and to the building of churches." 39 40 41 "We cannot consent that our children should be apportioned amongst the religious sects—that their plastic minds and nascent judgments should be subjected to an external pressure which would give them a permanent bias towards peculiar notions. This appears to us to be the very way to foment and cherish those theological distinctions which already so unhappily divide mankind. Religion is intended to prepare men for Heaven, where the society of the blessed will be united in peace and love. Why should it be made on earth the pretext for cutting up the community into sections, and separating them from one another by unpronounceable shibboleths? We have now for several years been spectators of the dispute going on between the denominations on the subject of popular education. We have noticed that they all agree as to its urgent and imperative necessity; each party has vied with the others in eloquent descriptions of the frightful condition of the working classes. We have been called 'a multitude of untutored savages,' and the places where we dwell have been designated as 'great and terrible wildernesses.' We have sat still, expecting that the religious denominations, in holy charity and pity for our sufferings, would for once
 42 d. "It has always been my view that you can never effectually raise education in this country till you raise the condition and prospects of the teachers of schools." 43 "That unless some plan was adopted for raising the character of the schoolmaster, they would be outstripped by the inhabitants of any other part of Her Majesty's dominions, and they would not have good schoolmasters unless they earned their position. It was not enough to have convenient school-rooms; they must also have a sufficient salary and comfortable houses to reside in." Nascitur non fit. 44
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, that what he had stated was, that real religious instruction could not he properly conveyed to the mind unless so much of other knowledge was imparted as to allow of religion taking a deep root in the soil so prepared. If that preparatory step were not taken, it would be religious forms only, and not religion, that would be retained by the pupil.
 MR. W. J. FOX  explained that his statement was, that one in thirteen of the population went to school.
 MR. W. J. FOX , in reply, said, that the hon. Member for North Warwickshire had, in part, misunderstood him. His plan was founded on a general view of the deficiency of education in different localities through England. The materials for ascertaining that deficiency, he apprehended, did already exist to a large extent in documents which the Privy Council had accumulated by means of its inspectors, so that it was not a difficult matter to ascertain in any locality to what degree it was necessary to supply the means of education. There would sometimes be cases such as had occurred in the parish of King's Sambre, Hampshire, in the school under the charge of the Rev. Mr. Dawes, who had so conducted his national school, that it was attended by children in and out of the parish, the children of labourers and of farmers alike, all of whom paid, the poor according to their-poverty, the farmers according to their better circumstances; but, by his conduct of that school, he had brought those children to it, and especially by the judicious intermixture of secular and religious instruction, as appeared from the report by the inspector, who said the children were not only well instructed in secular knowledge, but well instructed in religion, which he attributed to their being better informed on general subjects. If there were a parish where the church, or any one sect, had so recommended itself as to be the religion of the entire population, they would be at perfect liberty to interweave religion as much as they pleased with the entire course of instruction. But in cases where the parents and guardians of children were of different sects, it was impossible so to interweave secular and religious instruction. There they must he content with the provision he proposed,
 59
 MR. HAYTER  trusted he should stand excused to the House if he abstained upon the present occasion from entering into any discussion with regard to the merits of the question which the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex had been pleased to bring before the House, and that the House would concur with him in the suggestion he would venture to make. It would be in the recollection of the House that the noble Lord (the First Lord of the Treasury) in the course of yesterday
 25 l.
 SIR DE L. EVANS  seconded the Motion.
 SIR DE L. EVANS  hoped it would go forth that the Motion had not been met by a negative, but that the debate was merely adjourned.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the doubts entertained by his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General referred not so much to the expediency as the practicability of the measure, and that was the reason he was not prepared at once to move its rejection. He (Sir G. Grey) stated last year the grounds upon which he opposed the proposition for the extension of the jurisdiction of the county courts from 20 l. l. 66 l. l. l l
 SIR G. GREY  said, he did not very clearly see the principle of the proposed measure of the hon. Member. It appeared, however, as far as he could gather the purport of it, that railway companies were, under certain circumstances, to become also cemetery companies. As, however, the report of the Board of Health Commissioners had only just been printed, and was scarcely yet in the hands of hon. Members, he thought the hon. Gentleman would hardly venture to legislate on a question of so much difficulty and importance as that of extramural interments before the report in question should have been some time before them. The hon. Member would have the opportunity, at a future period, of submitting his views to the House on this question; but he (Sir G. Grey) thought they were not yet in a position to adopt any suggestion on the subject without first having had time to consider the recommendations of the Board of Health respecting it.
 SIR G. PECHELL  thought the hon. and learned Attorney General had been very facetious, and had thumped the red box in an extraordinary manner; but he (Sir G. Pechell) had not been able to understand any of the reasons why he opposed the Bill. When, fifteen years ago, he (Sir G. Pechell) introduced his Bill for the extension of the jurisdiction of the Sheriffs' Courts to 50 l. l.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  had no wish to misrepresent anything which had fallen from the hon. Member, but certainly understood him to have expressed himself in the manner he had alluded to. He would, however, appeal to the present state of the majority of the schools where religious education was given to the children, to prove that already secular was imparted coincidently with religious education. The hon. Member appeared to suppose that nothing but religion was taught in those schools. He contended such was not the case; but that, on the contrary, in the greater proportion of the schools with which he was acquainted, there was as large a proportion of secular education given as could be obtained in any schools in England established for similar classes of the population. Look at the teaching of the National Society, and see how much secular education, how much general knowledge, how much history, how much geography were already given there, the great foundation, on which all were laid, being religion. He would recall to the Government a proposition which he made a few nights since, with respect to the propriety of the Government making up their minds at once as to what amount of encouragement they would give to amateur Members introducing Bills of their own upon any particular subject. By their so doing, a great portion of the time of the House would be saved, and he felt assured that no hon. Member ought to feel himself aggrieved by the Government saying, when any measure of a private Member was proposed to be introduced, "this is a good Bill, we will take it up;" or "it is a bad one, and neither you nor we will waste the time of the House by uselessly discussing it." Under the actual circumstances of the House, he did not intend to oppose, by a division, the introduction of the Bill;
 50
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that when he rose before, he admitted most willingly the ability and temper in which the hon. Member for Oldham had introduced his plan, but he could not adopt the principle upon which it rested, or the object at which it aimed. The hon. Member began by stating that the subject was no longer surrounded with those difficulties which formerly encompassed it. No longer, said the hon. Gentleman, was it a question whether it were or were not right that education should be given. But what was education? And what was the proposal of the hon. Gentleman? According to the views of the hon. Gentleman, he limited the instruction of man which the nation ought to provide, to those branches of learning which terminated with man in this world, omitting all consideration of his eternal destiny, for which this world was only a fleeting preparation. Again, with reference to the quality and tendency of education in different countries, he (Sir R. H. Inglis) would ask the hon. Member to reconsider his statement that education was less advanced in England than in any other country in Europe. The hon. Gentleman took his statistical tables, and said there were fewer people educated in England than in Prussia, Saxony, or France. He (Sir R. H. Inglis) asked the House what practically was the character of the education of the people of England? Would the hon.
 48 49
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that after the speech of the hon. Member for Oldham—the temper and ability of which he readily acknowledged—he had waited in respectful silence to hear the opinion of some Member of Her Majesty's Government upon the proposed measure.
 MR. PETO  could not help assuring the House that it was perfectly useless to attempt to improve the condition of the poorer classes by education, unless at the same time attention was given to the means of improving their habitations. In Norfolk and Suffolk the state of the houses occupied by the agricultural labourers was, really and truly, one great cause of the evils under which they suffered; for he could undertake to prove the existence of cases of whole families, comprising in some instances eighteen or twenty individuals, living in no more than two rooms. Under such circumstances classification of the sexes was impossible; and as a magistrate he could bear testimony to the evils of indiscriminate admixture. A repeal of the duty on bricks would, to a certain ex-
 76
 MR. W. MILES  thought that the allusion which the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin had made to the hon. Member for Middlesex, had been provoked by the latter hon. Member saying that all persons educated at universities contracted vices. [Mr. OSBORNE: I didn't; I only said that I had.] He begged to bestow his humble tribute of praise on the hon. Member for Oldham for the temper
 57
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, he thought he could make a correction of one statement or inference which was advanced by the hon. and learned Gentleman who had last addressed the House. In all cases of theological dispute, and this was one, it was always very desirable to know what might come next. Nobody ought to acquiesce too lightly, or presume where an adversary was likely to stop. He had, therefore, consulted the copy of the form for the solemnising of marriages, and he found, that after the question to persons why they may not be lawfully joined together in matrimony, the words which followed were, that "so many as are coupled together otherwise than God's word doth allow, are not joined together by God; neither is their matrimony lawful. "Now he submitted that to the most scrupulous man these words, taken together, were sufficient to authorise him to give his answer in accordance with his own opinion, whether the marriage was forbidden by the law of God or not. There was one point so prominent that he would add a few words on it. The hon. and
 110
 MR. HEADLAM  said, that his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Abingdon had made an elaborate argument against the Bill, founded upon the manner in which it was brought before the House, and the class of persons who agitated in favour of it. In answer to this argument he contended that the grievance was one which, from its nature, could not be universally felt, and that those who looked upon it only as an abstract question could not be expected to take very lively interest in it, or to exert great activity in bringing it forward. It was natural that the particular persons who suffered from the grievance should endeavour to obtain redress, and an alteration of the law, on their own behalf, and he did not see any reason to complain of their conduct in so doing. He thought it the duty of the House to consider the case with the utmost impartiality, and not to allow itself to be biassed by any observations upon the conduct of those who sought an alteration in the existing law. Of course, if Scripture did prohibit these marriages, there was an end of the question. It is our duty to act upon the Divine mandate, and all responsibility is taken away from us in so doing; but, if Scripture does not prohibit such marriages, then we have no right to invoke its authority for the purpose of sanctifying our sentiments, feelings, or prejudices. He (Mr. Headlam) denied that Scripture did prohibit them. Indeed, latterly, no one had contended that it did so directly, but ela-
 111 112 "What I wish especially to impress upon your mind is this, that the fact of my taking my wife's sister to live under my roof was exclusively owing to the law, which, by forbidding our marriage, alone rendered such co-residence possible. And yet from this fact has followed, by natural sequence, all the rest which has made the wretchedness of the last five or six years of my life, and must make the misery of the residue, if this law remains unchanged. The law invites a man little more than thirty to take his wife's sister to his homo, to soothe his sorrow, to watch over his children, and then, when the natural result of this intimate society and sympathy follows, it turns round upon him and tells him he must be content to live a life of torture, or that he must deprive his children of that benefit which the law professes to secure them." 113
 MR. A. HOPE  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. J. S. WORTLEY  said, that as he understood the right hon. Gentleman the Speaker had duties to attend to elsewhere, he should at once accede to the Motion of his hon. Friend for an adjournment. He did so the more readily, as it was clear they could not get through the discussion on that day; but he trusted that he should be able to bring it forward next Wednesday. The Bill of the hon. Member for Oxford respecting affirmations stood for that day, but he believed there would be no objection to agree to the second reading, and to take the discussion on the principle at a future stage.
 MR. J. S. WORTLEY  said, it was painful to him to find himself upon this subject opposed to so many Gentlemen for whose opinions and capabilities he entertained so great a respect. Still, however, having at the outset duly considered the course which he was about to take, and having been favoured with the support of many men, eminent for their learning,
 82 83 84 85 86 ex cathedrâ —"Si quid novisti rectius istis Candidus imperti; si non, his utere mecum." in facie ecclesiœ 87 88 "The only answer I can give you is this—that my wife's sister was the first visitor who came to us after I was married, and lived with us for months;" reductio ad absurdum 89 Guardian "So far as my parochial experience extends, the prohibition of marriage with a deceased wife's sister operates far more to the promotion than to the prevention of crime. Among the lower classes cohabitation without marriage is almost invariably the result, while the few conscientious persons who are deterred by the law from forming such a connexion are precisely those to whom it would be a benefit. Were the prohibitions founded on Scripture, we ought, at whatever sacrifice, to obey God rather than man; but I cannot see the expediency of a law which, having no such sanction, is observed only by the scrupulous, evaded by the wealthy, and defied or disregarded by the poor." "On the other hand, looking at the poor, and the size of their houses generally, it is quite clear that if it be desirable for the aunt to be the trainer, then it is equally clear that she should
 90 "I cannot perceive that it is forbidden in the word of God; on the contrary, the limitation of Leviticus xviii. 18, seems to be a sanctioning to marrying a sister of a wife when deceased. The question appears to me to be one purely of expediency. The alteration of the law will not probably diminish the happiness of social intercourse
 91 "People in general do not consider such marriages improper. They cannot be proved to be improper by Scripture. The question is, therefore, one of expediency, and my experience as a parochial minister induces me to think the measure expedient. Yet when a poor man has lost his wife, whatever may be his feelings, he is almost compelled to replace her as soon as he can. To him the wife is not only the companion but the nurse of his children, and the servant-of-all-work in the house. If a stepmother is thus necessary, where are the children so likely to find one who will regard them with affection, and treat them with kindness, as in the sister of their mother, whom from early years they have known and loved? On these grounds, if ever a convocation be called, and I be elected one of the proctors, I shall move for an alteration, in this regard, in the table of kindred and affinity. Until this be case, I shall be glad to see such marriages legalised by the civil rite." "Believing that Scripture contains no positive prohibition against a man marrying two sisters, and believing also, that were an alteration made in the law upon this point, much sin would be avoided; these considerations have induced me to be of opinion that a change in the law would operate beneficially upon the morality of the nation." "My own judgment is, that it is unwise to go beyond Scripture rule unless a strong case be made out; that the implication evidently contained in Leviticus xviii. 18, is, that the concubinage with a living wife's sister was unlawful, but that marriage with a deceased wife's sister was not forbidden; and that it would promote the cause of morality, especially among the lower orders, to abrogate the existing law." "I believe, most sincerely, from my knowledge of the poor, that much evil would be prevented
 92 "My own experience as pastor of more than one populous parish leads me to believe that the present law presses heavily both upon rich and poor. I have been compelled, as a surrogate, to refuse to grant licence, as well as to solemnise marriage, in the former class; and to prohibit the publication of banns in the latter. In one instance that I can call to mind, I happened to know that marriage between the parties was afterward solemnised at another church; and I have good reason to believe that many marriages are prevented so as to cause unhappiness among the scrupulous, and immorality among the reckless, under the present state of the law. If this experience—which I believe to be the experience of every parish priest who has large numbers entrusted to his spiritual cure—be really as extensive as I suppose, it must be weighed as a question of expediency against that supposed inconvenience which it is said will arise from destroying the confidence that now subsists between brothers and sisters-in-law. If the object of law be to promote the general good, care must be taken lest in the attempt to effect that end a correlative evil be not originated. My own experience leads me to believe that this error has been committed by the somewhat inconsistent Act which has legalised marriages for the past, while its operation forbids the possibility of legalising any such for the future." "With respect to the poor, as far as my ministerial experience goes, after a residence of more than one and thirty years in a dense population of the humblest classes, I cannot but regard it of the utmost importance to encourage the respect of the poor 'for the holy estate of matrimony,' and for the law of the land; as also to diminish their temptations, to promote their self-esteem, to confirm their cottage comforts, and to facilitate their obtaining for children bereaved of a mother the nearest substitute for maternal care; and, to my mind, it seems clear, that one means of effecting this would be to remove the stigma which now attaches to marriage with a wife's sister, and to render lawful and honourable (about which the poor are very sensitive), that so fitting and proper and often needful a relation." "Nor is it possible for a person in my situation to overlook the practical consequences of the present state of things. Few people ought to know these consequences better than myself, for nearly a thousand couples pass yearly through my hands, and I find that I have frequently, though unknowingly, joined together those whose union is still forbidden, while among the lower classes the ceremony is too often dispensed with altogether. I should not think much of this argument if the language of the Bible were explicitly against the practice, or if such evils resulted from it as
 93 "Having had for many years the charge of a large suburban parish, I became acquainted with several persons who had married their deceased wife's sister. The sister-in-law, in these cases, was the person upon whom the care of the children devolved: she was the best and nearest substitute for the mother. In these cases it was greatly to the advantage of the children that the second marriage took place. Without marriage the sister-in-law could not have resided in the house, the labourer's house affording no spare room. The parties I have in view married without the knowledge that their marriage was illegal; they were possibly led to form this opinion from the fact that many such marriages had taken place amongst the more educated portion of the community, before the repeal of that Act which rendered such marriages voidable but not void. So far as the poor are concerned, I believe that an alteration in the present law is much to be desired." "I this day, through Admiral Dundas, sent a petition to the House of Commons, signed most cheerfully by every householder, nearly, in what
 94 "I know not that I differ with you much in opinion, but while this law exists the marriage is not legal; you are, therefore, living in fornication, and I cannot admit you to the sacrament." 95
 SIR F. THESIGER , in opposing the Motion, said, he was anxious to place before the House, as briefly as possible, but with perfect frankness and absence of reserve, the reasons which had induced him to come to a conclusion the opposite of that at which his right hon. and learned Friend had arrived—a conclusion which rendered it impossible for him to avoid saying that he thought it would be most inexpedient and mischievous to pass any such measure as the Bill then before the House into a law. No doubt, any proposition proceeding from his right hon. and learned Friend was entitled to respect, and he himself deserved great praise for the earnest attention which he had devoted to the subject, and for the distinguished ability with which he had brought it forward. It was scarcely necessary for him to remind the House that the Bill before them was one of the very highest importance; the relation with which it proposed to deal was one which was the foundation of the whole fabric of society; the happiness and morality of thousands was dependent upon it, and all must naturally be anxious to form a correct judgment on the subject. He (Sir F. Thesiger) had done all in his power to master its difficulties. He had read, and that was no small matter, the greater part, if not nearly the whole, of the pamphlets that had been published on the subject; he had attended closely to the debates regarding it that had taken place in that House; and the result of his feelings and his judgment, or a combination of both, led him to think that the passing of the Bill would be both inexpedient and improper. Looking carefully and attentively at the whole question, he had thought it right to do all in his power in the outset to ascertain the real state of public feeling on the measure before them. He was ready to concede that where anything depended upon mere human will or human legislation, public opinion was much to be regarded; and where a law coming within such a description was opposed to the general sentiment and feeling of the majority of the people, such a law ought not to be permitted to continue. But he must distinctly state, that in the attempt to discover the condition of public opinion upon this subject, he encountered great diffi-
 96 97 98 99 100 101 "I require and charge you both, as ye will answer at the dreadful day of judgment, when the secrets of all hearts shall be disclosed, that, if either of you know any impediment why ye may not be joined together in matrimony, ye do now confess it." "When I took that important step I had fully satisfied my mind that it was thoroughly justifiable on the grounds of good morals and sound religion, and in accordance with the written word of God. I knew, of course, that I was running coun-
 102 103 104 ex post facto "In August, 1836, it pleased God to remove from me a wife with whom I had lived nearly thirty-six years in as much happiness as falls to the lot of most men. I was thus loft a widower with six daughters, three of whom are married. Two are at the head of a respectable boarding establishment for the education of young ladies. The youngest is living with me. Having been thus deprived of my helpmate, and left with an establishment by no means small, which in the opinion of the whole of my family could not with propriety be intrusted to so young a person as the only branch of my family remaining with me, it was therefore, with her entire concurrence, and that of every other member of the family, that my late wife's sister, who had resided with us as one of the family upwards of twenty years, kindly undertook the care of the household, the duties of which she has assiduously fulfilled, and, having no connexions or sympathies out of my family, we are now to all appearance destined by Providence to spend the remainder of our lives together. I am sure I need not use any argument to show how much it would add both to her comfort and my own, could we be lawfully placed in the situation of man and wife, and this we had determined to do, but And the law of consanguinity as it now stands to be a bar, and unless this obstacle is likely to be speedily removed, we shall be induced to adopt some mode to evade or seek redress in a foreign country. I view the prohibition as unjust, my conscience bearing me witness. I see no law, neither in morals nor religion, that imposes such a prohibition, and in this I am borne out by my own family and connexions, including my brother's family and the minister with which it is my happiness to be connected, nor do I know of any reason, either private or public,
 105 106 107 "That nothing in this Act contained shall be deemed or construed in any civil or ecclesiastical court of this realm to alter or in anywise affect any doctrine, canon, or law ecclesiastical of the United Church of England and Ireland, or of the Church of Scotland." 108 109
 MR. W. P. WOOD  said, that it was not without some degree of difficulty that he had brought himself to address the House upon this subject. On a former occasion he had felt overwhelmed by the extreme delicacy and difficulty of this inquiry, involving questions on which it was most embarrassing to enter, relating to the male and female portion of the community, independently of the question of Divine authority, the solution of which was complicated by the difficulty of dealing in that House with the real interpretation of portions of Scripture. The difficulty of the question had, however, been removed in a great measure by the tone and temper in which it had been treated by the right hon. and learned Gentleman who had brought forward the measure. And the right hon. and learned Gentleman bad, by the frame of his Bill, further removed some portion, though not the whole, of his objections, and on that account also
 114 Natural Theology Analogy between Divine and Natural Religion; 115 116 "Atenim nova  nobis 117 118 119 120 121
 MR. W. P. WOOD  had no objection to agree to the arrangement.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  inquired what steps had been taken by the Woods and Forests Commissioners to enforce the provisions of the lease, with regard to the prevention of encroachments on the Green Park in the case of the Earl of Ellesmere's mansion, and whether the garden walls of that mansion recently erected next the park and encroaching thereon, had been built with the knowledge and permission of the Commissioners?
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, he would then beg to inquire as to certain rumoured encroachments in Greenwich Park, referred to in a letter in a morning paper of Saturday last. His question was whether any part of Greenwich Park was about to be encroached on to provide residences for the Commissioners of Greenwich Hospital, or for any other purpose?
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  observed, that the hon. Baronet had excused himself for not putting the question to his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies, on the ground that it referred to a matter of law, but he had gone on to put a series of questions connected with the government of the colony of which he (the Attorney General) could know nothing. He would simply, therefore, confine himself to answering the legal point. Unquestionably the Act of Parliament, 10 George IV., c. 22, expired at the end of the last Session; but notwithstanding that—and whether it expired intentionally or unintentionally, as he was not cognisant of the intentions of the Government on the subject, he could not say—but, notwithstanding such expiry, there was still a legal government existing in the colony of Western Australia, because that Act gave authority to the Government of this country, by an order of the Sovereign in Council, to constitute a government from time to time. Under that power the present government of the colony had been formed and continued, the Crown having no power to alter the form of government without the assent of Parliament; but having constituted a government under the authority he had stated, that government still existed in Western Australia.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL : If the hon. Gentleman had given me notice of his intention, I might possibly have been able to answer him more satisfactorily; but according to the best of my recollection, the authority vested in the Crown by the 10th
 137
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he could not concur in the sentiments expressed in the able speech which they had just heard from his hon. and learned Friend, in which he said that he entertained an equal admiration of talent wherever it might be employed. He (Mr. Drummond) felt a thorough contempt for talent, as for any other great quality, except with reference to the way in which it was employed. And when his hon. and learned Friend said—in reference to observations made the other night—that he was sorry to hear that class was set against class, his answer was, that classes had been so set against one another by professional agitators, who went about the country disseminating ill feeling by falsely declaring that the landed aristocracy in Parliament, who had possessed power for centuries, had
 182 183 naïveté Cries of 184 185
 MR. H. BERKELEY  congratulated the House that the right hon. the Home Secretary had promised to meet at least one part of his hon. Friend's Motion on a future occasion. In former discussions on the ballot it would be recollected that the great difficulty was to get a Minister on
 218
 MR. GRENVILLE BERKELEY  opposed the Bill, and said he would divide the House upon it.
 LORD D. STUART  was surprised that a Member of that House should get up and oppose the introduction of a measure without alleging a single reason, and that, too, when the Government did not object to its being laid upon the table. He believed it was a measure calculated to redress existing grievances, and hoped that the House would allow it to be considered.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Mr. Speaker, before I address myself to the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose, it will be necessary for me to say a few words respecting the motives and conduct of those who brought forward the Reform Bill. The hon. Member for West Surrey has chosen to say—but it is not an original observation on his part, though he certainly is not wanting in originality—that the Whigs when in power have immediately become Tories, and have acted upon the principles, which he considers right principles, by which Tory Governments have been guided. But it was somewhat difficult for the hon. Gentleman to make the bringing forward of the Reform Bill tally with his notions either of Tory government or of right principles; and, therefore, he fixed upon the ingenious device of inventing a motive by which he asserts we were actuated, and he alleges that we brought forward the Reform Bill in order to take vengeance on our opponents. Now, a more unjust remark never fell from any Member of this House. The hon. and learned Gentleman who last spoke has begged me, and those who act with me, not to repeat the resistance we made for a series of years to a reform in the representation. The plain truth is known to many who recollect, and to anybody who will read it, that for a series of years we brought forward and supported Motions for reform in the representation. I myself, from 1821 to 1830, made repeated Motions asking this House to grant a reform in the representation. But, if I feel it somewhat necessary to vindicate myself, I cannot refrain—though it is certainly unnecessary—from saying a few words in defence of the chief under whom I had the honour to serve, and under whose auspices the Reform Rill was proposed and carried. My Lord Grey, throughout his political life, had brought forward and supported Motions for a reform of the representation. In 1810, Earl Grey, then a Member of the House of Lords, at a time when reform was not a very palatable or favourite topic, declared that, though his original plans of reform had been modified—though his ardour had been abated by age and experience—yet, even in those
 193 194 195 196 197 198 l l l 199 200 201 202 203 l 204 205 —"knows his rights, And knowing dare maintain"— 206 l 207
 MR. ADDERLEY : Do the powers given the government of Western Australia under that authority include the powers of taxation
 MR. BARNARD  begged to thank the hon. Gentleman for his most satisfactory answer.
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  said, that the right hon. Gentleman, like all Members of Governments, admitted the justice of the Motion, but said that the time was not yet come for granting the demands which it put forth. He (Mr. O'Connor) defied that House to continue as it was then constituted. Here on the bench which he then occupied sat the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, surrounded by the members of his party, and the party who represented the landlords. At the opposite side sat the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government, supported by his retainers; whilst the bench to the rear was occupied by Irish Gentlemen, who, when-
 172 173
 MR. AGLIONBY  moved for leave to introduce a Bill to effect the compulsory enfranchisement of lands of copyhold and customary tenure. The Bill was the same as the one introduced last year, with the exception of some trifling alterations.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, the House was indebted to the hon. Member for Montrose for bringing forward this question at the present time. The hon. and learned Member for Oxford had truly stated that we were in a state of perfect calm and quiet, and comparative comfort. The question was brought before the House unassisted by excitement out of doors, and he had hoped it would have been unopposed by prejudices within; but, although the world out of doors was calm, he could not say that the House, as represented by the right hon. Gentleman, had dealt fairly with his hon. Friend. The question, as stated by his hon. Friend, was simply this:—He said that they had, from time to time, altered the mode of representation in this country; they had, from time to time, increased the number of persons electing Members of Parliament, and he proposed that that number should now be increased still more. How was that mot by the right hon. Gentleman? The right hon. Gentleman dealt with the proposition of his hon. Friend very much like a  nisi prius 186 187 188 189 l 190 191 192
 MR. BROTHERTON  seconded the Motion.
 MR. HUME , on rising to submit his Motion in favour of Parliamentary reform, said, that, often as he had addressed the House on this subject, he was not aware that on any occasion he had ever considered it of so much importance as he did at present. It was of great importance as regarded the future peace of this country; it was also important as concerned its financial situation and the means by which we might be able to reduce that taxation which was now excessive, and which had grown up for the want of that proper check and control which ought to exist in the House. He was quite aware that a large majority of hon. Members were very unwilling to listen to any subject of reform, believing as they did that the House was perfect in itself. Differing entirely from the majority in that respect, and knowing that we had continued too obstinately to refuse the demands of millions of our fellow-subjects, he thought it essential that he should state, as briefly as possible, the view he took of the question. The Motion he had to submit was a verbatim copy of the one he had brought forward on two successive years in the House. He was perfectly well aware of the fate of his former Motions. At the same time, he was not deterred from introducing it once again, though he greatly regretted that the attention he was obliged to pay to a variety of other subjects would prevent him from doing that justice to the present one which it required, and ought to receive. The demonstrations made by public meetings in favour of reform during the past twelve months encouraged him, notwithstanding the adverse result of the divisions of the last two Sessions, to press the subject once more upon the attention of the House, in the hope that, after mature consideration, they would be induced to lend to it a favourable ear. The Motion was for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the national representation. He moved this because he believed the representation required emendation. None would differ on that point; but then the difficulty was the extent of that emendation, and how it was to be carried out. He wanted not to make any innovation. His object was to restore the constitution of the
 138 "In the former Bill boroughs were regarded in proportion to their population, but in the present case the elements upon which the boroughs are to be estimated are by the number of the houses and the amount of the assessed taxes." 139 140 de facto 141 142 l l l 143 144 "It is highly important to assign to the people collectively a share in the management of their own local affairs; it is to the want of this participation, and to the ignorance thence resulting, that popular discontent is chiefly to be ascribed. Great benefits are to be anticipated from the free and open discussion of public interests. There is no other method of dispelling the apathy and self-distrust which induce the mass of society to lean on the Government for aid and guidance in many cases where they would much more effectually assist themselves by the use of their own resources." "I have no means of stating with entire precision the relative numbers or the comparative wealth of the different classes which combine to form the collective population of the colony. But I apprehend that the colonists of the English race are at once the least numerous and the most wealthy, active, and intelligent class. To these succeed the old Dutch settlers, or other descendants, between whom and the English there probably subsist many mutual jealousies, and but few domestic or even commercial connexions. The free aborigines of the colony from a third body, who are manifestly much depressed in the general scale of society. To them are to be added a large number of Fingoes and of other tribes, whom the events of the late Kaffir war have added to the permanent inhabitants of the Eastern districts. Finally, there is a body of many thousand emancipated negroes." 145 146 "But there was another and a most remarkable characteristic attending these colonies, and this was, that wherever Englishmen have been sent or have chosen to settle, they have carried with them the freedom and the institutions of the mother country. I will take the liberty of reading some extracts from a patent given to the Earl of Carlisle when he went out to be governor, and I think proprietor, of Barbadoes, in 1627, that is to say, in the reign of Charles I.:— "'Further know ye, that we, for us, our heirs and successors, have authorised and appointed the
 147 "We will also, of our princely grace, for us, our heirs, and successors, straightly charge, make, and ordain, that the said province be of our allegiance, and that all and every subject and liege people of us, our heirs, and successors, brought or to be brought, and their children, whether there born, or afterwards to be born, become natives and subjects of us, our heirs and successors, and be as free as they that were born in England."— Hansard "It will not be necessary on this occasion that I should go over the ground which has frequently before been gone over for arguments in favour of a change in the state of the representation; but it is due to the House that I should state shortly the points on which the reformers rest their case. In the first place, then, the ancient constitution of our country declares that no man should be taxed for the support of the State who has not consented by himself or his representative to the imposition of the taxes. The well-known statute, ' De tallagio non concedendo 148 "When I propose a reform of Parliament, I propose that the people should send into this House their real representatives, to deliberate on their wants, and to consult for their interests, to consider their grievances, and attend to their desires. I propose that they should possess, in fact, that which they have hitherto had only in theory—the vast power of holding the purse-strings of the monarch." "I feel convinced that I am laying a foundation for the most salutary changes in the comfort and well-being of the people. Laws will no longer be passed in such an assembly for the benefit of Government, or classes, or individuals; they will be no longer passed by men roused at twelve o'clock at night to vote for what they know not, or against that of which they have not heard a single syllable, merely because the leader of their party tells them so to vote. Laws in a reformed Parliament will be cautiously proposed, and seriously and deliberately considered. I say, then, that if we identify this House with the people of the three kingdoms, we may hope, however slowly it may be accomplished, or however impatience or faction may complain of us for not hurrying our steps, we may hope, I say, that by extending to a great and powerful and enlightened people the right of having their legitimate
 149 "With respect to the original intention of the Reform Bill, he was speaking then in the presence of many before whom he had introduced that Bill, and who were present at its formation, and he thought he should be corroborated by them when he said 'that his intention was to give a fair representation to all parts of the country. He wished to give a preponderance to no part over the other, and he had more than once stated that they had taken a certain number of counties, and an equal number of manufacturing towns, to share in the representation.'" "My position is this—I repeat, and will maintain it to my last hour, taxation and representation are inseparable. This position is founded upon the laws of nature. It is more; it is itself an eternal law of nature, for, whatever is a man's own is absolutely his own. No one has a right to take it from him without his consent. Whoever attempts to do it, commits an injury; whoever does it, commits a robbery." "I believe the present to be a measure of peace and conciliation; I believe that on its acceptance or rejection depends, on the one hand, tranquillity, prosperity, and concord—on the other, the continuance of a state of political discontentment, from which these feelings must arise, naturally generated by such a condition of the public mind ……. On one or two different occasions I have originated Motions on the subject, believing, as I do, that a change is necessary to infuse new vigour into the constitution, to unite the estates of the realm in the bonds of a sacred and happy union, and to make the House of Commons that which it was intended to be, and professed to be, and ought to be—the full, vigorous, and efficient representative of the people of England." 150 Whitelock's Book on Government "Whenever any question about elections was brought before the House, the inclination of the House of Commons always was to favour popular elections, observing that the more free they were, the more they were for the interests of the community. At this day, in many boroughs, the election still remains popular, being exercised by all the inhabitants, scot and lot." "In a Committee upon the Cirencester election petition in 1792, quoted in 2 Fraser's Election Cases, p. 449,451, it became necessary for the Committee to define what was the right of election, and they gave a general definition for purposes of enactment as to the right of voting in the following terms, which stated it thus: 'Every male person of full age, and not subject to any legal incapacity, who shall occupy any house or dwelling, the same being  bonâ fide "Every Englishman is intended to be present in Parliament, either in person, or by procuration and attorney, of what pre-eminence, state, dignity, or quality soever he be, from the prince to the lowest person of England. And the consent of the Parliament is taken to be every man's consent." Legal Review of the Origin of the System of Representation in England "Every person of full age, who was not subject to any legal incapacity, and who should occupy, within any city or borough, any dwelling-house, &c, should be entitled to vote in the election of a Member of Parliament, provided that such person should be rated in respect of his premises. It is very clear that when, in the reign of Henry IV., the attention of the Legislature was
 151 152 
 
 PROPORTION OF ELECTORS, HOUSES, AND POPULATION. 
 England. Wales. Scotland. 
 Electors on register 363,670 11,599 42,318 
 Houses 1,139,113 43,553 164,178 
 Population 5,873,772 231,456 964,958 
 Proportion of electors to houses as 1 to 3¼ as 1 to 4 as 1 to 4 
 Proportion of electors to population as 1 to 16 as 1 to 21 as 1 to 23 153 
 
 5 boroughs under 250 electors, 3 uncontested. 
 6 boroughs under 300 electors, 5 uncontested. 
 15 boroughs under 350 electors, 8 uncontested. 
 20 boroughs under 400 electors, 14 uncontested. 
 9 boroughs under 450 electors, 7 uncontested. 154 155 l 156 "But what is the case at this moment? The whole people called loudly for reform. That confidence, whatever it was, which formerly existed in the constitution of this House, exists no longer—it is completely at an end. Whatever may be thought of particular acts of this House, I repeat that the confidence of the country in the construction and constitution of the House of Commons is gone, and gone for ever. I will say more. I will say that it would be easier to transfer the flourishing manufactures of Leeds and Manchester to Gatton and Old Sarum, than to re-establish confidence and sympathy between this House and those whom it calls its constituents. I end this argument, therefore, by saying, that if the question be one of right, right is in favour of reform—if it be a question of reason, reason is in favour of reform—if it be a question of policy and expediency, policy and expediency are in favour of reform." 157
 MR. L. KING  moved the adjournment of the debate, but eventually the hon. Member withdrew his Motion.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  observed, that the Ministerial replies to the Motion before the House were most unsatisfactory to a large portion of the supporters of the Government. He could not but remark that the whole of the opposition had come from the Treasury bench with one exception, and that exception a gentleman of very amphibious politics, he meant the hon. Member for West Surrey. No Member on the other side had addressed the House on the subject. He (Mr. Osborne) was one of those who previous to the commencement of the Session had indulged in the pleasing dream that the noble Lord at the head of the Government would have deprived his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose of the necessity of again bringing forward this question. For in July, 1848, he remembered not only did that noble Lord disclaim the doctrine of finality, but expressed himself totally dissatisfied with the then state of the elective franchise; and though the noble Lord's language was vague and indefinite, yet at that time, when the events on the Continent disturbed all minds, it was thought by some that he was justified in his reserve; few thought he intended to put off the popular claim to that indefinite period he had hinted at to-night. He told them to-night that he would not put to sea in a storm nor in a calm. Then, was the noble Lord really waiting for a breeze? Was he waiting for the excitement of the approach of a general election, then to lay on the table a Bill to extend the elective franchise? That was not, he thought, a course calculated to place the noble Lord and his Government in a very high position in the opinions of the people, he (Mr. Osborne) supported the present Motion with some feelings of disappointment, he confessed; for he believed until the broad arrow of Government support was stamped upon it, there was very little hope of its success. But he would appeal to the class who were always saying it was not the proper time to concede popular rights—those who were always ready to say, when there was agitation, "we must not yield to popular clamour;" and when there was apathy, to say, "the people feel no anxiety on the subject"—he would appeal to them, and ask whether there had ever been a time when a Minister might come forward with a whole and complete measure of re-
 208 "It was the theory, as it had been the practice in all times, to adapt the representation to the state of the country. There could be no doubt but that it had always been the principle of representation that it should change with the changes which the country might endure, and that it should not be governed by local considerations." 209 "They heard a great deal of reform associations, of anti-corn-law leagues, and other combinations of that kind—those things were merely the con-sequence of the people taking the government of the country into their own hands, because Government would not administer matters themselves. Opinions were afloat, the public mind was agitated, and no one who was in authority came forward to lead the people. As the natural consequence of such neglect, they coalesced together; because nothing was clearer than this, that if the Government did not lead the people, the people would drive the Government."— Hansard "It might have been difficult, but it was not impossible, to have made the freemen the proper representatives of one of the most valuable classes of the community—that of the industrious, intelligent, and able mechanics who abound in our great manufacturing and commercial towns, and some of whom only are now admitted to the right of voting. Such a change in the character of freemen would do much to purify our elections, and to strengthen the House of Commons." l l l l l l l l 210 l l l l 211 l l l l l l l High Life below Stairs My Lord Duke's Men 212 Lady Bab's Political Philosophy "If there were no small places entitled to return Members, if no place or district under 5,000 voters were allowed representatives, there would be no such thing as bribery known. The exclusion which our 10 l Gazette Morning Herald 213 "The hon. Member wishes to be invited to the Duke of Devonshire's ball—that other wishes to have his lady and daughters commended to Her Majesty's next concert; a third has a son who wants promotion in the Navy; a fourth desires to have his boy named an  attaché 214 Life of Walpole 215 "The only real remedy is greatly extending the number of voters; or, if that is impossible, greatly increasing the size of electoral districts. If we retain a superstitious veneration for the name of these districts, if our old local associations are too powerful, it is all very well, and we gratify our romantic feelings; but what is the price for this sentimental indulgence? It is the perpetuation of the most corrupt practices by which a free people can be debased and degraded, and the spreading of universal immorality." 216 217 amende honorable
 MR. HAYTER  was much obliged to his noble Friend for putting the question, because he hoped the answer he should give would allay all apprehensions on the part of the inhabitants of Greenwich that there was any design or intention on the part of the Commissioners of Woods and Forests, or the Commissioners of Greenwich Hospital, to interfere with their comforts or their property. The Commissioners of Greenwich Hospital had recently been carrying out certain improvements, by which they believed the duties of the hospital and the comforts of its inmates might be considerably improved. In the course of those improvements they designed to erect certain buildings on a portion of the property which belonged, not to the Commissioners of Woods and Forests, but to the Commissioners of Greenwich Hospital, and it was suggested that a small ornamental garden, facing the park, should be added to the houses so about to be built. That portion of the park was under the control and management of the Commissioners of Woods and Forests, and at first they gave their assent to the proposed alterations, but on a representation being made to them by the inhabitants of the opposite houses that the buildings about to be erected would interrupt their view of the park, and their property be interfered with, their remonstrances were considered by the Commissioners of Woods and Forests and the Commissioners of Greenwich Hospital; although the latter commissioners had a perfect right to erect the buildings in the way they had contemplated, yet, in deference to the opinion of the public and the inhabitants of the neighbourhood, and believing they could procure the accommodation they required elsewhere, without interfering with the comforts or deteriorating the property of anybody, they resolved to
 135
 MR. HAYTER  replied that there had been no encroachments in the case of the gardens to which the noble Lord referred. No doubt there had been an alteration in the garden itself introduced by the architect in the erection of the ornamental walls which had been built to give it an Italian character. That erection was no encroachment, though it was inconsistent with the covenants of the lease, and on the Commissioners of the Woods and Forests being made aware of it they directed their architect to communicate with the architect of the Earl of Ellesmere, to arrange with him for the removal of the erection in question.
 134
 MR. W. P. WOOD  said, that the right hon. Baronet who had answered the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose had been singularly dexterous in the answer which he had given. The right hon. Baronet appeared to have been extremely disappointed that he could not deliver the same speech on the present occasion as he had delivered last Session upon the same subject, and caught with some ability at an expression which fell from the hon. Member for Montrose at the close of his speech, to the effect that he had no objection to doing away with the property qualification; and the right hon. Baronet was very desirous that the addition to that effect should be made to the Motion, as it would bring it one point nearer to the Charter. Not succeeding in that course, he proceeded to cross-examine the hon. Member in an extremely felicitous manner, and extracted from him sentiments in which he (Mr. P. Wood) confessed he not only did riot concur, but to
 174 "That every man of full age, and not subject to any mental or legal disability, who shall have been the resident occupier of a house, or part of a house as a lodger, for twelve months, and shall have been duly rated to the poor of that parish for that time, shall be registered as an elector, and be entitled to vote for a representative in Parliament— "That this House, recognising the great principle that labour is the source of wealth, and that the people are the only legitimate source of all power; that the labourer should be the first partaker of the fruits of his own industry, and that taxation without representation is tyranny, and should be resisted; and believing that the resources of this country would be best developed by laws made by representatives chosen by the labouring classes, in conjunction with those who live by other industrial pursuits—that, in recognition of the above great truths, the House adopts the principle embodied in the document called 'the People's Charter—namely, annual Parliaments, universal suffrage, vote by ballot, equal electoral districts, no property qualification, and payment of Members." 175 caput 176 mortuum 177 178 179 primâ facie ad nauseam 180 181 l l
 SIR GEORGE GREY  reported—
 "That their Address of the 20th day of this instant February, for the appointment of a Commission to inquire into the circumstances relating to the Documents presented to the Ceylon Committee, on the 14th instant, with the name of Captain Watson attached to them, and to which his evidence laid on the table of the House refers, had been presented to Her Majesty:—And Her Majesty had commanded him to acquaint the House, that She has given directions accordingly."
 SIR G. GREY  said, the Government had proposed a measure, last Session, having the same object; but there were difficulties surrounding the subject, which prevented the measure passing the other House.
 221
 SIR G. GREY  said, the hon. Member for Montrose was at least entitled to the credit of consistency in pressing this question upon the attention of the House; and he also gave the hon. Member, as well as the hon. Gentleman who had very ably seconded the Motion, credit for being actuated by a sincere desire to promote what they believed to be the best interests of the country. He, however, differed from the hon. Members as to the results which would follow from the adoption of the scheme which they had rather shadowed out than distinctly described, and therefore he would call upon the House, as he did last Session, to meet the Motion with a direct negative. The Motion was identical with that which the hon. Member for Montrose brought forward last year, and the question which the House would have to determine was not, as might be inferred from some of the arguments of the hon. Member for Bolton, whether the details of the Reform Bill should be irrevocably adhered to, or whether the terms and conditions which were now attached to the right of voting-might not be reconsidered, with a view to an enlargement of the franchise. With respect to that question he would express no opinion, because it was not raised on the present occasion; and he made these observations only because it might perhaps be inferred, from something which had fallen from the hon. Member for Bolton, that in resisting the Motion he was opposing now and for the future any extension of the suffrage which could be made consistently with the principles on which the constitutional question was settled by the Reform Act. The question for the House now to determine was, whether they would permit the hon. Member for Montrose to introduce a Reform Bill of a more sweeping character than that which, after a severe struggle in Parliament and the country, was passed in 1832. The
 165 166 "it should be limited to every man of full age, and not subject to any mental or legal disability, who shall have been the resident occupier of a house or part of a house as a lodger for twelve months, and shall have been duly rated to the poor of that parish for that time, shall be registered as an elector, and be entitled to vote for a representative in Parliament." bonâ fide 167 168 l l 169 170 171
 SIR J. WALMSLEY : In rising to second the Motion proposed by my hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, I am fully sensible of the great importance of the question about to be submitted to the decision of this House. I am equally sensible of my own inadequacy for the fulfilment of the duty I have undertaken; but I feel assured that whatever my deficiencies, and however wide may be the difference of opinion between myself and the hon. Gentlemen around me, I shall receive the indulgence of this assembly while I endeavour to discharge as well as I am able the task I have assumed. I can assure the House that in taking a part in the present discussion, and supporting the measure of my hon. Friend, I am influenced by an anxious desire for the safety and prosperity of the country, and the character and just influence of this branch of the Legislature, and only seek a remedy for those evils which were sought to be extirpated by the Reform Bill of 1832, but which I think the House will admit to exist at the present time to nearly as great an extent as when that measure was introduced. But should opinions vary in regard to the nature or extent of particular evils, one fact is undeniable, and it is a fact of the utmost importance—that although it is our happiness to live in a land unsurpassed for the loyalty, intelligence, and industry of its inhabitants, the franchise is exercised within the narrow circle of some 800,000 of Her Majesty's subjects, and so distributed as to render election of Members of Parliament to this House almost nugatory as the expression of the popular mind and will. It will be for hon. Gentlemen who intend to vote against the present Motion to prove, that of all who contribute to the support of the State, there should be less than one million who are
 158 159 160 161 162 l l 163 164
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  believed this was one of the worst Bills ever brought forward; for it purported to deal compulsorily with private property. He considered this Bill a needless encouragement to amateur legislation. The most sanguine person could not venture to hope that it would be carried, and on these grounds he must oppose the introduction of the measure.
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  said, he had given notice of his intention to put a question to the hon. Under Secretary of State for the Colonies with regard to the government of Western Australia, but as it referred, in some degree, to a matter of law, he would put it to the hon. and learned Attorney General. He wished to know whether at the present moment there was any legal form of civil government existing in the colony of Western Australia, and if so by virtue of what law, and under what authority such form of government was constituted? He would, with the permission of the House, explain in a few words the meaning of his question. In the year 1825 certain persons formed a settlement in that colony—they did so with the consent of the Crown, according to the reports of the Committee of Privy Council on such settlement. The Royal prerogative could constitute that form of civil government only in which a legislature formed in part of the representatives of the people should be a component part; and to dispense with this form of government an Act of the Legislature was necessary. In 1829, accordingly, an Act to make temporary provision for the government of that colony was passed, and under that Act the Crown was empowered to appoint certain persons to make laws and regulations for the administration and government of the colony. The powers of that Act of 1829 were continued by subsequent Acts, passed from time to time, down to December, 1848, and to the end of the then next Session of Parliament. That Act not having been renewed, expired on the 1st of August, last year, and the powers of the Legislature, established under that Act, had likewise expired; and if the persons composing that legislature had, since the 1st of August, 1849, passed any laws or ordinances—for instance, as the appropriating of any public money—such laws or ordinances would be illegal, as would, of course, all acts done under any of them. What he wished to ask was, first, whether the Act in question had been intentionally permitted to expire or not; and if intentionally,
 136
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the hon. Gentleman wished to restrict the word "occupier," by the words "tenant or owner." That would have a considerable effect on the constituency, and create great confusion and absurdity in the registration courts, which the hon. Gentleman wished to avert. If the right to vote was confined to tenants and owners only, they would have vexatious questions raised about the legal right of tenants who might have had notice to quit; and landlords wishing to deprive other people of their right to vote, could serve notice to quit that might throw serious doubt as to the legality of a man's tenancy. Then the hon. Gentleman proposed, instead of one year's occupation, to substitute two years, with a two years' rating also; the effect of which would be, that if a man was not put upon any one rate during the whole of the two years' occupancy, he would lose his franchise. The hon. Gentleman was mistaken in his fears that unqualified persons would get upon the register; because, if a person rated to the last year, and who had paid it, had not occupied for the twelve months required by the clause, his own neighbours could object, and have the name struck off. Upon these grounds he must object to the Motion of the hon. Member for Oxfordshire.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he had been entirely misunderstood by the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon. What he had stated was, not that any question could arise about the tenancy of a man whose notice to quit had not expired, but that landowners wishing to withhold the right to vote from their farmers, could serve on them notices to quit whenever they anticipated an election; and then the legality of the tenancy might be questioned. [Sir P. THESIGER expressed dissent.] The hon. and learned Gentleman doubted whether such a question could arise. Well, he would refer him to the Waterford case, where a large disfranchisement took place. If the Amendment of the hon. Member for Oxfordshire was acceeded to, nice discussions might ensue as to the legal meaning of the word "tenant," and they would have Committees of that House deciding on such points without a knowledge of the law on the subject. As to any secret meaning lurking beneath the phraseology of the clause, he (the Attorney General) could detect nothing of the kind, and was sure the suspicion was groundless.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the Bill meant that every person occupying a farmhouse or tenement, as described, should be a voter if he were rated; and if he were asked his individual opinion, he thought the larger sense of the term "occupier" should be adopted in the clause, because he did not think the franchise should be made to depend on a contest between a landlord and his tenant.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  apprehended that if a man were in possession, and paid the rates, he was not the less a  bonâ fide
 SIR D. NORREYS  remarked that, according to the construction put on this measure, if a tenant had a notice to quit, but still overheld until the time of election, he was to be considered a  bonâ fide
 MR. HILDYARD  thought that by omitting the words proposed to be inserted by the Amendment, they would admit to the franchise persons who occupied  de facto
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  could not agree to the proposition. The insertion of these words would make the clause utter nonsense. It did not appear whether the year was to be calculated from the date of registration, or the time of voting. The object of the Amendment appeared to be to require that an occupier should be rated to the amount of 8 l. l. 257 l.
 SIR D. NORREYS  said, that the consequence of requiring a man to be rated for an entire year, would in some cases render a person incapable of exercising the franchise, although he might have been in actual occupation for sixteen months.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  referred to the English system, in justifying the requirement of the payment of all rates due.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that he did not think the Chancellor of the Exchequer could agree to such a proviso, for, if adopted, it would operate as a receipt in full for the arrears in question.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he had been charged with wishing to mislead the House. He did no such thing. According to the Amendment, the voter would not be entitled, unless he had paid the last rate up to the 5th of January, 1850. Now, the collector would not take the last rate, unless he got the preceding ones.
 MR. CLEMENTS  thought it was impossible for the occupier to make a fictitious valuation.
 MR. LAW  explained that he did not say that the occupier might make a fictitious valuation; he said the party himself might procure himself to be rated when there was an expectation of an election.
 MR. LAW  said, it appeared to him that the noble Lord at the head of the Government had not met the whole difficulty. The noble Lord had suggested that there were certain tests which, on being applied, ought to confer qualification on a voter; and the noble Lord had referred to the provision that no person should be registered in any year unless he should have been such occupier for twelve months, and should have paid all the poor-rates in respect of his premises. Now, he might not have been rated at all to the last rate—not merely not rated to the amount of 8 l. l.
 MR. LAW  considered the hon. and learned Attorney General had answered the question in a most satisfactory manner to those who suspected that this Bill would create more occupiers in Ireland than would have the right to occupy. He would support the hon. Member for Oxfordshire in his Amendment to confine the franchise to "owners or tenants," and ventured to seggest that the hon. Gentleman should separate this Amendment from his other Amendments, and take the sense of the Committee upon it first.
 LORD C. HAMILTON  said, as the hon. and learned Attorney General feared the Amendment would lead to litigation, he had better make the clause more clear, by saying occupier  de facto de jure
 LORD C. HAMILTON  then moved, pursuant to notice, the addition of the following words at the end of the clause:—
 "And provided also he shall have made a claim to the high constable of the barony in which he shall have been so rated, in the form numbered in Schedule A, No. 3 (a)." 291
 LORD C. HAMILTON  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had expressed his surprise at the great array of hon. Members which he saw on the Opposition side of the House on that occasion, and the great manifestation of sympathy for the people of Ireland. Now, he (Lord C. Hamilton) would mention one remarkable fact—from which the House would be able to judge what party sympathised most with the people of Ireland—that among the numerous subjects, social, commercial and political, upon which the people of Ireland had of late years sent petitions to that House, there was one upon which they had been wholly silent, and that was the increase in the number of electors. They had had petitions praying for railway grants, for the promotion of Irish fisheries, for the repeal of the Union, and a variety of other topics, but none had been presented on this subject. Certainly there had been petitions presented in allusion to the state of the representation, but what were they? They asked for more Members, but not for more electors. The Government, however, by their present measure proposed to increase the number of electors in such disproportion to the number of Members that he could not see how any hon. Gentleman from Ireland could stop short from demanding an increase of the number of Members. If they increased the number of electors to 260,000, it was impossible that they could do justice to Ireland without adding a proportionate number of Members. He believed that, under the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Dublin, a number of voters would be given more analogous to what was intended at the time of the Reform Bill, than under the plan of the Government. He could not help feeling, if they lowered the franchise and made it too easy of attainment, they would degrade it to such an extent in the eyes of the people, that more respectable persons would not avail themselves of it.
 MR. HAMILTON  said, there were many objections to it, and he proposed that it should be postponed.
 LORD J. MANNERS  congratulated the House upon having discussed with so much temper the propositions of the Bill. The hon. Member for Dundalk had fixed a charge upon the hon. Member for North Northamptonshire of having described the present liberal Members for Ireland as the sham representatives of rotten constituencies. The fact stated by his hon. Friend would not bear such an interpretation. The right hon. Gentleman the Master of the Mint, in the same way, appealed with glowing eloquence to English Gentlemen to give to Ireland a constituency equivalent to their own. That was what he hoped would induce a majority to vote for the Amendment. The hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, in a tone of sympathy for the sufferings of Ireland, accused his (the Opposition) side of the House with illiberality. For his (Lord J. Manners') part, the charge of illiberality sat lightly upon him, coming from a Gentleman who, not long ago, when English radicalism could not coin words bitter and exasperating enough to describe Irish character, refused to Ireland assistance in her hour of need. He would ask did those passages and those transactions leave no impression upon the memory of Irish Members? This Irish question was debated under favourable circumstances, in consequence of the House having heard the speech of the noble Lord at the head of the Government on the preceding night during the discussion of the general question of increasing the franchise, and the philosophical spirit in which the noble Lord recommended the House to proceed. It would not be travelling out of the record to test the Bill
 286 287
 LORD J. RUSSELL  consented to post-pone this clause, and said he should be glad to hear the opinions of Gentlemen connected with Ireland upon it, and more especially those who had supported the Bill.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the House had decided already that the rates should be paid to a certain day, as a qualification for voting. Then the question was, as to whether or not there should be an exception made. He did not think when they were laying down a general rule, that they should state there should be exceptions. For that reason he could not agree to this Amendment.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that he would offer only a few observations on the subject of the hon. Gentleman's proposal before the Committee divided. He did not think that the hon. Gentleman had really laid himself open to the statement made by the hon. Member for the city of Dublin, that he wished to retain the present
 269 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 270 l. "So long, 13 you keep up a right of voting by tenure, you will have these scones of frequent occurrence, and it would be quite impossible to counteract the evil. The franchise should rather be founded on rating and occupation, and they would thus make the register a little more than a copy of the rate book," 271
 LORD J. RUSSELL  begged to call the attention of the Committee to the restriction
 258 l.
 Mr. HENRY  said he would not divide the House.
 MR. STAFFORD  expressed a doubt whether it was competent to the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down to divide the Committee in the manner which he had proposed. As he understood the question now before the Committee, it was not whether the qualification should be a 15 l. l.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and the right hon. Secretary for Ireland, in their very moderate speeches, argued that as no one disputed or denied the diminution in the number of the Irish voters, therefore the Committee should sanction this proposition; but neither of them met the objection raised by his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Dublin. No one on that (the Opposition) side of the House, said that the present system of registration and franchise in Ireland was satisfactory; but the question was, whether the plan now proposed was the best that could be substituted for it. The noble Lord said, the number of voters which would be created under this Bill, was not such as would alarm the House. The answer was not as to the number but as to the quality of these new voters. The question was, whether 8 l. 276 in formâ pauperis. l. l. in formâ pauperis. l. "That every man of full ago, and not subject to any mental or legal disability, and who shall have boon the resident occupier of a house, or part of a house, as a lodger for twelve months, and should have been duly rated to the poor of that parish, shall be registered as an elector, and be entitled to vote for a representative in Parliament." l. l. l.
 MR. SPEAKER  called the hon. and learned Gentleman to order.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it was the practice when a petition was presented reflecting on the character of any hon. Member, to indulge that Member so far as to allow him to give any explanation or to make any defence he might think necessary. Therefore, a petition having been presented reflecting on the character of the hon. and learned Member for Nottingham, if that hon. and learned Member desired to enter into any defence or give any explanation in reference to the matters alleged against him in the petition, he was, according to the usage of the House, at liberty to do so. But with regard to the questions which had been put by the hon. Member for Marylebone, he had much doubt whether they were strictly in order—inasmuch as they related not to any measure before
 236
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  would first answer the hon. Baronet's question, and then proceed to reply to the statements contained in the petition.
 Mr. F. O'CONNOR : He bowed to the decision of the Chair. He had placed 8,000 l. l. l. 238 Cries of l. Laughter. Cries of
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  said, he would willingly answer any question put to him in the matter. He had spent a large sum of money out of his own pocket since the report of the Committee had issued, endeavouring to have the company registered, and the matter was before the Court of Queen's Bench at present. There were hon. Gentlemen in this House who knew that it was his intention to have handed over the properties in question to trustees; he would refer to the noble Lord the Member for Bath, and the hon. Gentleman the Member for Rochdale. These were two of the parties to whom he had offered to hand over the estates, when he was informed by the noble Lord the Member for Bath, that he would have nothing to do with them. As to the allegations of the petitioners, they stated that they had entertained great hopes of being able to do more than they found they were actually able to effect. He could only say that, as to the land, he had paid 50 l. l. l. l. l. l. 237 l. l. l. l.
 MR. F. O'CONNOR : Although the Committee reported that he had kept the accounts, they said he had kept them in a way rather against than for himself. He had been trying to get the company completely registered, but the hon. Baronet
 239
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  did intend to wind up the concern, and if the noble Lord at the head of the Government would give him an early day, he (Mr. O'Connor) would take the first opportunity of bringing in a Bill to wind up the company, and so wash his hands of the matter altogether.
 SIR F. THESIGER  rose and said, that according to his reading of this Bill, it proposed to sweep away the whole existing franchise in Ireland for the purpose of reconstructing the representative system in that country. Undoubtedly the parties already registered (according to some of the clauses of the Bill) would have a  primâ facie a primâ facie 241 l s. l. l. l. l. 242 243 "frequently as it had been his fortune to have to resist Motions which, he contended, had the obvious tendency of unsettling the Reform Act, and disturbing the franchise thereby given, he must declare that of all Motions calculated to unsettle that Act, this was the most formidable." l. "not only was this Bill in respect of the poor-rate test imperfect, but it would create a complete revolution in the franchise." 244 l. l. l. s. 245 l. 246
 SIR F. THESIGER  would ask the hon. and learned Gentleman if he did not moan that a  de facto
 SIR F. THESIGER  thought the Committee much indebted to his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General for his interpretation of this clause, because it was clear that the Government wished persons who were neither tenants nor owners to have votes. ["Hear, hear!"] If his hon. and learned Friend did not mean that, if persons only made themselves occupiers, and continued themselves occupiers, they would be made voters, then why did he refuse to introduce the words, "tenant or owner," suggested by his (Sir F. Thesiger's) hon. Friend the Member for Oxfordshire, to remove all doubt and ambiguity? Again, he would seriously ask his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General whether he believed any man could entertain the slightest doubt of a person being a legal tenant merely because he was under a notice to quit that had not expired? But just look at the converse of this case: look at the case of a man under a notice to quit that had expired, with an election approaching, and the man knowing that if he only continued
 249 de facto bonâ fide
 SIR F. THESIGER  said, it appeared
 259 s. l.
 SIR F. THESIGER  said, his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General had introduced a new term. He now spoke of a  bonâ fide bonâ fide
 SIR F. THESIGER : Did the hon. and learned Attorney General intend to give a stronger right in counties than in boroughs?
 252
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said it was apparent, according to the statement of the hon. and learned Attorney General that under this Bill a tenant, who ceased to be a legal tenant, might be registered, and vote; and he asked the Committee if a voter of that kind would not be a fictitious voter?
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, that the last rating was the test of value, but what his hon. Friend the Member for Oxfordshire proposed was that rating during the year should be required also as the test of occupation.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he was well aware that, in moving an Amendment which would have the effect of raising the qualification of voters in counties, he would be met by the charge already made in the course of the debate, that he was actuated by an undue desire of curtailing the franchise, and of depriving his countrymen of those privileges which the Bill proposed to extend to them. He did not know that it was necessary for a Member of Parliament to reply to such charges as those. But he would say at once that he subscribed to the constitutional doctrine which he recollected having heard expressed by the noble Lord opposite (Lord John Russell), that it was the right of the whole population, both in England and in Ireland, to have the best kind of government and the best system of representation which it was possible for Parliament to confer; and he had recently read an opinion quoted from Mr. Fox by Sir James Graham, in one of the former discussions on this very subject, in which he (Mr. Hamilton) fully coincided, namely, that the best qualification as the basis of the representative system was that which included the largest number of independent voters, and excluded the largest number of dependent voters. It was said, that because in England the number of electors bore a larger proportion to the whole population than in Ireland, that, therefore, it was necessary to increase the Irish constituencies; but he could not admit that the franchise ought to rest upon any such
 260 "I do not propose to make any material alteration in the tenure under which the franchise is at present enjoyed." l. l. l. 261 l. l. "I view the principle of baaing the county qualification on property as not only consecrated by long practice and the usage of the constitution, but I think it also in accordance with sound sense and reason, for it is a legitimate inference that the possessors of property will, on the whole, be the class of persons most capable of exercising the franchise with independence, and having themselves some stake in the country, will be anxious to discharge honestly the duty imposed on them." l. 262 l. l. l. l. l. l. s. l. l. l.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  proposed to insert in this clause the alterations of which he had given notice. He proposed this Amendment because he thought it desirable that it should be distinctly understood and expressed that it was not the intention of the Bill to annul, but to preserve, all the existing franchises which do not require occupation; and if he were to refer to subsequent clauses, he thought he could show that the language of the Bill was ambiguous in this respect. In proposing this Amendment, however, he wished to guard himself against being understood to be favourable to the rating franchise, as proposed in the Bill for counties. On the contrary, he thought that if it was necessary to augment the constituent body in Ireland, it would be better to do so by creating supplementary franchises without annulling any of the existing franchises, as was proposed in the Bill introduced by Sir James Graham, in 1844. He would only observe further, that the words he now proposed to introduce were contained in the Irish Reform Act.
 MR. MOORE  said, the votes created by this clause would be worse than fictitious, they would be conditional; for if a tenant came to vote, and voted against his landlord, the agent would raise the objection that he had had notice to quit.
 MR. AGLIONBY  hoped Government would allow the proviso to be put in. The Attorney General had made a statement which was calculated to mislead the House. He said, if they inserted the proviso, it would be a receipt in full for the payment of the rates.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, as it was the disposition of the Committee to go to a division, he would detain them but for a few moments, whilst he merely stated the reasons why he could not acquiesce in the Government proposal. He felt as strongly as the noble Lord could feel the importance of mating a considerable addition to the Irish franchise; but he felt there were other and graver considerations connected with this question than a mere augmentation of numbers. First of all, they had to consider how to create a constituency whose position and substance gave them an interest in maintaining the rights of property, and supporting law and order. Secondly, to take care that the constituency had such an amount of means as would make them independent of those who, if they were utterly dependent, would be likely to exercise an unjust influence over them; and, thirdly, to consider what would be the effect upon the social condition of Ireland, of the franchise which they proposed to create. There was still a further consideration which applied rather to English than to Irish Members, and that was, what would be the effect on public opinion in England if the franchise in Ireland was placed upon this basis. He admitted there was considerable distinction between the circumstances of the two countries, but then many either would not think so, or would affect that they did not think so, and would represent the injustice to England of the Irish people being put upon a more liberal and favourable footing, as regarded the franchise, than the English. There was another objection to the 8 l. l. 272 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 273 l.
 MR. GRATTAN  said, that his hon. Friend reminded him of the phrase which had been applied to the Bourbons:  Il n'a rien oublié, ni rien appris. 263 l. l. l. l. Ingenui vultus puer Polite Conversation "He looks as if butter wouldn't melt in his mouth, But I warrant you cheese won't choke him."
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that he had had opportunities of seeing the great difficulties which had arisen, and the great injustice which had been created, in consequence of requiring a person to be rated for every separate rating, and that was with him a stronger reason than any which had yet been given for desiring to sec the clause remain as it was. If there were three or four rates in the year, there was the greater chance of a person being omitted in the rate-book, either designedly, or through neglect; and there were many more obstacles interposed to the acquirement of the franchise. That, he believed, was precisely the object which hon. Gentlemen opposite had in view, and, therefore, they ought to be the more strict in guarding against any such result. In Dublin, as his hon. Friend below him could inform the House, the law had interposed a dozen almost impossible steps which the elector had to travel before he could acquire the franchise. Their object should be to simplify the franchise as much as possible. Whatever franchise was to be given, let as little difficulty and delay as possible be thrown in the way of its acquisition. It was for this reason that he preferred the clause as it stood to the proposal of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire.
 MR. BRIGHT  asked whether the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General meant to say that there was no law
 292
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he should like to ascertain the views of the Government upon
 240
 MR. BRIGHT  said, it had appeared in evidence before a Parliamentary Committee, that certain landed gentlemen in Ireland on some occasions had served no less than 500 notices to quit on their tenants, and that on certain estates it was the custom of the agent to serve a notice to quit on every tenant every six months. If that were a fact, it was one which was much to be deplored. In this measure they must not allow the introduction of words that could cause any dispute in Parliamentary Committees, or any quibble in Irish courts, by which the franchise in Ireland might be done away with. He thought the hon. and learned Attorney General was perfectly right in maintaining this simplicity of phraseology, because it was the object of Parliament, the object of Government, and of those who supported this Bill, that the franchise should be given to all who were in the occupation of laud in Ireland. If there were any dispute as to the right of possessing land, that dispute ought to be settled in the ordinary course of law, and certainly the landlord class in Ireland were the last class of men in the world to come before that House and say there was not legal provision for the maintenance of their rights in Ireland.
 MR. HATCHELL  said, he would show what had rendered this measure indispensable. Under the Reform Bill the franchise was 10 l.
 MR. HATCHELL  observed, that in point of fact the Bill did not affect the franchise which the hon. Member for the University of Dublin sought to guard by this proviso. There was, therefore, no objection to add the proviso, if the House wished to guard against all ambiguity.
 MR. REYNOLDS  moved the addition to the clause of the following proviso:—
 "Provided also that no person otherwise qualified shall be held to be disqualified by reason of any arrears of rates up to the 5th of July, 1819."
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that the collector might be directed by this Bill to take the last rate. His proviso was a source of
 293
 MR. REYNOLDS  pointed out the injustice of compelling voters, before being entitled to be placed on the register, to pay up all arrears of taxes. In the distressed and insolvent unions, this provision would operate as a virtual disfranchisement; and he suggested that all persons should be entitled to be upon the register who had paid the last rate.
 MR. REYNOLDS  then withdrew the proviso. Clause agreed to.
 MR. REYNOLDS  claimed permission to offer a few observations. He could not avoid expressing his surprise at the Amendment proposed by his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Dublin, because he believed that the 8 l. l. 264 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. 265 l. l. 266 l. 
 
 Counties. No. on the Roll. No. of Persons voting. 
 Clare … 2,199 1,250 
 Kildare … 1,275 800 
 Kilkenny … 1,090 500 
 Leitrim … 1,434 600 
 Limerick … 1,673 1,000 
 Longford … 1,089 800 
 Mayo … 1,391 600 
 Meath … 1,611 900 
 Roscommon … 1,038 350 
 
 Population. No. of Electors. Members. 
 England and Wales. 6,105,228 365,269 335 
 Scotch 964,958 42,318 23 
 7,070,286 417,587 358 267 s. l. 268 
 
 ENGLISH. 
 Boroughs. Population. Electors. Members. 
 Andover … 4,997 243 2 
 Knaresborough … 5,382 228 2 
 Thetford … 3,844 214 2 
 Harwich … 3,730 268 2 
 Marlborough … 4,130 255 2 
 Richmond … 4,300 265 2 
 26,383 1,473 12 
 
 IRISH. 
 Cork … … 80,720 3,244 2 
 Dublin … … 232,726 15,049 2 
 Galway … … 32,511 1,822 2 
 Limerick … … 48,391 1,246 2 
 Waterford … … 23,216 1,273 2 
 Belfast … … 75,308 4,701 2 
 492,872 27,335 12 l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. ROEBUCK , wished to know, when the hon. Member for North Northamptonshire charged himself and friends with inconsistency, whether he really knew what the vote was? He (Mr. Roebuck) did not think that the vote which he was going to give to-night was at all inconsistent with the vote which he gave last night. He wished by his vote to-night to enlarge the constituency of the Irish people; he had the same object in view last night with regard to the English people. He went on both occasions as he found others would go with him. He went with the noble Lord at the head of the Government tonight as far as the noble Lord went, but he did not say that he would not go farther; so it was last night with the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose. Did the hon. Gentleman really take them for children or men of the world, when he called upon him and his friends to abstain from voting on that occasion? What they wanted to know was the substance of the matter before them. That was how they were best to enlarge the constituency of the Irish people. Her Majesty's Ministers had brought forward a Bill for the purpose, in which they said that an 8 l. l. l. l. 279 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 280
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, the noble Lord omitted to observe that the party must have been rated, and must have been in occupation a whole year.
 MR. ROEBUCK  would suppose that the person who was the wrongous occupier did vote. The House wanted to increase the number of voters in Ireland. On both sides of the House it was admitted that there were difficulties in the way of doing so in consequence of litigation. Well, what was the class of men who would vote under the supposed case of wrongful occupation? Looking at the case as legislators and as statesmen, and not as lawyers, he would ask what would be the mischief of including these individuals in the constituency created under this Bill? They must be persons who had occupied lands and tenements of the value of 8 l.
 MR. ROEBUCK  asked what was the question before the House? Hon. Members were called upon in the midst of a buzz to decide upon the franchise of the people of Ireland; and what was the question before them? He presumed the Government understood their own Bill, and that they had no objection to explain what was proposed.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, a dozen amendments to the Bill stood on the paper, and that it was necessary to understand each distinctly, according as it was proposed.
 MR. SADLEIR , from his knowledge of Irish affairs, felt compelled to oppose the Amendment, because it would be opening a wide field for litigation and fraud. The practice of serving notices to quit annually was extensively resorted to in Ireland, on account of the unsatisfactory state of the relations between landlord and tenant, which he sincerely hoped would be remedied by the Bill of the Government on that subject. There were also alternate notices to quit, running over a period of twelve months, on account of uncertainty when the tenancy commenced, and in these cases the tenancy might be called in question all the year round.
 MR. HENLEY : The hon. Member who spoke last could not have read the Bill, because the only questions that could be put were, "Are you the person whose name appears upon the register?" and "Have you voted before at this election?"
 MR. HENLEY  wished the Committee to understand that they were about to divide only upon the first part of his Amendment, which proposed to substitute the words "have occupied as owner or tenant," for the words used in the clause.
 MR. HENLEY  then begged to move another Amendment, of which he had given notice, and which had reference to the payment of rates. The object of the Amendment was to strike out the words "the last rate," and to insert all rates made during the year. He understood that the noble Lord at the head of the Government proposed that the party who shall be rated shall occupy for a year, but that he shall be only rated for the last rate. The proviso for payment was, that he shall only pay the rate due at the preceding January; but he presumed the intention of the noble Lord was, that the party shall, as in England, be rated for the rates during the year. He was sure the noble Lord did not intend to throw dust in their eyes; and if he thought the principle which he (Mr. Henley) advocated was a just one, he would rather leave it to him to introduce the words. On the contrary, if the noble Lord did not agree with him, he should take a division on the Amendment.
 MR. HENLEY  said, it was now perfectly clear that the object of Government was to enable a man to be registered, who, although he might occupy a tenement worth only 10 s. l.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the Bill should establish more clearly than it did the connexion that ought to subsist between the possession of land and the right of voting; it should also do away with anything that might possibly occasion battling in the registration courts. Now, he wished to call the attention of the House to this, that the Bill requirted that all parties liable to poor-rates should be registered without reference to the valuation—that the valuation was afterwards to be ascertained by means of the rate-book, and it was proposed by the Bill that the last rate before a certain time should determine the right of voting; but there was a proviso at the end of the
 247
 MR. HENLEY  said, he had only introduced
 251
 MR. HUME  considered that when the conduct of a Member of that House had been examined and sifted, to continue to reiterate charges, as had been done that night by the hon. Baronet, was not in accordance with the rules of that House.
 MR. HUME  rose to order. He wished to know whether that House was prepared to enter into any or every petition which might be presented respecting all the speculations of past years? If the House of Commons were to become the arbiters in the case of disputed accounts arising out of such speculations, where was to be the limit? And if questions as to the private affairs of hon. Members were allowed to be put and answered in that House, what controversies and difficulties, and what delay in the progress of public business, might not result? He appealed to the Chair, therefore, whether the question which had been put was a proper one. There was an Act of Parliament to facilitate the winding up of joint-stock schemes, which might be made applicable to the present case; but, whether or not, it was not for the House of Commons to become the arbiters between the parties.
 MR. HUME  said, the land was subjected to extraordinary circumstances at the present time; and instead of requiring the payment of all arrears, the clause ought only to require the payment of rates made after the passing of the Act.
 MR. HUME  said, he thought it was un-fair not to grant this Amendment; but seeing that Government had made up their minds, he advised his hon. Friend not to divide the House.
 MR. R. M. FOX  rose to correct an error into which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge had fallen. The land adverted to as occupied by cottier tenants, paying 7 l. l l.
 MR. SHEIL : The House is impatient for a division. I shall be rapid and concise. The hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, has in all probability been more engaged in reflecting on what he was going to say, than in listening to the Secretary for Ireland. The hon. Gentleman said, that the Secretary for Ireland had not stated why he had selected a rating of 8 l. l. l. l. l. l. 278
 MR. SHEIL  would offer the Committee an illustration that came under his own notice. He was formerly Member for the county of Louth, in which there was a mountain called Carlingford. Thirty fishermen repaired to that mountain, and possessed the site for twenty years. They said they were not tenants, and the landlord said he was the owner. Now, if the words "tenant or owner" were inserted in the clause, these thirty fishermen would have no vote. [Sir F. THESIGER: They had twenty years' possession. But supposing the possession had been but nineteen years, every one of them would have lost his vote].
 MR. WALPOLE  called attention to the fact that the clause required the payment of all rates in respect to county voters which were payable on the 1st of January, whilst, in respect to cities and towns, the 6th clause required the payment of those payable on the 5th January. He thought the
 290
 MR. W. BROWN  would not take a lawyer's view of the subject, but would take a common-sense view of it. Let them simply prove the occupation, and let that occupation be quite sufficient.
 MR. F. MACKENZIE  said, the Amendment of the hon. Member for the University of Dublin was couched in the plainest terms, easy of comprehension.
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH : Hon. Gentlemen opposite are either very ill-agreed among themselves or they have, it must be admitted, rather an odd way of evincing their desire to serve the people of Ireland. The noble Lord who has just sat down would rather give additional Members than augment the constituencies, although we have been told by the hon. Gentleman who sits immediately below
 281 l. 282 l. l. l. l. l. 283 "If it was just that the principles of the (Reform) Bill should be applied to England, it was no less just that they should be applied to Ireland. If the Reform Bill only conferred on the people of England that which was their right, why should the same right be denied to Ireland? Could such rights be long withheld without danger? If they were withheld, would not that be a fair reason wherefore the people of Ireland should demand a repeal of the Union?" l. 284
 SIB W. VERNER  said, that all he desired to obtain was equal justice for all. Referring to the state of the constituencies in Ireland at the time of the 40 s. 285
 SIR B. HALL  said, the question he asked was whether the hon. and learned Member intended to introduce a Bill in the present Session of Parliament for the purpose of winding up the company, which the Committee of the House of Commons had declared to be illegal, and of which the Lord Chief Baron had more recently expressed the same opinion.
 Sir B. HALL  said, the hon. and learned Member had not replied to the question whether the hon. and learned Member was prepared himself to bring in a Bill as re-commended by the Committee, or to bring under the consideration of the House any measures for winding up the scheme?
 SIR B. HALL  would then confine him-self to this, which he submitted would be strictly in order. It would be recollected that there was a Bill introduced in 1848 in reference to this land company, which Bill was referred to a Select Committee, but was not afterwards proceeded with. He wished to know if it was the intention of the hon. and learned Member for Nottingham to renew any measure of that kind in the present Session, or to take any steps to wind up this scheme?
 SIR B. HALL  rose pursuant to notice, to present two petitions, one signed by twenty-eight allottees in the Minster Level estate, and the other by forty-five allottees in the Snigg's End estate, complaining of the conduct of Mr. F. O'Connor in reference to the land scheme. He had forwarded a copy of the petitions to the hon. and learned Member for Nottingham, to whom he proposed to ask a question on the subject, but beyond that he should refrain from making any comment on the allegation of the petitioners, or to enter at all into the merits of the case, nor did he propose even to state the substance of the petitions, as he was anxious to avoid saying anything which might give rise to angry discussion. He would simply move that one of the petitions be read by the clerk at the table. [An Hon. MEMBER; The prayer, what is the prayer?] He would rather leave it to the clerk to read the prayer as well as the allegations of the petitioners. Northern Star l. s. l. l. s. l. 234 l. l. 235
 Sir B. HALL  would now put the question of which he had also given the hon. and learned Member for Nottingham notice. The question he wished to put was, whether the hon. and learned Member intended to convey to the allottees the title he himself held in this property, or to take any steps to wind up the concern, either by means of a Bill or otherwise, and what was the amount he calculated would be returned to each of the 7,000 shareholders?
 MR. GROGAN  said, if a tenant continued to occupy after the expiration of his notice he violated the law, and it was clear that unless the Amendment were adopted, a wrongful tenant overholding his occupancy would be entitled to vote, for the only questions that could be put to him were—"Are you the same person whose name appears upon the register?" and, "Have you already voted at this election?"
 SIR G. GREY  thought that if there were no opposition to the Amendment, those hon. Members were perfectly right who held the opinion that the sooner they proceeded to dispose of that Amendment the better. The speech that the House had just hoard from the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon was one which took a wide historical range, and which took a full view of the principle of the Bill. It was a speech which might very well have been delivered on the second reading, or reserved till the third reading of the Bill; but it certainly was a speech scarcely suited to the consideration of a Bill in Committee. As to the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for the University of Dublin, it was one which involved no new principle. If it had the effect, as some hon. Members supposed it would, of making a subsequent clause in the Bill more clear, then that was an additional reason in its favour. The Government admitted the words which the hon. Member proposed to insert, but they did not admit that there was any ambiguity in the Bill.
 SIR G. GREY  opposed the Amendment, as destroying the value of the qualification, the principal virtue of which was its self-acting capability. The independence of the voter would be sacrificed instead of being secured under the Amendment.
 MR. W. MILES  said, where a property qualification was the principle of this Bill, surely rates of all descriptions should be paid, to perfect a qualification to vote.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that no thing could have been more moderate than the tone of the speech of the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken; and he (Sir W. Somerville) had no doubt that the right hon. Gentleman, in pursuing the course which he had announced he should do, was animated by the best intentions with regard to the interests of Ireland. He (Sir W. Somerville) begged of the House to consider for a moment the position of the case. He apprehended that there was no doubt as to the necessity of something being done. The state of the franchise in Ireland was now such that it behoved the House, if they really wished to establish a proper constituency in that country, to endeavour to remedy the existing state of things. The question was, what that remedy ought to be, and how it ought to be applied. The House would remember that by the Reform Act a 10 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 274 l. l. 275
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  promised to consider the point, when they came to the 6th clause.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  stated that the Amendment might be adopted, inasmuch as the Bill did not propose to affect any franchise in Ireland, except the franchise requiring occupation.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  said, that he considered the amount of 8 l. l
 MR. SANDARS  declared himself dissatisfied with this answer; and gave notice that utdess the noble Lord at the head of Foreign Affairs was in his place on the following day to answer his question, he should move the adjournment of the House for an hour, in order that he might make his appearance.
 MR. SANDARS  rose to put a question to the noble Lord opposite. He had given notice of his intention to put this question to the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, or in his absence to the noble Lord at the head of the Government; and not observing the Foreign Secretary in his place, he hoped he should receive a reply from the First Lord of the Treasury. He wished to know whether an answer had been received from Her Majesty's Ministers at Frankfort and Berlin, in reply to the proposal of the Danish Government to renew the armistice on certain conditions, if those
 314
 MR. SANDARS  replied in the affirmative.
 MR. SANDARS , seeing the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) in his place, begged to repeat the question of which he had given notice. It had been stated that an armistice had been agreed upon, and he wished to know whether the noble Lord had any information on the subject, and what was the nature of such armistice?
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it was not his habit to give opinions by which he was not prepared to abide. What he had said was, that the 10th Geo. IV. gave powers to the King or Queen to constitute a Council, and that Council had the power to make such laws as were necessary for order and good government. He stated his opinion to be that taxation was a part of good government, and that the council, notwithstanding the Act had expired, had still the power to pass laws for the good government of the colony.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that what he had formerly observed was that the Act had expired, but the Council continued in force.
 SIR W. MOLE S WORTH  said, that the question, as put by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General was not as he had framed it. He had asked whether the council, after the expiration of the Act, had power to make laws, and whether those laws were legal or illegal; and he had especially asked, if they had made laws as to the application of public money, whether an indemnity would be necessary. The hon. and learned Gentleman had then proceeded to answer these questions in an off-hand manner.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  denied that his manner had been off-hand. He had answered the question before, and he would answer it again in his opinion—and he was prepared to abide by his opinion—it might be wrong, and certainly if he differed with the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon, of course it was wrong—in his opinion, the Act of Parliament having expired, and the Crown having the power
 318
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL : Certainly; or any other question that the hon. and learned Gentleman would propose to him.
 SIR R. FERGUSON  proposed the omission of Clause 2. If the clause were suffered to remain, it would have a mischievous tendency by encouraging joint occupation.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  would answer that question to-morrow, and he hoped satisfactorily.
 MR. FAGAN  said, that this was a kind of Chandos clause, and the only way of preventing intimidation being practised towards the tenants was to extend the franchise. It so happened that in Ireland joint tenancies were very numerous, and he did not see why persons so occupying land should be deprived of their franchise.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the only effect of the clause would be, that a landlord, instead of letting a farm of twenty-four acres, for instance, in three farms, might, if he chose, let it to three occupiers. It was, no doubt, desirable to have largo farms; but if they wished to counteract the influence of the landlords, that could not be done by expunging this clause. Suppose a tenant joined his three sons in his occupation, the landlord would got three votes; and he could do so at present by having the farm split up into separate tenancies. Therefore, the mischief pointed out would not be remedied by expunging this clause; it was left open cither way.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  said, that if the clause was rejected, the result would be to disfranchise joint occupiers generally. At present there was no mention in the Act of joint occupiers in boroughs; some barristers held that they were disfranchised thereby; and he had known a man occupying a 40 l
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  expressed himself anxious to hear the opinions of the Government on the subject of the proposed Amendment.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the effect of his hon. and learned Friend's Amendment would be to give the franchise to freeholders possessing what was now called a beneficial interest, which would occasion considerable doubt, and revive the old mischief occasioned by raising the question of beneficial value before the barrister. In lieu of that the Government took the simple criterion of rating.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that when a party was not an occupier under this clause, he would not be rated, but the rates would be paid by the occupier. If the owner was the occupier, he would be rated.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  explained that, in England, if a person had half a dozen franchises in a borough, all of which were borough franchises, he could not vote for the county; but if he had an occupation franchise in a borough, and also other freehold property within the limits of the borough, he could vote for the county in respect of that freehold.
 SIR D. NORREYS  proposed leaving out the words "in respect to any lands," in order to define more clearly that the voter might vote, having a freehold of which he had not the occupancy.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that an individual could not be registered for county and borough on one property; and the object of the clause was to prevent any one from voting for both county and borough on the same property.
 SIR D. NORREYS  said, that nothing would be more mischievous than to leave put the words. If this Bill were to receive
 342
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  argued that if the words proposed to be left out were omitted, the Irish franchise would not thereby be assimilated to the English franchise, inasmuch as the English Act contained the words "or other building."
 SIR D. NORREYS , after the above words, "lands, tenements, or hereditaments," moved the omission of the words "or any house, warehouse, counting-house or shop, either separately or jointly with any land within such city, town, or borough, occupied as tenant under the same landlord, or occupied as owner," for the purpose of introducing a provision that, where an occupier shall be separately rated for several premises of the value of 8 l 343
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the words "lands, tenements, or hereditaments," were large enough to include everything; but the following words specified particular premises, restricting their occupation to be under the same landlord. There was therefore an apparent difficulty in the construction, which it certainly would be better to avoid. But he did not think the Committee would assent to the Amendment. The reason for inserting "lands, tenements, or hereditaments," was to comprehend every species of franchise. The clause certainly might be more clearly put, and it might be reconsidered upon the report. As the clause stood, the voter would have the right to vote, though he held under a hundred different landlords; but if the words "lands, tenements, or hereditaments," were struck out, he would not.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that if the Committee were agreed on the point, he was willing that the words after "lands, tenements, and hereditaments" should be left out.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  was
 344
 The CHAIRMAN  considered that it was perfectly competent to the hon. Member for Dublin city to propose his Amendment.
 SIR W. SOMBRVILLE  said, it was the intention of the Government to maintain the Bill as it stood; he must, therefore, oppose the Amendment. The franchise proposed for the counties was much more extensive than the present one; but it was said it would not be so in the boroughs. His answer was, that the case of the boroughs was not so strong—so largo an extension of the suffrage was not necessary. The county electors in Ireland were not more than two per cent of the adult male population; while in this country it was 29 per cent. The borough electors in Ireland, on the other hand, bore a larger proportion to the population than it did in this country, being 22 per cent. There were 48,421 tenements in the different boroughs rated above 8 l 346
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  said, there was no one acquainted with rating in Ireland who must not know that an 8 l l l
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  was of opinion that there was not an argument which had been used to sustain the 8 l l
 SIR D. NORREYS  called attention to the fact, that the valuation on which the calculation was made respecting the borough franchise, was made some years ago, and no person could deny that, in the intermediate time, the valuations of tenements in towns had fallen 25 per cent.
 MR. S. ADAIR  thought that a decision taken then by the House upon the question before it would be premature. He had received letters from persona of the highest respectability in the borough of Armagh, in which it was stated that the 8 l l bonâ fide l
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY  suggested, that if the Government would not give the Committee any hope of their reconsidering the subject, the sooner the House divided the better.
 MR. CLEMENTS  said, they were not discussing the question of joint tenancy, but of joint occupancy, which was a different thing. He hoped the House would not encourage the system of joint occupancy. Everybody connected with Ireland was aware of the evils of such a system, and he maintained that this clause would have a tendency to continue that system.
 LORD C. HAMILTON  said, that the hon. Gentleman seemed to forget that he very often sat at that side of the House himself, and was constantly changing his seat. He agreed in the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Roscommon with respect to the propriety of assimilating the practice in regard to boroughs in Ireland and Scotland.
 LORD J. MANNERS  said, if these householders were not to be disfranchised, the words proposed by his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Dublin ought to be added. But if they were to be disfranchised, let the intention be declared at once.
 LORD J. MANNERS  briefly expressed his dissatisfaction at the reply of the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government,
 338
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the proposal was to give the right of voting to persons who held property of the value of 5 l l l 337 l
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, it had been considered that persons occupying to the value of 8 l l
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he had no wish to pass the clause, but he wished to take the opinion of Irish Members upon it. If he was to take the hon. Baronet as the foreman of the jury, the clause must be expunged.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  replied, that he had received a letter upon this subject, which he had referred to the Poor Law Commissioners in Ireland. He regretted that the returns on the subject were not as complete as it was desirable they should be; they did not enter into all the necessary particulars. It appeared, however, from such information as had reached them, that in the week ending the 16th of February, 1850, the number of persons receiving relief was 2,546, and that the persons receiving outdoor relief were not less in number than 8,000. He could only state that there was great difficulty in collecting the rates of that union; that some statements had reached him which were not consistent with the letter he had referred to; that, up to the 29th of September, the advances to that union amounted to 20,000 l l l s 316
 LORD J. RUSSELL  had only an abstract of papers which were now in Ireland. He should have to send for them, but he had no objection to the whole statement being laid upon the table as soon as it could be received.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  (in the absence of Viscount Palmerstou) replied, that he did not think any official information had been received of a new armistice. But the negotiations for peace were still going on.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  wished to know from the hon. Member whether be intended to put this question in the form in which it stood on the paper?
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the Government had endeavoured to carry this Bill with a view to give, if possible, a real and practical benefit to the people of Ireland, to extend the number of electors where they were at present exceedingly deficient, and to make the franchise more satisfactory to the people of that country. If they should fail in that endeavour, they could not continue to take charge of the present Bill. With regard to the county franchise, it was obvious that the value hitherto required, and the mode of obtaining the franchise, had diminished the number of voters very greatly, so greatly that it was necessary to consider in what way the number could be best increased. They had considered the various propositions made during the past ten years upon the subject, and, upon the whole, they had come to the decision that it was necessary to alter the basis of the franchise from tenure to mere occupation. It was not thought necessary to make any consider-
 350 l l l s l l l l
 LORD J. RUSSELL  hoped the Committee would not refuse to go on till they had finished the clause. With regard to the proposition before the House, he did not think that it would be any improvement, as it would add to the number of taxes which the voter must pay; and it was desirable that he should pay them, if possible, in one amount.
 MR. STAFFORD  looked upon the statement of the noble Lord as an indirect announcement that the suggestions of Irish Members would only be favourably received if they came from one (the Ministerial) side of the House. But a word or two as to the effect of this clause. He would take the case of a tenant hostile to the landlord, and also of another tenant favourable to the landlord. Then he would take the case of a landlord anxious, by fair or by foul means, to increase his political influence. Suppose the tenant was hostile to the landlord, and divided his farm into three parts, and, for the purpose of having three votes, paid himself one-third of the poor-rates—when he presented one-third of the poor-rate tickets, and proposed to deduct one third, the landlord would stop him at once and say, "You shall not subdivide
 322
 MR. P. FRENCH  believed, if the 8 l l l l
 COLONEL DUNNE  objected to the omission of the words, and suggested that "or other building" should be added after "counting-house," as a means of assimilating the Bill to the English Act.
 COLONEL DUNNE  had not the slightest doubt that the Bill, as it stood, would have the effect of restricting the franchise beyond the intentions of Parliament. He hoped, therefore, that Her Majesty's Government would interpose no objection to the union of different tenements in order to make up the franchise.
 COLONEL DUNNE  begged to say, and he understood the right hon. Gentleman the Lord Mayor of Dublin had said, that there were only 170 voters in the borough which he (Colonel Dunne) had the honour to represent. But if his right hon. Friend were to take off the odd hundred, and leave only the seventy, he would be really nearer the mark. And if the present measure were passed in the form in which
 349
 COLONEL DUNNE  had supported the second reading of the Bill, but he did not support this clause, and he agreed with the hon. Baronet the Member for Londonderry that this clause was most objectionable.
 MR. SCULLY  rejoiced that the Government were resolved to maintain this clause. This was not a question between landlord and tenant, and he thought that view of the subject should have been left out of the case altogether. In his county there were tenants who had occupied for twenty, thirty, and fifty years as joint tenants, and if this clause were not adopted, those parties would be disfranchised. Before he sat down, he wished to refer to what had fallen from the hon. Member for North Northamptonshire with respect to an observation made by the hon. Member for Carlow, and to say, in reply, that that was not a question of a borough at all. It was a national question; and any hon. Member who thought warmly on the subject of the franchise in Ireland was hound to give his opinion honestly and sincerely on the entire franchise of the country. With regard to the opposition to this measure at the other side of the House, he must say, that, although this question of the franchise might have been taken very coolly by hon. Gentlemen opposite in the first instance, it was now factiously opposed by them, as was shown by eight divisions in one night. The hon. Gentleman the Member for North Northamptonshire had said that this clause would give power to the landlords. If so, he (Mr. Scully) was surprised that the hon. Gentleman and those agreeing with him, who were so anxious an all occasions to support that class, should oppose the clause on that ground.
 MR. SCULLY  argued that care should be taken that all rates due should be paid before parties under this clause should be entitled to vote.
 MR. SCULLY  begged to say, in reference to an observation that fell from the right hon. Gentleman the Seccretary for Ireland, that the number of borough voters in England was 314,000, while the number for Ireland, according to this return, would be 48,000; and was that, he asked, a fair proportion? If the 5 l
 SIR F. THESIGER  could not see anything undesirable in a man having two properties in a borough voting for the county upon one of them. In this respect he was content with the law as it was in England.
 SIR F. THESIGER  said, that his object had been from the first to preserve the existing franchise, and to make this Bill,
 341
 SIR F. THESIGER  suggested the advisability of taking the portions of the clause separately. If the Government would consent to omit the words "house, counting-house, or shop," the hon. Member for Dublin might then raise a discussion with respect to the occupation of tenants and owners.
 SIR F. THESIGER  wished to know if by this clause a person should be entitled to vote for two houses, or counting-houses, or warehouses, or shops? He presumed he did not, but that it was intended by the clause that a man should vote for a house and land, or a warehouse and land, or a counting-house and land. But the preceding words were "in respect of any lands, tenements, or hereditaments," which any lawyer would tell them that two houses or twenty houses would be included in them. It would be desirable to omit the words, or explain them by specific words.
 SIR F. THESIGER  said, that a man might possess two descriptions of property in a borough, and with respect to one he might be entitled to vote for the borough or for the county, but was registered for the borough and not for the county; but with respect to the other was entitled to vote for the county and be registered for the county.
 SIR F. THESIGER  said, that he did not think it was reasonable that parties should be rated, and not required to pay rates, as was the case under this clause. He should, therefore, propose a proviso to the effect—
 "That no person should be registered under this clause unless all rates made up to the 1st of
 339 l
 SIR F. THESIGER  thought at first that the wording of the clause could be made to bear the construction which he had put upon them; but from the ex-
 333 l bonâ fide l s 334 l l l 335 l l 336 l bonâ fide
 SIR F. THESIGER  then moved the omission of the words in the clause giving the right of voting to persons possessed of estates for life of the value of 5 l 332 l s l l l l s l
 SIR F. THESIGER  took it for granted that the clause was introduced because it was the opinion of the Government that it was desirable, in the system about to be established, such a clause as this, with regard to joint occupants, should be adopted; but the noble Lord at the head of the Government told them he had been disposed to abandon the clause, with the notion that several Irish Members thought it would be desirable that such a clause should not be introduced. He certainly understood that the noble Lord had abandoned the clause. But the noble Lord having received encouragement from certain Gentlemen connected with Ireland at the other side of the House, stooped down to pick up the clause again, and insisted
 325 l l l 326
 SIR F. THESIGER  said, that as he understood the proposition of the Government, it was not their intention to interfere with the existing franchises, except so far as they depended on occupation; but that it was intended to create a now franchise, which was in fact created by the first clause of the Bill. He would therefore suggest, in order to make the matter perfectly clear, that there should be introduced in the clause then before the Committee, after the enacting words, the words "in addition to those qualified by law to register and vote at any election upon rights acquired in virtue of any qualification not requiring occupation."
 SIR F. THESIGER  said, perhaps the hon. and learned Gentleman would also answer to-morrow whether the Council had the power to tax the colony?
 SIR F. THESIGER  believed that the question asked of his hon. and learned Friend was, whether the existing body had power to make future laws after the expiration of the Act?
 SIR F. THESIGER  said, that a few days ago the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General, in reply to a ques-
 317
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  thought that, without reference to party questions, it would be most desirable to have  bonâ fide
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, all he desired was, that the Committee would accept the words he proposed, in order that the existing occupation franchise might not be disturbed.
 Mr. G. A. HAMILTON  proposed the addition of certain words with respect to the borough franchise, to preserve the rights of the existing 10 l
 MR. GRATTAN  said, that there appeared to be some misapprehension as to the powers of the boards of guardians in creating fictitious votes. In point of fact, the guardians had not the power to put a single amendment on the rate.
 Mr. GRATTAN  had heard no reason whatever for omitting the clause. The truth was, landlords did not like joint tenancies, because that would make them look after their land. It was not for the franchise. If four persons had a joint occupation of land, the hon. Baronet objected to three of them having votes. He said he did not see why they should be entitled to vote. He should ask him, why not? Did these men so conduct themselves towards their tenants that they were afraid to trust them with votes?
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had only put the case of a landlord who did not care a single farthing for his property, and who would sacrifice his property to the making of votes. But the case put by his hon. Friend the Member for North Northamptonshire was one whore the landlord had some regard for his property, but also wished to have political influence. He would ask any hon. Gentleman, whether, on commencing improvements on his property, he would not desire not to have large farms with joint occupancy, but to have every man holding his own land. When he came into possession of his estate, one half of it was held under joint tenancies, and he felt his first step should be to get each tenant to hold separately his own land. The clause would give a dangerous power to the landlords; but it was an instrument which, though it might sometimes work favourably to them, was full of danger, for it would lead to the creation of fictitious voters. Considering how the clause would affect the social condition of Ireland, and believing that it would serve as an inducement to landlords to create
 323
 MR. KERSHAW  said, that as he had always supported liberal measures for Ireland, he hoped that the Government would consent to reconsider this question with respect to the borough franchise.
 MR. FITZPATRICK  said, he should cordially support the proposition of the hon. Member for Londonderry, agreeing with him that the clause would have a most mischievous tendency; that it would act as an encouragement to a species of tenure alike injurious both to the landlord as well as the tenant. Taking into consideration the peculiar circumstances of Ireland at present, the vast changes taking place there in the distribution of land, all tending to a sound and more satisfactory condition, he thought this House could not be too careful in guarding against any legislation which might give an inducement to revert to that wretched system of mismanagement of property, from the evil effects of which all classes were now suffering severely.
 MR. HATCHELL  considered that the remarks of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Abingdon, with respect to under value or over rating, went to the entire principle of the Bill, and applied equally to the question of the 8 l
 MR. HATCHELL , in answer to a question from Sir R. Ferguson, said that the object of the clause was to prevent a person having the franchise for a borough, possessing also a vote for the county arising out of the same property.
 COLONEL RAWDON  said, that even taking this as a question of joint occupancy, would not the effect be to increase the representation of Ireland? There were two millions of acres held under those joint occupancies, and they must diminish the constituent body if they expunged this clause. He had no apprehension that property, circumstanced as it then was in Ireland, would suffer by this clause, for the minds of the landlords were now so sot upon their property, that they would see that it increased in value without any reference to political interests.
 COLONEL RAWDON  deplored the decision which Government had come to in this matter. They could not be aware of the great depreciation of property in Irish towns. He thought that a 5 l l
 MR. REYNOLDS  moved that the word "eight be struck out, and the blank be filled up by "five." His object, he said, was to reduce the borough qualification from 8 l l l. l l. 345 l l l l l
 MR. REYNOLDS  expressed his belief that the noble Lord would be returned for the county Down, even if they had universal suffrage.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that the first clause of the Bill had deprived a large and respectable class of the franchise who were registered under the 10 l
 MR. REYNOLDS  opposed the Amendment, on the ground that it would give rise to litigation. It might do very well for a small borough like Mallow, where the difficulties which he foresaw could never occur, becauses the houses there never attained to the elevation which they reached in the city of Dublin, but it would be impracticable in large constituencies.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said that, as he believed the Government might probably be induced to change their minds on the sub-
 352
 MR. REYNOLDS  thought that some difficulties would arise in cases where several partners participated in the profits of the business, while the lease was held in the name of one person only, but all of the partners were liable to the payment of rent.
 MR. REYNOLDS  considered the whole of the clause as a most dangerous one—one which was a departure from the principle of the Bill, and was of opinion that it ought to be expunged altogether. As he did not think, however, that he should succeed in dividing the House on the question, he should merely content himself with protesting against the clause.
 MR. REYNOLDS  declared that, if the words proposed to be omitted were left out, the landlords would be enabled to make voters by wholesale. Even as the clause stood it would enable the landlords to swamp the ratepayers with 5 l
 MR. REYNOLDS  thought the proposal of the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon was reasonable, and he should vote for it if it was pressed to a division. An owner of property might let it to parties who might get greatly in arrear with the rates. He feared this clause would tend to the manufacture of fictitious votes.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, he was not disposed to take the hon. Baronet as the foreman of the jury; and he thought the noble Lord, instead of taking the opinion of the hon. Baronet, should take the opinion of the representatives of popular constituencies. The hon. Baronet said, this joint occupation would cause the subdivision of land. He (Mr. Reynolds) did not believe that would be the effect; but where a farmer and his sons had land which would give to each a rating of the required value, the clause would give to each of them a vote, in the same manner as by joint occupation each would have a vote in a city or a borough. There was a precisely similar clause in the Irish Parliamentary Reform Bill, governing the franchise in cities and boroughs.
 MR. ROEBUCK  thought, that if the clause should have any political influence at all, it would be an influence in favour of the landlord. He was willing to meet that by making a large constituency, and he was not to be stopped by the declaration of the noble Lord the Member for Down, that England had small constituencies. He hoped the Government would adhere to the clause.
 MR. ROEBUCK  rose to ask for information at the hands of the Government. If he understood it, the objection to the clause on that side of the House was that it would lead to the subdivision of property. He would at once acknowledge that that was an enormous evil. But he wanted to know whether this clause legitimately
 321 l l
 MR. ROEBUCK  thought that the question which the Committee had to discuss was entirely confined to the suffrage, and had nothing whatever to do with the question of rates as referred to by the hon. Member for North Lincolnshire. He (Mr. Roebuck) disapproved of the conduct of the noble Lord at the head of the Government with respect to this Bill, and his threatening no longer to take charge of it if any alteration were made in it by the Committee. The noble Lord had said, that he had made inquiries with respect to the case of Ireland; but what more information could he have desired than had been furnished to him by hon. Members for Ireland? There was not a single Irish Member who had spoken on the subject who had not said that the effect of fixing this amount of franchise would be to reduce very considerably the borough constituencies. The noble Lord had not stated how he had obtained his information from Ireland; but could he deny any of the statements which had been put forward by hon. Members for that country, one of whom, the hon. and gallant Member for Portarlington, had said, that if this amount were adopted, his constituency would be reduced to seventy electors. In his opinion the noble Lord was not dealing fairly with Ireland, and his councillors had not fairly informed him of the state of the country.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that admitting a 10 l l l l l l l l 347 l l l
 MR. ROEBUCK  understood that the Attorney General acknowledged the principle contended for, but only wished to guard against proceeding in a hurry. If the hon. and learned Gentleman accepted the principle, he (Mr. Roebuck) would give him the discretion he asked.
 MR. ROEBUCK  suggested that the words should be struck out at once.
 MR. SADLEIR  wished to understand what the intentions of the Government were. The question was important, as the clause would operate extensively in cities and towns.
 MR. SADLEIR  concurred in the observation that had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, that the only real protection against a wide-spread system of corruption would be to increase the numbers of the borough constituency in Ireland. As the Bill at present stood, very few constituencies would exceed 300, and it was idle to expect that purity of election could be preserved in those boroughs where the constituency was under 300. He was surprised at the course taken by Irish Members at the opposite side of the House. They should have risen above the paltry considerations of party on this occasion, and called upon the
 348
 MR. SADLEIR  thought the noble Lord at the head of the Government would have to take upon himself the responsibility of expunging or maintaining this clause. On a subject of this nature it was utterly impossible to obtain unanimity. He admired the intimation given by the noble Lord on Friday evening that he would, to a great extent, be guided by the opinions of those Members of that House who were in favour of the great and leading principles of this Bill. This was one of the leading principles. There were at present at least two millions of acres in Ireland in joint occupancy, or occupied by tenants in common. He entreated the Government to pause before they put out this clause, which he thought it was wise and sound policy to retain. There had never been conferred on the people of Ireland the franchise enjoyed by the people of this country. It was notorious that the franchises given by the Irish Parliamentary Reform Bill were not those which it was the intention of the Government and of the Legislature to give. The decisions of the Judges had much curtailed the right of voting in Ireland, and, even under this Bill, the people of Ireland would have but a stinted constituency. There were franchises irrespective of residence and occupation; and there was the 5 l
 MR. SADLEIR  had also a very great objection to the clause as it stood, because it created a right of voting wholly irrespective of inhabitancy, and would add very much to the number of fictitious votes. But if the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon were adopted, it would open the door to the greatest frauds. The plain result of the Amendment would be, to substitute the test of swearing for the test of rating.
 MR. SADLEIR  said, that if, as had been suggested by the noble Lord the Member for the county of Down, the retention of this clause would give to any particular class of voters an undue influence, no person would more strenuously oppose it than he would; but he believed that no reliance could be placed on the
 328 l
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, that there was not much cause to apprehend a very great extension of the franchise, whether they allowed all persons rated to the poor to vote, or limited the number to those who were rated at 5 l l l l
 MR. HENLEY  considered that under
 331 l l l
 MR. HUME  considered that they were not legislating there for the purpose of giving votes to landlords, and he must protest against the argument of the hon. Member for North Northamptonshire, when he supposed that they could not give a vote to a particular individual, but that it would favour the landlord to whom the property belonged. As a matter of justice they ought to give the votes to the persons occupying the land and resident upon it, and then let the electors vote by ballot, and they might set at defiance the influence of the priests at one side, and the landlords at the other. That was the way to meet the objection, and he trusted the Government would persevere in the clause.
 MR. HUME  was anxious to know the state of the political relations between this country and Greece. Much anxiety was felt on the subject, and hopes were entertained that there was to be a speedy settlement of the existing differences.
 DR. POWER  did not see how the objection to the clause could arise, because if a man had a farm which would give to each of his three sons a vote, he could easily subdivide the farm, and give a vote to each of his three sons. He thought they ought to extend the franchise as much as possible.
 MR. P. SCROPE  begged to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, whether he had received a letter from the guardians of the Scariff union, stating that during four weeks out of six they had been unable to give the necessary relief to the poor; that the workhouse was overcrowded, many being compelled to remain in a shelterless condition under the walls; that twenty-three persons had been seized with fever in the probationary ward in one night; that there was no milk or bread for the sick in the hospital; that some of the sick were without shirts; that the clothing of others was sadly deficient; that the sheriffs' officers had seized all the goods in the house, for debts owing by the union; and that the guardians were utterly unable to fulfil the duties enjoined on them by law. He also wished to ask the noble Lord on whom he considered the responsibility rested of relieving the poor?
 MR. P. SCROPE : Would the noble Lord allow the paper to be printed from which he made this statement?
 MR. R. M. FOX  supported the clause, believing there was no more connection with joint occupancy and subdivision than existed between the acts of joining and dividing.
 MR. SHEIL  said, that at the present there was one great evil in Ireland connected with fictitious votes. The evil arose from a landed proprietor granting five or six annuities to his sons and nephews, who never derived any profit from the land, and did not occupy. They were registered; and when an election came they went to the county town, and voted in favour of their father or uncle's friend. To this abuse there was no check; but under this clause there are two checks—rating and occupation. The check was double. The rate is sot down in the rate book, and in order to be entered in the registry, the chief constable must certify the fact of occupation. Consider what the evil would be, on the other hand, if you denied the right of voting to joint occupiers in towns. In towns there was nothing more common than for three persons to enter into trade. [An Hon. MEMBER: This is the county franchise.]
 327
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  begged to make one observation as an English Member. He was very much surprised to hear hon. Gentlemen from the other side of the Channel state broadly and frankly that an 8 l l l l
 MR. R. C. HILDYARD  reminded the House that the general words, "lands, tenements, or hereditaments," had been passed, and the question was whether words should be inserted to qualify them. If such words were inserted, he thought the clause would be inconsistent.
 MR. R. C. HILDYARD  did not see why a party happening to live in a borough should be placed in a better position than one living in a county, by having a double vote. The simpler and juster course would be to enact that no one should be entitled to interfere in a county election if his property was situated in a borough.
 MR. R. C. HILDYARD  expressed his opinion that the clause would give an undue influence to the boroughs.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  thought the two last lines in the clause, "in respect of which he would be entitled to vote at an election for such city, town, or borough," should be left out, as inconsistent with the other provisions of the Bill.
 MR. ANSTEY  said, it was admitted on all hands that tenancy must be given up as the basis of the qualification in Ireland, and that occupancy must be substituted. As the English Reform Act empowered joint tenants to vote, the same privilege ought now to be extended to joint occupiers in Ireland, provided each of their occupations was of sufficient value. It was no conclusive objection to say this would open a door for fraud; nor had it been held so in the case of joint tenants. As no one could vote under this Bill unless he was rated to the extent of 8 l
 MR. C. ANSTEY  wished to asked the Chairman whether it was competent to the hon. Member to move the insertion of words which had just been struck out of the clause?
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, that was the very point of discussion. In a Bill which changed the franchise from tenure to rating, they ought to follow the analogy of the Irish poor-law, to which this measure was a supplement. In the rating under that law every description of property was taken into account, whether occupied under one or under various titles. As, therefore, occupation and payment of rates were intended to confer the franchise, the analogy ought to be strictly carried out, and no words be introduced which would deprive a qualified occupier who had paid his rates of the right to vote, by creating a distinction not recognised in the Poor Law Act. With regard to the Amendment for leaving out the words "lands, tenements, or hereditaments," he hoped it would be unanimously rejected, for it would materially add to the hardship and inconsistency of the Act.
 SIR T. O'BRIEN  considered that the 8 l
 MR. FORBES  objected to going further, as it was now within a few minutes to One, and moved that the Chairman do now report progress.
 MR. HAYTER  said, it was clear that a person having freehold property in a borough was entitled to vote for the county in respect of that property. What was done was to make the alteration with respect to Ireland.
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  called the attention of the noble Lord at the head of the Government to the report of the Commission appointed in 1840 to inquire with respect to the valuation of property in Ireland, in which it was stated that an eight pound franchise would strike off a great many of those who were then rated at 10 l l
 MR. MONSELL  wished the noble Lord at the head of the Government would, after the strong and almost unanimous opinion expressed by all the hon. Members for Ireland against the Government proposal, allow the Chairman to report progress. It was admitted on all hands that a very different measure of justice would be dealt to the boroughs from that which was dealt to the counties if the clause were allowed to remain.
 MR. GROGAN  said, that in his opinion it was impossible to increase the borough constituencies, unless they obtained voters from the poor-houses.
 MR. GROGAN  then moved, that in the first line of page 4, after the words "Poor-rates," there be inserted the words "Grand Jury Cess and Police-rate." He moved this, on the principle laid down by the noble Lord at the head of the Government,
 354
 MR. GROGAN  then moved the insertion, after the words "hereditaments," of the words "as tenant or owner."
 MR. GROGAN  said, the sense of the House appeared to be against the Amendment; and, therefore, he would not press it.
 MR. GROGAN  then moved to omit, in line 25, the words "any lands, tenements, or hereditaments," as leading to doubts and litigation.
 MR. GROGAN  was very glad the noble Lord was disposed to comply with the Motion of the hon. Baronet the Member for Londonderry. He believed a more mischievous clause could not have been contrived. He could not conceive anything more injurious to Ireland than the subdivision of property.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the effect of the hon. and learned Gentleman's proposal would be to disfranchise person now having a county vote because they happened to live in a borough.
 SIR G. GREY  apprehended that the 10 l
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, I am disposed to concur in the opinion expressed by the noble Lord at the head of the Government at about a quarter past five this evening, in favour of the omission of this clause. I am one of those who are in favour of an extensive franchise, and if I had had the opportunity of giving my vote on a former occasion, I should have given it in favour of an 8 l l bonâ fide 329 s bonâ fide bonâ fide l bonâ fide bonâ fide bonâ fide l s s 330 s bonâ fide s bonâ fide bonâ fide
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  had asked—had that Council, since the 1st of August last, the power to make any laws? That was his question.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that as the words were the same as those introduced in the first clause of the Bill, and for the same object, he had no objection to their insertion.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that the question was not raised by the Amendment of the hon. Member for Dublin University, who proposed that all franchises should be preserved which did not require occupation.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  observed, that it was proposed to do the same thing with regard to the boroughs that had been done in reference to the counties.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  objected to the addition.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  said, he had no wish to limit the constituency in the county he represented.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  hoped that some Member of the Government would condescend to state to the House the reasons why a measure was to be persisted in which evidently placed the Irish boroughs in such a dilemma.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH : Then, the only way the Government will have to moot the difficulty is by increasing the number of representatives for Ireland.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  begged of the House to recollect that they were legislating on this subject with very slight ideas of what the future constituency of Ireland would be under this Bill. They had no
 324 l
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The state of affairs is this; It has been thought necessary at last to make a peremptory demand for certain reparation, for which application has long been made by this country without success; and, that demand having been refused, reprisals have been commenced, which consist in keeping in pledge certain property belonging to the adverse parties as security for the payment of these demands. These reprisals have been carried to a certain extent, and by the last return, dated, I think, on the 10th ult., I think that sufficient reprisals had been made to answer all the demands against the Greek Government. Meantime the good offices of the French Government have been offered and accepted, but the negotiator sent by the French Government had not arrived when the last accounts left. I may also state, that notwithstanding what has occurred, the diplomatic relations between this country and Greece have not been suspended. Mr. Wyse, although he has embarked on board a man of war, has continued up to the last moment in diplomatic relations with the Government of Greece; and, as a proof that no courtesy was omitted on our part, I may mention that the other day, on the anniversary of the birthday of either the King or the Queen, I forget which, our fleet saluted with all the honours on the occasion.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I am sorry to say that the report to which the hon. Gentleman has alluded is premature, and that the statement is not correct. No armistice—that is, no renewal of the armistice—has as yet been agreed upon between Denmark on the one hand, and Frankfort and Berlin on the other. Her Majesty's Government are in communication with the three parties concerned, with the view of obtaining a fixed prolongation of the armistice, as well as with the view of obtaining a final settlement of the dispute; but as yet nothing definitive has been settled with regard to the armistice. The hon. Gentleman, and the House, under these circumstances, will not expect
 315 de facto
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  after a short period entered the House.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the hon. Baronet had certainly given notice to the hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies that he meant to put some questions, but whether the question as now put was one of them, he (the Attorney General) knew not. But of this question he had not had ample notice. The hon. Baronet seemed to think that it ought to have been answered distinctly and at once; but it was doubtful whether he (the Attorney General) was bound in all cases to answer on points of law, and without being afforded time for reference. He should have answered it last night, but that it had been repeated in a form which led him to believe there was more in it than might have been at first supposed. He had now again considered the question, and he would give it a short answer. He was of opinion that the persons appointed by Her Majesty to make laws for the colony of Western Australia could at present legally levy taxes on the inhabitants or property of that colony.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said,
 358
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that this question also must be reduced to writing before he answered it. He did not conceive himself bound to reply at once to every query that might be asked touching Acts of Parliament.
 MR. CAMPBELL  said, that while his noble Friend at the head of the Government was reflecting on the observations which had been just addressed to him with regard to savings banks, he was anxious
 371 Morning Chronicle 372 373
 MR. W. COWPER  said, there was no objection on the part of the Government to the appointment of the Committee moved for by the hon. Gentleman; but he did not anticipate any very great advantage from it, except that the statements which the hon. Gentleman had made would then be sifted and examined. He thought the hon. Gentleman attached too much importance to the express which he had referred to; for he believed it would appear that an express which went by the line of Calais arrived within sixteen minutes of the one on which the hon. Gentleman so much relied; but the point to be looked to in making these postal arrangements was not the question by which line they could on a particular occasion travel with the utmost rapidity; but by which line the greatest amount of certainty could be maintained through the whole year. Now, from the peculiarities of Boulogne harbour, it did appear to the Government, from their experiments of one year, that there was the greatest uncertainty and irregularity; and it was a greater evil to those receiving correspondence to receive it at at different hours than to have it regularly at a later hour. The harbour at Boulogne had such disadvantages for landing the mails, that during the period they were sent by that route the Admiralty were obliged to allow them five hours and a half between the one railway station and the other; whereas on the Calais route the time allowed was only four hours. He could only say, that as a Committee was to be appointed, it might be better to survey the whole subject; and in addition to that branch of the mail-packet service at Dover which ran through France, to consider the other branch that ran to Ostend, because there were many reasons for supposing that the mails might be sent to the north of Europe through France without any additional expense, thus merging the two lines in one, and at the same time keeping up the same amount of speed as at present.
 MR. RICE  said, that he did not attach much importance to the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Lymington, and when he had been conducting the Committee for some time, he thought the hon. Member would see reason to change the opinion which he appeared at present to entertain. His hon. Friend said that the communication would be shortened two hours. He believed it would be shown that the real difference between the two routes of communication was forty-two minutes, and not two hours. The reason why so many persons went formerly by Boulogne instead of Calais was that they avoided the three hours' journey by diligence between Calais and Boulogne. But it was different now that the railway from Calais was opened. His hon. Friend said, that during the prevalence of a south-westerly wind, if the boat could not make Boulogne, it could go to Calais, but that a boat going to Calais, and not being able to reach in consequence of a northeasterly wind, must return to Dovor. Now, if a south-westerly wind would
 381
 MR. RICE  said, that two hours might be saved by having an early express from Dovor.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the Bill which the worthy Alderman wished to bring in was one of that class to which the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department referred at the commencement of the Session, when he suggested the propriety of the House refusing to permit measures to be introduced which there was no probability of ultimately carrying. Moreover, the Members of Her Majesty's Government had reason to complain of the course adopted by the hon. Gentleman who sought to introduce the measure. The hon. Gentleman admitted that his object heretofore had been to remove the fines within the city of London, and for that purpose he submitted a Bill to the right hon. Gentleman the Speaker; but finding from his opinion that the Bill was a private one, and that notice should be given in order that the corporation of London, whose interests were certain to be affected by it, might be made aware, the hon. Gentleman renewed his Motion, and embraced within it other cities and towns in England and Wales, with a view to the wholesale confiscation of their corporate funds. The hon. Gentleman assigned as a reason, that the municipal constituency of London decreased in proportion as the Parliamentary constituency increased. Why then did not the worthy Alderman bring in a Bill to make the municipal vote depend upon rating, as it did in Manchester and the other towns to which he had referred? But the remedy for the city of London was simple, and might be effected by the corporation of the city of London, bringing in a Municipal Reform Bill if they saw the necessity for it? But surely it was no reason for the abolition of municipal fines, because the municipal constituency did not keep pace with the Parliamentary. The Motion of the hon. Gentleman went directly to touch the property of the corporations of England and Wales;
 386
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  did not know of that; but he did know that the corporation of the city of London did not agree in thinking with the hon. Gentleman.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL : The corporation was invested with the principle of local government, and it was not fair that, because one member of it, who happened to be a Member of that House also, differed with the entire body, the hon. Gentleman should seek to convert that House into a high court of appeal on the question. He (the Attorney General) would not stop to consider the question of the propriety of increasing the freemen. The hon. Gentleman said his Bill would merely affect fines and stamps; but if he proposed to abolish the creation of freemen by purchase, he was taking a strong measure wherewith to alter the entire constitution of the corporation of the city of
 387 l l l
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  objected to any such course, as he was opposed to the principle of the Bill. He should, therefore, persist in giving the negative to the Motion.
 MR. HEADLAM  begged to second the Motion. It was quite true, as his hon. Friend had stated, that the shipping interest was not in that depressed condition which had been predicted as the result of the repeal of the navigation laws, but it was also true that it was subjected to the most severe competition. Freights were now low, and there was every probability that they would continue so. He did not mention these facts in any spirit of complaint on the part of the shipowners whom he represented; but freights being so low, and there being that severe competition with the foreigner, he did think it was the duty of the House to consider whether it was not possible, by a measure of this kind, to do justice to the shipowner. In 1830 a petition was presented to that House by
 395
 MR. CLAY  said, the hon. Member for Oxfordshire had entirely misapprehended the character of the Motion, in treating it as a particular tax upon a particular interest. The case was that of a tax upon a raw material imported into this country, which, in a manufactured state, was allowed to come in duty free. No similar case of injustice could be found. Last year he refused to vote for the repeal of the navigation laws, upon the ground that in this respect the shipowners would be exposed to an injustice. He ventured to hope that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would, upon his financial statement, relieve the shipping interest of one of the grossest pieces of injustice that any class had over suffered from.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War if a fund, called the St. Patrick's Fund, in the 4th Royal Irish Dragoon Guards, had been arranged; and if so, if he had any objection to lay on the table the particulars of that arrangement, and how the sum of 3,000 l
 MR. F. MAULE  said, that, with reference to this and other funds in certain regiments of the line, the House would recollect that an Act of Parliament had been passed last year, appointing a commission, consisting of the Secretary at War, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of the Commander-in-chief, to examine into the nature of those funds, into their amount, and to settle in an equitable manner the way in which they should be distributed amongst those presently entitled to their advantage. That commission had lately met; they had revised the various funds of the benefit societies, and, among the rest, the fund belonging to the 4th Royal Irish Dragoon Guards. They had arranged the mode of distributing all those funds equitably among those entitled to claim anything from them, and as soon as their report should have been adjusted, and put in form, they would have no objection to lay it on the table of the House, whereby the public would know the mode in which it was proposed to distribute those benefit funds. He might add that, from the nature of the Act of Parliament, and the in-
 359
 LORD J. RUSSELL  suggested to the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster who had a notice on the paper on the subject of the qualification of Members, whether it would be advisable for him to bring it on upon the present occasion. The same subject had been brought before the House but a few days since, on the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose, on which occasion it was fully discussed by the House, and a division come to upon the subject. There was also a Bill at present before the House with respect to the franchise in Ireland; he would therefore submit to the hon. and gallant Member that, after the debate which had so recently taken place on a similar subject, and the fact of a Bill being before the House, no public advantage would be obtained by bringing forward again a question of this kind.
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  expressed his thanks to the hon. Member for Shrewsbury for having performed the unavailing task which he had undertaken. It was a Motion less open to the usual objection made to propositions of this kind, viz. that it would encourage unfounded hopes on the part of the working classes, than any he had ever known. He (Lord R. Grosvenor) did not intend charging the
 374
 MR. ADDERLEY  desired to call the attention of the hon. and learned Gentleman to the portion of the Act in question referring to the continuance of that statute. If it expired, what was to be the state of the law? Its continuance and its expiration were matters clearly contemplated by the framers of the Act, and he wished to know how the hon. and learned Gentleman reconciled the words regarding its continuance with the opinion that he had just pronounced?
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  could not give the Motion his support, as he looked upon the Bill as one which was only introduced for the city of London, and not for all municipal towns in England and Wales. There would never be a reform in the corporation of London, as long as the Prime Minister was one of its representatives. He agreed with the hon. and learned Attorney General that this Bill was an improper interference with private property, and he therefore recommended the worthy Alderman to withdraw his Motion.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, it appeared to him that the principal object his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade had in rising was to conceal, as far as possible—and very properly to conceal—what might be the intention of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer about ten days hence. His right hon. Friend had certainly achieved his purpose. He would not say that the observations of his right hon. Friend had enabled him (Mr. Cardwell) to perform the office of a prophet; but still he had ventured to draw an inference, a sort of surmise, from the tone assumed by his right hon. Friend, that he was not unfavourable to the proposition of the hon. Member for Bridport. To the strong arguments of that hon. Member, based, as they were, not only upon policy, but upon justice, there appeared no disposition on the part of the right hon. Gentleman to dissent. With respect to timber, there were some remarkable instances of the operation of the removal of duty. A few years ago the duty on mahogany was reduced, and the quantity used in shipbuilding was greatly increased. Had they not by recent legislation exposed the shipbuilders to competition with all the world? Had they not, from 1842 to the present time, laid down the principle in commercial legislation that wherever they could they would set free the raw material, in order to afford the widest scope for industry? Having laid down that general principle in all commercial legislation, they had exposed this branch of trade to particular competition by the measure of last year. He would ask the House if there was a single instance in the tariff in which the manufactured article was admitted free of
 399
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  must take that opportunity of calling the attention of the
 370
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he did not rise for the purpose of complaining that hon. Gentlemen connected with the shipping interest should have thus early in the Session called the attention of the House to the important subject which his hon. Friend the Member for Bridport had brought forward; still less did he complain of the tone and manner in which that subject had been treated by his hon. Friend who had addressed the House, not only with his accustomed ability, but with that clearness which arose from his perfect knowledge of the subject. In the few words which he (Mr. Labouchere) was about to offer, he should not be disposed to enter into any controversy with the hon. Member upon the general principle involved in his Motion; and, in truth, he addressed the House under considerable disadvantage; for he should feel it to be a dereliction of duty if, by any observations he might make, he left any distinct impression upon the mind of any hon. Member, whether he did or did not concur in the principle laid down by his hon. Friend, that it was desirable, under all the circumstances of the case, that the Government should propose to the House this Session a remission of a certain duty which his hon. Friend described as amounting to 35,000 l 396 s d 397 "I shall take every opportunity to procure information respecting the effect which may be produced on ship-building in the ports of this district, by the alteration in the English Navigation Laws. It does not appear, as far as I can learn at present, that the interests of British ship-builders will suffer from competition here. In Stockholm, Calmar, Westerwick, and Wisby, whore oak is made use of in building particular parts of the vessel, the price per ton for the hull averages about 7 l l 398
 MR. WYLD  observed, that the hon. Member for Bridport had only proposed the remission of the duties with regard to the timber used in shipbuilding. But he (Mr. Wyld) would remind the House that the continuance of the tax was no less a gross injustice towards the mining interest. That interest was now exposed to competition with the whole world, yet it was compelled to pay duties upon the timber it consumed. He hoped, then, that the Motion would be framed so as to include all other interests who were suffering under similar injustice to the shipping interest.
 MR. REYNOLDS  considered it to be a great evil that every ratepayer in the city of London had not a vote in the municipal affairs of that corporation. Among other reforms, he would suggest that the aldermen should be elected for only three years, instead of for life. He believed there was no corporation in the empire which was uncontrolled by the ratepayers, which performed its duties in a more satisfactory manner than the corporation of London; still he thought that reform principles should be applied to it.
 MR. STANFORD  took a great interest in the social welfare of the working classes, but thought it was impossible for any individual Member of the House to bring forward with success any measure for their benefit; if, however, he came down to the House backed by the voice of a public-body, his recommendation would be attended to. As a proof of the truth of what he asserted, he might refer to what had been done with respect to the baths and wash houses and model lodginghouses. If any individual Member brought forward measures of that kind he could not obtain a patient hearing—at least they must think so, if they were to judge of the way in which the hon. Member for Shrewsbury had been listened to, though his speech expressed as sincere a desire for the welfare of the working classes as he had ever seen evinced in that House. He thought that an hon. Gentleman who had devoted so much of his time to the subject should be listened to with greater attention, particularly when they heard debates carried on for ten hours on speculative questions, which, even if carried into effect, could confer little or no benefit on the working classes. He thought that an hon. Member who got up for the purpose of discussing a social question ought to be treated with more respect, and he drew from it the deduction that there was a necessity for an unpaid commission. There was a variety of questions that could be brought before such an unpaid commission. If gentlemen could be found who would be sufficiently philanthropic to devote their time to it, what objection could there be made to it? If the Government were really sincere in their desire to alleviate the moral and material condition of the people, would it not be of considerable importance to have the assistance of such an auxiliary who would come down to them with reports framed to act upon and take into consideration. If the Motion was pressed to a division, he should support it.
 MR. STANFORD  said, he had given notice of his intention to introduce a Bill for the more affectual Audit of Railway Accounts. It might be in the recollection of the House that he had inquired, early in the Session, whether it was the intention of the Government to bring in any Bill relative to the audit of railway accounts, and that the President of the Board of Trade then stated that the Government were not disposed to introduce any Bill on the subject, but that if no measure was proposed by any independent Member on behalf of the shareholders, the Government would be prepared to take up the question. It might be recollected that a Bill relating to the audit of railway accounts had been originated in the other House in 1848, but had been rejected by that House; and last year a nearly similar Bill, which had been introduced in the House of Lords, had also shared the same fate when it came down to the House of Commons. He did not believe that any system of audit which was tainted by Government interference would have the confidence either of the railway shareholders or of the country; and he thought that in this case the trite quotation was particularly applicable—
 "Timeo Danaos, et dona ferentes." 404 bonâ fide
 MR. TRELAWNY  said, it was impossible not to feel that this Motion had been brought forward from motives of benevolence; but he should oppose it on this ground, that he was afraid it would tend to disappoint the expectations of the working classes. He valued the working classes as much as any Member in that House; the more he had known them the more he had admired them, and the more he had felt disposed to extend the franchise. At the same time he would not be a party to practising a deception upon them; and he thought such a measure as this would have no other effect than that of deception. The hon. Member for Shrewsbury talked of interfering in all sorts of cases wherever misery existed. If that meant anything, it meant that as soon as a grievance existed, the Legislature should interfere. But the
 365 366
 MR. J. WILLIAMS  seconded the Motion.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, that although the saving of time proposed to be effected—be it two hours or only forty minutes—might be of comparatively little importance to London, it would be of great value to Manchester, Liverpool, and the other great towns in the north of England, because it would enable the Post Office to despatch letters to those places by the morning mail, which, at present, were sent by the evening mail, and were not delivered until the following morning. He rejoiced at the prospect of the appointment of a Committee by which the question would be fairly investigated.
 MR. BROTHERTON  seconded the Motion.
 MR. HENLEY  would very much like to know when and where all this was to stop. It was all very well for the shipbuilders, or any other interest, to come in and ask for 100,000 l l 401
 MR. HUME  said, that the hon. Gentleman who spoke last had very properly observed that there was no instance on the tariff of a raw material being taxed while the manufactured article was free. The navigation laws had been repealed under great pressure and against much opposition; and he (Mr. Hume) had then pledged himself that he would, on every occasion, endeavour to remove all restriction and duties which prevented the free play of industry. He was sorry to say, that were he to draw an inference from the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, it would be different from that formed by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Liverpool; for he should conclude that there was no intention on the part of the Government to take up this question, inasmuch as the right hon. Gentleman had distinctly stated that our shipbuilders had advantages which countervailed all the advantages possessed by the foreigner. Much had been said about the coming financial statement; but what should be the object of the financial state-
 400
 MR. HUME  said, that anything which would facilitate and expedite the postal communication between the two countries would be of great importance to the commercial and every other interest in the country. But he rose on the present occasion to suggest that the advantages of the penny post should be extended to the communications between this country and the colonies. He looked on the penny postage as the greatest boon which had been conferred on this country, at least since he sat in Parliament; and as they paid a certain sum to a vessel for taking out letters, it could make no difference whether it took out fifteen boxes or thirty-five.
 MR. HUME  did not think the object of his hon. Friend the Member for Shrewsbury could be carried out by any Committee that could be proposed; but for the establishment of a benevolent society an excellent precedent would be found in the one established by Sir John Barnard, a full explanation of the principles of which was to be had, along with the rules, in the library. The improving the condition of the working classes could not be so well attained by a Parliamentary Committee, as by an asssociation of benevolent individuals.
 MR. HUME  said, that the House probably was not aware of what had been done in the city of London. It had been ststed that no inquiry had taken place into that corporation, whereas one of the most searching inquiries which had ever been made into an institution of the kind had been carried on and completed under the superintendence of Mr. Blackburn, the late eminent counsel, and Sir E. Palgrave, with regard to the corporation of the city
 388
 MR. J. SANDARS  said, the interests of the great shipowners bad not, he be believed, materially suffered from the effects of recent measures; but the smaller shipowners, especially those of Yarmouth, had been severely affected. The abolition of the duties upon timber would be a great benefit to this class. He was sorry to add that much distress prevailed at the present moment in the borough he had the honour to represent, among the shipbuilding trade. Last year five vessels were built in that port, but only one upon order. The rest were all built upon speculation.
 MR. FORSTER  considered there should be a thorough and searching reform in all corporations. The hon. and learned Attorney General asked, why not leave these reforms to the corporation itself? Now, he (Mr. Forster) was certain that the hon. and learned Gentleman was the last man that expected they would ever do so. There certainly had of late been some improvements in corporations, but it was not creditable to the Government to allow of such practices as still existed under the London corporation. The hon. and learned Gentleman inquired for the petitions; but it was well known how such could be prevented. To expect that the corporations would amend themselves, was simply absurd. However, he thought it would be better to allow matters to remain as they were until they could have a thorough and searching reform.
 MR. M. MILNES  would suggest that this commission would have the effect of enabling a Government to cast from its shoulders its responsibility, instead of exciting it to what it should be continually excited, namely, the remembrance that it was the first duty of a constitutional Government to consider how far it was pos-
 369
 MR. SLANEY  said, that after the kind feeling which had been evinced towards him during the debate, and the kind manner in which he had been alluded to by the right Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, he felt that under all the circumstances of the case, he should not be doing justice to the cause which he had humbly endeavoured to advocate, if he were to press his Motion to a division, He hoped, however, that the subject which he had brought before the House would sink into the minds of many hon. Members who had never before paid attention to them. He would merely venture to say, that there were three points which might servo as barometers of the state and condition of the working classes; the progress of mortality as compared with population; the increase of the poor-rates; and the proportion of criminals to the population. Those three points appeared to him to speak with the loudest voice in
 375
 MR. SLANEY  rose to move the appointment of a Committee to report on practical plans for the improvement of the working classes. He should in the first instance refer to the reports of commissions on the state of the poor of this country in 1817, 1819, 1824, 1830, and 1834, many of which dwelt upon those remediable abuses which interfered with the moral and physical improvement of the working and poorer classes. He would ask hon. Members opposite whether a peasant of unblemished character and industrious habits were not an exception to the general rule if he had any prospect before him at seventy years of age, except that of becoming an almoner on the parish bounty? If his wife lived with him, and brought up a family in industry and respectability, had she any chance, on the death of her husband, or on his inability to work, except becoming a recipient of parish relief? Well, was this the condition in which the industrious agricultural classes should remain? He would now turn to the large class of persons engaged in towns, in mines, and in great cities, and what was their condition, as it had appeared from reports laid before the House, and resting upon the evidence of commissioners and of committees appointed by that House, who were fair and impartial witnesses to the facts they related. During the last fifty years the increase of working men in towns had doubled the number of residents in rural districts. In 1838 a poor-law report drew attention to their condition, which was followed in 1839 by a further account of the sufferings of the poorer classes. In 1840 a commission was granted for the purpose of investigating the condition of the inhabitants of great towns. The result of their inquiries showed that evils of the most afflicting nature prevailed regarding the health and comfort of the poor in large cities. In 1842 the report of Mr. Chad-wick fortified that of the commission, and in 1843 a commission was appointed by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth to inquire into those matters. In 1844 the first report of that commission was issued, and in 1845 a second report appeared, both of which demonstrated gross neglect in large towns of all regulations
 360 361 362 l l l l l l l 363 364 l l
 MR. SOTHERON  thought that his hon. Friend the Member for Shrewsbury deserved great credit for the perseverance with which he had endeavoured to induce the House to attend to a subject which was most deserving of their notice; but it was a question whether the objects he contemplated could not be better effected by the private combination of benevolent gentlemen. He quite agreed with many of the points mentioned by his hon. Friend, and could bear this testimony in his favour. Last year he (Mr. Sotheron) was a Member of a Committee, and there was scarcely any person conversant with the affairs of friendly societies brought before them who did not recommend the formation, not of a tribunal, but of a union of competent persons, who would give the best advice as to the best mode of settling disputes in those societies. If his hon. Friend would only turn his mind to devise some means by which an association could be formed, through means of which persons in the country, who had no other means of getting advice, could obtain information, it would be very desirable.
 MR. MITCHELL  said, in rising to bring forward the important Motion for the House to take into consideration the duties on foreign timber, with the view of remitting the duty on all wood used in ship-
 390 s s s s s s s s 391 l l l l 
 
 12 A 1 … 9–16 per cent on the gross cost. 
 11 A 1 … ⅝ per cent on the gross cost. 
 10 A 1 … 1⅜ per cent on the gross cost. 
 9 A 1 … 4¾ per cent on the gross cost. 
 8 A 1 … 6¾ per cent on the gross cost. 
 7 A 1 … 12 per cent on the gross cost. 
 6 A 1 … 13½ per cent on the gross cost. 
 8 A 1 … 15⅛ per cent on the gross cost. 
 4 A 1 … 17 per cent on the gross cost. 392 393 l 394 l
 MR. MITCHELL , in reply, said, that the question introduced by the hon. Member for Bodmin had nothing to do with the shipping interest. When mines and collieries could be imported into this country, and imported duty free, then the case would apply, and not before. After what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, he was reluctant to divide. At the same time there was a strong feeling in all the shipping towns that great injustice had been done to them. A large body of the representatives of those towns had incurred considerable obloquy by voting for the repeal of the navigation laws; and it was only due to them to go to a division in order that they might show their constituents they were doing their duty. He must therefore divide the House.
 Mr. ALDERMAN SIDNEY , in reply, said that the corporation, as a body, was anxious for reform, consistent with the privileges they enjoyed. The hon. and learned Attorney General stated that the present measure would interfere with the legitimate powers enjoyed by corporations; but if these gentlemen inflicted fines not consistent with justice, was not that House the tribunal to step in and rectify such? He did not seek by that Bill to invalidate the property of corporations in England and Wales; he only asked to be allowed to introduce the Bill that severe and unjust burdens might be removed. However, as certain returns had yet to be laid on the table, he would not hesitate to withdraw the Bill, promising that he should again seek to introduce it after these returns had been laid before the House.
 Mr. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to abolish the payment of fines and stamp duties on the admission of freemen into corporations. He thought it right to give some explanation of the Rill which he was then seeking to introduce. It would be in the recollection of the House that, by the 5th and 6th William IV., the Corporation Act, under the third clause all fines upon freedom were abolished, so far as regarded municipal towns and cities in England and Wales, with the exception of the metropolis of London. He was willing to acknowledge, when he first gave notice of the present Bill, it was more with regard to London itself; but, on submitting it to inspection, hon. Gentlemen on the Ministerial bench were kind enough to inform him it came under the denomination of a private Bill. He, therefore, enlarged his notice, and included all the municipal cities of England and Wales; and he rejoiced at having done so, because great injustice was being enacted to a large portion of the electors of this country by the present system. He asked the House to consider the privileges burgesses enjoyed. Every person who served an apprenticeship was compellable to be enrolled by the town clerk. The fines on that enrolment were very serious, amounting from 6 s s s s s s. s. 383 l. 384 l l l l l s d l l l l 385
 ALDERMAN SIDNEY : I believe they do; and a great portion of the Court of Aldermen also.
 ALDERMAN SIDNEY : Yes, I myself presented one on the subject.
 MR. MACKINNON  was not surprised that the hon. Members for Dovor should advocate the interests of the town which they represented, even though they clashed with those of the public. It was perhaps material the House should know that if the Government should think fit to enter into a contract with the South Eastern Company for carrying the mails, they would undertake to do so at a saving to the public of from 20,000 l l 382
 MR. MACKINNON : Sir, it is here quite unnecessary to enter into the advantages which arise to both France and England, from a facility of communication: the mutual benefits are evident, and need not be expatiated on at present; I will, therefore, at once enter into the subject. Formerly, in days of sailing vessels, before steamboats came into general use, the communication between England and France was usually by Dover and Calais; and gradually as steamboats were used, the route to Boulogne was preferred by the public—for example, in the year 1831, about thirty-oight thousand persons went to Calais from England, and only eleven thousand to Boulogne, but in the year 1847, we find seventy-eight thousand to Boulogne, and sixteen thousand to Calais. Now, if the mass of the public preferred the route by Folkestone and Boulogne, it seems that route must be the shortest and the best, and this supposition seems confirmed by the distance saved, as appears by the following statement:—
 
 
 COMPARISON OF THE ROUTES BY BOULOGNE AND CALAIS, AS TO DISTANCES. 
 It is 82 miles from London to Folkestone, 
 27 miles from Folkestone to Boulogne, 
 169 miles from Boulogne to Paris. 
 278 miles from London to Paris, by Folkestone and Boulogne. 
 It is 88 miles from London to Dover, 
 28 miles from Dover to Boulogne, 
 169 miles from Boulogne to Paris. 
 285 miles from London to Paris, by Dover and Boulogne. 
 It is 88 miles from London to Dover, 
 23 miles from Dover to Calais, 
 235 miles from Calais to Paris (by railway  viâ 
 346 miles from London to Paris, by this route. Times 377 378 "That a Select Committee be appointed, to ascertain the most expeditious and least expensive mode of Postal Communication between London and Paris."
 SIR B. HALL  did not suppose that the Bill would be attended with any great advantage if it should be allowed to be introduced; but he did not think the time of the House had been thrown away, as it had introduced the subject of the unreformed state of the corporation of the city of London. He was a Member of that House when the Municipal Corporations Act was brought forward, and carried; and he regretted that it was not made to apply to the city of London; but at that time there was a distinct pledge on the part of the Government that a distinct measure should be brought forward for the purpose. He was glad that that conversation had taken place, as it would direct public attention to the subject. The hon. and worthy Alderman said that the funds of the corporation exceeded 200,000 l 389
 SIR DE L. EVANS  considered the subject a very important one, which should be fully investigated before a Committee, with a view to elicit further information. It was to be regretted that there existed no direct line of railway between London and Dovor; but he hoped public spirit, backed by the exertions of the hon. Members for Dovor, would soon establish such direct line of communication.
 SIR DE L. EVANS  said, that the subject was one in which he felt a deep interest, and that interest was also shared by many hon. Members in the House, as well as by a considerable number of people out of doors. There was always considerable disadvantage to any individual Member arising from not proceeding with his notice when he had an opportunity of doing so; but as he was informed by one hon. Member of high authority in the House that the present moment was rather inopportune, and might possibly damage the object which he had at heart, he would certainly sooner incur some personal disadvantage than run the risk of doing any injury to a cause which he was anxious
 376
 SIR G. CLERK  said, that as the Government did not oppose this Motion, it was not his intention to object to it; but it appeared to him that this question would be more satisfactorily settled by the Government themselves than it possibly could be
 379 380
 SIR G. GREY  said, he was fully convinced of the benevolent motives which had induced the hon. Member for Shrewsbury to bring forward this Motion. He was bound also to testify, from private communications he had had with the hon. Member on this subject, to the liberality of his intentions with regard to defraying any expense which might be incurred in the plan he had proposed for improving the condition of the working classes. The hon. Gentleman had given ample proofs of his readiness to devote his time, attention, and property, to that great object. But he did not think that the measure he had propounded to the House would be a practical plan. The proposal itself was very vague and indefinite; and, after listening with great attention to the hon. Gentleman's statement, he had been unable to ascertain what was the precise nature of the duties which he proposed to devolve on this Standing Committee, or unpaid Commission. He presumed that by a Standing Committee was meant a Committee of this House to act continuously during the recess; or if a commission, that it should be selected by the Crown from the various parties in that House, without any exclusive political complexion—that it should not be an exclusive body in any sense, and should merely receive suggestions with regard to the improvement of the working classes, and consider any plans that might originate with others for that object—an object most important in itself, but which he thought would not be promoted by the proposal of the hon. Gentleman. It would load to the collection of a largo number of blue books, whereby Parliament would be overwhelmed with information of which they were in possession of a great deal at the present moment, and would be no better able than now to remove the causes of distress which might be proved to exist. The hon. Gentleman appeared to him to be wrong in supposing that Parliament had the power of removing many of the causes of those evils which he had enumerated. He proposed that the body whom he would constitute should consult as to public health, education, industry, crime, emigration, and the poor laws; and he presumed they would have to recommend any changes which might be deemed expedient in the laws affecting these subjects. Was it possible that a Committee of five or six gentlemen,
 367 368
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  said, that he had given ample notice of his question to the hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies, and that hon. Gentleman had desired him to put it to the hon. and learned Attorney General. He now wished to ask whether the hon. and learned Gentleman was of opinion that, under the Act relative to Western Australia which had expired. Parliament had vested in the Crown the permanent power of legislating and of levying taxes, of which the Crown could not be deprived without consent.
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  said, he wished to repeat the question which he had put to the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General a short time previously, of which ample notice had been given, and to which he thought the hon. and learned Gentleman ought to have distinctly answered. The question he had put then, and repeated now, amounted to this: whether the persons appointed by Her Majesty to make laws for the colony of Western Australia can at present legally levy taxes on the inhabitants or property of that colony?
 MR. A. J. B. HOPE  rose to address the House. He said he was most unwilling to follow up the same course of argument pursued by the hon. Members for Abingdon and Oxford, lest he should in any respect diminish the effect produced by their admirable speeches. In consequence of the  ex parte 406 407 408 "As it has been alleged by the friends of Mr. Wortloy's Bill that the proposed change of the law would be a boon to the poor man, I have for some months past been inquiring in all directions for poor men who have either married or desired to marry their deceased wives' sisters, and not found or heard of one such instance. The supporters of Mr. Wortley's Bill should be challenged to produce their poor men." 409 Theological Dictionary "Certain degrees of consanguinity are among the impediments to marriage, both by the law of nature and by the revealed word of God. These degrees are defined by the Church, and are expressed in a table drawn up by Archbishop Parker in 1563, and set forth by authority. This table is as follows, &c." "The State in England has declared that marriage may be henceforth regarded entirely as a civil contract; but the Church has not been silenced, and she affirms that though the State may permit this, the word of God instructs us otherwise, and marriage is a religious contract." "Of course all Churchmen must now adhere to their principle—that marriage is a religious contract, and that those marriages only are lawful in the sight of God which are contracted in His name and by His ordinance." Leeds Mercury 410 411 412 Manchester Courier "That Mr. Wortley must be deplorably ignorant of the circumstances of the working population—at all events, in this part of the kingdom. In the first place, such marriages are almost unknown among the workpeople, who (greatly to their credit) feel an instinctive repugnance to them; and, in the second place, every member of a poor family is obliged to work for their livelihood—women as well as men. It is one of the most gigantic evils of the manufacturing system that even the wife is necessarily taken away from her young family in order to attend to her employment in the mill. Every available hand must be at work to maintain the family; and, therefore, Mr. Wortley's position is simply imaginary."
 VISCOUNT MAHON  said, that when a Bill similar to this was first proposed to
 433 434 435 ipso facto 436
 Mr. S. WORTLEY  said, if he did not think that it was the unanimous wish of the House to come to a division he should not stop in the way of any other hon. Gentleman who might be anxious to address the House; but the question had been so ably and so carefully discussed that the House must now be in possession of all the elements necessary for coming to a decision; and he could not regret the course the debate had taken, because it had not merely elucidated the various elements of the question, but it had narrowed the subject within a compass that brought it at once under the province and jurisdiction of the House. As regarded himself, he was happy to find that his purpose was no longer misunderstood. He was no longer supposed to be seeking to depart from the ancient law of the church, or to interfere unnecessarily with the discipline of the Establishment, of which he hoped he was a faithful though a humble member. All that he was doing was to seek a partial qualification of a very recent Act of Parliament, an Act passed no more than fifteen years ago, which his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Abingdon had described as containing unjust anomalies, and to be founded upon an unworthy compromise. Although his right hon. Friend who had last addressed the House entertained the opinion that the measure was opposed to the divine law, yet there were others in that House who thought differently; and he would only repeat his conviction that there was nothing in the Old Testament or the New Testament against these marriages, whilst it was certain that they were allowed among the Jews. The whole subject had been referred to those who sat in Moses' seat, and as they found no prohibition to exist, he could not believe that any existed. With regard to the authority of the early Christians, he would state one strong circumstance. During the first 300 years of Christianity, when these marriages took place under the imperial law, among all the learned persons of those days not one wrote against them; and Chrysostom, archbishop of Constantinople, who attacked all the vices of the rich and the great, did not say a word against them, though they were well known to have been the practice at that period. He quite agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield and others in the high estimate they put, and the high value they set, upon the relation-
 455
 MR. S. HERBERT  wished to say a few words on the question, because he felt that the course he was prepared to take, and the grounds on which he had come to a conclusion as to his vote, differed from those that had been generally assigned by persons supporting the Bill, and because the opinions he had formed were contrary to those of many of his friends for whose views he entertained the deepest respect. He had presented a petition signed by a large body of people in the diocese connected with the county which he represented, praying the House to reject the Bill of his right hon. Friend the Member for Buteshire; but he observed this difference in that petition as contrasted with those presented from similar bodies last year, that the opposition to the Bill was based not on religious but rather on social grounds. He rejoiced that that distinction existed, because in his opinion they were not justified in arguing the question in that House simply and solely on religious grounds. If there was a good argument socially, that was the argument on which he should have relied if he had decided on opposing the Bill. It might be true that there were strong religious arguments against marriages of this description. It
 413 414
 MR. COCKBURN  said, the line of argument taken on the present occasion by hon. Gentlemen who opposed this Bill differed so much from that adopted by them on former ones, that he trusted that the House would excuse him in making a few observations in answer to the arguments he alluded to. He was happy that the matter had been discussed without reference to the divine law. That line of opposition appeared to be abandoned. [Mr. ROUNDELL PALMER: No, no!] At least virtually abandoned, unless, indeed, by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Plymouth, who seemed still to be disposed to adhere to it. His hon. and learned Friend the Member for Abingdon had in the outset of his argument admitted that the religious part of the question was involved in so much doubt and difficulty, that he was led to wish it might be settled by the authority of the Church itself. This, however, was impossible, as he (Mr. Cockburn) thought, seeing that the members of the Church differed amongst themselves on this subject. It was well known that the bishops themselves were not unanimous on the point, and the body of the clergy differed to a very considerable extent; besides, as had been well observed by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the city of Oxford, how could the clergy settle this matter, even supposing the Church to be unanimous, while the Dissenters were also unanimous on the opposite side of the question? What right also had the Church to interfere in this matter, which was purely, as far as the religious part of the question was concerned, one for men to settle with their own consciences. His hon. and learned Friend the Member for the city of Oxford had gone even farther than his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Abingdon. He had admitted that the text upon which the opponents of the Bill had so much relied was against them. Nor could there be a doubt that such was the fact; for the text only prohibited a man's marrying his wife's sister during the lifetime of the former; how could this be made to apply to a marriage after her death? It was a sound and established canon of construction that that which was not prohibited by the express terms of a prohibitory law was tacitly admitted; therefore the text was in
 437 438 439 440
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that when the hon. Gentleman the Member for the West Riding took upon himself to assert that those who resisted the Motion of his (Mr. Goulburn's) right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Buteshire, had abandoned the religious grounds upon which they rested their opposition, he felt it incumbent upon him to give the strongest and most earnest denial to a proposition so absolutely contrary to the facts of the case. If the hon. Gentleman had been present throughout the debate, he might have observed certainly a forbearance from entering into questions previously discussed, but no abandonment whatever of the religious principle. And he (Mr. Goulburn) was anxious to declare that he still adhered to the opinion that looking to the law of Leviticus these marriages were prohibited as contrary to the will of Him by whom that law was ordained. The hon. Gentleman
 450 451 452 453 Cries of 454
 MR. ROEBUCK  entirely dissented from the view just taken by the right hon. Member for South Wiltshire, with respect to legislation for different denominations upon this subject, while at the same time he fully concurred with him in opinion as to the inexpediency of discussing theological questions in that House. In the course of the debates on this Bill, he had heard constant appeals to what hon. Gentlemen were pleased to call "the law of God," as though it were something different from the law of nature. He thought it right, at the outset of his remarks, to state broadly the manner in which he drew a distinction between these two terms, and the mode in which he would argue the question. It would be found, he believed, that the "law of God," in most hon. Members' mouths, meant just that which they liked, not anything which they could pro-
 415 416 417 A laugh 418 419
 MR. COBDEN  said, he would trespass upon the House but for a short time. From peculiar circumstances, he had for several years watched the tendency of the discussion upon this question, and he had felt that out of doors, as well as in that House, the great pressure put upon the country to resist this measure had originated, not in a religious, but rather in an ecclesiastical feeling; for the House could not conceal from themselves the fact, that the opposition to the Bill, which had been carried on with the most persevering efforts in that House, and out of doors, so far as the machinery of the petitions could be brought to bear, originated from ecclesiastical feelings and convictions, and those mainly confined to one branch of the Church of England. ["No, no!"] He had said "mainly," for he did not mean to assert that there were no exceptions; but he repeated the opinion, and he declared, with the fullest conviction he was speaking truth, that the main clement of resistance to this measure had originated with a particular party in the Church of England—not indeed a numerous party, but a very influential one—a reactionary party of persons, who, not having full faith in the vital spirit of Christianity, would carry us back to forms and ceremonies somewhat of a Pagan character, and would induce us to adopt genuflecxons at the altar, and retain the surplice of the clergyman in the ceremonies of the Church—a party, a portion of whoso policy it was to revive as much as possible of the sanction and validity of the ancient canons, not of the English, but of the Roman Catholic Church, and to give to those canons, as far as possible, the cogency and the force of Scriptural authority. All this had created great confusion in men's minds, which they could only have cleared away by the useful process of discussion both in that House and out of doors, where there prevailed also much confusion in the minds of religious people. A number of learned men had been quoted, and many learned men opposed this measure on the ground that there was Scrip-
 445 446 447 448 449
 MR. R. M. MILNES  said, that when he heard opposition offered to the measure which had been so ably introduced by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bute, he was inclined to examine very closely whether the grounds on which it had been opposed were of that large and general character which were applicable to the great social question before the House. He found hon. Gentlemen desirous of extending the family relations; and the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield had told the House that an attempt to diminish them would take away much of the comfort and happiness of life. He quite agreed with the hon. and learned Member in that view, and he would, therefore, extend them as far as possible; but he would ask, what argument applied against contracting marriage with a wife's sister which would not equally operate against marriages with first cousins? He maintained that there was an enormous difference between affinity and consanguinity; and, therefore, hon. Members who opposed this Bill were bound to show that there was something much closer in the relation of sister-in-law and that of a first cousin which should induce the Legislature to permit the one and to forbid the
 430 primâ facie 431 432
 MR. SHEIL : Sir, I do not know whether my hon. and learned Friend who has just addressed you is a member of the Established Church; but if I were to form a conjecture from his speech, I should say, if I may be permitted to borrow an expression from the Horse Guards, that he is a Christian "unattached." If I professed to be a member of the Established Church, I certainly should speak of the canons of that Church, and of the prohibited degrees, of which a list is published in the Book of Common Prayer that lies upon that table, with a reverence more profound than that which has been manifested by my hon. and learned Friend. Where are we to look for the doctrine of the Established Church if not in its canons? And how can any
 441 442 443
 MR. SPOONER  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Sheffield had argued this altogether as a social question. He had discarded all the religious opinions, and all the arguments drawn from the word of God. Now, although he (Mr. Spooner) admitted that the House was not the place in which religious discussions ought to be brought forward when they were not absolutely necessary, he could not agree with what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Wiltshire, when he said that they ought to legislate on this subject without any reference to the word of God. In his own opinion, he conceived that the Legislature was bound to ascertain, on such matters as these, whether their legislation was authorised by the revealed will of God. The present prohibition he (Mr. Spooner) maintained was not contained in that revelation, either in so many words or by implication. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Sheffield, in his usual powerful style, had drawn a graphic picture representing the evils which he said would result to the wealthier and more refined classes of society by the alterations proposed. Let him (Mr. Spooner) lay before the House what he conceived was now the effect upon the largest part of our population—the middle and poorer classes of society. He would take the case of a married tradesman, who, having set up in business for himself, and who, being left a widower with a small family, was unable in consequence of the existing law to ob-
 420 421 422
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Sheffield, in a speech which all, of whatever opinions, must have hoard with admiration, and with nearly all of which he (Mr. R. Palmer) most cordially concurred, stated one opinion to which those who had a strong conviction as to the existence of a divine law upon this subject could not be expected altogether to assent. The hon. and learned Gentleman had himself shown in the most clear, forcible, and persuasive manner that the security and sanctity of families, and the enjoyment of those tender domestic ties which were among the best gifts of God upon earth, were essentially dependent upon the protection of a prohibitive law, such as at present existed. If there were some who believed, and in their consciences were convinced that God, the author of society, had given us that very law for those very reasons, and had Himself founded a code, the whole structure of which bore testimony to those reasons as founded in the principles of divine wisdom; and if the observance of this law was found to be laid down in express terms as a duty to na-
 423 424 425 426 427 428 429 "Fœcunda culpæ sæcula nuptias Primum inquinavere, et genus, et domos. Hoc fonte derivata clades In patriam populumque fluxit."
 MR. C. ANSTEY : said, he supported this Bill on behalf of those who did not belong to the Church of England; and he would point out the difference of the view taken of these marriages by the Roman and the Anglican churches. In the Church of Rome these unions, like those of first cousins, were permitted when a dispensation was obtained. In that church no dispensation could sanction or affect marriages within the affinities prohibited by divine law; but ecclesiastical disabilities, or disabilities created by human law, could be dispensed with. Dr. Wiseman had said, with regard to the intermarriage of first cousins, against which so strong an objection existed in England, that a dispensation to permit such a marriage was granted by the Roman Catholic church with as much difficulty as if the case had been one of union between a man and his sister-in-law, or his niece. And why was this? Because the popular feeling was against that sort of marriage; and the popular feeling was taken into consideration by the Church of Rome. The practical effect of this Bill would be just this—that in Scotland and in Ireland, where the people object to such marriages, they would not be solemnized more frequently than they were at present. It was only in this country, where such marriages were common, that the relief would be sensibly felt. If Members were sincere in their wishes to carry out their peculiar opinions into a law, they should do more than merely obstruct the progress of this Bill; they should institute a movement to make the whole of the canon law a part and parcel of the temporal law of this country. If the House refused to pass the second reading of the Bill, they would be deprived of the opportunity of fairly and deliberately considering whether it was wise and politic to maintain the existing
 444
 MR. CAMPBELL  did not know what connexion existed between the Member for Montrose and the conductors of the  Morning Ghronicle
 MR. CAMPBELL  again rose to remark that no apology had been offered.
 MR. CAMPBELL  had suffered a twofold misrepresentation on Thursday, Feb. 28th, at the hands of the gallant Gentleman the Member for Middlesex. He was ready to repel it at the moment. His friends upon the Treasury bench, for whom he entertained great respect, had, at so late an hour, dissuaded him from doing so. Since then he had acquired the materials of repelling it with greater clearness, and if the gallant Gentleman had been able to attend the House on Monday last, there would not have been so long an interval between his attack and the exposure of it. The attack related to the intercourse which in two successive years he (Mr. Campbell) had had with the inhabitants of Kensington, and to language he had been supposed to utter in the House while
 462
 MR. CAMPBELL  begged to thank the House for their indulgence, which he could assure them was not unappreciated by him,
 463
 MR. P. SGROPE , pursuant to notice, rose to call the attention of the House to the social state of the union of Kilrush, in the county of Clare, and to move the appointment of a Special Commission to inquire into the same, and into the means that may be adopted for its amelioration. He proposed to give a history and to describe the state of one of those distressed unions in western Ireland which, he feared, was but a type of many others in similar circumstances. He did not bring this matter before the House simply for the sake of exciting their barren sympathy; but he trusted that his statement might have the effect of causing some suggestion to be made which might have the effect of rescuing that unhappy population from the fate which impended over them. The union of Kilrush formed the western extremity of the county of Clare; it projected into the Atlantic, in an acute angle. It was about forty miles in length from east to west, and scarcely three miles in its widest diameter across from sea to sea. The surface of the union was undulated, but not mountainous; it was land of various qualities, and he was informed that though there were some irreclaimable bogs, the land generally was capable of cultivation. Its area was about 150,000 acres; the population in 1841 was 80,000; and the valuation in 1845 was something under 60,000 l 466 l s l l l l l 467 468 469 s s 470 471 s d s 472 s s
 MR. FAGAN  seconded the Motion.
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY  observed, that no Member had refused to admit the extent of the distress in the union of Kilrush, and that it had never been exceeded, and also that the faults of the landlords in it were great, although the House did not actually know the circumstances which had led to the present lamentable results. He wished to join in the expression of praise that had been uttered with respect to the energy and humanity of Captain Kennedy, and at the admirable conduct he had manifested under circumstances of great difficulty. He must observe, that there was one landlord in the union of Kilrush who, he was happy to find, was an exception to the remainder. The gentleman to whom he alluded resided in the county to which he (the Earl of Arundel) belonged, he meant Colonel Wyndham, who, in the trying season of difficulty, had taken the utmost care of his tenantry, and every attention had been paid to their well-being, and the farms were in good condition. Therefore it was only an act of justice that this gentleman should not be combined with the other owners of property under the name of bad landlords, He should like to see an account of all the frauds and delinquencies which they had been told had been practised in these unions, and how the estates alluded to had been dealt with for a number of years back, so that any measures, however stringent, should be adopted, so as to prevent people dying from starvation. The people were in such a condition that, humanely speaking, he really did think they were not responsible for what they did. He would not have said this, if he did not feel strongly for their condition. The Motion, if carried, would show that there was a feeling of sympathy in that House for the condition of these poor people, and every friend of humanity should be obliged to the hon. Gentleman for having brought the subject forward.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to protect the Parliamentary electors of Great Britain and Ireland from undue influence, by the use of the ballot. He said that if he were in need of any apology for bringing forward this Motion, it was only because the hour at which he brought it forward was somewhat of the latest—[ it was then Nine o'clock 498 499 sub silentio vivâ voce 500 Macbeth 501 Hansard 502 in extenso seriatim 503 504
 MR. H. BERKELEY  replied: He said, he should have occasion only to detain the House a few minutes, for he found that he had very little to answer. He had first to accept the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary. He was quite willing to admit that the right hon. Gentleman had never used the phrase, political virtue; but he had ascribed the sentiment to that right hon. Gentleman, whose explanation fully bore him out. With respect to the ballot, he never admitted that it would be inoperative as against bribery: he thought in large constituencies it would be a decided preventive; he was not prepared to assert the same in small constituencies, but the existence of the latter ought to cease, for the ballot could make them no worse than they were. He had heard nothing that night to shake his opinion as to the ballot being perfectly competent to check bribery, and put down intimidation; he never pretended it was a panacea. The hon. Member for Stockport argued against the ballot, as if electors were compelled by it to secrecy. So far from it they might march with a band of music to poll, proclaiming their votes as they went if they pleased; while the elector, to whom secrecy was safety, would claim the ballot as his just protection. The hon. Member for London had talked about the ballot not being necessary in London; must he read his (Mr. Berkeley's) speech in '48, to show the hon. Member the exact reverse? The hon. Member forgot that he (Mr. Berkeley) had been chairman of a London election committee in 1847; he really could not make that speech over again—not that the hon. Member's friends were one jot worse than his opponents. On the present occasion he (Mr. Berkeley) trusted that he should have the support of all those who had hitherto supported the Motion; and he
 521
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  seconded the Motion. His hon. Friend had endeared himself to the people by his able, unyielding, and not always unsuccessful, advocacy of this most important principle. For be it remembered that there was now, on the Journals of the House of Commons, a resolution to the effect that, in the election of Members of Parliament, the votes of the electors ought to be taken by way of ballot. He believed that this was the darling measure of the people, and that it was one to which they were most justly entitled. It was demanded alike by all who possessed and by all who sought the franchise, as the only means of giving them the secure exercise of that franchise. Without the ballot, the elector could never substantially enjoy the vote which the constitution gave him. The ballot was alike his due, whether he claimed the franchise as a trust, as a right, or as a privilege. In relation to its character as a trust, it was objected that those who so exercised being responsible for its exercise to the non-electors, could not consistently conceal its application; but this argument, at all events, could not be justly held by those who resisted an extension of the franchise on the ground that the people were not yet fitted for it; since, if they were not fit to vote, they were equally unfit to control a vote. If any persons doubted the extent to which undue influence prevailed, he would ask them to look at the different constituencies, and see whether there were any in which numerous electors did not abstain from voting through fear of incurring the displeasure of influential individuals, or from the hope and expectation of some reward. Now, the ballot would, on the one hand, prevent intimidation, while on the other hand it would prevent the possibility of corruption. He felt it difficult to believe in the sincerity of those who opposed the ballot on the ground that it would promote deception and encourage a spirit of disingenuousness, and that it would be found ineffectual for the object it was intended to accomplish. He believed the opposition offered to the ballot arose from a love of power. Its opponents could not divest themselves of a notion that they had a right to direct and govern the votes of those who lived on their estates, or with whom they dealt. They were averse to the measure because they had no confidence in the people, and they had no confidence in themselves. They talked
 506 507
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Lord Campbell has ceased to be a member of the Cabinet.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  would answer the last question first. He begged, therefore, to inform the hon. and gallant Member that Lord Campbell had accepted the appointment of Lord Chief Justice on the same salary as Lord Denman, namely, 8,000 l l l l l 465
 LORD J. RUSSELL : On receiving notice of Lord Denman's retirement, the subject of the retiring pension came under the consideration of Her Majesty's Treasury, and when their decision has been made it shall be notified to the House.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : My hon. Friend who has just sat down has made a speech describing the natural effect of the scenes he has witnessed in Kilrush, and which undoubtedly does credit to his benevolent wish to improve the condition of the people of that union; but when I attempt to consider what the hon. Gentleman proposes as a measure which Government and Parliament should adopt, I own I am appalled at the evils which such a measure would lead to, because, in fact, what the hon. Gentleman says is, that the people of Kilrush being in a miserable condition, and the landlords appearing to neglect all the duties of landlords, and being only active in evicting the wretched people who had hitherto lived on a produce which no longer exists, the farmers being entirely without skill and capital, and only scratching the ground to obtain a crop, the State should step in and take the whole management of those affairs which are usually conducted by individuals—that the State should step in, and, in the first place, provide all the seed that might be required, all the agricultural implements that were necessary, and all the wages that might be required to enable the farmers to cultivate the land properly; and, having done this, and having gone to a vast expense, no doubt with immediate benefit, that I will not deny, by producing a good crop for the present year, and employing the people who are now living on miserable alms, then the proprietors of the land shall have the whole benefit
 480
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The way in which the hon. Gentleman stated, and as I understood, his plan, it would end in very great mischief if it were practicable; but as he now states it, it is, I think, quite impracticable, because you are now able to get the rate only with very great difficulty, and the amount is insufficient for the mere purpose of keeping alive those who would otherwise perish. It is, in fact, the State undertaking to farm the land, and to do what individuals ought to do, thereby incurring immense responsibility which the State ought not to incur, and immediately the hand of the State was withdrawn, all those evils would again arise. Why, in this very case, I myself read an interesting letter from a gentleman who has passed through some counties in the west of Ireland, and who has lately been through some of the best parts of that country, and he said that in those parts of the west in which there was the greatest misery there is a spirit of exertion, a determination to employ their utmost energies in obtaining a crop for the present year, which gave him very great hope of improvement; and it is curious enough that this gentleman began his letter by saying he had seen a report of a statement of mine in this House that some parts of Ireland were improving, which he disbelieved, and thought must be an exaggerated statement of the prospects of Ireland, but that he was now convinced by his own eyes, after this journey was made, that there were grounds for hope of improvement. But if you say, "Here is this union which shall have special assistance, which shall have a special fund devoted to its improvement—that the State will undertake to improve the farms," would they not say in other unions, "What is the use of our exertions in attempting to improve our lands, if those who neglect their duty are much better treated
 481
 LORD NAAS  said, that concurring in the views of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, that it was impossible for the State to interfere with the employment of the people, yet still, after what he had heard of the unprecedented state of misery that existed in the Kilrush union, he conceived that House would not be doing its duty to the unfortunate people if they did not show them that at least they were inclined to take some steps for their improvement. If the present were a scheme that required a great outlay of money, the success of which might be uncertain, they would not be justified in entering on such an undertaking. When it was merely for a commission of inquiry as to the actual state of affairs in a union, with a view to see if anything could be done to remedy them, he could not take on himself to vote against the proposition, no matter as to how he doubted of its success. It was plain, from everything they had heard, that the resources of the union were exhausted, and, consequently, that relief must come from extraneous aid. Captain Kennedy, in closing a correspondence with the Poor Law Commissioners on the subject of the Kilrush union, remarked "that the resources of the union were wholly inadequate to carry out the proposed measure of the commissioners." If the Government had come forward and stated that in the spring of the year measures
 485
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  was not going to defend the landlords of Ireland, for he knew that there were some of that body who had neglected their duty, but others had exerted themselves to relieve the distress, but had not been able to do so much as they wished. As regarded the Motion of the hon. Member for Stroud, he admitted the humane feelings which had prompted him to bring it forward, but he doubted the expediency of appointing a commission to institute an inquiry into the state of this single union, as other unions were as badly off as that of Kilrush. With respect to Clifden, there was very great difficulty in dealing with the circumstances affecting it. He was the chairman of the union, and he could tell the House that the mortgagees of that large property to which so many allusions had been made, and who were now in possession of it, did not discharge their duty as landlords, for they had not paid one single farthing in the shape of poor-rates, although the other owners of property in the union had to pay up to the very last. This London company had taken possession of the land, but they would not do the least thing for the relief of the destitute poor on it. He was glad to be enabled to say that the poor-law was working in a more satisfactory manner than it formerly did, and also that the Incumbered Estates Act had been productive of much good.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he was quite sure the hon. Member would see the necessity of abstaining from further pursuing the subject. Having corrected a misrepresentation which had been made on a former occasion, and having disposed of that, the hon. Gentleman would see that the greater part of the speech he had now addressed to the House ought to have been made immediately after the speech of the hon. Member for Middlesex had been delivered. The House was always willing to extend its indulgence when an hon. Member wished to clear up any misrepresentation of his character, but that indulgence ought to be strictly limited to such misrepresentations, and ought not to extend to any observations other than by way of correction, nor to the going into any other matter except that which related to the misrepresentations of which an hon. Member complained.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the hon. Gentleman should confine himself to explaining any misrepresentation to which he had been subjected.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that comments on a former debate could not be made without trespassing on the rules of the House, but it was quite within the province of an hon. Gentleman to offer an explanation.
 COLONEL. SIBTHORP  did not think it worth his while to pay any attention to what fell from the hon. Member for Manchester. The hon. Member for Birmingham wished this country to imitate Belgium, but he (Colonel Sibthorp) believed this country never would so much degrade itself. There was far too much aping of foreign institutions now-a-days, and  Expositions Françaises 519
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  begged to inquire whether Lord Campbell would continue to be a member of the Cabinet?
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  begged to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government, whether such appointments as had been made, or might be made, since the last Session of Parliament, would be subject to such reductions in their salaries and allowances as might be recommended by Parliament, and especially the recent appointment of the Lord Chief Justice of the Queen's Bench; and whether Lord Camp-hell accepted the same salary as Lord
 464 l l
 MR. HORSMAN  thought that the Government could not be aware of the serious state of affairs in the Kilrush union, or the amount of responsibility which devolved upon them with regard to it. He had visited the union during the resess, and he believed that if any person had travelled through Europe during his whole lifetime, he would never have witnessed so much misery arising from the same cause
 482 483
 MR. F. FRENCH  wished, before the House divided, to correct a mistaken statement made by the hon. Member for Manchester, who asserted that the rents in Ireland were fairly paid. [Mr. BRIGHT: I said nothing of the sort.] At all events, the hon. Gentleman endeavoured to persuade the House that the rents had been fairly paid. Now, in the west of Ireland, it was a common case that no rents whatever had been paid In some places, upon the best managed property, two out of three years' rent had been lost. He was one who had never considered that the Government had taken a correct view of the working of the poor-law in Ireland, but, nevertheless, he saw no good object to be answered by the appointment of a commission of inquiry into facts that were already notorious, and that had been fully inquired into already. The appointment of the commission would, he thought, be more disastrous to the people than the rejection of the proposal.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that there was no man in that House, and certainly no
 484
 MR. MOORE  said, the only argument that had been urged against the Motion was that offered by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, that the proposition of the hon. Member for Stroud, and in particular the plan of the hon. Member for Limerick, would operate as a bonus and premium to those who neglected
 495
 MR. MUNTZ  said, that he should give his vote in favour of the Motion. The hon. Member for Stockport had said that only one-tenth of his constituents were anxious for the ballot. The experience he (Mr. Muntz) had of the borough of Birmingham led him to believe that a very large proportion of the electors would like to have it, and that that proportion consisted of the most respectable class, principally shopkeepers, who did not think it just either to themselves or their families to have the system of open voting continued. Now, before he happened to be in Parliament a sharply-contested election took place in Birmingham. In the course of it both parties called upon him to see some of his workmen. One party said there was no use in seeing them, as no doubt he (Mr. Muntz) had interfered with them as a master in the exercise of their franchise. He told the party that he had not done anything of the kind, for he should as soon think of meddling with a man's pocket as with his vote, and that, however his men might vote, he should not employ them the less on that account. The circumstance showed in itself how a master could, if he were so inclined, intimidate his men, and prevent them from enjoying the free use of the right of which they were possessed; because had he gone
 518
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  concurred in the reasons which had been stated by the noble Lord the Member for Kildare in support of this resolution, and, in addition, another reason which would induce him to do so was, that there was a disposition on the part of the Government to underrate the difficulties which existed in the circumstances of Ireland. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland referred to the prosperity of most parts of Ireland; but without
 487 488 "Clifden Union, County Galway.—Three estates, each of large extent, comprise about three-fourths of this union. The principal one is a part of the Martin estate, lately offered for sale in London. It is, and has for a considerable time been, in the hands of the Law Life Insurance Company, London. The nominal proprietor does not derive any income whatsoever from it, it continues for sale. The estate next in value had been for a considerable time in Chancery (though it formerly discharged all its engagements with perfect case), and was taken thence by the Commissioners for the sale of Encumbered Estates, who now have it. Its proprietor has derived nothing from it since 1846; this is deposed to on oath in Chancery. The third estate has been for some years in Chancery, and is for sale. The present proprietor derives nothing from it. Up to the year 1845, the commencement of the famine, the tenantry on these estates were solvent, industrious, and well clad, and an excellent description of cottages was being built in several districts. The barony then was rapidly improving to a greater extent than any other part of Ireland. The town of Clifden was amongst the most rising. The landed proprietors were all residents, and the value of property increased. The peasantry were always well conducted. The kelp trade had been most lucrative until free trade put it down; it was
 489 l l l l 490
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, it was quite true that at the close of last Session, when he announced that the Trinity-house, with the consent of the Board of Trade, were prepared to make large reductions in the light-dues, he stated that he should not regard that circumstance as debarring him from bringing forward a measure for the general regulation of light-dues. But he had not, as the hon. Member represented, pledged himself to bring forward such a measure during the present Session; and, having recently introduced measures of great importance connected with the mercantile marine, which had not yet passed a second reading, he should not be justified in pledging himself to bring forward this Session any measure on the subject to which the hon. Gentleman had referred.
 MR. HEALD  wished to assign his reasons for giving a vote adverse to the proposition of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Bristol which appeared to him to justify the conclusions to which he had arrived. He entirely differed from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester in his argument that this Motion ought to be agreed to, on the ground that the electors of this country required the protection of the ballot. He (Mr. Heald) did not admit that the ballot would be a protection; but even supposing that a considerable portion of the electors of this country agreed in opinion with the right hon. Gentleman, his answer was, that the general electoral body did not ask for it. He would venture to state, without fear of contradiction, that the electoral body of this country prided themselves too much on having it known distinctly what class of principles they maintained, and who were their favourite candidates on the occasion of a contested election. It appeared then to reduce itself to this, that it was the cause of that minority to which
 514 515
 MR. HEALD  rose to explain. He said he was certain that neither the hon. Member for Montrose nor the hon. Member for Manchester wished to misrepresent him. What he said was, that he believed the great body of the constituency of the empire, including nine-tenths of his own, did not require the ballot as a means of protection in recording their votes. His argument was that such a proportion prided themselves in having it known what were their distinctive principles, and who was their favourite candidate.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, it would be extremely satisfactory if the very favourable character which the hon. Gentleman gave of his own constituents could be received as a fair one of the electoral body generally. The hon. Gentleman represented Stockport—a borough certainly not remarkable for its purity, nor for the little cost of its elections, but somewhat remarkable for the tumultuous and disgraceful proceedings by which several of its elections had been characterised. He knew something of that borough, and would let the House know something of it also. Crossing the enormous viaduct by which the North Western Railway traversed that town, the passenger might observe on either side several largo mills and tall chimneys. Indeed it was well known that Stockport was almost entirely supported by its cotton trade, and that many of the owners of these mills employed from 500 to 2,000 persons each in carrying on their business. Now, not only over these, but likewise over nearly all the tradesmen in the town who supplied the hundreds of articles required in the wear and tear of those large manufactories, did the owners exercise a direct influence, for a large employer was, in fact, like the great landed proprietor with numerous tenants and labourers dependent on him. He was himself much in the position he was describing. He employed large numbers of persons who at frequent stated intervals attended at his counting-house to receive payment and orders—men employed at subsidiary trades and manufactories. As a matter of course, that species of influence which the ballot was intended to guard against, existed to a large extent in such cases; and it was left wholly to the morality and conscientiousness of the parties having that influence, whether it was exercised or not against the rights of the electors who were subject to it. He was not about to say that the employers at Stockport were less pure or less disposed to exercise their influence than those of Rochdale, or of this metropolis, or elsewhere. He merely asserted that such an influence existed in the hands of men employing thousands of persons likely to be
 516 517 Laughter on the opposite benches
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I cannot offer the least objection to the statement which has been read by the hon. Gentleman; for it does not, in truth, appear to invalidate anything which I said on a former occasion, with regard to the unions in the west of Ireland. Every statement which I made was made on authority which I believe to be quite as good as that which the hon. Member has just cited; and although, with regard to one point, having reference to a Member of this House, I have, on the authority of what I believe to be a trustworthy statement of that hon. Member, retracted what I had said in this House, yet with regard to the general statement of the non-collection of poor-rates from proprietors, and the fact that in certain unions the main part of the rates in arrear is due from the proprietors, and not from the occupying tenants, I believe that that statement is perfectly correct. Its accuracy may be proved by a reference to the newspapers of the west of Ireland; to the office of the Poor Law Commissioners; to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland, and to the authorities of Dublin Castle. But this is not in reality the question before the House; and I am rather surprised that the hon. Gentleman, supporting as he does the Motion of the hon. Member for Stroud, should have introduced this subject to-night, instead of reserving it, as I had understood that he would do, for the occasion on which the Advances Bill will be brought under discussion, when I had intended to enter into the matter more fully. From the speech
 491 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to appoint a Special Commission to inquire into the social state of the Union of Kilrush, and into the means that may be adopted for its amelioration." 492 493 l l 494
 MR. MASTERMAN  said, that it was very seldom that he trespassed upon the attention of the House, and it was with reluctance that he did so in the present instance; but as the metropolis had been all luded to in connection with this question, he thought it might be expected that he should state his views upon the subject of the ballot. He was decidedly opposed to the practice of secret voting as contradistinguished from open voting, and he objected to making that a matter of con cealment—namely, a man's vote—which everybody ought to be made acquainted with.
 MR. MASTERMAN  explained that be had never said his constituents were against the ballot: what he stated was, that he had never received any intimation from them that they were anxious for it.
 MR. J. WILLIAMS  said, representing as he did in that House a large portion of
 512 513
 MR. HUME  said, that hon. Gentlemen who expressed so much repugnance to this proposal seemed quite to forget that the principle was in full force in those clubs of which they were themselves members. The hon. Member for Stockport had, he thought, made a great mistake in what he stated regarding his own constituency. He thought the hon. Member had libelled them, because he (Mr. Hume) had recently communicated to him the resolutions of a public meeting held in the hon. Gentleman's borough, and attended by thousands of electors, where the ballot was unanimously supported. How, therefore, the hon. Member could stand up and say that nine-tenths of the electors of his borough were against the ballot, he confessed he could not understand. But the hon. Gentleman further stated that the remaining tenth were a class of people that could be bought any day by anybody. Well, now, give them the ballot, and that was the very class that could no longer be subjected to bribery and corruption. ["Oh, oh!"] Hon. Gentlemen said "Oh, oh!" but who did they think would buy a pig in a poke? Hon. Gentlemen opposite had not had the courage to attempt to offer any argument against this measure: they were merely about to give a silent vote without stating any reasons for the manner in which they would record it. He also thought the hon. Member for the city of London mistaken OS to the feeling of his constituents—
 MR. HUME  agreed in the statement of the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown that any attempt on the part of the Government to become wholesale gardeners, and provide seed and labour, would be impossible. But that was not the question submitted to them. The question before them was, whether any portion of Ireland, Kilrush for instance, was unfortunately circumstanced, and whether there were any peculiar circumstances, and what they were, which had led to that miserable state of things. It was a fact that they had advanced money; and public money should should not be given unless for purposes of improvement. Now, in granting a portion of the public money to Kilrush, might it not be well to inquire if the advances made to other unions had been repaid, why were they not repaid by Kilrush union? It had been stated that there was no spot on the civilised world that could be compared with Kilrush. Now was such a state of things creditable to the country or to the Government? Ought they not under the circumstances, as creditors of the union, to take every means of doing away with such a state of things? If the commission were granted they could repair to the spot and ascertain if the proprietors possessed capital, or were in a condition to employ that capital in the tilling of the land and employment of the people. If the state of things was found not to be so, he presumed the result would be a recommendation that the lands be sold, with a view to prevent further loss to the public. That was a course that might with safety be taken. If they found other places reviving and regenerating, and Kilrush retrogressing, surely that House would not be stepping out of its course in seeking information as to the cause of such retrogression. He, therefore, felt disposed to think that inquiry should be granted. They could not be worse off than at present; but the chances were they would be far better, and that they might arrive at a conclusion most satisfactory in the abolition of such a state of things.
 MR. HUME  wished to ask the noble Lord whether any arrangement had been made relative to a fixed pension upon the retirement of the Chief Justice?
 MR. HUME : He only knew this—that the numerous meetings hold lately in the metropolis all terminated unanimously in favour of the ballot. He must say, in conclusion, that those who used the ballot to protect themselves, acted most unjustly,
 520
 MR. HUME  wished to know whether it was competent to Members of that House to publish advertisements in the newspapers regarding those debates?
 MR. FORSTER  wished to know whether it was the intention of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, in conformity with the pledge he gave last year, to bring in any measure for the reduction of light-dues?
 MR. P. SCROPE  stated that most of the hon. Gentlemen who had spoken on this occasion had admitted that this was a proper case for inquiry; but, from the course taken by the Government, it appeared that
 496
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, that after the long story which the hon. Member had favoured them with, it was almost unnecessary for him to trouble the House. So far from being the hon. Gentleman's "public enemy," he felt a kindly friendship towards him. On the part of his constituents at Chelsea, Hammersmith, and Kensington, he could assure him that he accepted his apology with the greatest kindness.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, he begged to claim the indulgence of the House for a few moments, whilst he addressed it upon a matter affecting its privileges. For three days he had attended in his place in that House in consequence of a correspondence which had taken place between himself and the hon. Member for Cambridge. To-day he had seen an advertisement upon the subject in the  Morning Chronicle 461
 MR. M. GIBSON , amid loud cries of "Divide!" said, that this was by far too important a question to be decided without discussion. It seemed there was impatience at the slightest discussion on the question of reform. Why, hon. Gentlemen opposite had called for a division before the right hon. the Secretary of State for the Home Department had an opportunity of declaring the views of the Government. [Sir G. GREY: My own views only.] He was glad to hear that the ballot was to be an open question. Now, he wished to make a remark to agricultural Members especially, who seemed so impatient. The hon. Member for Buckinghamshire had lately expatiated
 510 511
 MR. MONSELL  begged the noble Lord's pardon for interrupting him, but the noble Lord had misunderstood him. He did not suggest that the State should give the funds; quite the reverse; the funds were to be raised on the electoral division in which they were expended, and he would also suggest the propriety, if the rate were not paid, of carrying out the very wise law passed last Session, for selling the land for payment of the poor-rates.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he could not agree with the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland as to the improvements which he stated had taken place in the Kilrush union. From the latest accounts he (Mr. Monsell) had received from that union, things were worse instead of bettor; and he was afraid that unless the Government were prepared to adopt some totally new and exceptional system as to that union, there was no hope of its condition being improved without the perishing and death of a considerable part of the population. As to the present state of that union, he could not do better than refer to the statement of Mr. Major, the assistant barrister, who a few days ago was holding the quarter-sessions. That gentleman said—
 "That admitting there had been considerable improvement in other parts of the country, in this union our fellow-creatures are reduced to a condition unexampled in any time or country. The poor present a spectacle of wretchedness, which would be insupportable to the feelings of men, if they were not, as it appears to me they are, beginning to forget that these poor people are their own fellow-creatures. In the whole course of my life I never witnessed such patient agony. I protest that the sufferings of the poor in this union are beyond human endurance." 477 478 esprit de corps 479 l
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the noble Lord who had just spoken had expressed his despair that anything could be done to improve the condition of the union of Kilrush, although the commission was granted. Was there then any ground for supporting this Motion, which could load to no practical results, and could only awaken fruitless expectation? Was it possible to have more perfect information with regard to the existence of the distress there than would be found in the papers which were already before the House, and the papers which had been moved for by his hon. Friend behind him? If any further information was required, they had two eyewitnesses in the House, the hon. Member for the county of Limerick, and the hon. Member for Cockermouth, who had laudably devoted a part of the recess to a personal inquiry into the condition of the union in question, nor did he know any one more fit to suggest plans to remedy it than those two Gentlemen. Was it likely that any commission appointed by the Government could be more capable of suggesting a practical measure of improvement than those hon. Members? But the noble Lord the Member for Kildare stated one other reason for voting in favour of the Motion, and that was that no measures were in contemplation by the Government for providing a specific remedy for the evils existing in the Kilrush union. It was certainly true that the Government did not contemplate any measure which had a special reference to the union of Kilrush, but there were measures in contemplation which were designed to promote improvement throughout the whole of Ireland, which he trusted would be of advantage to the Kilrush union. There could be no doubt that there had been a remissness in the performance of their duty by the proprietors of the soil in that union, and this was the precise class of
 486
 SIR G. GREY  said, he would not occupy the attention of the House for more than a few minutes; but as the Mover of the resolution had devoted a considerable portion of his speech to a review of his (Sir G. Grey's) conduct upon this question, he would in a very few sentences gratify the hon. Gentleman's curiosity, by informing him what were the opinions he entertained, and what course he intended to take on the Motion before the House. He differed from that hon. Gentleman in his estimate of the importance of the ballot. He (Sir G. Grey) never had Stated that he considered the question one of vast importance; and when he had supported a Motion for the ballot, he had said that he had no great confidence in the success of the plan. He had supported it, however, in deference to the opinions of a large body of constituents, to whom he owed much, and who had given him most disinterested support. That constituency, by petitions addressed to that House, had certainly persuaded him of their desire to obtain the ballot as a protection for some of their number, with regard to whom he stated at the time that he thought undue influence had been exercised, and for whom he endeavoured, in the absence of other means, to procure the protection they required. He agreed very much in the opinion which had been expressed a few nights ago by the hon. Member for Middlesex, that the advantages and evils of the ballot were both greatly exaggerated. The more he had heard the question argued, and the more consideration he had given to it, the more satisfied he was that so far from preventing bribery,
 508 509
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  thought his hon. Friend did injustice to the House when he said there was an indisposition to listen to him whenever he attempted to call attention to the miserable state of a certain portion of the population of Ireland. But whatever reflection might rest on the House, certainly none rested on his hon. Friend himself, for he had on every occasion done his duty in calling the attention of the House to the unfortunate state of things which prevailed in certain parts of Ireland. In the present instance it was impossible for him (Sir W. Somerville) to allude to every particular brought forward by the hon. Member for Stroud, who had before him a long correspondence contained in the different series of blue books which had at various times been presented to the House, and had gone into a great variety of details, which it was impossible for him, unprepared as he was at that time, to answer. No person could read the correspondence contained in those blue books without feeling most painfully the distressed condition of this union. But, at the same time, no hon. Member could fail of perceiving that the condition of that union, even before the famine, was anything but flourishing, and that the famine, following as it did over the whole of Ireland, fell with increased severity upon that unfortunate district. The duty of the Government, then, was, as far as it possibly could, to meet that distress. Nothing could be more painful, as showing the intensity of the distress of that union, than the reports of Captain Kennedy; and the compliments which had been paid to the ability of that gentleman by the hon. Member for Stroud were well deserved. In order to meet the distress arising from the great extent to which evictions were carried on in that union and other parts of Ireland, the 11th & 12th Vic, c. 47, was passed, having for its object the protection and relief of the destitute poor evicted from their dwellings in Ireland. He was aware that it might be said that the Act had not been very efficient for its purpose; but it showed, at all events, that the Government had not looked upon this state of things without concern.
 474 475 l l l l 476
 MR. F. MAULE , in moving that the House do go into Committee of Supply on the Army Estimates, appealed to the hon. and gallant Member for Longford to postpone his Motion to some other occasion of Committee of Supply, inasmuch as notice had been given of a Motion of national importance by the hon. Member for the West Riding, and there would be considerable convenience in having that Motion
 536
 MR. F. MAULE  said, the hon. and gallant Member called upon the House to interpose in a matter depending upon and emanating from the Crown, and one which, in so far as they were not called upon for a grant of public money, the House should be slow to interfere. The hon. and gallant Member complained that the return for which he had moved was not forthcoming; but if he would reflect upon the terms of that return, and the minute details which it required concerning length of service and other particulars, he would see that no apology was required from him that the return had not yet been laid upon the table. The brevet had been granted upon this principle, that it was considered according to precedent that the selection should be confined entirely to officers in garrison at Dublin. He would read to the House a list of the officers promoted by brevet to the rank of lieutenant-colonel, in consequence of Her Majesty's visit to Ireland in 1849; Major H. Ward, thirty years' service, senior major of infantry employed on the occasion; Major Vicars, Royal Engineers, twenty-seven years' service, the senior officer of engineers attached to the Dublin district; Major C. R. Scott, thirty-seven years' service. Assistant Quarter-master General of the Dublin district; Major F. Burdett, 17th Light Dragoons, seventeen years' service, senior major of cavalry employed on the occasion. These promotions were thus given to these officers in respect of their seniority in the different services with which they were connected. But there were six other officers promoted by brevet to the rank of major in consequence of Her Majesty's visit to Ireland.
 540
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, that at so late an hour he would merely request the House to decide upon the number of men for the service of the Army in the ensuing year. In what he had to state he would confine himself entirely to the vote for the number of men, reserving to another occasion the information necessary for the Committee in all its further details. He understood that, though the Government were about to present the House with an estimate for this year still further reduced than that for the year preceding, it was the intention of the hon. Member for Montrose to propose a further reduction on that reduced estimate, and to take the sense of the Committee upon it. Last year, when he (Mr. F. Maule) proposed a vote of 103,000 men, the hon. Gentleman moved for a reduction of that number to 100,000. For the present year he presented a vote in which the number of men was reduced to 99,128. With respect to that particular number, and to the statement of the hon. Gentleman the Member for the West Riding, which had been followed by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester, and by the hon. Member for Montrose, he begged to draw the attention of the Committee to this fact, that so far from an increase of our force having been constantly maintained, the estimate for the present year, in comparison with the estimate for the year 1848–49, exhibited a deficiency of no less than 14,719 men. Then the hon. Member for the West Riding made another statement, that while we reduced the number of men, we did not reduce the number of officers. With respect to that, he would simply refer his hon. Friends to the estimates for the present year, where they would find that in a proposed reduction of 4,000 men, it was proposed to reduce no fewer than 128 officers. Though he intended to speak very briefly at so late an hour, he begged to draw the attention of the Committee to the fact, that so far from the officers of the Army having been proportionally increased since 1835 up to 1849, the proportion of officers to men in 1835 was one to 17, whereas it was now one officer to every 20 men only, and in all
 617
 MR. FOX MAULE  regretted that his hon. Friend had not stated his intention before they went into Committee, because when he proposed to go into Committee, he understood his hon. Friend did not intend to object to the vote of the number of men. His hon. Friend required an explanation why it was necessary to maintain the number of men proposed. He was quite ready to give that explanation, provided his hon. Friend was willing at that late hour to stay and hear it. [Mr. HUME: Too late.] If his hon. Friend had said it was too late ten minutes ago, he should not have troubled the Committee with any observations.
 LORD J. MANNERS  begged to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade respecting the seizure and removal of a vessel, which had been in the port of Liverpool, called the  Elizabeth Hastings.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, the hon. Gentleman must be aware that it is impossible to abolish the office of Lord Lieutenant of Ireland without introducing a Bill into this House. Notice would be given of any such Bill, and it would receive the full consideration of this House; but I will state further, that it has been for some time in contemplation by Her Majesty's Government to introduce a measure for the abolition of the office of Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. I will also state, that I have been in communication with the Lord Lieutenant on that subject. Of course, there are arrangements to be made, and some difficulties to be met; and before such a measure is brought before the House I shall give, as I have said, full notice of such a measure. With respect to the hon. Member's question whether Her Majesty's Government would "support" any measure for the purpose, it will be necessary, if the Government think such a measure desirable, to introduce it in the name of the Government, and the Government would not support such a measure if introduced by any hon. Member unconnected with the Government.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  begged to remind the hon. and gallant Member, that, as his Motion had precedence of that of the hon. Member for the West Riding, yet, although he should speak only for five minutes, if his Motion were put and negatived, the hon. Member for the West Riding would be, by the rules of the House, prevented from bringing on his Motion to-night. On these grounds he trusted the hon. and gallant Member would bring forward his Motion on some other day.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman who spoke last but one concluded his speech with a pathetic appeal to those connected with the agricultural interest to vote in favour of this Motion; but I cannot say that the right hon. Gentleman paid them a very high compliment; because he urged that they were not likely to derive so much advantage from the continuance of the burdens to which they were subjected, as from the share they might claim in the proposed reduction of expenditure. Sir, I own I do not think the compliment was a very high one; and I doubt very much whether the plea used will prove so effective as that cajolery of the ladies, of
 603 l l l l l l l l l 604 l l l 605 l. l 606 l l l 607 l l l l l l l 608 l l l l l l l 609 "the expenditure has increased 10,000,000 l 610 l Nec arma sine stipendiis, nec stipendia sine tributis. 611 "Oh, the Government will not adopt our proposals for reduction. They will reject all real economy. Some apparent diminution may be made, but anything of the sort will be followed by a subsequent increase." "You will see that Government in course of time will go back to the estimates of 1835. They will reduce the estimates to that scale, but they will not do so when we bring forward our Motion, because if so we should be Ministers in their place." 612 l 613
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that if the Government had understood that it was the intention of the hon. Member for Montrose to make such a Motion, they would not have done more than propose that the House should go into Committee  pro formâ
 MAJOR BLACKALL  should be sorry to act against the feeling of the House; but not a word had been said to justify the extremely limited extent of the brevet. He had not found fault with any of the promotions that had taken place, but merely complained that the brevet had not been carried further. With regard to economy, he must say he believed that these officers had a claim upon the country. With the permission of the House, however, he would withdraw his Motion.
 MAJOR BLACKALL  had that confidence in the House that he felt certain, if he could prove that officers of Her Majesty's Army had been treated unjustly and with partiality, the House would not refuse to hear their case, and extend justice towards them.
 MAJOR BLACKALL  did not consider it quite fair to ask him to postpone his Motion, because the fact of its not being of such general interest as that of the hon. Member for the West Riding rendered it difficult for him to secure himself a hearing on any future occasion. He would not detain the House long.
 MAJOR BLACKALL  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the brevet which took place on the occasion of Her Majesty's late visit to Ireland, and to the ill-treatment of the officers of the line by that brevet. The honour of attending upon Her Majesty's person was generally confined to the household troops, in consideration of which certain exclusive advantages were conferred upon them. Promotions by brevet occurred among the household troops on certain occasions, from which the line was totally excluded. On the accession of Her Majesty, three captains of the household troops were promoted to be majors. On the birth of the Prince of Wales a general brevet for length of service took place, but, in addition, three more captains in the household troops were promoted to be majors. The visits of Her Majesty to different parts of the kingdom offered an occasion, and the only one, for extending these advantages of brevet promotion to the officers of the line.
 537 538 l 539
 MR. NEWDEGATE  rose to ask the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade to give some explanation of the discrepancy which appears in the accounts of the coasting trade, as rendered in the trade and navigation returns by the Board of Trade, and shows an apparent excess of clearances outwards over the entries inwards, both in the number of vessels and amount of tonnage.
 MR. SPEAKER : If the hon. Member proceeds, I must first put the question, which is, "That I do now leave the chair."
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that he should not support the party of the hon. Member for the West Riding, or the party of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, thinking that it was six of one and half a dozen of the other, and not having the slightest confidence in either. He was curious to know how far the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth would go in supporting the man of unadorned eloquence; but as he had no confidence in either of the contending parties—as he believed that they were all rogues and jobbers together—he therefore thought The best thing he could do was to take up his hat and take his leave.
 COLONEL DUNNE  should be the last in the world to wish to interfere with Her Majesty's prerogative; but being in Dublin at the time, he could speak to the disappointment that was felt, that the promotion was less to the officers of the line than to those of the staff.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the hon. Gentleman had concluded his address by asking the House to consider his Motion not in any party spirit. He (Mr. Labouchere) heartily concurred with the hon. Gentleman in that request. If the hon. Gentleman had only proceeded, before the House considered the estimates of this year, to lay before them his own views upon a great variety of topics, he (Mr. Labouchere) should be far from saying he had not taken a wise and useful course; because, he knew the intelligence and research of the hon. Gentleman were such, that upon any subject to which he had addressed his attention his advice would be of service to the House. But the hon. Gentleman had gone far beyond that, and asked the House to agree to specific resolutions, which it would be his (Mr. Labouchere's) duty to urge upon the House the propriety of not acceding to. Unless they were prepared to affirm a proposition in direct contradiction with the facts, and to make a pledge of a most impolitic description, which they might be unable to adhere to with safety, or retreat from with consistency and honour, he confidently appealed to them, whatever their opinions might be upon particular parts of the hon. Gentleman's system, in accordance with their duty to the public, and those principles of economy which ought to be foremost in their minds, to reject the Motion of the hon. Gentleman. The Motion of the hon. Gentleman this year was a repetition of the Motion he made last year. He again pledged the House to revert to the expenditure of 1835, and ascribed the increase of the expenditure of this year as compared with that of 1835 principally to successive augmentations in our warlike establishments. He (Mr. Labouchere) should endeavour to show, in the first place, that the statement was incorrect; and, in the next place, that the pledge would be impolitic and unadvisable. But there was a remarkable difference between the hon. Gentleman's Motion this year, and that of last year, and to which the hon. Gentleman had not made even a passing allusion. That difference was most important. In his Motion this year the hon. Gentleman said that the increase between the expenditure of the
 564 l l "The increase of upwards of 6,000,000 l l l "Debt, 1835, 28,514,610 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 565 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 566 567 l l l l l l l l 568 l l l l l l l l l l l l 569 l l l l 570 571 572 l 573 574 "the taxes required to meet the present expenditure, impede the operations of agriculture and manufactures, and diminish the funds for the employment of labour in all branches of productive industry," &c.— 575 576 l 577
 MR. LABOUCHERE  replied, that, as the hon. Member had given notice of his question, he had communicated with the Board of Customs on the subject, and he should, as the shortest and clearest mode of answering the hon. Gentleman's question, road the letter that he had received in consequence of his inquiries upon this subject. It was as follows:—
 "When the trade between Great Britain and Ireland was placed on the footing of a coasting trade, in 1826, it was settled (by Mr. Huskisson) that it would present an exaggerated view of the intercourse, if the tonnage employed were given both ways. The accounts, therefore, show the clearances from Great Britain for Ireland, and the entries in ports of Great Britain from Ireland, and exclude the returns from the Irish ports. The great difference in the number and tonnage between those clearances and entries arises from the fact that the shipments to Ireland are much greater in bulk than our receipts from Ireland. Many ships that clear coastwise from Great Britain for Ireland either return in ballast—in which case they do not report at the Custom Houses—or they go forward from Ireland upon foreign voyages. Great numbers of vessels go with coals from the Tyne and Wear to Ireland, and then go forward to British America in ballast for timber. The difference between the clearances and entries in the coasting trade between the ports of Great Britain arises thus:—If a vessel is engaged to proceed to an outport to load a cargo for a foreign country, there being no bonding stores at the outport, she takes her stores of that nature (spirits, tea, &c.) from the port where she is engaged (say London or Liverpool), and enters coastwise for the outport where she takes in cargo, and in which port she is considered as arriving in ballast, so that no entry is made of her at the Custom House of that port."
 MR. LABOUCHERE  replied, that there was no doubt of the fact that the outrage to which the noble Lord referred had been committed—that the vessel mentioned had been carried out of the port of Liverpool against the will of her owners, and clearly in defiance of the law; the Board of Trade, therefore, lost no time in communicating with the Foreign Office on the subject, and instructions were immediately sent to our Consuls at Tampico, and other places, to which it was thought likely that the vessel might be conveyed, requiring Her Majesty's Consuls at those places to render all the assistance in their power, in order to obtain redress. As to the question put by the noble Lord respecting the introduction of any measures on the subject, he had only to say that there had been an erroneous impression that recent Bills had altered the previous state of the law upon such points as the late occurrence at Liverpool gave rise to. If it appeared that the aw was altered, that it was defective, that it was not sufficiently stringent to meet
 534
 MR. HERRIES  was understood to say that he would not have taken any part in the debate had it not been for one assertion boldly hazarded by the hon. Member for Montrose. That hon. Gentleman ventured to affirm that no person having a sincere desire to effect a reduction in the expenditure and taxation of the country, could do otherwise than vote for the propositions of his hon. Friend the Member for the West Riding. As he (Mr. Herries) was one of those who was sincerely desirous to aid in the attempt to reduce the expenditure of the country in every way in which a reduction could be reasonably made, he thought it right to say that he could with equal sincerity object to the Motion of the hon. Gentleman. He was of opinion that the Motion of the hon. Member opposite did not carry with it any proof of sincerity in the course which it professed to pursue. He did not think that this was the proper time and place for proceeding by a general and abstract proposition. And if the hon. Member for the West Riding was really as sincere as he professed to be, he could hardly have adopted a line better calculated to defeat his purpose than that of interposing an Amendment to prevent the House from going into Committee, where the object he said he had at heart could be so much better attained. It appeared to him that this was a Motion put forward rather as a blind to conceal the hon. Member's real intentions. Why should they go back now to the year of 1835? They knew that there were very great augmentations made in the expenditure of the country since then; but to state that fact, without any other comment upon it, was only calculated to mislead. The course taken by the hon. Gentleman
 586 l l l "that no foreign danger, or necessary cost of the civil Government, or indispensable disbursements for the services in our dependencies abroad, warrant the continuance of this increase of expenditure." "That the taxes required to meet the present expenditure impede the operations of agriculture and manufactures, and diminish the funds for the employment of labour in all branches of productive industry, thereby tending to produce pauperism and crime, and adding to the local and general burdens of the people." 587 "That to diminish these evils it is expedient that this House take steps to reduce the annual expenditure, with all practicable speed, to an amount not exceeding the sum which, within the last fifteen years, has been proved to be sufficient for the maintenance of the security, honour, and dignity of the nation." 588 l
 COLONEL RAWDON  hoped the hon. and gallant Member would see the propriety of withdrawing his Motion, instead of pressing it to a division in the present feeling of the House, which would certainly prejudice his case.
 COLONEL RAWDON  seconded the Motion.
 MR. REYNOLDS  begged to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government if it were the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce or support, during the present Session of Parliament, any measure for the abolition of the office of Lord Lieutenant of Ireland? He had been induced to put this Motion on the paper in consequence of the excitement that had prevailed among his constituents in consequence of a rumour that it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to abolish the office of Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. This excitement had been further increased by an announcement in that great organ of public opinion, the  Times
 MR. HENLEY  said, when he heard the speech of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, the speech of the hon. Member for Montrose, and the very able and temperate speech of the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire—when he heard each of those Gentlemen go over and over again into a minute detail of every branch of the public service, and grappling with no particular subject—the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down having mixed up details of pauperism and crime, and placed them in juxtaposition with questions relating to the public credit—he confessed he was compelled to ask the question, what did this Motion mean? And when he found (for they were not to vote upon the speeches of hon. Members) that by the terms of the Motion the House was called upon to affirm that which was not correct, namely, that there had been an increase of 6,000,000 l l l 601
 MR. HENLEY : And very natural it should be so. A prudent Minister, finding his warehouses full in 1834, would not go on purchasing stores. That explained why, in 1835, the estimates for stores was so low. Then the right hon. Member admitted there had been a decrease in the number of men, and everybody knew that the natural effect of that was an increase
 602 l
 MR. HUME  thought the right hon. Gentleman had stated sufficient reasons why they should take a further time for considering this vote, and for obtaining that explanation which the right hon. Gentleman had not time to give to-night—why so large a force was wanted. The right hon. Gentleman had declined to give that explanation in consequence of the lateness of the hour, though he had answered some parts of the speech of his (Mr. Hume's) hon. Friend the Member for the West Riding, which might well have been deferred until another opportunity. The proposition for a greater force this year than we had in 1834–5 required some explanation; and in order that they might obtain it, he would move that the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again. He much regretted that they had gone into Committee at a time of night when no discussion could be taken. It was his intention, when the vote came to be discussed, to submit a definite Motion in regard to it, namely, to reduce the number of men to 90,000, being half the surplus of the present force over that of 1835; and he hoped, if they succeeded in that, to reduce by the other half next year. This was the vote upon which the whole of the other items of the military expenditure followed, and the House would not do their duty if they passed it without full consideration.
 MR. HUME  said, that it was his opinion that, as they had lowered the prices of food in the country, so they ought to lower their establishments. The speech which had been made by his hon. Friend the Member for the West Riding, and which included most important considerations, had not been answered by the statements which had been made by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade. Whatever might be the opinion on either side of the House, as to the resolutions brought forward by his hon. Friend, they ought, at any rate, to be agreed on the facts of the case and he trusted that they would direct their attention to the statement that had been made by the right hon. Gentleman, because he challenged the facts as stated by his hon. Friend, and said that the increase of expenditure, instead of being 6,000,000 l l l l l l l 581 l l l l l l 582 Laughter 583 l l l l l 584 585
 MR. HUME  rose to protest altogether against the hon. and gallant Member's Motion, and his doctrine. He talked of paltry economy. Why, that was the language that had led to the present enormous amount of taxation. He (Mr. Hume) said, the brevet had been used in a most scandalous and infamous manner by the Government. The last four brevets had added 100,000 l l 541
 MR. B. OSBORNE  hoped the hon. and gallant Member would not divide the House. He was one of those who thought that a brevet ought not to take place, because it was peculiar to the English Army. But if a brevet did take place, he quite agreed with his hon. and gallant Friend, that it ought to be fairly distributed; but he must say, that on a late occasion, unfair favouritism was shown to the officers in Dublin. One officer, Colonel Reeve, was passed over, while his juniors in rank were elevated.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  did not think his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose was asking any great favour from the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War in requesting that there should be sufficient
 619 l l Cheers Laughter
 MR. COBDEN , after presenting a petition from Liverpool, signed by 3,000 persons, in favour of financial reform, said: Sir, the reason why I submit this Motion to the House to-day is that I am anxious, before we commence voting public money, that we should have an opportunity of taking a general review of the financial state of the country, with a view to devise means, if possible, for a large reduction of the expenditure. I know no other way by which to bring this general review before the House, for ours is a peculiar mode of dealing with the finances of the country. This House never has brought before it, as is the case in other countries, the whole expenditure with a view to take a general review of it. We have the estimates in detail after the Government has decided what those estimates shall be. The House goes through the empty form of sanctioning those estimates, and one of the reasons why we are generally inclined to approve those estimates is that any refusal to approve them is assumed to be a want of confidence in the Executive, and therefore it is tantamount to their removal. Now I think we ought to have the opportunity of discussing this question apart from such considerations. I do not bring forward this Motion in a hostile spirit. I have not framed my Motion in the terms of an address to the Queen, but I have moved a resolution that we ought to take steps to return to the expenditure of 1835. I was misunderstood by the House on a former occasion, for it is a systematic course to misrepresent any movement of this kind. I do not wish to be misrepresented, as meditating an immediate return to the expenditure of 1835. I have framed my Motion in precisely the same words as last year. I then moved for a reduction with all practicable speed. I move the same now. I do not say that you can return to the expenditure of 1835 in one year or two, but I assume that in the present state of the country, in the present state of our domestic affairs and of our foreign relations, there are no obstacles to a gradual return to the expenditure of 1835, provided the Executive Government have the sanction of the House for such a course. And, mark me, if events should happen to change the circumstances of the country, there is no reason why you should not next year reverse the decision that
 543 544 l l l 
 
 Year ending 5th Jan. 1836. Year ending 5th Jan. 1850. 
 Interest on Debt £28,514,000 28,323,000 
 Army 6,406,000 6,549,000 
 Navy 4,099,000 6,942,000 
 Ordnance 1,151,000 2,332,000 
 Civil expenditure of all kinds 4,225,000 6,702,000 
 Total 44,395,000 50,848,000 545 l l l l l l l l l l 546 l l l l l l l l l l l 547 l l 548 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 549 l l l l l l l l l l l l 550 l l l l l 551 552 553 554 "I should say that this mode of railway conveyance has enabled the Army (comparatively to the demands made upon it a very small one) to do the work of a very large one; you send a battalion of 1,000 men from London to Manchester in nine hours; that same battalion marching would take seventeen days; and they arrive at the end of nine hours just as fresh, or nearly so, as when they started." 555 556 557 bonâ fide l l 558 559 l l l l 560 l l 561 l l l l 562 l bonâ fide
 MR. SPOONER  declared he would give his support to the resolutions of the hon. Member for the West Riding, nor did he conceive that by so doing he was pledging himself to any reduction of the effective force of the Army and Navy. There was ample room for reduction without at all impairing the efficiency of either service. He saw nothing which bound him to follow the example of America in the payment of her judges, nor in any way to cripple the energies of the State. It was because he could not deny the propositions affirmed in these resolutions, that he felt bound to vote for them. He regretted that he was, upon this occasion, going to take a course different from that which would probably be pursued by those with whom he usually acted; but the hon. Member for the West Riding had so completely made out his case that he would not feel himself justified in withholding his support from him. The difference in the amount of expenditure between 1835 and 1849 was not contradicted. Here was the statement of the hon. Gentleman:—
 "That the net expenditure of the Government for the year 1835 (Parliamentary Paper, No. 260, 1847), amounted to 44,422,000 l l l 578 l "That the taxes required to meet the present expenditure impede the operations of agriculture and manufactures, and diminish the funds for the employment of labour in all branches of productive industry, thereby tending to produce pauperism and crime, and adding to the local and general burdens of the people." "That, to diminish these evils, it is expedient that this House take steps to reduce the annual expenditure, with all practicable speed, to an amount not exceeding the sum which, within the last fifteen years, has been proved to be sufficient for the maintenance of the security, honour, and dignity of the nation." 579 l l 580
 MR. M. GIBSON  said, that he had given the first vote proposed in 1834, and that there was a still further reduction proposed in 1835.
 MR. M. GIBSON  said, he found that the right hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat on this Motion, was of much the same mind as he was in last year, and he must say that he thought he had taken a far less satisfactory view of his hon. Friend's proposition than was taken by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire. The latter hon. Gentleman did not fall into the error of refining overmuch on the words of the Motion—he did not hypercriticise; but he took the whole broad meaning of the proposition in the sense in which it would be taken by the public; and, being an advocate for the repeal of excessive taxes, he was perfectly consistent in the course he was taking in supporting the proposition of his hon. Friend. There was no mode of submitting the view of his hon. Friend but that which he had taken. If he were to take the advice of the right hon. Member for Stamford, and defer the proposal for economy until the estimates themselves came before the Committee, that particular items might be discussed, it would be impossible to propound the general views of reducing the number of odious,
 589 590 591 52 l l l 592 "Among the many reasons that had been urged for the enormous peace establishments, the most absurd appeared to him to be the assertion that it was necessary for our own security, in order to avoid the speedy renewal of hostilities. The House could not fail to recollect that for the last twelve years Ministers had been soothing the impatient country by stating that the war was continued to prevent the necessity of an armed peace, and yet now they ventured to tell the people that, after all their sacrifices, they had gained nothing, for still an armed peace was all that had been acquired: thus then the case stood—we had undertaken a war to procure peace and a diminution of taxation; and we had concluded a war only to perpetuate the burthens for which war had been the only excuse." "If any thing could add to the astonishment and horror which he felt when he heard of such an intention, it was this, that an army of 50,000 men was to be kept up in the United Kingdom. When that should be proposed, he trusted that time and opportunity would be given to discuss the proposition. He trusted that it was not in the course of one night, or one debate, that their Lordships were to be persuaded so far to abandon the maxims and policy of their ancestors, as to cast away the hope of the blessing of peace and freedom. For his own part, feeling as he did every year still less and less desire to share in the debates and labours of that House, yet, if such a measure as this were really to be brought forward, there was no eexrtion of which he was capable that should be spared to prevent so great a misfortune." 593 onus probandi l 594 595 "Secondly, as to the practicability of retrenchment, the zeal with which all existing expenses are defended, shows a considerable difficulty in the way of proving it. Each public department stands prepared to give the most confident reasons why it is absolutely necessary to keep up the scale of its expenditure to the exact point at which it now is. Every kind of sophism, insinuation, and assertion is worked up with vast ingenuity into a case to resist any attempt at effective retrenchment; and not only Government and Parliament, but also the public, suffer themselves, in this way, to have their judgment influenced rather by the personal authority of official men, who are always endeavouring to keep their respective services in the highest possible state of equipment and show, than by those principles of a sound system of finance, which require that that portion of the public expense which is incurred for military preparation and protection should be regulated by the quantity and measure of the danger to be guarded against." 596 l l l l 597 598 "upon what principle the number was limited to 150 admirals, seeing that there was not work for more than a dozen"? "That he did not know exactly the principle upon which the number was so limited—that he did not know the mode of doing it" 599 Cries of 600
 CAPTAIN-BOLDERO  explained that he had not asked the hon. Member for the West Riding to appeal to the officers of the Army for advice; but had merely alluded to his avowal that he had consulted an Austrian officer, who stated that the system on which we conducted our Army was a very erroneous one.
 MR. V. SMITH  agreed with the hon. Members for Southwark and the West Riding on the necessity of reducing the military force in the colonies; but he was not prepared to support the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose, because there were no moans upon the estimates of putting a veto on the number of troops sent to the colonies, and therefore the object of his vote might be misunderstood. He had been glad to hoar the Secretary at War say that he was prepared to reduce the number of troops in the colonies. The noble Lord at the head of the Government
 693 694
 MR. V. SMITH  explained. He had alluded to the adoption of free trade merely incidentally, and in support of his view with regard to leaving the colonies to maintain their own forces. He should beg to refer to a despatch of Earl Grey to Sir Harry Smith, in which he told him to tell the colonists that in case of any future war with the natives, like the last Kafir war, the colonists should have to depend on themselves.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, that England was the only country which paid the military, naval, and civil expenses of her colonies. It was an important question, what
 698 s l l l l l
 SIR F. T. BARING  rose to make his statement on the Navy Estimates, when—
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  objected to proceed at so late an hour of the evening.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, he would only take a vote as to the number of men, and not for the wages.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS , with great deference to the right hon. Gentleman, must say that it was a very unusual course to go at once from one Committee to another. He would only say that by this proceeding he was debarred from making a statement that he wished to make on the question "that Mr. Speaker do leave the chair," with reference to manning the Navy.
 SIR F. T. BARING  then proceeded: The Vote which he had to propose to the Committee was a vote for fixing the number of men at 39,000, and in doing so, he would, as was usual on such occasions, bring before them a statement of the general expenditure of the Naval Estimates. The first vote to which he had to allude was one that he should bring forward with the more regret if he did not entertain the hope that it would be the last vote of that character that the House of Commons would be called upon to make—
 704 l l l l l 705 l l l l l l l l l l l l 706 l 707 708 l 709 l 710 l l 711 l l l
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  suggested, that as the Army had three field-marshals, the Navy ought to have two admirals of the fleet, and advocated the claims of Sir G. Cockburn to the distinction.
 COLONEL REID  observed, that the Secretary at War had announced that in the course of a short time officers would be subjected to an examination previous to promotion. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman was prepared to state what that examination was, for if it were in any degree similar to that lately adopted before the admission of officers into the service, he should oppose it in every way. If officers who had served their country, and perhaps been before the enemy, were to be subjected to a sort of schoolmaster's examination, and their title to promotion to be determined by the extent of their knowledge in Cocker and Bonnycastle, he begged to say that he believed great disgust would be occasioned. For his own part, rather than be subjected to an examination in algebra, logarithms, and other such merely scholastic matters, he would throw up his commission. If the Government were to introduce a system of purely voluntary examination in engineering, military history, and other professional knowledge, this might operate as a beneficial incentive to military students. The hon.
 690
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO  said, that he understood the hon. Baronet who had just sat down to have said that as long as they held their colonies, they ought to maintain the troops there. [Sir W. MOLESWORTH: No, no!] He understood the hon. Baronet to have said so. At all events, he could not understand how he could vote with the hon. Member for Montrose for a reduction of 11,000 of their troops, when his own opinion was that they could not safely make a greater reduction than 8,000 men. The hon. Member for Montrose complained that they now had 4,000 men in the colonies more than they had in the year 1835; but he should recollect that the colonies of Hong Kong and New Zealand, which they held only since that favourite year of comparison, absorbed those 4,000 men. What was the use of those colonies, some of which they took by stealth, others by purchase? He could not see of what use they were except to afford advantage to the mercantile interests of this country. No one could presume to doubt that they were of great advantage in that way. As for New Zealand, in that colony there could be no manufactures introduced except from this country. They should not now come forward to ask for a reduction in the amount of troops necessary to protect those colonies which formed the chief market for their manufactures. He would ask the House were they in such a safe position as to admit of their withdrawing any of the
 674 675 Laughter
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  said: I think, Sir, we are all under very great obligations to our right hon. Friend the Secretary at War, for the clear, admirable, and lucid manner in which he has not only explained, but drawn up those estimates. The only fault I find with them is the fact of their being formed on a plan far too economical, nay, almost parsimonious; and I hope my right hon. Friend will excuse me, when I express my surprise that he could come down to this House and ask for the reduction of a single man, if he had the well-being and interest of that most deserving arm of the British Army, the infantry, at heart. Hon. Members of this House little know the hardships and endurances of these men; they are, I may say, almost expatriated. A regiment returns from foreign service, and when again recruited, I will not say thoroughly disciplined, they are, at the interval of four years, again ordered for foreign service, and this is all owing to the paucity of the establishment of our Army for the different reliefs for foreign service. I greatly regretted to see a diminution of 1,000 l 688
 CAPTAIN PELHAM  regretted that a vote on so important a subject should be taken at so late an hour, and thought the proper course would be for the Chairman to report progress. The country would not be satisfied with the economy of the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Admiralty, and there would be further reductions before long, which could be carried into effect without in any way injuring the efficiency of that service which was the real strength of this country. On general grounds he would vote with the hon. Member for Montrose, if he persisted in dividing the House.
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, that last year the removal of troops did not take place as usual, from motives of economy; but as it would be extremely inconvenient to postpone the usual general change of quarters for another year, that removal caused the increase alluded to.
 MR. FOX MAULE  begged to reply to the question asked by the hon. and gallant Member for Windsor, who had asked whether there was to be a second examination before an officer arrived at the rank of captain, that he hoped to see such an examination before long, although at present no such examination had been decided upon. He would repeat, that unless the officers of the Army kept pace with the men of the Army in increased intelligence, it would go far to shake the discipline which it was necessary to maintain. With respect to the remarks of the hon. Member for Middlesex upon clothing, the subject would be very fully examined by the Committee upstairs, and they would state in their report whether, in their opinion, the present system should be adhered to or altered.
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, that as a Committee were sitting upstairs on the Army Estimates, he would take a half vote on the next item. He therefore moved that a sum of 1,700,000 l
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, he was sorry that the vote now put into the Chairman's hand had not been agreed to on Friday night; for the consequence was, that he should have to make a more detailed statement than he would otherwise have inflicted on the Committee. He was sure, however, that his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose felt that, in opposing the vote on Friday, he had no other alternative but to adopt the course he had taken. He now begged to call the attention of the Committee not only to this vote, but also to the general state of the Army; and he asked their attention to that explanation, which it was usual for a person in his position to give them annually, with reference both to the strength of, and expenditure for, the Army. He had put into the Chairman's hands the vote with reference to the number of men, and it would be perceived from the Army Estimates that the number to be voted for the service of this year was 99,128; the number voted for the service of the current year was 103,154, showing a decrease in the ensuing year of 4,126 of all ranks, namely, of 128 officers, 303 non-commissioned officers, and the remaining number of privates. Out of that force of 99,128 which was proposed to be voted, 59,398 men were on home service, and 39,730 were upon colonial service. Of the troops on colonial service 9,688 belonged to colonial corps, and therefore there were 30,042 men of the line liable to be relieved periodically in different parts of the world. Let them, then, look to the 59,398 men they had at home, and after deducting from them the cavalry and household troops, to the extent of 6,000, and deducting also the numbers of the Guards, essentially a corps for home service, they would have, to relieve those 39,730 men serving in the colonies, 45,540 stationed at home; and he thought the Committee would admit, on viewing the matter in that point of view, that the vote called for was not excessive. With regard to this number they were told the other night that the
 648 l l l l l l s d. l l 649 650 l l l l l l l l s l l l s d 651 652 l 653 l l l 654 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 655 l l l l l l l l l l. l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 656 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 657 l l l l 658 659
 MR. SMYTHE  wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs whether a document which had been published in the public journals, and which purported to be a despatch from Count Nesselrode to Baron Brunow, was genuine in its substance, and authentic in its description?
 MR. SMYTHE : Perhaps the noble Lord would also say, as it is important and necessary to have complete information on the subject, whether he would have any objection to lay on the table of the House not only those two particular dispatches to which he refers, but any other notes that may have been addressed by those Powers to the noble Lord, and which may immediately or directly have been provoked; by the last untoward event?
 MR. S. WORTLEY  said, he was anxious to call the attention of the House and the public to a matter of considerable importance as related to the privileges of that House, and to the conduct of inquiries before its Committees. He had the honour,
 642
 LORD J. MANNERS  did not agree with the hon. Member for the West Riding that the speech of the hon. Member for Southwark justified his vote for the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose. The hon. Member for Southwark had said that they might reduce the force by striking off 1,000 men here, and 1,000 men there, and by diminishing by one-half the force maintained in New Zealand; but he did not give any proof that such a course was practical or prudent. That hon. Gentleman came to the conclusion that 7,500 men might be safely subtracted from the vote proposed by the Government. The hon. Member for Montrose, however, proposed to strike off, not 7,500, but 10,000 men; and therefore he (Lord J. Manners) considered that the speech of the hon. Member for Soutbwark did not justify the conclusions of the hon. Member for the West Riding. He (Lord J. Manners) would not enter into the various matters which had been discussed; but as the hon. Member for Middlesex had cursorily referred to the subject of army clothing, he would express his earnest hope that care would be taken in future by those whose duty it was to provide clothing for the troops to prevent the recurrence of those disgraceful proceedings, the disclosure of which had startled the country last autumn. He hoped that in future the Army would be clothed upon principles of something like common justice and humanity, and that, whatever system might be adopted, they would not have it on their Parliamentary conscience that the unfortunate men had been reduced by a pitiful
 692
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that when his noble Friend wrote to the Cape that, in case of a future Kafir war, they must provide their own defence, he did not think his noble Friend meant to imply that the colonists were not to use Her Majesty's troops, but merely that they were not to rely on fresh expenses being paid for them. The matter, he thought, rather confirmed him in saying that each case must depend on its own merits. But taking the colony of New Zealand, which had not at present a constitutional government, and supposing that if within the next two years it received a representative constitution, he was not prepared to say that they ought immediately to withdraw their military forces from that colony. It was quite true that some of the North American States had risen without any assistance from British troops; but in the early history of these States did they not find instances where the whole population of the colony was four times swept away by tribes of Indians, before the final settlement of the colony took place? And seeing that in New Zealand there was a native population of 100,000 men of a very warlike character, he should certainly be afraid to see a few Englishmen left without protection among them, as they also might be massacred as the American colonists had been, and he did not think that, holding the position which he held, he would be doing his duty if he left them exposed to such a danger.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, I shall not at present enter on the question whether there should be a reduction of 10,000 men beyond the reduction of 4,000 proposed by Her Majesty's Government, but there is one part of the speech of my right hon. Friend the Member for Northampton which seems to me to require some notice. As I understand my right hon. Friend, he is disposed to lay down the principle, that as the colonies are to have representative or self-government, and as we have adopted the policy of free trade, that, therefore, the colonies are to be told that they are to rely totally on their own resources for self-defence. Now if my right hon. Friend asks me to give my assent to that doctrine as a general principle, I must say that I am totally opposed to it. I am entirely against any excessive or unnecessary force being kept up in any of our colonies, as I would be against any unnecessary and superfluous force being kept up in the united kingdom; but, at the same time, I do not think the colonists should be told that, under all circumstances, they are to rely in future entirely on their own resources. Now I think the principle ought to be to suit your force for each colony according to the circumstances of the times in which that force is to be employed. With regard to our military fortresses, it has been stated, and I think hardly denied by anybody, that the forces at Gibraltar and Malta are hardly sufficient for the garrison duties in those places. Then, with regard to some of our colonies, we have made very considerable reductions in the forces kept up. In Jamaica and the West Indies generally the force is now upwards of 4,500 men Jess than in 1835. In Australia we have lately made a very considerable reduction, as the force, which was 4,000 men, is now reduced to 2,629, making a reduction of 1,380 men. I think, when circumstances show that such reduction can be made, it is wise and proper to make it: but in other cases there is often a necessity of sending additional forces, and in such cases it is perfectly obvious that we ought to be ready to send them, and not to desert the colonists, and leave them to rely solely on their own resources. With regard to such fortified places as may be in the colonies, I should be also sorry to leave them to the forces that might be raised by the colony. With regard to Quebec, for instance, I should be sorry to see all the regular forces taken altogether away from it, and the Legislative Council left to provide entirely for its
 697
 LORD J. RUSSELL  quite agreed with the right hon. Member that if the course taken during this and the past year were adopted on every occasion, it would be very
 703
 LORD J. RUSSELL  thought it would be a disappointment to the House if the financial statement were not made on Friday; and if the Navy Estimates were not taken that night, it would be impossible that it could be then made.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, it was usual to adjourn for the Easter recess on the Wednesday or Thursday of Passion week; but, in the present year, he proposed that they should adjourn on the Tuesday of Passion week to Monday, the 8th of April. He had already stated the proposal which he meant to make to the House; but his noble Friend asked him to propose the adjournment from the Friday preceding, in order to include Passion week. He could only say that on the present occasion such a course would be exceedingly inconvenient
 645
 LORD J. RUSSELL  replied, that he found on inquiry that no pictures had been ordered to be cleaned during the last two years. At the same time it was right to say that the trustees were satisfied with what had already been done, and were not of opinion that any injury had been done to the pictures by cleaning. With respect to the hon. Gentleman's further question, no arrangement had been finally made with regard to the National Gallery. It was a question at present under the consideration of the Government, whether in some way greater room might not be provided for the pictures recently given by individuals to the institution, and especially for the Vernon collection. But it was not now in contemplation to remove the pictures exhibited in the Royal Academy from their present position.
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  rose to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government—whether he would move the adjournment of the House so as to include Passion week in the Easter recess? He said he should not have ventured to make the proposition, had it not been re-
 643 644
 MAJOR BLACKALL  said, he could assure the hon. Gentleman that it was not because of his having been connected with the service that he should oppose the
 667
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he certainly should support the Government; and if the Government had found it necessary to ask for an augmentation of the Army, he should have supported it;  Cavendo tutus
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that although the naval service ought to be maintained, yet he did think that in the Admiralty department a saving might be effected.
 MR. E. DENISON : My noble Friend the Secretary for Foreign Affairs has said that certain papers connected with the affairs of Greece will be laid on the table of the House at the proper time. I wish to ask my noble Friend whether he means to say that a certain necessary time is requisite for the preparation of those papers, or whether there are any events now in course of proceeding which must be brought to a close before the proper time will arrive for those papers to be laid on the table of the House?
 COLONEL DUNNE  considered it necessary, although the cavalry regiments were numerically weak, to keep up a large proportion of officers to form a nucleus for establishing an efficient cavalry force in case of necessity. Cavalry officers required much more experience than infantry officers, and ought to be brought up to the service from their earliest youth. He believed that the Austrian cavalry was under-officered, and that this had been found in late wars; and, in his opinion, the British Army was not over-officered if they wished to have the means of increasing their force on any emergency. It had been stated that the British forces in the colonies were more than sufficient for their defence, but from his own experience on foreign service, he could contradict that assertion. At Gibraltar and Malta, for instance, the troops were frequently much harassed by their duties, especially when sickness prevailed. In the Ionian Islands, also, our forces were perfectly insufficient for the proper performance of the necessary duties. With regard to the system of education proposed to be established, he believed there was a strong feeling in the Army that it would be most beneficial. He could assure the gallant Officer the Member for Windsor, that the professional education, even of cavalry officers, was insufficient, and that, if they wished to increase the efficiency of the Army, it was absolutely necessary that that education should be still further extended.
 MR. BANKES  agreed entirely with the hon. Member for Montrose, that a portion
 713
 MR. MUNTZ  said, that he felt the same difficulty with respect to the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montrose that he did on a previous evening with respect to the Amendment of the hon. Member for the West Riding. Both were abstract questions, and he did not see how they were to be carried out; but, in the meantime, he felt that he might be giving a vote which would imprudently reduce the military power of the country. He agreed with the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark in regarding the question as a colonial one, because one half of the men required were needed for the colonial service. The question then was—is the House prepared to give up the colonies?
 689
 MR. BAILLIE , in answer to the question of his right hon. Friend, regretted to state that certain portions of the evidence—indeed, he might say, as his hon. Friend had done, very partial reports of the evidence—taken before the Ceylon Committee had appeared in some of the public papers, and the Committee were certainly of opinion that incomplete portions of evidence, selected perhaps by parties who might have a peculiar bias, were calculated to prejudice the ends of justice; and therefore, very unwillingly, they did come to a resolution that day that the proceedings in future should be taken with closed doors, and he thought the Committee perfectly justified in adopting that resolution.
 MR. HERRIES  thought that this repetition of the course pursued last year in taking votes on account, was liable in many respects to grave constitutional objections, and was a very inconvenient mode of despatching the public business. The House had no opportunity of discussing the propriety of this expenditure, or any part of the vote, for the first vote on account was taken without objection, and the other half was proceeded with at the close of the Session, when the public attention was no longer given to their proceedings, and when Ministers had the greatest facility for passing the rest of the vote. He doubted whether the House were not by this course leaving too much to the Committee upstairs. Was there any probability that their investigations would lead to any material economising of the vote proposed?
 MR. MACGREGOR , in order to justify the vote he should give, would offer a few observations to the Committee. He believed that the Government were anxious to go on reducing the military establishments as much as possible; and he must
 676 l l l l l 677
 MR. REYNOLDS  regretted, that though he was friendly to every practical effort for the reduction of the public expenditure, he could not support the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose. The hon. and military Member for Chippenham had said they ought to maintain the army in Ireland from compassion to the impoverished people. That certainly seemed to be a new doctrine for the maintenance of a military force. The hon. Member for Birmingham had said this was a colonial question. It might be so in distant colonies, but in Ireland it appeared to him to be a Church question—an ecclesiastical question; and it was quite clear that the "church militant" in that country was supported by that establishment from which it took the designation. It struck him that they might trace in Ireland some connexion between the tent and the tabernacle. They had in that country 22,000 regular troops, 10,000 enrolled pensioners, and 12,000 constabulary, making a total force of 44,000 men. These troops were in Ireland for the purpose of forcing upon the people institutions to which they were adverse. He would wish to see the whole of the British army, if possible, quartered in Ireland, because the expenditure would benefit the country. He was the more anxious that this should take place, because his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose was determined to add a last blow, by abolishing the Irish Viceroyalty, in order to effect a saving of some 60,000 l 695
 MR. STANFORD , as a civilian, expressed his admiration of the manner in which the estimates were framed, particularly as discredit had been attempted to be thrown upon that noble service—the Army. Unfounded imputations had been cast upon it. ["No, no!"] Why, during the recess, he had seen pamphlets, numerous enough, in which it was asserted that the Army was a cradle for the aristocracy, and that regiments were commercial speculations for the profit of the colonels, and not for the maintenance of peace, law, and order. No man, however, could take up the estimates without seeing how every shilling of the public money was spent; and, he repeated that, whether any item was capable of reduction or not, this was a circumstance creditable to the manner in which they were framed. The point at issue then was, were Her Majesty's Government seeking for the maintenance of a larger force than was necessary to maintain peace at home, the dignity of the empire abroad, and retain
 679 680
 MR. STANFORD  observed, that he was not a member of Marylebone vestry, to which the hon. Gentleman appeared to be referring; but the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose was.
 MR. STANFORD , in explanation, said, his argument with regard to the estimates was that they were so intelligible that any person who read them might know how every shilling was expended. The hon. Gentleman had been pleased to indulge in insinuations that there was some particular reason for his (Mr. Stanford's) having left the parochial vestry alluded to. The hon. Gentleman was mistaken.
 MR. HUME  said, that he most heartily concurred in the concluding portion of the speech of his right hon. Friend, He was happy to find that so much had been done to promote the discipline, the health, and education of the Army. He had heard from the present distinguished Commander-in-chief that the number of lashes given at one time should now be limited to 50, and it was a great satisfaction to have
 660 l l l 661 "the Army and Nary were a great source of expenditure, and it was only by keeping them within a proper limit that a saving could be established. During a period of peace, the Committee should advert to the necessity of turning a time of tranquillity to the improvement of the revenue, to retrenchment, and economy; and they bogged to impress such on the serious attention of the House." l. 662 l 663 l l l 664 l 665 l l l l l l l 666 l Laughter
 MR. HUME  said, that after the vote which the Committee had just come to, and the large majority against his Motion, he should take up their time unnecessarily if he did more than recommend the Government to take the subject of his Motion into their serious consideration.
 MR. HUME  said, the grounds for his Motion were few and simple. During the four years of 1833, 1834,1835, and 1836,
 700
 MR. HUME  said, that he had remained, late as the hour was, to record his opposition to so extravagant a vote. Ministers had talked of following out the recommendations of the Committee; but had they, as the Committee recommended, reduced the 150 admirals to 100, though they had contrived to reduce the poor men in the dockyards? It appeared to him that there was no reason whatever for a fleet so large—a fleet in the Mediterranean doing mischief—it was scattering money which the country could not very well spare. Looking at the average number of men voted during the last six years, he found it to be 31,459; and he should now move as an Amendment, that that be the number for the present year.
 MR. OSBORNE  assured the hon. Gentleman that he was not aware of the fact that he had been a vestryman until he was about to address the House.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  believed, then, that the hon. Gentleman had accepted the Chiltern Hundreds as far as concerned select vestries. But if the reasons of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Reading for supporting the Motion were extraordinary, those advanced by the hon. and gallant Member for Chippenham were still more extraordinary. The hon. Member for Reading represented the civilian reasoning, and the hon. and gallant Member for Chippenham the military reasoning, in support of the Motion. And what were those reasons? The question of the number of the Army had been truly put by the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark. It
 681 682 683 684 l l l l l l s l s 685 l l s l s d l l s d l s d l 686 l l l l l l l 687
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Reading appeared to look upon the Army as kept up only to give force to the sentences of the Judges. The hon. Gentleman, in fact, seemed to gather the idea from the select vestry, of which he (Mr. Osborne) believed he was, or had been, a member. The British Army he regarded in the light of the new police, and when the hon. Gentleman asked whether the cry for the reduction of the Army came from the people, he (Mr. Osborne) would ask him whether select vestries had made no call of the same nature? Had not one select vestry, which might be named, made immense complaints of an extra rate of sixpence in the pound for the new police, which the hon. Member knew very well amounted to a large sum?
 MR. COBDEN  said, he found that of the proposed reduction of 4,426 men, 2,230 had been transferred to India, leaving only an actual reduction of 1,896. But what he rose to call attention to particularly was that of the 128 officers charged less to us, 96 had been sent to India, leaving only a decrease of officers to our charge of 32; and, that even that decrease consisted entirely of adjutants, quarter-masters, and surgeons. Looking down the lists for 1849 and 1850, of officers of all ranks, they would find that of all ranks, down to that of lieutenant and ensign, there was last year, 5,103, and this year, 5,105, proving the fact he had just stated. They drafted off the rank and file, but did not reduce the officers. A great deal had been said respecting the necessity of keeping up a military force for the colonies. He considered that all depended on the course we intended to take respecting the colonies; and if ever there was a time when that question ought to be decided, it was the present. The hon. Member for Birmingham found a difficulty in supporting the Motion of his hon. Friend, because that question was unsettled. But how were they to settle it, unless by a vote such as they were now asked to give? They had nothing to do with the framing of the estimates, and had no knowledge of, or power over them, until presented in that House. If they did not deal with them now, they could not do so hereafter. No other opportunity could offer itself for reducing the 6,000,000 l 691
 MR. OGLE  rose to ask the First Lord of the Treasury whether it was the intention of the trustees of the National Gallery to persevere in cleaning the pictures of the old masters; and also, whether they contemplated removing the pictures of the Royal Academicians from that part of the building now appropriated to them?
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  thought it right, as other hon. Members had done, to give a reason for his vote on this occasion. He was a decided friend to retrenchment and economy, and he did not know how it was possible for the Government to retrench, unless the House was prepared to support retrenchment. He had heard no answer given to that part of the speech of the hon. Member for Montrose, wherein he stated that in the years 1833, 1834, 1835, and 1836, we had only 80,000 troops for England and Ireland; and he was at a loss to know why it was considered necessary that there should be 20,000 more now. He wished to be consistent in that House. It was his intention to vote to-morrow night for the Motion of the hon. Member for West Surrey; and he did so, because he believed that the course of legislation for several years had been to diminish the cost of articles of consumption, and that the power of paying taxes had been materially diminished by free trade. He did not agree with the hon. Member for Reading, when he said that a military force was wanted to keep down a vagrant and discontented population. He thought it was an insult to them, as citizens, to say that they required any military force whatever to keep down the population either in the metropolis or in great provincial towns—such as Manchester, Birmingham, and Leeds. In 1848, what was the feeling of the metropolis? When there was danger, all classes enrolled themselves on the side of peace and order. There was one fallacy which he had heard stated by the hon. and gallant Member for Chippenham, that the forces required for the colonies were required mainly for the manufactures and commerce of the country. Now, so far as he was able to gather the sentiments of the manufacturing and commercial interests, he believed that manufacturing and commercial men were of opinion that the Legislature would promote the interests of commerce and manufacture much more by wise and economic measures than by keeping up the present amount of taxation, and that the safety of the country might be securely left to the loyalty of the people.
 SIR B. HALL  bore testimony to the forbearance and good conduct of the troops whenever he had seen them called out on particular occasions. The question, however, was, whether it was convenient or not to reduce the number of the Army, and he had been surprised to observe the same Gentlemen speak and vote for a reduction of taxation, who spoke and voted against a reduction of expenditure. How was it possible consistently to talk about a reduction of taxation, and at the same time to vote for the full expenditure of the country? The window tax, for example, produced a good round sum. As a landed proprietor, he should be glad of the reduction of much taxation; as a metropolitan representative, he should feel it his duty to vote for the repeal of that tax; but he could not pursue that course if the full expenditure was maintained. The hon. and gallant Member for Chippenham had advised the hon. Member for the West Riding, if he wanted to reduce the British Army, not to consult an Austrian officer but an English military man. But whether the Army was to be reduced or not, he (Sir B. Hall) told the hon. and gallant Member, without wishing to say one word in derogation of himself or of any other officer of the British Army, that upon such a question as that of reduction, their opinions would not be those he should most rely upon. If, for example, he wished to reduce the number of bishops, he should not go to the bishops for advice; and so, if he desired to reduce the Army, he should not consult the officers. The two cases were in the same category. In a matter so connected with their interests, it would be impossible for the officers to give an unbiassed opinion. Scarcely a man connected with the Army would be found voting with the minority on this proposal. The hon. and gallant Member had referred to the state of Europe; but this country did not stand in the same position. We were at peace with all the world, and could afford to reduce our Army, and yet keep the crown upon the head of our Sovereign, which was not the case in some other countries, where armies were kept on foot only to preserve crowns on heads, some of whom, perhaps, did not deserve to wear them. The hon. Member for Glasgow referred to the number of the French army, but
 678
 SIR G. PECHELL  expressed the great satisfaction with which he had listened to the statement of the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty; but there was a point on which he wished to make an observation. He understood that the allowance of grog to the sailors was now a matter under consideration, and he must be allowed to say that it was a very ticklish affair; and, in abolishing any portion of the allowance of grog, they ought to proceed most cautiously.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  asked why an increase of 14,000 l
 SIR J. B. WALSH  said, he concurred with the right hon. Member for Northampton that it was premature to consider the question in a colonial point of view, as our colonies were now under a totally different system, and it was yet doubtful what form our relations with the colonies could assume. The hon. Member for the West Riding had said that hon. Members who intended to vote with the hon. Member for West Surrey would act inconsistently if they voted against the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montrose. He denied that; for the protectionists had never been a popularity-hunting party; and while they were always anxious to support practical measures of retrenchment, they had a right to determine questions so vague and general as that of the hon. Gentleman's on its merits. What were they to think of a measure supported by the hon. Member for the West Riding, who at meetings out
 699
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  wished to explain, as he appeared to have been misunderstood, that he had said that they could not reduce the force at home without first reducing the force in the colonies, but he had confined his remarks to the reduction which he thought could be made in the colonies.
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH : The hon. and gallant Gentleman has declared that my hon. Friend the Member for Montrose has not made out a case for the reduction which he proposes; and the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of War stated that
 668 l l l l l l l l 669 l l l l l l l l l 670 l l l l l l l l l l l l l 671 l 672 l l l 673 l
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : My hon. Friend knows that the usual course is not to lay before Parliament papers connected with negotiations still going on and pending, as it is obvious that much inconvenience would arise from that. The present state of the matter is, that the French Government has offered its good offices with a view to the settlement of the question between England and Greece, and that negotiation I can hardly say is going on, because we have no account so late as the arrival of the French negotiator at Athens. Until that negotiation is brought to a point, ray hon. Friend and the House must feel that laying statements on the table from day to day regarding those transactions would not conduce to the in-
 647
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I am preparing the communications to lay before Parliament as soon as the time for doing so shall arrive. They will be a continuation of those documents which have already appeared before Parliament. I thought it right, in submitting to Parliament these papers, to stop at the moment when instructions were given to commence reprisals. The instructions given to the Minister at Athens will be laid before Parliament at no distant period.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : A despatch to the same effect (together with another: despatch) from Count Nesselrode to Baron; Brunow, was communicated to Her Majesty's Government not many days ago by Baron Brunow.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I rather think the hon. Gentleman the Member for Dorsetshire is misinformed with respect to the number of vessels taken. At least, by the last accounts we have received, they were only between 40 and 50. The condition in which those vessels are is that of pledges taken and held in deposit for the satisfaction of the claims of this country. If those claims are satisfied, then those vessels are released. If it should be necessary to carry reprisals out to the full extent under the law of nations, they will be condemned and sold, and the proceeds will be applied to the purpose of satisfying those demands by means of the process well known to the law of nations where a commission issues under an Order in Council. With regard to the apprehension which the hon. Gentleman seems to entertain, I beg to inform him that we have not accepted the arbitration of any Power. We have accepted the good offices of France with the view of obtaining an amicable settlement of our claims. There is no subjection on the part of our Government to any arbitration.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, the expedition consisted of two brigs accompanied by two steamers under the command of Captain Austin, and there was also a separate expedition under the superintendence of Captain Fenny, of the mercantile navy, which was entirely independent of Captain Austin's command. Everything would be done by the Admiralty to forward the expedition. He was informed, that at the latest it would sail on the last week in April; but he could assure his hon. Friend that the Admiralty were anxious, and all under the Admiralty equally anxious, that the expedition should sail as early as possible.
 MR. P. WOOD  rose and said, he had to throw himself upon the indulgence of the hon. Member for West Surrey, and ask him to allow him to bring on the Motion of which he had given notice for this evening, relating to several Members of this House, who were incapable of being sworn, according to the usual practice, upon the Holy Gospels. This Motion might clearly have been made one of privilege, by a claim being preferred to be allowed to take the oath in a different form by a Gentleman who, it was matter of public notoriety, had been elected to serve in Parliament although holding religious opinions that prevented him from taking the customary oath. But he had thought it far better, in order to avoid any appearance of excitement, and to obtain a calm and deliberate inquiry into the matter, to give notice, in a form that was not technically one of privilege. He had reason to believe that no long discussion would ensue, or that any serious opposition would be offered, because he intended only to move for a Committee simply to inquire, and therefore he had to solicit the indulgence of the hon. Member for West Surrey, to enable him to bring the Motion on at once.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, if this Motion were really so pressing as a matter of privilege, it might have been brought on at any time within the last three years; and if Ministers were so exceedingly anxious to bring it on, the subject might be taken some other night, and not encroach on the very few evenings that were left open for the Motions of private Members. There was no person in the world for whom he would more readily give way than for his hon. and learned Friend; but he must also remind him that when he
 739
 COLONEL THOMPSON  had felt himself somewhat in the predicament of the navigator who, when asked to join in some doubtful religious ceremonial, said, "If this is the devil, I worship God." He had had some idea of offering his vote on the other side of the House under a similar protest, and would probably have done so had he heard nothing but the speech of the hon. Mover. But what was to be done with the speech of the hon. Seconder, who, with all the eloquence for which he was remarkable, impressed the House with the idea that every one who voted for the Motion must be held as voting to raise the price of corn? The bait was reduction of taxation; the hook protection to agriculture. The hon. Seconder avowed the object without any appearance of disguise; and he (Colonel Thompson) must, under these circumstances, be permitted to decline voting with the other side of the House.
 MR. PAGE WOOD  said, that when he found a Gentleman so distinguished as the hon. Member for West Surrey, than whom no one knew better how to express his meaning, bringing before the House an
 775
 MR. DRUMMOND  then rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice. He said that he would not take advantage of the distress which a large portion of the community was at present suffering to excite feelings of prejudice in any part of the House, nor should he deny that comparative prosperity was being enjoyed by other important classes of the community. He must, however, contend that in many cases this prosperity was a mere transference from one class to another; and this, not a transference of luxuries from one class to another, but also a transference of the mere necessaries of life from one class to those who did not possess them. He could not now enter into all the considerations which led to this conclusion. He was particularly anxious to avoid the topics touched upon by the hon. Member for the West Riding a few nights ago; and should, therefore, confine himself strictly to the words of his Motion, and address his remarks entirely to that taxation which depresses the labouring classes by diminishing the funds for finding them employment, and advert to that part of the public expenditure to which the hon. Gentleman the Member for the West Riding did not much allude, namely, the public salaries of all the servants of the Crown. And if he (Mr. Drummond) left other subjects unmentioned, it would not be because he denied their importance, but simply in order to leave other hon. Gentlemen to follow the matter up in whatever direction they pleased. He must beg the attention of the House, for a very few seconds, whilst he compressed, in as short a space as he could, a brief history of the last few-years, in order to bring us up to our present position. There was no denying that the war, carried on with lavish profusion, did nevertheless give to us a monopoly of all the commerce of the world; that it secured to us an immense field for our ma-
 740 741 l. l. l. l. 742 l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. "This morning I made inquiries relative to the reductions my neighbour. Lord Cottenham, has lately made in his labourers' wages; it is 3 s. "This is what the Whigs call, with their usual self-complacency, the improving condition of the labourer arising from free trade, which as regards the case of the farm labourers, gives a bare exist-once in summer, and thorough destitution in winter." 743 l. l. l. l. "What is the reduction of local taxation to me? I grow 100 loads of wheat in the year; this year they have been worth 1,000 l. l. l., l., l. l. l. 744 s. s. d. s. d. 745 Laughter. 746
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  did not expect any such reduction of expenditure to result from this Motion as would enable the Government effectually to lighten the taxation; for with such establishments as ours, and the necessities of an empire like this, he did not think it much beyond the mark. The object of the Motion was to compel a revision of taxation which pressed with severity on the labouring classes, particularly the agriculturists. The malt tax and the hop duty were the principal taxes which pressed on the agricultural interest, not merely as regarded the employer, but the labourer also. Those classes had a just right to call for a repeal of those taxes upon the principles of free trade. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth had rather taunted the Members on that side of the House for having voted against a reduction in the Military Estimates, and for now voting for a general
 800 s. s. l. l.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, that if the present Motion were a "trap," it had assuredly caught him, for he meant to vote for it. He had nothing to do with the intions and meaning of those who had brought forward this Motion. He took it as he found it, and he not only saw nothing to object in it, but something that he was very ready to support. He had a Motion of his own that had stood for to-night for the repeal of the window duties, which pressed heavily on all classes, and especially upon the labouring classes, and he expected and hoped that in return for supporting the present Motion, hon. Gentlemen opposite would vote in favour of his resolution in favour of repealing the window tax when it came on.
 MR. DRUMMOND  replied: He felt neither indignation nor contempt towards those who called this a dishonest Motion; such charges were altogether unworthy of notice. But he could tell them what Motions were "sham Motions"—they were those Motions that everybody knew would not press the Government. Certainly, however amusing might be the discrepancies strung together in support of this Motion, the discrepancies by which it had been opposed were not less amusing. One hon. Gentleman said it was a mere truism. "So powerful was it," said the right hon. the Secretary at War, "that the Government had acted upon it last year;" and another hon. Gentleman said he would not vote for it because he would not be made a cat's paw. It appeared he had been misunderstood when he dealt with the taxes that pressed peculiarly on the labourer and the small farmer. He thought he had been explicit enough, for he took tobacco and hops, and various other things, as illustrations of articles the cultivation of which ought not to be interfered with by the Government. An hon. Member had asked what advantage the people of Paisley would gain by the repeal of the malt tax. It was true that what they drank was not ale, but whisky; but it might as well be said, that as they did not live upon wheaten bread, but on Scotch porridge and oat cake, of what benefit to them was the opening of the ports to foreign wheat? It was known to his Friends around him that he had intended to vote in favour of the Motion of the hon. Member for the West Riding on Friday night, but that he had been obliged to leave the House. The
 806 s. "My good fellows, I'm not able to pay you for your labour as I have done. Two courses are open to me—I will either keep you all on at reduced wages, or I must turn off some of you altogether." Les Bêtes Malades. Comment manger le foin d'autrui? 807
 MR. FOX MAULE  denied that he had made any such statement. He had said, that he saw in the resolution of the hon. Member for West Surrey no remission of taxation proposed that could give relief to the people.
 MR. FOX MAULE  thought that when a Motion of so indefinite a character that it was almost admissible by all parties was submitted to the House, and supported by speeches so totally different from the nature of the Motion itself, it was the duty of the Government to state at once the course which they meant to take in reference to that Motion; for that purpose he had risen thus early in the debate. The Motion itself consisted of a series of assertions, ending with a conclusion, in all which he concurred. He could not differ from the hon. Gentleman the Member for West Surrey in the assertion that taxation was a burden, and a very disagreeable burden, to all who endured it. He could not differ from him in the conclusion that the necessary means by which to get rid of such taxation was by the Government taking every adequate means to reduce the expenditure of the country. But when he came to listen to the speech of his hon. Friend, he thought that he discerned in that speech more than met the eye in the resolution his hon. Friend had proposed. He thought he discerned in that speech a proposition to deal with the public income without reference to the faith which was due to the public creditor. He thought he saw in that speech a reckless attack upon the salaries of public men, especially of the Judges, whose position must be approached, if approached at all, with the most careful and prudent consideration which that House could give to any subject that was brought before it. The hon. Gentleman concluded his speech by a general attack upon the policy which had been adopted in 1846 and in the years subsequent; while his hon. Friend the Member for Yorkshire (Mr. Cayley), who seconded the Motion, had made this a debate entirely upon a question as between protection and free trade; and he prophesied, if the Government should continue in their present course of policy, the many difficulties with which they would have to contend. He (Mr. F. Maule) was prepared to say, that all experience had shown that that policy was one which conduced to the happiness of this country, and to the comfort of the great majority of the people. Approach in what shape they might—come from what quarter they would, Her Majesty's
 752 in toto. 753 l. l., l. l. 754 "I am commanded by the Lords of the Treasury to call the attention of the heads of departments to the resolution of the House of Commons, passed on the 19th of July, that 'large sums are expended in supporting needless places, extravagant salaries, and unnecessary works and establishments,' and they direct me to express their earnest desire that all the estimates should be framed with the most rigid economy, excluding all charges for errors not indispensably necessary for the due maintenance of the public service and the permanent institutions of the country." l. 755 l. l. l., l. l. 756
 MR. J. S. WORTLEY  said, it was not his intention to oppose the Motion. Though he had on every occasion supported the Bill for the admission of the Jews to Parliament, he confessed that he felt none of the power of the House of Commons. Whatever the decision the proposed Committee might arrive at, it could not conclude the question, because no decision, even of the House, could withdraw that question from the decision of the courts of law, it being competent to any person to institute proceedings in the courts under circumstances of the kind, and proceedings of such a nature might revive former unfortunate conflicts.
 LORD J. MANNERS  did not mean to enter upon any review of the somewhat learned, though particularly unsatisfactory, essay of the noble Lord at the head of the
 785 786 787 "Great complaints are made of the bad state of the country shopkeepers in the country districts. We have closely questioned some of our wholesale grocers and tea-dealers, who assure us that there is no disguising the fact that such is the case, and that the general answer received from their travellers is, that 'they can get neither money nor orders.'" "The serious falling off in the deliveries of sugar, coffee, tea, and cocoa for the two months of this year, compared with those of the last, but too truly confirms these complaints, and are perhaps the most alarming features in our present prospects." 788 789
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, it was not my intention to have addressed the House on a Motion which appeared to me so vague, and so susceptible of any kind of interpretation which any hon. Member who might speak might be pleased to attach to it, that it would be difficult to collect what the sense of the Motion would really be if the House agreed to affirm the proposition. But the hon. Member who has just sat down, has made this cool of the evening so very warm by his speech, that I cannot help taking notice of some of the doctrines he has put forth. Let me, however, first allude shortly to the subject of the Motion itself. I understand the hon. Gentleman to move that there ought to be some large decrease of taxation, and some great reduction in expenditure. Now, the hon. Gentleman who last spoke, seems to imply that we are evading all reduction by the course we are taking. But it appears to me, on the contrary, that the course we take is the way by which reduction can be effected. I will take the question in the form upon which the great majority of the House seem to have more decided views than those expressed by the hon. Mover. We have some 28,000,000 l. 780 l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The hon. Gentleman in the first part of his speech made no such reservation, but said that votes would be given for measures dangerous to the institutions of the country. [Mr. STAFFORD: No, no!] But I am content to take the other form now suggested by the hon. Gentleman, that hon. Gentlemen who do not entertain such opinions will be succeeded by others who do entertain them. If the first interpretation placed on the words of the hon. Gentleman be the correct one, what he said would be a libel upon the parties to whom he alluded; but taking the second as the proper interpretation, then what the hon. Gentleman alleged was a libel upon the constituencies of the country. I do not believe, because their opinions are not suffered to prevail, because this House has adopted a view with respect to the policy of the country in commercial matters which is opposed to the opinions of the electors of counties, that, therefore, those electors would send to this House men inclined to vote for measures which hon. Gentlemen opposite think would be dangerous to the institutions of the country. I am confirmed in this belief by observing that a noble Friend of mine, from whom I differ on this subject, but whom I also regard with the highest respect—I mean the Duke of Richmond—when attending a public meeting, at which some one said that the farmers were no longer loyal, immediately followed that speaker with great indignation, and appealed to the meeting that the loyalty of the farmers was intact; and I find, too, that the Duke of Richmond was supported in that sentiment by the cheers of the whole meeting. I cannot, therefore, assent to this reflection of the hon. Gentleman—injurious, as I regard it, to the constituencies of the hon. Gentleman himself, and of those who think with him. Then the hon. Gentleman has resorted to an oft-refuted fallacy on this subject of free trade and protection; and, referring to the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth and to the hon. Mover of the Motion, he asks that the farmers should have free trade and be allowed to grow tobacco. So far as this subject is concerned, the question is whether they could grow tobacco, with a duty upon the foreign article; and if the opinion is correct—and it may be a
 782 l. 783 784
 LORD J. RUSSELL  did not conclude that the House, in appointing this Committee at all, passed any judgment with respect to the question itself—namely, whether a Jew could take a seat in that House, by taking an oath in any other form than that usually taken by Members of the House. But he thought it of great importance that there should be a Committee upon the subject. It appeared to him that the question as to the Acts of Parliament, as well as to the manner in which the House interpreted them in the case of Mr. Pease, was of very considerable importance. How it was that Mr. Pease should have made an affirmation in the manner in which he did, and that afterwards an Act of Parliament should have been passed, he believed in the same Session, appointing the mode a which that affirmation should be made, he never could tell. If the House was justified in adopting that course, and had acted according to law in admitting Mr. Pease on making an affirmation, it surely could not have been necessary afterwards to have passed an Act of Parliament upon the subject. He stated this as a matter of doubt only, without arguing the question. He thought this and several other points might be cleared up by a Committee. He agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman who spoke last, that this question might be brought before a court of law, because there were penalties and disabilities which could not be adjudicated upon anywhere else. But it did not appear that the Committee was to give any opinion as to whether a Jew was able to take an oath in any other form than the one usually taken, by which the House would be bound. Supposing the Committee should
 815
 MR. STAFFORD : I beg the noble
 781
 MR. STAFFORD  regarded the observations of the hon. and learned Member who had just resumed his seat, as a sign of the times. The meaning was that he would not vote for the Motion, be-
 776 777 778 779
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth had not taken a very intelligible course in oppositing the Motion of the hon. Member for West Surrey. After attempting to affix several inconsistent and inconsecutive deductions upon the Motion, the right hon. Baronet said it was impossible to believe that the Motion could be construed into any reflection upon the commercial policy adopted of late years; but immediately rushed into a laboured defence of the free-trade measures which he carried when last in power. The right hon. Baronet then seemed to come to the conclusion that the Motion had a purely financial aspect, and had stated that economy was necessary, but that he preferred to see it carried out by the Government rather than by the House of Commons. Now he (Mr. Newdegate) had been brought up in an old-fashioned school, in which he was taught
 769 "That, whereas the present taxation of the country depresses all classes, and especially the labouring classes, by diminishing the funds for the employment of productive labour, it is the opinion of this House that adequate means should be forthwith adopted to reduce the expenditure of the Government." 770 771
 MR. NEWDEGATE  took the speech of his hon. Friend the Member for West Surrey to mean that he believed a new system had been of late adopted which engendered weakness in the country, depreciated its character, cast down the condition of its labourers, and tended to produce national poverty; and his Motion was consistent with his statement, for it was to the effect, that as the means of the people had been diminished, so the burden of taxation ought to be lightened. Now, one point to which he particularly wished to advert, because so great a misunderstanding prevailed respecting it, was the relative pressure of the taxation of the country upon the population at present, as compared with former periods. The weight of taxation during the war was often insisted upon by hon. Gentlemen opposite; but if they would compute the difference in the value of money at the two periods, by comparing the taxation during the war with what it was now, they would find that the amount in 1813 did not exceed that for 1849 by more than 625,000 l. 772 l., l. l., l. Dictionary, l. l. l., l. l. l. l., l., l. 773
 MR. NEWDEGATE , as one who had paid some attention to this subject, should like to be informed whether it was proposed that this Committee should be empowered to take evidence?
 MR. SPEAKER  immediately called the name of the hon. Gentleman, pursuant to the order in which it stood on the Notice-paper.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he should vote with his hon. Friend the Member for West Surrey. As for the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, he did not then see him in his place, nor should he care if he never saw him there again; but he must say that he was consoled under the accusation of inconsistency, by the fact of its having been made by the father of inconsistencies. He was of opinion, no matter what other hon. Gentlemen might think, that the maintenance of the Army and Navy was necessary, not only for the purposes of defence from any invasion that may take place by foreign Powers, but to keep the peace on the part of the turbulent radicals and brawling free-traders at home. The hon. Member for Guildford said, that the labourers of this country were well off. [Mr. MANGLES: I said they were better off than they had been.] He (Colonel Sibthorp) insisted that they were not better off; and if they were in any way well off, it was in consequence of the exertions of the conservatives and the tenant farmers, who had better feeling towards them than many of the hon. Gentlemen opposite, and who had determined to maintain the labourers during their dis-
 774
 MR. CAYLEY , in seconding the Motion, expressed his concurrence in the views of his hon. Friend who had preceded him. While giving the Government credit for a desire to reduce the expenditure, as far as they thought consistent with the exigencies of the country, he did not think that the Government quite appreciated what those exigencies were. He had felt it incumbent upon him upon late occasions to support Motions which had been opposed by the Government—the Motion of the hon. Member for the West Riding; and also that of the hon. Member for Montrose, on the preceding evening, for a reduction in the Army. He had done this, not because he pretended to understand military subjects so well as the right hon. Gentleman below him (Mr. F. Maule), but because he thought that though the necessities of the Government was one important element in the question of taxation, the necessities of his constituents was another element quite as important; and the necessities of the latter made reductions in the public expenditure imperative. His hon. Friend who brought forward this Motion, and himself, were consistent in the course they now took for a reduction in expenditure. They had both anticipated the mischievous results of the late free-trade legislation; those mischievous results were now almost universally admitted; and one consequence he always foresaw was, the necessity for a reduction of taxation. But how happened it that, at this particular juncture, the House was unanimous in calling for economy and retrenchment? The demand seemed to have been even anticipated by the Government; and he wished to know how they had come to anticipate it? According to the principles of the free-traders, it ought to have been a time for increasing expenditure. They did not expect free trade to
 747 s. s. 748 s. l. l. s. d. s. s. s. s. 749 l. s. l. s. l. s. s. 750 l. s. s. s., l. l. 751
 MR. ARKWRIGHT  did not think the hon. and learned Gentleman had made out any case at all. He stated that a Gentleman had been returned for the city of London, but that that Gentleman had never come to the House to take his seat; and that was all they knew about it. They did not know whether he was a Jew or not.
 MR. MUNTZ  regarded the Motion of the hon. Member for West Surrey as a truism, and he did not see how any one could object to it. He was astonished that Her Majesty's Government did not adopt it. For himself, he regarded the Motion as so much a matter of course, that he did not know he should have voted for it but for the speech of the right hon. the
 804
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he had believed, until the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had just sat down had addressed the House, that it was scarcely possible to add to the variety of grounds on which hon. Gentlemen would support this Motion. If time and opportunity served to go through the various speeches, and the grounds on which each Gentleman would give his vote, he thought it would afford a curious illustration of what really would be the amount of opinion expressed, and the light that the public would derive from the vote which would be come to to-night. But the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had just sat down had, with his accustomed candour, declared to the House what was his object in supporting the resolution, and he (Mr. Labouchere) begged, especially of those Gentlemen who sat on that (the Ministerial) side of the House, to mark the grounds on which the hon. and gallant Gentleman should support the Motion. He said he did not think that any reduction of taxation would be of service unless it were accompanied by a reimposition of a duty on corn. [Captain HARRIS: Any large reduction.] Effectually to lighten taxation was the frank and candid statement of the hon. and gallant Gentleman; and how, with that opinion, he could vote for the Motion in the terms in which it was couched, he was at a loss to discover, for the hon. and gallant Gentleman stated that the object he had in giving this vote was to promote a reversal of the policy
 801 s. l. 802 803
 MR. BRIGHT : If I were a person somewhat unduly influenced by authority, I should be puzzled as to my vote on this occasion; for the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Tamworth, who is justly considered a high authority, has spoken against the Motion of the hon. Member for West Surrey; the noble Lord on this side of the House has taken the same course; my hon. Friends the Member for Bradford and the Member for Oxford have each taken the same line, and have given us the reasons why they oppose the passing of this resolution. Although much has been said that I cordially approve of, and especially in the speech of the right hon. Member for Tam-worth, yet I confess I cannot see the difficulty in which men of my opinions and practice in the House need to feel themselves, in regard to the resolution of the hon. Gentleman. I have read the resolution with care, and I am anxious that the House should not depart from the resolution and persuade themselves that they are taking a right course in opposing it, because it may have been supported by some injujudicious friends of the hon. Gentleman, and by arguments which cannot fairly be brought in support of it. The resolution is but half the resolution which the hon. Member moved last year; it is a much milder Motion than that which be made last year; it is merely expressive of the opinion of the House—
 790 "That whereas the present taxation of the country depresses all classes, and especially the labouring classes, by diminishing the funds for the employment of productive labour, it is the opinion of this House that adequate means should be forthwith adopted to reduce the expenditure of the Government." "That whereas a greater amount of taxation is levied upon the people than is required for the good and efficient Government of the United Kingdom, and whereas large sums are expended in supporting needless places and unnecessary works and establishments;"— 791 l. l. 792 793
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, that if this were some specific Motion to lighten the taxes of the community, he would vote for it; but he was very much of opinion that this Motion was a trap, which his hon. Friend the Member for Manchester had fallen into. It was a specious move. The Motion was true; but what were the intentions and views of the majority who voted for it? It was a vote that might catch a few Members who were not accustomed to the tactics of that House; but if the Motion were coupled with the speeches of those who had supported it, the House might be convinced that the supporters of the Motion would not agree to any reduction of taxation that would be for the benefit of the people in general. The hon. Member for North Yorkshire, who seconded the Motion, advocated the repeal of the malt tax. Now, he considered that the malt tax might be repealed by the people themselves, without appealing to that House. He had voted in the two minorities on the late Motions for reduction of expenditure, and whenever a Motion for a specific reduction of taxation came before him, he would support it. But he was not fond of these sham Motions. If hon. Members opposite were in favour of economy and retrenchment, let them vote for the Motions brought forward to effect it. The
 805
 MR. HENLEY : It came to this, then, that no pressure which such a Motion could put upon the Government was likely to produce such a remission of taxation as would give relief to the country. He regretted
 796
 MR. HENLEY  should follow the example just set, and endeavour not to make this a free-trade debate, but to address himself as strictly as he could to the Motion before the House. As he was in the House when the Motions of the hon. Member for the West Riding, and the hon. Member for Montrose were brought forward, he should take the liberty of saying-why he thought there was no inconsistency in voting against them, and yet in voting for that of the hon. Member for West Surrey. That made by the hon. Member for the West Riding had been well do-scribed by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth as a specific Motion to go back to a defined amount of expenditure necessary under particular circumstances, and at a particular time. Persons might very well be ready to go far in economy, yet not be able to pledge themselves to go all that distance. He therefore thought there was no inconsistency in those who wished to strengthen the hands of the Government, and, if need were, to press them forward in the path they had to traverse, taking this course. The same reasoning applied exactly to the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose. It might
 794 795
 MR. HUME  thought that the hon. Member for Oxfordshire had not succeeded in proving that he would not be acting with great inconsistency in voting for this, after opposing his (Mr. Hume's) Motion, and that of his hon. Friend the Member for the West Riding. His excuse was, that the present Motion was general, and the others specific. Now, the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for the West Riding declared that the taxes required for the present expenditure impeded the operations of agriculture and manufactures, and thus diminished the funds for the employment of labour in all branches of productive industry. Surely that was general enough. For himself, he was always ready to support retrenchment, whether proposed by Tory, Whig, or Radical. He had expected that the hon. Member who made the Motion would have shown the
 797 l. l. l. l. l., 798 l. l.
 MR. HEYWORTH  was understood to say, that if it was the object of the hon. Gentleman the Member for West Surrey to raise the revenue by a property tax, he was ready to support the Motion. They must have taxes for the maintenance of the Government, and if they remitted other taxation, they had no alternative but to draw the necessary revenue from property. He considered, that if they relieved foreign importers from duties, the produce of the land ought to be equally free from all imposts. They must remove the duties not merely from malt and hops, but from every thing else; and by expanding their commerce, and increasing their trade, they would soon have every labouring man fully employed; they would obtain relief from the poor-rates, and every landowner would get the full benefit of the produce of his land. He considered that the right hon. Member for Tamworth had not only made the House, but also this country, Europe, and the world his debtors by the speech he had made to-night. It was a great and glorious speech, and would never die out out of the memory of men. He (Mr. Heyworth) would vote for the Motion.
 MR. P. BENNET  said, they had been told by the hon. Member for Guildford that the labouring classes were now in a better condition than formerly. He wished some proof could be adduced that such was the case, but for his part he had reason to fear that the contrary was the fact. He held in his hand a statement which he had received within the last few days, describing the condition of the labouring classes in four or five parishes on the borders of Suffolk and Cambridge, and stating that they had combined to prevent a reduction of their wages from 8 s. s. l.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  did not like to go to a division without explaining the considerations which should influence him in giving his vote. He had not had the pleasure of hearing the speech of his hon. Friend the Member for Manchester, but he had listened attentively to the speeches of the hon. Gentlemen who had moved and seconded the Resolution, and the impression produced on his mind by them, was, that the hon. Gentlemen who sat at
 799 bonâ fide
 MR. MANGLES  had some special reasons for saying a few words on the present occasion—reasons having reference to his hon. Friend who had laid this proposition before the House. He had the happiness to be a near neighbour of his hon. Friend, and on almost every market-day he had the pleasure of meeting him in the borough which he (Mr. Mangles) had the honour to represent. After the last Session of Parliament, in the course of which his hon. Friend brought forward a Motion very like the present, but for which he (Mr. Mangles) did not vote, he was frequently taxed by his constituents for not having supported that Motion. He would tell the House, therefore, why he did not support his hon. Friend's Motion upon that occasion, and why he should not support it now. He had no such reliance on his hon. Friend's guidance—no such reliance on his political consistency, as would induce him to follow the lead of his hon. Friend on that or any other occasion. He was present with his hon. Friend shortly after the close of the Session of Parliament of last year—his hon. Friend must remember the occasion, it was at the White Lion, at a public meeting—when his hon. Friend took some credit to himself for supporting the Motion of the hon. Member for the West Riding. He had looked, therefore, with great confidence to see his hon. Friend give his support to the hon. Member for the West Riding on his similar Motion the other day. He saw, it was true, the hon. Gentleman in the House before the division, but he did not see him in the lobby. His hon. Friend seemed to intimate that he was not present. If it was not his hon. Friend who was in the House at that time, it must have been his double. But he was not in the division.  Abiit, evasit, erupit; 757 Laughter. s. s. s. s., 758 l. l. l., l.
 MR. WALPOLE  did not rise for the purpose of promoting any discussion on the present question, but he wished to say that he agreed with the right hon. Member for Tamworth in thinking that the whole matter ought to be fairly and fully examined. Any inquiry as to Quakers or
 816
 MR. ANSTEY  thought that the concluding observations of his right hon. Friend the Member for Buteshire should not go forth without comment. He differed entirely from the right hon. Member. He was of opinion that the decision of the House would be final, and that no court of law was competent to question it; not because of that undefined and un-definable thing called Privilege, but because such was the law. There was their common law jurisdiction over the trial of elections to their House. There was their statutory jurisdiction. In both, the decision was final. Then there was that statute which was declaratory of the common law of Parliament, and not only so, but likewise invested with a sanction and authority scarce inferior, in the opinion of some constitutional lawyers, to Magna Carta itself—he meant the Bill of Rights, by which it was provided that no man should be questioned in courts of law or elsewhere, for his vote, or speech, or act within the walls of Parliament. It should be remembered that the penalties were of two kinds, money penalties and Parliamentary penalties; and the House of Commons was the sole judge as to the latter. If, then, the House were to decide that Baron Rothschild might, or rather that he ought to take his seat, and that he would not incur the Parliamentary penalties by so doing, no court of law would venture to decide that that Gentleman, obeying the mandates of the House, would incur the pecuniary disabilities: if they were to do so, they would be acting in strict defiance of the Bill of Rights and the law of Parliament. For these reasons, he thought it quite clear that such a decision would conclude the question, and that there could be not the slightest hazard of conflict with other jurisdictions. In the face of their resolution, no jury would be bold enough to charge, and no jury base enough to find, against them.
 MR. EVELYN  was understood to say, that the arguments adduced against the Motion did not appear to him to meet the case which had been made out. They had been told that the Motion of the hon. Member for West Surrey was too vague, and also that the Motion of the hon. Member for the West Riding was too explicit. He had been sent by his constituents to support retrenchment and economy, and he should vote accordingly for the Motion. If there was no chance at present of their returning to their old commercial policy, the only course open to them was to reduce the cost of production by the reduction of taxation.
 MR. MACKENZIE  was at a loss to conceive the necessary connexion between the inquiry with regard to oaths taken by Members of Parliament, and the oaths and affirmations taken in courts of justice.
 MR. P. WOOD  said, that he rested a considerable portion of his Motion on the case of Mr. Pease; and with respect to the affirmation in that case no record had been kept.
 MR. P. WOOD  apprehended that that was a question for after consideration, although he presumed that the Committee would assume the usual right of calling witnesses before them.
 MR. W. P. WOOD , in bringing forward the Motion of which he had given notice, said, he would not detain the House at any length. The matter which had given rise to it was notorious, and it was unnecessary for him to enter into any detail on the subject. The House was aware that the city of London had returned to this Parlia-
 810 "That a Select Committee should be appointed to search the Journals of the House, and to report such precedents and such Acts, or parts of Acts of Parliament, in relation to the persons called Quakers taking their seats, and making a solemn affirmation where oaths ought to be taken." 811 812 "That a Select Committee be appointed to search the Journals of this House, and to report such Precedents and such Acts, or parts of Acts of Parliament, as relate to the question of Jews or other persons being admitted to take their seats in Parliament without being sworn upon the Holy Gospels: and further, to inquire and report in what manner Joseph Pease, esquire, on taking his seat in this House in the year 1833, made Affirmation to the effect of the Oaths required by Law to be taken by Members before taking their seats in this House; and also, to inquire and report in what manner Jews and other persons not professing the Christian Religion are permitted to make oath in Courts of Justice and other places whore an Oath is allowed, authorised, or required to be taken."
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, seeing his right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Admiralty in his place, he would venture to put again in public certain questions, the purport of which he already knew, in reference to former questions asked by him in the early part of the Session, and to which he made a very satisfactory series of answers. The questions referred to the resumption of the search for Sir John Franklin. At that time he took the liberty to suggest that such resumption should be made by subdivision of the expedition into smaller vessels, and that it should consist in a great measure of steam power directly applied, and that each officer should in a certain degree be independent of the others, so that a greater stimulant might be given to individual exertion; and that rewards should be offered in proportion to the intelligence obtained. He had reason gratefully to acknowledge that these suggestions had been received with favour; and he wished now to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty in what state the expedition about to go in search of Sir John Franklin is now, of what force it consists, and how soon it might be expected to proceed, there being reason to fear that the delay of a week, or even a day, might be fatal?
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that on two several occasions he had given his cordial support to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, in attempting by law to remove the impediments which obstructed the admission of Jews to Parliament. Had the noble Lord proceeded, in the course of the present Session, again to move those impediments by legislative enactment, there was no Member of that House who would be disposed to give a more cordial support to that Bill than he (Sir R. Peel) would. He understood the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the city of Oxford to propose a Committee to make an inquiry which should not prejudge the question at issue. If that were the understanding he (Sir R. Peel) would offer no objection to the appointment of the Committee; but this he must say distinctly, that there was no hon. Gentleman who had voted strenuously against the admission of the Jews who would watch with greater jealousy than he would watch any attempt by the House of Commons to supersede the authority of the House of Lords. He would not argue the subject now, but he hoped the House would altogether suspend its judgment, and not consider that the case of Mr. Pease was at all a precedent, or an admission of the right of other Dissenters to sit in the House. The hon. and learned Gentleman had said that there were other matters which ought to be considered. He (Sir R. Peel) was ready to enter into a consideration of them; but so far as the single case of Mr. Pease was concerned, he conceived that there were enactments which clearly distinguished the case of the Quakers from other Dissenters from the Established Church, and that that case, taken alone, did not constitute a precedent. What might be the other precedents alluded to be would not inquire. It would be premature to do so. The high character of the hon. Gentleman, both for learning and integrity, justified the House in believing that he would not submit the Motion if he did not think it necessary. Still, he (Sir R. Peel) must say again that after having twice voted for the admission of the Jews to Parliament, there was no Gentleman in that House who would watch with greater jealousy than he would, lest any interference
 814
 SIR R. PEEL , in explanation, said, he had not been aware that so erroneous a construction either had been, or could possibly be, put upon what he had said, as had been just alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade. So far was it from being true, that no man would be disposed to make a more vigorous exertion than himself for the preservation of any part of the British empire that should be assailed. What he said was, that he did not think it necessary that every garrison and every fortification, in every part of the colonies, during the whole of the peace, should be kept in as perfect a state as if we had a right to expect an attack upon them. He stated that we must trust in some degree to the natural energy of the British subject to defend any portion of the British empire that might be menaced.
 SIR R. PEEL  was understood to say that he had not taunted the hon. Gentleman with inconsistency.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he would imitate
 759 760 761 762 763 bonâ fide 764 l. l. 765 766 767 Bellum para, si pacem velis, 768
 MR. DRUMMOND  asked, if it was likely that salaries would soon be fixed for the clerks of county courts, in lieu of fees, as had been done with the judges.
 MR. HODGES  entertained objections to some of the details of the Bill, but he should support the second reading. In his neighbourhood the magistrates were not very large ratepayers, and it might so happen that a magistrate might not be rated at all.
 MR. BERNAL  said, his objection to this Bill rested on a very narrow and limited ground. If it had proposed to give power to town councils on an application to the Treasury from two-thirds or three-fourths of the inhabitants of a town, to be allowed to adopt the principle of the Bill, to tax the general body of the ratepayers for the establishment of libraries and museums, he would not have had so much objection to this measure. But he found fault with it because it would enable any town council desirous of carrying out the views of any small section of the inhabitants to tax the general body of the ratepayers for an institution that might soon degenerate into a mere political club, for which only a few of those who were compelled to contribute for its support had any sympathy. However noble the diffusion of knowledge might be, they should not forget that a halfpenny in the pound, although it might seem to be a very small rate, was really a serious addition to the burden of taxation when it became an annual charge on the poorer classes of the ratepayers. Had the Bill been really permissive, as was alleged, he would not have opposed it; but it proposed to clothe town councils with imperative powers; and
 843
 MR. SLANBY  thought, that the objections urged against the Bill might be dealt with in Committee. He agreed with the hon. Member for Manchester and others as to the admissibility of giving the ratepayers the option of establishing libraries, &c.; but that was a point of detail. They had now only to deal with the principle to which the House seemed to assent. The hon. Member who spoke last said they should not tax large communities for the benefit of the few. But these libraries were to be established upon the lending system, and if that system were fairly carried out, the hon. Gentleman's objection was at once met. Where libraries had been established on that principle, they had been found highly beneficial to the working classes. Besides, it was not taxing to the extent represented by the hon. Member, because by encouraging habits which kept the working man from the public-house, they lessened the incentives to a dissolute life, and, consequently, to idleness and crime; which cost the country much more than all the libraries they could build under this Bill.
 MR. LAW  observed that the hon. Member for Dumfries had told them he had well considered the question before he had brought forward the Bill, and therefore it must be supposed that this clause had been inserted for good reasons. They must therefore take the Bill as it stood at present. The principle of the Bill was taxation by the municipal council, without the consent of the ratepayers. Upon that principle he should oppose the Bill, unless a specific pledge was given for the insertion of a clause to make the consent of two-thirds of the ratepayers necessary.
 LORD J. MANNERS  was surprised to hear the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department assent to the second reading of this Bill after his continued opposition to the repeal of what was erroneously called the law of mortmain. Why were not schools, hospitals, and churches, to receive the same benefit as the proposed Bill gave to libraries and museums? Whenever he (Lord J. Manners) had attempted to obtain the repeal of that Act, he was told that he was either a Papist or a Jesuit. To be sure,
 844 s. s.
 MR. OSWALD  would also vote against the second reading of the Bill, believing that it was going to do by Act of Parliament what would be more efficiently done by private enterprise. In the boroughs of Ayr and Kilmarnock, and in almost every other borough in Scotland, there were excellent libraries established without any help whatever from that House. He also objected to the Bill, because it would increase the rates of Scotland.
 MR. PACKE  called upon the House to consider how different the state of things now was, from the state of things that existed in 1835, when the report was made on which the hon. Member for Montrose founded his support of this measure. The law had since been completely altered, and the relative positions of the magistrates and ratepayers had been materially changed. Powers had been given to the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and to the Lunatic Commission, by which the expenditure could be controlled, and there were no complaints to be made at present, like those which had been made before that Committee. He, for one, would say as a magistrate, that he should be glad to get rid of the trouble of managing the county rates; but he was perfectly persuaded that if this Bill came into operation, it would cause confusion, and increase the
 825 s. s. s.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  thought this Bill nothing more nor less than an attempt to impose a general increase of taxation on Her Majesty's subjects; and doubted whether it was legitimate to introduce such a measure, excepting in a Committee of the whole House. He would be happy at any time to contribute his mite towards providing libraries and proper recreations for the humbler classes in large towns; but he thought that, however excellent food for the mind might be, food for the body was what was now most wanted for the people. He did not like reading at all, and he hated it when at Oxford; but he could not Bee how one halfpenny in the pound would be enough to enable town councils to carry into effect the immense powers they were to have by this Bill. He strongly objected to the clause enabling them to borrow money on the credit of the borough rates to carry out the purposes of the Act. He would be very glad, he had said, to give his mite to provide the city of Lincoln with the benefits of a library; but when it was said that giving a few coals to a poor man was corruption, no doubt it would be said, "Oh! what a gross act of bribery to give a few pounds for a public library!" He did not charge the hon. Member for Dumfries with seeking to lay a trap for him and others, but he would have been much more ready to support the hon. Gentleman if he had tried to encourage national industry by keeping out the foreigner. Before going any farther he would take the liberty of asking the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Home Department whether it was constitutional for a private Member, unconnected with the Government, to introduce a Bill to levy taxes from the Queen's subjects?
 COLONEL SIBTHORP : He felt that this Bill would increase the taxation of the people in times when it was not at all necessary; and therefore he moved that the Bill be read a second time this day six months.
 MR. E. B. DENISON  said, that his hon. Friend had observed that there was a general feeling in favour of this Bill. Now he believed he had presented the greatest number of petitions, perhaps, that had been presented to the House from any district, except Lancashire, namely, the West Riding of Yorkshire; and he had examined all those petitions attentively, and though in their general tenor they prayed for the establishment of financial county boards, they did not say one word in favour of such a Bill as that before the House. He never recollected a Bill which had been so cordially pulled to pieces on both sides of the House as this had been, and he did not believe that any hon. Member competent to form an opinion on the subject would vote for any of its clauses as they stood. He believed, when it returned from the Select Committee, they would find every word in it changed, except the first word "Whereas." It had been said last year, that popular representation should be mixed up with this part of the magisterial business of the country, but he doubted much whether the plan could be made to work well. He had no objection to the exercise of control over the county expenditure; but he warned the House against
 836 l. l. l.
 MR. G. HAMILTON  said, any one who had road the evidence would see how great the desire was on the part of the middling and lower classes, especially in boroughs, for access to libraries, and the means of acquiring useful information; and he should much regret that some means of gratifying that desire should not be adopted. There were two questions before the House:—1st, whether the law which gave to town councils the power of making an assessment for the purpose of museums should extend to libraries; and, secondly, whether it should also extend to boroughs not at present included in the Act. With regard to the first question, he thought that libraries were at least as useful as museums; and, in reply to the second, he thought that provisions might be introduced in Committee amply to protect the ratepayers, especially if confined to boroughs with not less than a certain amount of population.
 MR. MUNTZ  hoped his hon. Friend would reconsider this matter and give a more definite answer, because this point was too important to be left uncertain. He was as anxious as the hon. Member to promote the object in view, but he could not subscribe to the Bill in its present shape.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he came down prepared to support the principle of the Bill and the arguments of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ripon, whose experience and judgment were entitled to the greatest respect, confirmed him in the view he took of the subject. He could state that the right hon. Gentleman was most assiduous in attending to the affairs of the county of Cumberland, and there was no person there who did not feel indebted to him for his assistance. He did not think the present system was calculated to give satisfaction in regard to the expenditure of the county rate, because those who levied and administered it were an irresponsible body. A question had been raised, whether it was the owner or occupier that paid the rate; but in the county where he resided there were a great
 829
 MR. GOULBURN  considered that the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken had satisfactorily proved that it was necessary for the advantage of the people to pass the present Bill, for he had shown that in the large borough which he represented there had been, as in all the other boroughs of the country, a liberal disposition on the part of the wealthy and those in a better station of life to provide the rational means of improvement and enjoyment for their poorer fellow-citizens. But the hon. Gentleman said this Bill would establish a library, and provide chairs, tables, and everything necessary for the enjoyment of a library by a rate; but that it would not enforce the purchase of books from the rates as well. Now he (Mr. Goulburn), as an innocent man, certainly had thought that books always formed part of what was necessary for the enjoyment of a library. He differed also with the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary with regard to their having already sanctioned the principle of this Bill by adopting the existing Museums Bill. He did not think this Bill would exactly impose a tax on the landed classes: but he feared it would tend to make the poorer inhabitants of boroughs pay extensively for enjoyments of those who were better off than themselves. Because, no doubt, it would be found that a rate of halfpenny in the pound in a small borough would go a very little way after the erection of public buildings for libraries and museums had been completed; and instead of providing those valuable books of reference which the hon. Gentleman thought ought to be placed in a library of this description (and in this he perfectly agreed with him), all that the funds would be able to provide would be the daily and weekly newspapers, and the library would thus become a mere newsroom which only those well-to-do people who had plenty of leisure, and could run into learn the news about the time when the post had just arrived, would be able to avail themselves of, although the poorer ratepayers,
 842
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he was not about to accept the invitation of the noble Lord to discuss the policy of the Government taking up the whole question, for he thought it better for the House to confine themselves at present to the single point brought before them by the hon. Mover. He was inclined to take the same view as the hon. Member for Montrose. It would be most useful if in every good-sized town a well composed library was established, to which all the inhabitants had free access. Every one who had experience in country towns must know that there was a great want of access to good books. That was the case with regard to boroughs; but in some parishes much improvement had been effected by the establishment of local libraries. He agreed that it was of much greater importance that there should be a good library than a museum. Nothing, he believed, could be more visionary than the fear that these libraries would be filled with novels and the worst description of publications—bad and useless as literature—or that they would be mere receptacles for newspapers. Why should such distrust be entertained of the discretion of the town councils, who, he conceived, could be as safely trusted with
 845
 MR. HEYWOOD  observed that, in the expectation of this Bill passing, twelve gentlemen had come forward with a subscription of 100 l.
 MR. WYLD  was of a similar opinion. He also regarded it in the light of an economic
 849
 MR. BRIGHT  said, there was evidently great accordance on both sides of the House with regard to the object of the Bill, and he hoped, therefore, that the House would not on account of certain objections, which might be removed, re fuse to read it a second time. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge seemed to take an entirely erroneous view of the halfpenny rate, which was only intended to apply to the building and furnishing of the library the books being supplied by voluntary contributions. There must be a large concurrence of opinion before any step would be taken. The town council would not borrow 5,000 l. Daily News.
 MR. W. PATTEN  expressed his regret that, from the manner in which the Amendment was framed, his hon. Friend the Member for Droitwich would not allow him to vote with him now as he did last year, when he proposed that this subject should be referred to a Select Committee. In a great deal of what he had said he entirely agreed; but the House had already ox-pressed its opinion on the principle of the measure, namely, that the county ratepayer should have some control over the county expenditure. However, he would be ready to join with his hon. Friend so far as an attempt to amend this Bill, for he thought there was a great deal of it which was most objectionable. His hon. Friend had stated that the feeling regarding this measure in Lancashire had been caused by a county squabble with regard to two lunatic asylums. He believed that circumstance had added a little to the feeling on
 822 823
 MR. BROTHERTON  was much surprised at the opposition offered to this Bill, because, in the first place, the measure was entirely permissive; and, secondly, the rate was limited to one halfpenny in the pound. The manner in which the money could be applied was restricted to the erection of or paying rent for a building for holding a public library and a museum. No power was given to lay out the funds in the purchase of books, specimens, or pictures: all these were left to depend on the voluntary contributions of the inhabitants. In the popular boroughs of the country, this was a very popular measure. In the borough with which he was connected (Salford), the town council, acting as the representatives of all the ratepayers, had come forward with the greatest alacrity to provide a building for a public library and museum. The private gifts of the inhabitants had already stocked the museum to a considerable extent; and there had been voluntary contributions made of between 5,000 and 6,000 volumes to the library (which was attended by hundreds every night) in less than six months. He contended that this
 841
 MR. HENLEY  begged the right hon. Gentleman's pardon; they were in the Bill at that moment. The Bill was the Bill of last Session amended, and it was amended as regarded the particular point to which the right hon. Gentleman had referred. It did, in fact, contain the provisions which the right hon. Gentleman said were not in it. The Bill completely superseded the power of the magistrates with respect to all matters relating to the allowance of rates of every kind. It superseded them as regarded the duties of visiting prisons, lunatic asylums, and workhouses, and he believed that by the 8th clause they were also superseded as  ex officio 834
 MR. HENLEY  really wished to know what was the principle of this Bill, for several hon. Gentlemen had given a totally different description of it; he therefore preferred the Amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for Droitwitch. The right hon. Secretary for the Home Department had said, that if the change proposed by this Bill should be effected, the magistracy ought to be relieved from certain duties. That was what he had himself suggested, and he did not object to it; but he would show the House how it was proposed to effect the object by the Bill.
 MR. HUME  was anxious to disabuse the hon Gentleman who just sat down of the opinion he entertained that this Bill was otherwise than was intended last Session; and he thought the hon. Gentleman was under a great mistake, if he thought the supporters of the Bill had altered their plans. The hon. Gentleman who proposed the Committee said he wanted to have a  bonâ fide bonâ fide 824
 MR. HUME  said, the House ought, of course, to take care what powers it conferred. He entirely approved of the object of the Bill, though he differed from the hon. Member for Dumfries as to the best mode of obtaining it. Had he read the Bill he-fore that day, he would have suggested to the hon. Member the adoption of a principle similar to that which was applicable to the lighting of towns. Were the Bill adopted, he saw no reason why the  Daily News Times
 MR. BUCK  approved of the objects of this Bill, but objected to the unjust mode it proposed for carrying them out. The additional taxation which it proposed, at a time when the nation was so generally impoverished, was considered a great grievance by the manufacturing as well as the landed interest of the country; but the burden would fall as heavily on landed property in the precincts of small towns as it would on the ratepayers generally of those towns; while the agricultural classes, by their position, could not participate in any of the advantages of the Bill. Nothing could be more obnoxious than that to the feelings of the landed interest, and, therefore, he most oppose the second reading.
 MR. P. HOWARD  thought the object of the measure and the new principle which it introduced were very little known in the country. He thought that a Bill of this nature, which proposed additional taxation, should arise out of some spontaneous movement on the part of the people in its favour. He objected to the Bill, because it would tend to check the efforts of private enterprise in support of mechanics' institutions and the like. He thought, too, that municipal corporations had usually sufficient work on hand without having this additional duty imposed on them,
 MR. SPOONER  observed, that as books, which seemed to be not only the best but most necessary furniture for a library, were left to the chances of voluntary or charitable contributions, the expenses of building and furnishing, for which it was proposed to make a rate, might be supplied from the same source. It would be of no use to establish public libraries if the Ten Hours Bill was not carried out, and factory labourers were prevented availing themselves of such institutions; and he doubted if the measure was really calculated to effect the object which both sides of the House wished to carry out, of providing good libraries
 847
 MR. SPOONER  was of opinion that some control by the ratepayers over the magistracy was desirable, and the only question before the House was the way in which that principle was to be carried into effect. The Bill before the House was of a character so impracticable that he doubted whether by sending the Bill to a Committee they would not delay the accomplishment of the object which his right hon. Friend opposite had in view in proposing this measure. As, however, the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon had expressed his opinion that the Bill might be so altered in Committee as to make it a good measure, he should advise his hon. Friend to withdraw his Amendment. There was no doubt that the Bill would be thoroughly sifted in Committee, since the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ripon had said that in its present form the Bill was totally impracticable. The Amendment of his hon. Friend differed from that which was proposed last year in this respect, that the Select Committee was to be directed to inquire, not into the "best" mode of levying the county rates, and controlling the expenditure, but whether any "more" satisfactory mode of levying the rates, and giving the ratepayers a control, could be adopted. He suggested, however, as the best course, that the right hon. Gentleman should withdraw his Bill, and that the whole question should then be referred to a Select Committee, the principle being conceded that there ought to be a more effectual control over the county expenditure by the ratepayers.
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  said, that in the county which he represented, no strong objection was felt to the principle of the measure; but with respect to the Bill itself, he believed that it was impracticable. If the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee, it was not likely that a single clause would ever come back to the House; nevertheless, after the opinions which had been expressed by high authority in the course of the discussion, he would not object to the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  must express his dissent from the proposition that they were all agreed as to the principle of this Bill. That it would be desirable to have good public libraries in all towns, all must admit; but that was not the principle of this Bill. The principle of this Bill was taxation without the consent of the persons to be taxed. According to the principle of the hon. Member for Manchester, this Bill would be totally inefficient for all the purposes for which it was to be introduced; for the hon. Gentleman said, that by passing it they did no more than enable town councils to erect the buildings and to purchase furniture. Why, unless they were possessed of libraries and museums, what town councils would be justified in erecting
 848
 MR. M. GIBSON  said, he was not on the present occasion going to repeat himself. All he intended to do was to impress this—that the House was not forced to commit itself to the details of the present measure. They were only asked that, having adopted the measure, which, to the best of the ability of those who framed it, they thought was calculated to carry out the representative system in controlling-expenditure, the House would give the proposition a chance of being submitted to a Select Committee, who would give the matter full and deliberate consideration. He thought the proposition was a fair and reasonable one. He thought he should not be doing much service to the cause he was supporting, were he to undertake to defend in that House the details of the measure, especially against so acute a critic in Acts of Parliament as the hon. Member for Oxfordshire, who always made him (Mr. Gibson) tremble when he set about explaining or criticising one. These details would undergo full consideration; and were certain to be brought into such shape as to secure the principle which they sought to establish. The adoption of the Bill would furnish a check to inconsiderate and extravagant expenditure; and, in his opinion, when brought into operation, could not be regarded as throwing a slur on the characters of magistrates, but as a measure analogous to the principle acted on in boroughs, where town councils had the control over the expenditure of the rates.
 MR. EWART , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, he had already explained its objects in detail on introducing the measure. The simple object of the Bill was to give a permissive power to town councils, to levy a small rate for the establishment of public libraries and museums in all municipal towns. The Bill was founded on the recommendation of a Select Committee which sat last Session, and also on the expressed wishes of several towns which had petitioned Parliament on the subject. An Act called the Museums Act was passed four years ago, enabling town councils in towns having a population of 10,000 inhabitants and upwards to levy a small rate to establish museums of art and science for the benefit of the public; and all that the present Bill proposed was to extend the principle of the Museum Act to the establishment of public libraries also. In asking the House to adopt such a measure, he was backed by the feeling of many of the towns of the country; and since he had introduced it, he had received communications from several large towns in Scotland and Ireland, which were desirous of having the Bill extended to both of those
 839
 MR. EWART , in reply, said that the hon. Gentleman seemed to forget that this was merely a permissive Bill. He would not at that late hour go into all the objections which had been urged against it, but would only say that existing libraries had been formed on the Museums Act, on the principle of which he had framed the present Bill. The objections urged could not be removed by a short discussion. He would give his careful consideration to all those objections, and endeavour, if possible, to meet them, and render the Bill more popular; but he could not pledge himself to adopt the suggestion of the hon. Member for Somersetshire.
 MR. EWART  had no objection to give that pledge, so far as the principle was concerned; but the precise form of the clause would require to be well considered.
 SIR G. GREY  was not in the House when the hon. Member for Rochester spoke, and was not till this moment aware that he had thrown out a suggestion that there should be some check on the part of the ratepayers upon the improper exercise of the powers of the town councils—a suggestion of which he (Sir G. Grey) highly approved. He understood that his hon. Friend was willing to introduce some such check, and that he only hesitated to pledge himself as to the precise nature of it. He must say that he thought it unreasonable to call upon him to say at that moment what the precise check should be. He thought it sufficient that he promised to submit the point to the consideration of the Committee. In the meantime the question before the House was the principle of the Bill, and not its details, and, in the hope that some check of the kind suggested would be introduced in Committee, he should cordially support the second reading.
 SIR G. GREY  did not apprehend there was anything unconstitutional in this Bill with regard to the levying of rates, which it proposed to do under Act of Parliament. Under the present Museums Bill, town councils already had that power; and this
 840
 SIR G. GREY  said, that he had referred to provisions which ought to be introduced into the Bill, but were not in it now.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that when this Bill was before the House a few weeks ago, his noble Friend at the head of the Government stated the course which he intended to pursue, and the reasons why the Government had determined to affirm the
 830 831
 SIR G. GREY  said, the duties of the judges being much of the same character and occupying about the same proportion of their time, it had been found practicable to fix a uniform scale of salary for the judges, the mininum being settled by the Act of Parliament. With regard to the clerks, the case was quite different, for the extent of their duties was very various, some, for instance, acted for a single court, others took a certain district; hence it had been found impossible to fix a uniform salary. Their cases had been investigated; but the Government had not yet been able to fix the amount in each individual case at which a commutation should be effected. In some cases, where the fees received were much higher than the salary allowed by law, it had been thought right that a commutation should take place immediately.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that was also matter of inquiry. In certain districts the fees did not amount to a sufficient sum to afford an adequate remuneration to the
 817
 SIR G. PECHELL  asked if anything was to be done with regard to the fees of bailiffs, who were suffering great inconvenience at present, and were positive losers. As the writs must be delivered by them, unless something was done to secure their services, the whole business of these courts would soon be at a standstill.
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  felt, as the subject had been fully discussed, that there was no necessity to go into it. The principle was admitted that there should be some popular control over the county expenditure, and the only possible effect of the Amendment would be, to cause further delay, which would give rise to much dissatisfaction. He should not have addressed the House, unless for the observation of the hon. Member for Droitwich, that this was a Lancashire question, and that it arose from a squabble between the two divisions of it as to building a lunatic asylum. He could state that this was not a mere Lancashire question; but there was a very general feeling in favour of the Bill in many counties of England. He was sure, in all places where the subject had been considered, there was a strong desire that this Bill should pass into a law. In the county in which he resided (Yorkshire), few subjects had excited so much interest as this question of control over local expenditure. A worthless and extravagant expenditure had been gone into for building a great wall round the gaol, which was more fitted to resist another Danish invasion than to serve any useful purpose at the present day.
 SIR H. HALFORD  should have preferred the adoption of the Amendment of the hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich, because he believed it would be found that in this Bill it would be impossible to separate the machinery from the principle of it. It was proposed that boards of guardians should each elect a member of their boards; but in that case they would depart from the principle of property being the qualification. He denied that occupiers had a direct interest in the question, for the burden ultimately fell upon the owners of property.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  was not prepared to support the Bill of the right hon. Member for Manchester. It had been stated that the county rates of England and Wales amounted to 1,250,000 l. 837
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, he wished to state shortly the reasons of the vote which he was about to give. The object of the Bill was to provide for a better administration of county rates, and was founded on the principle of the introduction of popular control over the irresponsible power now exercised by the magistrates of England in reference to taxation. His hon. Friend the Member for Droitwich said, that the measure introduced a change of great magnitude. That was very true; but were they of late years so unaccustomed to changes of great magnitude? The reform of the borough corporations of England was a
 826 l. 827 828
 SIR J. GRAHAM  wished to know from the hon. Gentleman whether he would pledge himself to introduce, in Committee, the clause suggested by the hon. Member for Rochester, that before a town council
 850
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  rose for the purpose of moving as an Amendment the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the present mode of levying and expending the county rate in England and Wales. He considered it absolutely necessary, before proceeding to deal with so important a subject, that full and complete inquiry should be previously made. It was his wish to approach the discussion of the Bill in the fairest spirit. He admitted a great many petitions had been presented in favour of it; but what he felt was, that a  bonâ fide 818 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l l. l. 819 l. l. l. l. 820 bonâ fide 821
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  said, in explanation, that the right hon. Baronet opposite had referred to the difference between the terms of his Amendment this year and last year. He had only to say that this difference was entirely accidental; and he had
 838
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  contended that the real principle of this Bill was not the establishment of public libraries. The only power given to the town council under it was to raise a tax for the purpose of constructing empty rooms, which might, indeed, have the potentiality of receiving books; but the books, if any, would have to be paid for, not from the halfpenny, but from the borough rates. The machinery was clearly adapted, not merely for the purpose of procuring books, but also of creating lecture rooms, which might give rise to an unhealthy agitation. Under these circumstances he thought it his duty not to consent to the second reading.
 SIR R. PEEL  wished, as he had, like his right hon. Friend the Member for Ripon, filled the office of Secretary for the Home Department, and was also a Member of the Committee in 1837, and had paid much attention to the subject, shortly to state the grounds upon which he should vote. He did not give his vote on any supposition that the magistrates of the county had abused the power and trust reposed in them, but from a conviction that there was a defect in the constitution of the body to which these powers were entrusted. He believed that implicit confidence might be placed in the integrity of the gentlemen who constituted the magistracy; and that, as far as they were personally concerned, there was no body of men on whom he should less hesitate to repose trust. As he said before, however, there was a defect in the constitution of the present county board, which rendered it difficult for them, with every caution, to give entire satisfaction. He presented a petition yesterday on the subject of this Bill, from a body that was highly calculated to exercise an unprejudiced and dispassionate judgment on the matter. It was from a board of guardians in a part of the country with which he was immediately connected, who urged that there should be some concurrent control with the magistrates over the county expenditure; and that for this purpose the principle of representation should be adopted. The petition was unanimously adopted by the board, and was concurred in by nearly all the magistrates who generally came in contact with it The petition prayed for some concurrent control with the magistrates. Looking at the opinions which prevailed out of doors as to the charges which were borne by the county rate, and at the complaints which were urged against taxation, he thought there would be great dissatisfaction if all inquiry were not in some degree controlled by the principle
 832 833
 MR. W. MILES  said, his objection to the Bill was, that it gave the town council the power of taxation without consent. Some of the boroughs were of small extent in themselves, but included an immense extent of land, with a scattered and distant population, all of whom might be taxed for the support of an institution they could not possibly use. Moreover, there was something like a false pretence in the Bill; for although the maximum rate was said to be only a halfpenny in the pound, he observed that, by the third clause, it was enacted, that, for the purchase of land—rather an expensive part of the proceedings—it should be lawful for the town council, from time to time, with the approval of the Treasury, to borrow money at interest. But the security for that loan was not to be upon the halfpenny rate, but upon the borough rates. Thus the town council would have the power of borrowing, for the purchase of land and the building of the library, and they would likewise have the power of charging the cost by an addition to the borough rate. Neither he nor those who sat with him had the least objection to the instruction of the people, but they had an objection to taxation being imposed without the consent of parties who were to pay; and he hoped to hear the assurance of the hon. Mover, that he would introduce a clause by which the concurrence of three-fourths of the ratepayers
 846
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, that when this question was first brought under discussion, he was opposed to it, considering it to be an attack on the manufacturing interest. Time had gone by, and perhaps the position of things had changed. He had received instructions from his constituents of various classes; the operative classes certainly; from various descriptions of manufacturing capitalists, and it did so happen that all these communications pointed one way. They all said they were anxious that the Ten Hours Bill should be restored to its integrity, and they particularly represented the interest they felt in that part which would give employment to all at the same time; for they said that they had set on foot institutions for education and improvement of various kinds, the carrying on successfully of which did depend mainly on the point, that all in their employ should be liberated at one and the same hour.
 MR. RICE  supported the Bill, and hoped the second reading would not be opposed, and that objections to the details would be reserved until the Bill was in Committee.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  said, considering the objections that had been made to the principle of the Bill by the right hon. Member for Tamworth, and other hon. Members, on a former occasion, he thought it might be postponed without injury to the country. It was obviously unjust to press it on the House at that moment, as none of the country Members were present; indeed, none of them believed it would come on until after Easter. He doubted whether boards of guardians would be able to find a committee; while, if they could not, the highways would be neglected.
 MR. C. LEWIS  would have been willing to entertain the proposal to postpone the Bill if the subject were now brought before Parliament for the first time; but, as the subject had been repeatedly considered in that House, had been referred to Select Committees, and brought under the notice of Gentlemen at quarter-sessions, he thought that no advantage could arise from any further postponement of the Bill. He had reason to believe that the general principle of this Bill, namely, the formation of districts of parishes for the maintenance of highways, and the appointment of a paid surveyor, had met with general concurrence. He also believed it was generally felt that the appointment of a paid surveyor would conduce to real economy instead of leading to a larger expenditure. Whether the board of guardians were the fittest body to have the management of the highways, was a question which might be fairly discussed in Committee. For himself, he had doubts whether a separate body of elected way wardens would be very different from the board of guardians. Substantially the two systems would be found in their results to be the same. If the House would agree to the second reading now, he would fix the Committee for some day after Easter, in order that hon. Members might have the opportunity of discussing the details of the Bill with their constituents during the Easter recess.
 MR. C. LEWIS  replied, that it was not intended that this Bill should extend to any districts which at present appointed a surveyor under local Acts.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that might be a question for consideration in Committee. The present Bill did not propose to diminish the retiring allowance of the Judges. A maximum was fixed by Act of Parliament, but the Treasury was not bound to give the maximum.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that as this clause was a compensating one, he would postpone its consideration until the bringing up of the report.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the claims of those persons were in no ways connected with this Bill. The proper time for urging the claims of those persons would be when the Bill for the amendment of the Court of Chancery should be brought forward.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that, no doubt, a general compensating principle would be recognised in all cases where compensation would be extended under similar circumstances in England.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the clause would give to the creditor the benefits of an execution without having first obtained a judgment. All the creditor had to do was to swear that he believed the debtor was going out of the country, in order to obtain an execution against his goods; and he would be able to do so upon the  ex parte
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  considered the clause highly objectionable, and must oppose it.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that he proposed to make the operation of
 943
 LORD ASHLEY , in reply, said that his only object in proposing this Bill was to settle the disputed question as to the continuity of labour. He proposed to enact what had been the received interpretation of the Act of Parliament upon which the factory inspectors had acted, confirmed by the opinion of the law officers of the Crown, that the period of labour for young persons, being limited to ten hours in the day, should be continuous hours, dating from the time when any child or young person began to work. His object was merely to render the Act of Parliament what it was supposed to be when it received the Royal Assent. He had not charged the great body of the master manufacturers with practising the shift and relay system. If he had done so, he would at once have destroyed his case, for it would then have followed that all the good results of which they had heard had been produced by that system. He was glad to say that the shift system had only been practised by a small minority of manufacturers. It had obtained no footing at all in the West Riding of Yorkshire, and among
 932
 LORD ASHLEY  did not wonder that the hon. Gentleman expressed himself with disgust at the continuance of this horrible system of intramural interment; and hoped that he and other hon. Gentlemen would direct their attention to the report lately
 883
 LORD ASHLEY  then rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Act in respect of the hours and mode of working under the Factory Acts. He said: The House will recollect, that in 1847 a Bill was passed for limiting the hours of labour in factories from 12 to 10 in the case of persons under 18 years of age. That Bill, consisting of one or two clauses, was engrafted on the existing Bill of 1844, which it left untouched in all its provisions
 884 885 "It is not enough that we conjecture, even strongly, that it was the intention of the Legislature to have prohibited the Act; there must be words indicating plainly and clearly that it has done so; and, applying this rule of construction, we do not think that there are words in the statutes sufficiently plain and clear to render the conduct of the defendant in the case above-mentioned liable to punishment." "I can speak from positive knowledge that it was the intention of the framers of the Bill of 1844 that the working by shifts, which had been practised under the Act of 1833, should be prevented."…"When the Bill of 1844 was preparing, the inspectors were called upon by the Secretary of State to suggest enactments which would remedy the defect of the Act of 1833, and they did so." 886 "I have been to-day to see some factories where the so-called relay system is in full work, and have seen such evidence of the evils of that mode of working the people that I cannot refrain from pouring out my feelings to you. In one factory I found 335 young persons and women working by relays; they are sent out at different times of the day, so as to bring their actual working to ten hours. They are sent out of the mill without any regard to the distance of their homes or the state of the weather. Some of them, I ascertained, lived two miles off, and thus the half hour, or one hour, or two hours, can be turned to no good account. The lads of 13 up to 18, and the young girls and women, are wandering about the streets, and to what temptations of vice and profligacy they are thus exposed I need not say. The manager of one of the mills spoke of the system with abhorrence; and he told me that one of his own daughters is exposed, in another mill, to all that mischief. He and another manager said that the factory law has never worked so oppressively to the operatives as it does now." 887 "One millowner, employing more than 1,000 hands, said to me, 'Give me the power you de scribe, and, if I were so disposed, I should have no difficulty in cheating you, if you were actually living in the mill.'" "If working by relays were allowed, the Act would speedily become utterly abortive." "If there were twenty inspectors we could defy them all if relays were allowed." 888 889 890 s. s. d. 891 l. s. s. l. s. s. d. l. s. l. s. s. l. s. s. l. s. s. d. d. s. d. "The number of members was 800; factory workers, 17–20ths. In 1846–47 the income was 153 l. l. l. l. l. l. "Same results observed in many other societies. My opinion is, that a great saving has been
 892 "We, the officers of the Oakenshaw Sick Society, do certify that the funds of the sick society have increased considerably during the time of the Ten Hours Bill; and we attribute the cause of it to the members having more time for recreation and working shorter time.'" 893 "The number of burials during the last two years has fallen off considerably, although the cholera raged in the town; and I observe the diminution is of children under five years of age; and I assume the reason to be that mothers are able to come home much earlier, and give that attention to their children which no hired servant can ever bestow." "In connexion with some of the mills are young men's improvement societies, in which are taught the rudiments of the language, and also a sound knowledge of mechanics, geometry, chemistry, and general literature. These societies are solely supported by the young men's private contributions." "Since the passing of the Ten Hours Act fifty night schools have been opened in Leeds, most of which will be closed if we are deprived of it." 894 "Todmorden, Nov. 24, 1849. "My dear Sir—The information you received when at Todmorden, in reference to garden allotments, was, in the main, true. The system had been adopted to a limited extent before the ten hours law came into operation; but then an impulse was given to it which had not been before known. Three-fourths of the land which is now appropriated to garden purposes in this neighbourhood have been called into existence by the factory labourer having more spare time. I can give you a number of cases where the factory hand keeps a cow, partly from the produce of his garden, to supply the little ones with honest milk. A great deal of good arises, and much evil is avoided, by this very rational system. Some of the parties are so attached to their little gardens that I have seen them at work in the moonlight. Thirty acres in this locality are thus used. Diverge from Todmorden, which way you please, 2½ miles, and you will find plots of land, railway slopes, odd hits and ends, which used to be waste, now furnishing recreation, health, and food to the cottager.—Yours, &c. "JAMES HARDMAN." "The Ten Hours Act gives greater facility for this enjoyment. Indeed, by far the greater number of allotments I have enumerated have commenced since the Ten Hours Act came into operation, and I believe never would have commenced, had the hours of labour in factories not been shortened." l. 895 "This Bill is not for the benefit of the working classes; it will not tend to their advancement or intellectual culture, or of their social improvement." "Prior to the Ten Hours Act coming into force the Mechanics Institute was composed of about 200, now it numbers about 400, members; of these 48 are males in classes, learning reading, writing, arithmetic, grammar, and drawing. These are nearly all connected with factories. There are also 118 females who learn reading, writing, arithmetic, and plain sewing two nights a week, from 7 to 9 o'clock. These are nearly all power-loom weavers at various neighbouring factories; the male and female classes together number 166, or nearly one-half of the total number of the members of the institution. None out of either of those classes were members prior to the passing of the Ten Hours Act, nor would they continue in the classes henceforth were the eleven hours system to come into operation; indeed, they arose and were formed entirely in consequence of the relaxation of the hours of labour by the Ten Hours Act." "Night-schools, institutes, and other places of teaching, on the increase; all the ministers of religion declare a better attendance." "Immediately from the passing of the Ten Hours Bill reading-rooms and schools for mutual instruction sprang up on all sides." "The number of factory workers attending schools and institutes has more than doubled. There is not the slightest doubt that the social, moral, and physical condition of the factory workers has been improved. Under the shift system these advantages would be destroyed. I am of opinion that the Ten Hours Bill is one of the best measures ever passed." 896 "out of 270 hands 104 attend night-schools; and one master finds them so improved that he joins us at our tea parties, and is quite rejoiced at the improvement." "I can speak of the effects of the Ten Hours Act on my daily evening service. The majority of the regular attenders consists of persons engaged in factories. Their conduct and spiritual condition are the most satisfectory of any persons attending my church.……Deeply would they grieve, and deeply should I grieve, if the Legislature sanctioned a system such as the relay system, which must entirely deprive them of these benefits, and would very deeply injure their moral and religious character." "I feel satisfied that no millowner can come forward honestly to say one word against the well-working of the Ten Hours Bill. The abominable system of shifts and relays is obnoxious even to those who practise it: and it is only adopted in a spirit of opposition to one of the best measures of legislative enactment.….The average wages per head in this town are as great as I have ever known, though the time is reduced by one-sixth. An improvement in the health, happiness, and contentment is quite manifest among the operatives—a sure index to moral and religious progression……In fact, it has done much good to the trade generally." 897 hœ tibi erunt artes
 LORD J. MANNERS  thought it right, after the speeches of the hon. Member for Manchester, and the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, to express his own determination, and the determination of those who had supported the Ten Hours Act, not to accept any compromise on this question. He announced this intention without the least heat of temper, or the least desire to create that estrangement between the employers and the employed to which the hon. Member for Manchester had alluded. It was his object, in avowing that determination, to prevent this estrangement, and, therefore, he thought it best to assert at once that the working people of Yorkshire and Lancashire—of Scotland, and of the north of Ireland—having obtained, after a struggle of thirty-three years, that which they justly called the Magna Charta of the people, would not abate one tittle of their claim, in the enforcement of which
 924
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  said, it had been propounded that those who had detected the evil now denounced—and sought to apply a remedy—were Communists and Socialists. This was a somewhat portentous accusation, particularly at a time when Communism and Socialism seemed rife and near at hand— paries cùm proximus ardet 927
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he had served on the Committee on this Bill two years ago; and he recollected that the great difficulty felt by the Committee when they tried to form separate boards of way-wardens was, that such boards would become in most, if not in all, instances identical with the boards of guardians. As the principle of the Bill was the extension of the districts, and the appointment of adequate surveyors—a principle that the House had concurred in for the last fifteen years—he thought it would be a very strange proceeding to oppose the second reading of the Bill on points of detail, which should more properly be considered in Committee.
 MR. FREWEN  said, that his objection to the Bill was, that a sweeping measure was to be introduced, entirely levelling the existing system in parts of the country where the roads were admitted to be good. He also objected to putting the roads under the boards of guardians. In one case a representation had been made to him, that out of a board of thirty-two guardians, only two had any property at all, and he believed it was not uncommon to see tavern keepers elected guardians who did not occupy more than some twenty acres of land. He objected to the Bill, in the third place.
 937
 MR. LUSHINGTON  wished to put a question to the noble Lord the Member for Bath, and who was also a Member of the Board of Health, and which question he asked under the influence of intense feelings of disgust at witnessing almost the actual perpetration of the nuisance of which he meant to complain. As he was coming to that House to perform his duty that afternoon he passed through St. Margaret's churchyard, and under the tower of that church, and within a few yards of the House of Commons, he saw an open grave ready for the interment of a corpse. Now, it being in evidence that interments in St. Margaret's churchyard were injurious to the health of Members of that House, and also to the public in general, he begged to ask ths noble Lord whether he had any power to check or put an end to a nuisance against which the universal voice of the community has protested.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  seconded the Motion.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, reduction ought to take place, not only in the salaries of the Judges, but of those on the Treasury benches. They had too much.
 942
 MR. CARDWELL  wished to know whether districts where the highways were now administered under special Acts of Parliament, would be interfered with by the present measure?
 MR. O'CONNOR  wondered how the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down could reconcile his speech with the Motion of which he had given notice for next Thursday, as to the best means of instructing the working classes of this country. When the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary spoke of being afraid of creating "an antagonism," it was pretty evident that the antagonism the right hon. Gentleman was afraid of was losing the support of the hon. Gentlemen who sat behind him, who lived upon the labour of the poor and unprotected factory infants. The right hon. Member for Manchester had charged the noble Lord the Member for Bath with making a lax speech; but the right hon. Member must have discovered that be himself was standing on a weak crutch in that respect, after the very limping and incoherent speech he had made. All that he (Mr. O'Connor) asked was, that the House should put its own construction on the Act in question, and so promote the amelioration of the people. When they talked of the ignorance of the working classes, they must surely be aware that it was caused by the tyranny of the manufacturers. He denied that it was intended by this Bill to limit adult labour to ten hours a day. There was nothing of the kind in the noble Lord's Bill; but he (Mr. O'Connor) contended that it was only right and just that this should be done.
 916 Cries of and 917
 MR. BANKES  said, he had only admitted that to be a necessary consequence.
 MR. BANKES  said, the right hon. Gentleman misrepresented his meaning. He had not spoken of the intention, but of the necessary consequence.
 MR. BANKES  said, that the right hon. Baronet had with his usual candour stated the real views which he entertained on this subject. They, however, who acted in eon-cert with his noble Friend the Member for Bath, being anxious for a speedy decision upon the point, could not but regret that the right hon. Gentleman's mind should not be made up, and that the Government should not be prepared to give any answer to the present application. It was a matter that must be decided at no very distant time, and he believed that the Government, as well as the House generally, would feel greatly obliged to his noble Friend for taking up the question, since the Government had declined to do so. It was most injurious to the masters, as well as the operatives, to allow the question to remain in its present state. It appeared that the difficulty arose not from the last statute of 1847, but from a clause which
 909 910 911 Hansard "If we enlarge the various markets for our productions—if we allow a full and fair exchange of our commodities for the corn, and sugar, and
 912
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  considered that the Amendment should be made the subject of a specific Bill, if the principle involved in it was adopted by the House.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, if a stranger to that House had been present on that occasion, he must be surprised, when there was no objection to the introduction of the Bill, that the debate should not have ended with the speech of the noble Lord who brought forward the question, and with the observations of the right hon. the Secretary for the Home Department. As there was very important business on the Paper, he would not trouble the House with more than a very few remarks. The right hon. Member for Manchester said this question should be treated as a matter of business, and not as a mere question of humanity. In this opinion he (Mr. Aglionby) perfectly agreed. He also agreed with the hon. Member who spoke last, in professing a hope there would be some degree of harmony and good feeling prevailing in carrying out this measure respecting the factory system; but he could not agree with him in his appeal to the noble Lord to abandon the limit of time for labour which he had proposed in his Bill. The hon. Member intimated that the manufac-
 923
 MR. AGLIONBY  recommended the Government to press the second reading, after the ample opportunities which the
 935
 MR. H. EDWARDS  wished to explain that he had had no intention of holding out
 931
 MR. H. EDWARDS : Scarcely three hours have elapsed since I was informed that it would be my privilege to second the Motion of the noble Lord the Member for Bath, and not being in the habit of addressing the House, and, moreover, never wishing to do so except on matters referring to the general interest
 898 899 900
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that when he was Chancellor of the Exchequer he had had a communication with the parish authorities, and was assured by them that they were about to purchase a piece of ground for a new churchyard.
 MR. GOULBURN  wished to know from the Attorney General whether he included in the reduction of the salary of the Chief Justice any alteration of the retiring allowances?
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, that he understood great injustice had been done to several clerks in the Rolls Court, and he wished to call attention to the circumstance.
 MR. BRIGHT , in explanation, wished to say that the words he had used were not intended in the sense understood by the noble Lord. The instant he found
 933
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that all must admit that the Bill proposed to be brought in was intended to settle what was in some degree an unsatisfactory state of the law. He had not risen for the purpose of entering into the main question, but rather to express an opinion, which he was anxious to do at that early stage of the discussion, on a point which he thought of quite as much importance as the question of the particular words to be introduced into the Bill, or the exact time during which factories were to be permitted to work. He was, as the House knew, connected in business with concerns which came under the operation of the Factory Act: and of one thing he was most thoroughly convinced, namely, that for the beneficial working of any factory legislation, it was of the first importance that it should pass
 919 920 921 922
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that there was no precedent in England for the description of persons whose case he had mentioned—the copying and engrossing clerks—all of whom would be ruined by this Bill, unless they got compensation.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that there were upwards of fifty copying and engrossing clerks who would lose their employment by the contemplated changes. Those persons had been servants of the public, some of them for the last fifty years; surely their long services gave them some claim to consideration.
 MR. REYNOLDS  objected to the introduction of the clause, it gave such immense power to vindictive creditors.
 MR. SADLEIR  said, as the Irish Members did not take a very lively interest in the Bill, and as the Government opposed the clause, he would withdraw it.
 MR. SADLEIR  said, that at this stage of the Committee he wished to introduce a clause, the object of which would be to prevent fraud, and to abolish the system of city attachments, so much complained of, in Dublin, and one or two other cities in Ireland. By the law, as it at present stood, a creditor could, upon his simple oath, issue an attachment, and sweep away the goods of the debtor; and it often occurred that fraudulent executions were put in at the instance of debtors to the injury of the creditor. His object was to give a remedy against the goods instead of the person of the debtor.
 MR. SADLEIR  also urged the claims of those persons as worthy of consideration.
 MR. HENLEY  hoped, at all events, the Bill would be postponed till after Easter. Two years ago, the principle which it embodied had been objected to by that House—namely, that of a central controlling power in London; and a more inconvenient arrangement could not be easily conceived. The unions were formed for a different purpose, and would be found to vary most inconveniently in regard to size and otherwise. The guardians found their proper occupation heavy enough; and, in some parts of the country, the Bill would cast upon them work which would very much interfere with the due administration of the poor-law.
 MR. MULLINGS  thought this Bill ought not to be proceeded with until a return which he had given notice of his intention to move for, of the appointment of officers of courts of justice, and the salaries attendant upon them, had been made. He was of this opinion, because the salary in some measure depended upon the patronage and the emolument of the officers appointed by the chief justices. Nothing was said in the Bill about retiring pensions, and it appeared to him essential that there should be some provisions in the Bill stating what the retiring pensions should be. The very principle of the Bill was involved in the amount of the retiring pension coupled with the patronage. He gave the hon. and learned Gentleman fair notice that, considering the state of the country and the circumstances of the times, he meant to propose a reduction in the salary of 8,000 l. 940 l.
 MR. P. BENNET  objected to the creation of 650 new officers throughout the country, as the salaries would fall principally on the distressed agriculturists. He should therefore support the Amendment.
 MR. SPOONER  would remind the hon. and learned Gentleman, that if he were not of that branch of the profession from which chief justices were usually selected, he did belong to that branch from which lord chancellors were taken; and if he (Mr. Spooner) could form an accurate judgment of the hon. and learned Gentleman's talents from what they had seen in that House, he hade very fair, some time or other, to occupy the woolsack, and the vote come to now would necessarily involve the consideration of all other judicial salaries. Lord Denman had been Chief Justice seventeen years, and would the House say that what was a competent salary seventeen years ago, was not too much now? Another reason for postponing the Bill was that they might know the result of the Motion of which the hon. Member for Oxfordshire had given notice as to the salaries of public officers.
 MR. R. C. HILDYARD  thought there were grave objections to placing the control of the expenditure at the discretion of boards of guardians, who would often be tempted to repair the highways on a profligate system for the purpose of finding employment for their surplus labour. He trusted the Government would postpone the Bill so as to allow hon. Members the opportunity of discussing the details with their country constituents at the Easter quarter sessions.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, that as he belonged to a branch of the profession from which chief justices were not usually selected, he might speak as a person not partial on this subject. He thought it was above all things to be deplored if the House should go too fast in the direction of the reduction of judicial salaries. Nothing was of greater importance to the wellbeing of the country than that justice should be administered by men of learning and impartiality, such as they had seen occupying the bench, and that could not be done unless they gave them salaries such as would command men who by their experience and practice were at the head of their profession, and had attained a competent degree of public confidence and respect to fill these situations. When the hon. Member for Cirencester asked why the Chief Justice was to be paid 8,000 l. l. 941 l. l. l
 MR. M. GIBSON  had certainly understood the hon. Gentleman to say that the limitation of the hours of adult labour had been the object, but he submitted to the hon. Gentleman's explanation. He must, hovever, say, that if that were the object, the best course would be to include male adults in so many words in the Bill. His object in rising, however, was to guard against the supposition that by consenting to the introduction of this Bill, he sanctioned the plan shadowed forth by the noble Lord the Member for Bath. He used the words "shadowed forth," because the noble Lord had not explained in a definite and clear manner the precise nature of the scheme which he proposed. So far as he understood the noble Lord's plan, it did not seem to him likely to obtain the sanction of the House. He admitted that in its present state the law required some alteration. He believed that the whole difficulty arose from the circumstance that the clauses of a Twelve Hours Bill were imported without due consideration into a Ten Hours Bill. Parliament, in fact, did little more than substitute "ten" for "twelve," thus evincing, as usual, what he must be permitted to describe as the little consideration with which that House had dealt with great and important inter-eats. He did not know precisely whether the Twelve Hours Bill prohibited relays and shifts or not; some thought that it did, and such, he admitted, might have been the intention of its framers. But, in truth, the effect of the clauses of the Twelve Hours Bill was never thoroughly tested until there arose a necessity or desire to have recourse to the relay system under the Ten Hours Bill; and when the Ten Hours Bill came to be worked with the clauses imported into it from the Twelve Hours Bill, it was found that the probable intentions of the framers of the last measure were not carried out, and the courts had decided that the relay system was not prevented. He never thought the clauses of the Twelve Hours would work with a Ten Hours Bill. On the framers of the measure, who had undertaken to regulate employment in factories, must rest the blame of the difficulties which had arisen. They supplied the law, and were responsible for it. The manufacturers and millowners were not justly chargeable with having sought to evade the law. Much as they might have objected on principle to legislative interference with the hours of labour, he believed he might declare with truth
 914 915
 MR. M. GIBSON  said, the hon. Gentleman had stated that such was the intention of those who passed it.
 MR. M. GIBSON  said, the hon. Gentleman had stated in more direct terms than those used by the noble Lord the Member for Bath, what was the real object of the Ten Hours Bill. He told them plainly and distinctly that one object of that Bill was to limit adult male labour.
 MR. W. BROWN  was understood to say that he did not think a restriction of the hours of labour would work so advantageously for the operatives as they anticipated, and that he had no doubt they would eventually call upon Parliament to reverse its decision on the subject.
 MR. DEEDES  said, that as he believed the Bill might be rendered much less objectionable in Committee, he should vote for the second reading. He would feel strongly opposed to any Bill that referred merely to a part of the country. He intended in Committee objecting to giving the power to the board of guardians collectively, but he thought that if it were made compulsory on the guardians to elect a committee of their body for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of the Bill, much of the difficulty which he saw to the Bill would be removed.
 MR. W. J. FOX  perfectly agreed with the hon. Member for Manchester, that a satisfactory settlement of this question
 925 926
 MR. HODGSON  said, the magistrates upon the grand jury in Cumberland were unanimously opposed to this Bill. He moved that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 SIR G. GREY  said, the existing officers of the board of guardians would be the officers to discharge the duties imposed under this Bill, with the exception of one district surveyor, who, it was admitted on all sides, ought to be appointed. Much had been said about the roads of Cumberland. There were many bad roads, and some good ones too, in that county, but he knew it to be a fact, that not only in the north of England, but throughout every part of the country, a very strong feeling prevailed that a general system of management ought to be introduced. He trusted the House would consent to the second reading of the Bill on the understanding that a day after Easter should be fixed for the Committee.
 SIR G. GREY  said, it was not very encouraging to bring in a Bill for the reduction of salaries if they were to meet with such opposition as was now offered to the second reading of this Bill. At present the salary of the Chief Justice, as fixed by Parliament, was 10,000 l l. l.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that although he certainly had indulged the hope that, after the protracted discussions which had formerly taken place upon the much-disputed question of the propriety of imposing a restriction on the hours of labour of certain classes of persons employed in factories, Parliament had at length arrived at a settlement of the question, and that it would have been unnecessary to revive a discussion which every one must deprecate, because it could hardly be carried on without placing in apparent antagonism the interests of persons engaged in a great branch of national industry, whose interests, however, were inseparably combined, and between whom it was essential that sentiments of kindly feeling should exist; nevertheless he must admit that in the present ascertained state of the law his noble Friend and those who were acting with him were justified in coming to the House and asking for a
 901 902 903 904 "Thus the beneficent intentions of the Act are frustrated, and the hours of rest are unnecessarily curtailed." "Neither relays nor shifts of young persons or women prevail in any considerable number of mills in my district; nevertheless, the number of parties who have applied for information, and the complaints made as to the general effect of the system on a certain class of workpeople, induce me to apprehend that other mill-occupiers will resort to it, unless the Act be amended, and the practice cither altogether prevented or strictly regulated.…In every case that I have visited, great dissatisfaction has been expressed at the necessity of adopting so complicated a system, especially the necessity of reckoning or computing the hours of work from the early hour—in almost all the desire has been expressed that relays or shifts should be prevented. It will of course be understood that I have excluded all reference to relaya of children." 905 "I can speak from positive knowledge, that it was the intention of the framers of the Bill of 1844 that the working by shifts, which had been practised under the Act of 1833, should be prevented." 906 "Be it enacted, that no young person, and no female of any age, shall be employed in a factory in any one day more than twelve hours, or after the expiration of twelve hours from the time when any child or young person in the factory first begins to work in the morning, over and above the time given for meal times, save in the cases hereinafter excepted" "We must, then, consider whether, in the absence of express words to this effect, we can collect from other parts of the Act that was the meaning of the Legislature so clearly and unequivocally as to call upon us to give effect to it." "Undoubtedly, if there was such an enactment, it would have the effect of securing to the children and young persons whom it, was most certainly the object of the Legislature to protect against their own improvidence, or that of their parents, the more effectual superintendence and care of the inspectors. Without question it would more certainly prevent them from being overworked, and secure to them more completely the benefit of some education in public schools which
 907 908 l. "If, in this instance, the violation of it had been a slight one; if it had been only for a few minutes, we should have thought that we were dealing hard with Messrs. Hopgood to make them accountable for such a slight violation; or if we had any grounds to believe that it took place without their connivance—without their fully knowing of it." "I will not say that in every instance a master can prevent an infraction of the Act, but he should take care that there is no material violation of it. I cannot help taking this opportunity of saying that since the Act came into operation, young people have seemed to me to be more clean, and healthy, and comfortable than they were before. That is my impression, and I, for one, shall feel exceedingly sorry to see any material change in it."
 SIR G. GREY  had been in communication with the present Dean of Westminster and the other authorities on this subject, and was informed by them that they were about to purchase a piece of ground for a new churchyard; but they had only been waiting in expectation that Parliament was about to introduce a measure respecting interments in towns, in order to ascertain first what conditions the Legislature should prescribe in any such Act. The report of the Board of Health had not been long in the hands of the Government, but it was now under its earnest consideration; and he hoped shortly after Easter to be able to present a Bill to the House founded on that report.
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  thought it unfair that a sweeping and offensive Bill should be introduced, because the roads in some districts were bad, putting counties to very great expense for an object not wanted.
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  did not believe the machinery proposed would work well, and thought it would be very hard that a new and expensive system should be forced upon the whole country, because in certain parts of the kingdom the roads were badly managed. He hoped the Bill would be put off to another Session, by which time it would be better understood throughout the country, and the opinions of competent judges of the proposed change could be had.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  felt that he should fail in the respect due to the House if, after the appeal which had been made to him, he omitted to offer a few observations. As he understood, there was no opposition to the introduction of the Bill; and he was disposed to approach the question in the most dispassionate temper, and to give it his most deliberate consideration. His noble Friend the Member for Bath must excuse him if he said that he thought his noble Friend had himself provoked a discussion of a hostile character, when, before ascertaining whether or not there was to be any opposition to the Bill, he went through all the arguments which were used against the Ten Hours Bill three or four years ago, and proceeded to attempt to refute him with considerable eagerness and with some asperity. He had also been somewhat astonished at the speech of the hon. Gentleman who seconded the Motion, which seemed to hold out a threat that if the House came to a decision adverse to the wishes and expectations of the operatives, those operatives, who had, under the most trying circumstances, hitherto conducted themselves in a manner above all praise, would depart from the admirable course of conduct they had pursued, and would refuse to submit quietly to the decision of the House. The result of some political experience had long since warned him of the evil of dealing in prophecies as to the future, and he had accordingly religiously abstained from addressing anything of the sort to the House. He was now really beginning to be afraid, also, of making any assertions even with respect to the past; because, had he addressed the House before his right hon. Friend opposite addressed it, it had been
 928 929 930
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  could not join in the proposal to postpone this Bill either until next Session, or until after Easter, For fifteen years the subject had been before the House. Every one acknowledged that something ought to be done, and yet, the moment a Bill was introduced, the Government were asked to postpone it until next year. He owned he regarded with some jealousy the proposal to make the boards of guardians discharge the duties of way wardens, which were in many respects extraneous to their proper functions, and to some degree inconsistent with them. As a friend to the new poor-law, he was anxious not to see any addition made to the duties of the guardians which might interfere with the efficient working of that measure. Could not the Government avail themselves of the existing machinery, and have a double election every year for guardians and way wardens? The same body of ratepayers might vote, and the same persons might be elected, if they pleased to serve both offices, but let them be a distinct body. This, however, was a matter that might be discussed in Committee, and meanwhile he would support the second reading.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester had accused his noble Friend who had brought forward this measure of yielding too much to his enthusiastic zeal. In the first place, he (Sir R. Inglis) believed that nothing good had ever been effected in this world except by those whom many of their co-temporaries had called enthusiasts. That great work, the Reformation, by Luther and his compeers, was called an act of enthusiasm, and so it had ever been with any great work, and it was to the credit of the noble Lord that his exertions had been so designated by the right hon. Member for Manchester. The speech of his noble Friend was, however, as little open to the charge as any he had ever heard, as it was a speech filled with facts. Was it enthusiasm to state as a fact that, since the introduction of the measure three years since, fifty-nine night schools had been opened in Leeds for the young persons engaged in the day time in the factories? Was this an instance of the imaginative feeling; of his noble Friend? Was it also a piece of imagination to refer to the fact, that since that time there had been such an increase in the amount of deposits in the savings banks? The right hon. Gentleman might say it was not  post hoc, ergo propter hoc s. 918
 SIR. W. JOLLIFFE  objected to the measure, as putting the management of the highways under the direction of a body by no means the best qualified to conduct such matters economically and well, namely, the guardians of the union. Why not enact that the ratepayers, when electing a board of guardians, should also elect a separate board of waywardens? The hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Home Department would perhaps consent to refer this question to a Select Committee. With all his anxiety for the amelioration of the existing system, he (Sir W. Jolliffe) would rather see legislation upon it postponed to another Session, than agree to such a measure as this, likely to work expensively and ill, and to have a demoralising tendency in regard to the employment of the poor.
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  said, the principle of the Bill, as described, was the dividing of the country into districts, and appointing skilled officers over each. To that principle he would give his cordial assent, but on looking into the Bill he found the principle of it to be the mixing up of the highways with the poor-law—one of the greatest disadvantages that could possibly take place. He should therefore feel bound to vote against the second reading.
 VISCOUNT EMLYN  hoped the hon. Member would not proceed to a division. He was sure it would produce a very bad effect, as there seemed a general feeling in favour of the Bill.
 MR. T. L. HODGES  must also express his regret that no relief had been afforded to the hop growers. The duty was enormous, oppressive, and unjust; but the fact was, those who paid it were neither a numerous nor a clamorous class, and therefore their claims, however equitable, were overlooked. Even if there were no surplus revenue, he thought it would be the duty of the Government and of Parliament to make such reduction in the expenditure as would enable them to do an act of common justice to this suffering interest. The Government would find that the present excessive duty could not he paid much longer, for the prices of other agricultural produce was so low that the farmers who grew both hops and wheat had nothing to fall back upon. For his own part, he had come to the determination of advocating and supporting all possible measures of retrenchment, so that the hop growers might be relieved.
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY : Sir, I had no great hope of the financial exposition of the Government, and the chief pleasure I derived was, to see my right hon. Friend able to make it. I was also glad to see that the right hon. Gentleman had, profiting by his experience of last year, brought forward the budget at an earlier period of the Session. I was not
 1004 l. 1005 l l. 1006 l. l. 1007 l.
 MR. DRUMMOND  was grateful to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer for what he had held out; and if he had any cause of complaint against him, it was that he had not made his present speech last year, in answer to a Motion that he (Mr. Drummond) submitted to the House. All those, he found, who were in the habit of quoting Adam Smith, enlarged upon the advantages of foreign markets. But if there was one point in which Adam Smith was stronger than in another it was this, that the value of the home market was far beyond the value of the foreign; yet, from the days of Mr. Huskisson down to this very hour, preference had been given to the foreign market till now, when he had heard for the first time in that House a recognition of its value. But his right hon. Friend ought not, he thought, to have descanted so much upon the value of a system which had been to create, or rather to persist in the creation of, capital at the expense of labour. This was the very point he urged last year when he was told he was verging upon Socialism; and his right hon. Friend said nothing could be more absurd than the plan which he (Mr. Drummond) proposed. Moreover, when he urged his right hon. Friend to do something towards the reduction of the debt, he was told such efforts would be perfectly trivial, and that they would only tend to raise the value of stock in the market. But it now appeared that he was right. The right hon. Gentleman had mentioned the property tax, and it had been subsequently spoken of as being rather an advantage. His right hon. Friend the Member for Tamworth knew we should always have to pay the property tax; and he (Mr. Drummond), so far from dissenting from him, desired, if he could thereby put an end to the excise upon malt, even to increase the property tax. He dared say hon. Gentlemen opposite hardly knew the taste of malt. He wanted to shift the tax from the beer drinker to the champagne drinker, and to leave that which was a necessary of life to the labourer as free as corn. [Mr. BROTHERTON: No, no!] Oh, yes, hon. Gentlemen might talk about temperance to a man who had nothing else to do but to waddle out of his Committee-room into that House—it signified nothing what he drank, whether water or nothing at all; but did they observe what Major Edwardes said to his friends
 1015
 MR. G. SANDARS* : Sir, I should not have risen at this late period of the evening, had it not been for the appeals made to me by my hon. Friend the Member for North Warwickshire. My hon. Friend has stated the freight of corn, from Denmark to this country, to be but 4 s. s. s. s. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. 1022 s. d. s. s. s. s. s. d. s. "This is ill addition to the consumption of the usual quantity of home growth, as there has been an actual increase in consumption in 1849 as compared with 1848 of home growth, and concurrently with this increase there has been the enormous consumption of 5,600,000 quarters of foreign wheat by the poorer classes of this country. This increased consumption of wheat has taken place in consequence of the better condition of those who live by labour. You will not have millions of quarters of wheat consumed, except that millions of mouths can be found to eat them, and I want no better indication of general prosperity." 1023 s. s. 1024 s. s. s. s. s. s. d. s. s. s. s. s. 1025 s.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  said, his remarks on a former occasion had been somewhat misunderstood. What he said on the Motion of the hon. Member for West Surrey was this—that he looked upon the Motion as one to compel the Government to a revision of taxation. By that revision of taxation, he meant a re-distribution more equal
 1031 s. l. l.
 SIR F. T. BARING  promised that every opportunity should be afforded the hon. and gallant Member for bringing forward his Motion.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, he only proposed to take two votes in the Navy Estimates to-night.
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO  said, he had a Motion on the paper regarding the accommodation on board Her Majesty's vessels of war for assistant surgeons in the Navy; but as only two votes were now to be taken he would not impede the course of public business by pressing it at present. But he gave notice that he would renew the same Motion the next time the Navy Estimates were brought on; and he would do so before the Speaker left the chair, because he felt that important questions did not receive so much attention in Committee.
 MR. FOX MAULE  was not aware that there had been any such new issue of swords; but he had seen the pattern sent to the Horse Guards by the hon. Member for Birmingham, and thought the weapon a very great improvement on the present cavalry sword.
 MR. FOX MAULE  replied that the Committee had not taken that question into consideration, so far as they had yet gone. The East India Company paid 60,000 l.
 LORD J. MANNERS  commenced by quoting the following lines:—
 "'Tis when we suffer, gentlest thoughts Within our bosom spring, And who shall say that pain is not A most 'enlightening' thing? " 1017 s. s. s. d. s. s. d. 1018
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer would state what were the proposals of the Government on the subject of savings banks as soon as possible after Easter.
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  would not enter into a contest with the hon. Member who had just sat down on the question of the corn laws, but would make a few remarks on the financial statement of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He confessed some portions of the right hon. Gentleman's speech caused him regret, although he would admit that, if the system of taxation pursued in former times were to be pursued now, his right hon. Friend had done all in his power with the surplus which remained. The right hon. Gentleman had stated that he had thought it right to remove those duties which interfered with consumption, and as an instance of this, mentioned the tea duties, the removal of which would be a great boon to the consuming classes; but then the right hon. Gentleman had added that the present state of the revenue would not permit this reduction, and in making this statement he had held out no prospect of the duty being removed at any future period.
 1012 Laughter. 1013
 MR. COWAN  said, he intended to have put a question to the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, on the subject of savings banks, but had been prevented doing so. It was with great regret he heard the explanation of the right hon. Baronet, that he intended to defer his explanation of the intentions of the Government as regarded savings banks until after Easter, as there was a very strong feeling on the subject in Scotland, and great anxiety was manifested as to what was intended to be done. He would venture to express a hope that if the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer was, from the state of his health, unable to describe the course proposed to be pursued, that the noble Lord at the head of the Government would promise that it should be laid before the House before Easter.
 MR. FREWEN  must express his deep regret and disappointment at the statement of the right hon. Baronet. It was no doubt a source of much gratification to the House to see the right hon. Gentleman again in his place in restored health; but he (Mr. Frewen) must remark that much disappointment would be experienced by an important class in the country, after the numerous deputations that had waited upon the right hon. Gentleman and the noble Lord at the head of the Government, at not hearing any proposal from him to make an alteration in the hop duties. In the districts where hops were extensively grown, especially in Sussex and Kent, the people had been led to believe that it was the intention of Government to propose a considerable reduction of this tax. It was the only tax that was levied upon anything which grew out of doors. The crop itself was precarious in its nature. In one year the duty may be excessive, when the price of hops was exceedingly low; and in another year, there might be so short a crop that the whole county was reduced to a state of bankruptcy from one end to the other. The old hop duty throughout the kingdom had amounted, in 1848, to 212,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. l. s. l. s. 1002
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that if Mr. Huskisson could be restored to that House, he believed no one would be more astonished than he would at the use which those who called themselves his disciples, made of his authority. He was well aware that Mr. Huskisson maintained liberal and sound views with respect to the removal of unnecessary restrictions upon commerce; but he had yet to learn that for the purpose of favouring an abstract notion he would have consented to sacrifice the great interests of this country to unrestricted importation, or have endangered their naval supremacy by the repeal of the navigation laws. They had in the admissions of the Chancellor of the Exchequer the proof that their free-trade policy had not been beneficial to this country; for looking to the years which he had referred to, he must say that he could not possibly state anything worse respecting it than that, as the system of free trade had been more largely acted upon, it had tended to degrade the working classes and to impoverish the Exchequer. The right hon. Gentleman, though he had practically admitted that there was distress in the agricultural districts, still went on prepetuating the illusion that the falling prices of this country were not attributable to the free imports of agricultural produce that had taken place. In 1847 they had been told that in consequence of the high prices the importations were unprecedented; but last year the imports exceeded those of 1847, though the difference in price was nearly 30 per cent. And when the right hon. Gentleman talked of the prices of wheat during the last eight years in Holland, and Belgium, and France, under a corn law, he asked what precedent the prices in those countries with corn laws could afford for those which would prevail in this country without a corn law? Now, he would quote prices from ports from which they must look for supplies. These returns he had from authentic sources, and thought them worthy the attention of
 1009 s. s. s. s. s. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. s. d. 1010 s. d. s. s. s. 1011
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, his opinion was that, instead of a surplus of 1,500,000 l. 1033
 The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER : The Equivalent Company, the chief members of which belong to the Bank of Scotland. I have now left the sum of 500,000 l. 997 l. 998 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Mr. Bernal, I have to ask the indulgence of hon. Gentlemen, for I am really not very well able to address them, and I must take this opportunity of assuring them how deeply sensible I am of the kindness and forbearance which the House has exercised towards me during my long and unavoidable absence. I have taken the earliest opportunity in my power of coming down to the House, in order to make that annual financial statement to which it naturally attaches so much importance. I must ask for the indulgence of the Committee also in another respect, for although many of my hon. Friends behind me are always anxious for a very early exposition of the budget, I must repeat what I have before stated to the House, that it is frequently impossible at an early period of the Session to form estimates which can be relied upon as correct, with the confidence which ought to be placed in all statements of this kind. In ordinary years it is the first duty of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to compare the reality of the financial year after it had closed, with the estimates which he had previously framed of it, and, guided by that experience and the knowledge of the probable state of trade for the year, which those conversant with the subject can generally form in the course of the spring, to state what he firmly believes will be the probable income of the year. Another reason for the postponement, until a later period, of any such statement is, that is necessary to vote the Navy, Army, and Ordnance excesses of the former year, if there should be any. Now, at a very early period of the Session, the accounts of two of these departments are not made up, and it is impossible to know whether there will or will not be any excess in those branches of the public service in the previous year, and, if there be such excess, what will be its amount. It is, of course, very possible to make an estimate at any time of the year. But what is valuable to the House is, that the estimates shall be certain—that the person who states them to the House may confidently say that he believes that statement to give a fair and true view of the case, and that the House may be able to rely upon the facts and figures which he lays before it. Now, last year, it would
 973 l. l. l. l. 974 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 975 l 976 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 977 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 978 l. l. s. d. s. l. l. l. l. 979 l. l. l. l. l. 980 l. l. l. l. l. l. s. 981 l. l. l. l. s. s. l. 982 l. l. l. l. l. 983 984 s. s. d. s. d. 985 s. 986 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 987 l. l. l. l. l l. l. 988 989 990 l. l. l. l l. s. d. l. 991 l. ad valorem ad valorem l. l. 992 993 l. l. l. l. l. l 994 l. l. l. l. l. l. 995 l l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 996 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. FRENCH  said, he did not think the measures of relief would to any effect advantage Ireland. In Ireland they had
 1016
 COLONEL DUNNE  had observed that, of late, all mention of the state of Ireland had been carefully avoided. Since the first night of the Session, when the prosperity of the whole country was affirmed, including Ireland, there had been a gradually increasing acknowledgment that the agricultural classes were suffering; that fact had just been admitted by the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, and every one must confess that of that suffering Ireland bore the most. There was no gainsaying the fact that the repeal of the Customs had inflicted great injury upon Ireland; the loss upon the single article of wheat being 6,500,000 l. 1029
 MR. BANKES  expressed his surprise that the hon. Member for Westbury's sagacity had not led him to observe—what, indeed, was the drift of the argument of the hon. Member for Wakefield—that a removal of protection necessarily created the desire to increase the produce, and that increase of produce was what led to the decrease in the price of it. They had learnt from the remarks which had fallen from several hon. Members that evening how foreign countries were preparing their land with the view of supplying the markets of this kingdom; and that was the reason, as the hon. Member for Westbury must be aware, why, during protection, prices might, and would, be of different value from what they might and would be after protection was removed. It had been a source of satisfaction to those who sat on that (the protectionist) side of the House to hear the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, differing as it did, in one respect, from all those speeches which had proceeded of late from the Treasury benches, with regard to the tone he had taken respecting the condition of the agricultural interest. In the
 1027 Laughter.
 MR. MUNTZ  congratulated the House and the Chancellor of the Exchequer himself on his reappearance among them. He was much pleased to see the improvement ill the right hon. Gentleman's health, but be could not congratulate him on the subject of his budget. It was most important for the House to inquire the amount of the surplus, and how it was to be obtained. The right hon. Baronet had made a comparison with one of the very worst years, and be thought it doubtful whether the right hon. Gentleman would really obtain any surplus from increased revenue. In fact, the surplus seemed to arise almost wholly from the refusal of the House to grant the supplies asked for in the first
 1019 bonâ fide 1020 l. l. l. l l. l. l. 1021 s. s s. s. s. d. d. s.
 MR. Gr. SANDARS  wished to explain two points. The hon. Member for Westbury had stated that he (Mr. Sandars) had said that the expense of freights to this country was from 11 s. s. s. s.
 MR. GOULBURN  would not go into the various topics touched upon during the present debate, but there was one point ad-
 1032
 MR. HEALD  congratulated the House and the country on the reappearance of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and said he wished to advert to one topic of the right hon. Gentleman's speech. He said he could not congratulate the country at large upon the fact that the condition of the industrial classes of the community had kept pace with that of the monied interest. For twenty years that subject had made a great and painful impression upon his own mind. He had watched the progress in this country of the capitalist, the increase of productive power, and the altered condition of the operative classes, and he saw that the distance between the head and the feet of the body politic was daily on the increase; and no country could be in a satisfactory condition when that was the case. While he sympathised with the sufferings of the agricultural classes generally, still as a representative of a borough he was bound to tell the House that a large class in society, the shopkeepers, were at that moment amongst those most deeply affected by the distress of the country. Yet as the middle classes of society might be called the backbone, connecting the extremes of society together, that was not a healthy state of things they were producing, if they were weakening that connexion. He had listened with pleasure to the proposed reductions referred to by the right hon. Gentleman in his financial statement; but he would have been better satisfied if he had heard that what surplus was left on hand was to be applied to the reduction of the debt accumulated in the course of the last twenty years, of which there was yet a balance of 27,000,000 l. 1034
 MR. J. WILSON  said, if the hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat would refer to the debate in which he (Mr. Wilson) had spoken, he would find that he (Mr. Wilson) had quoted the freight from Dantzic at 4 s. s. d. s. d. s. s. 1026 s.
 MR. MACGREGOR  was astonished that hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House were not satisfied with the speech of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer; for everything in that speech had had a reference to the agricultural interest. He believed it would be found almost impossible to bring wheat
 1028 s. s. l. l l.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he had heard many in the course of that debate pretend to say, that an equalisation of the stamp and brick duty was a benefit to the agricultural classes. He begged leave to state it as his opinion, that it would be no such thing. That they would not benefit in proportion to their part in the community he would not deny, but he wished to remind the House that three-fourths of the brick duty were paid, not by them, but by the manufacturing towns and the large buildings of this country. As for the stamp duty, that might be of advantage to the hon. Member for the West Riding, who was engaged in founding societies for the purchase of small freeholds. Indeed, generally, there was a greater amount of small lots of household property transferred than of small pieces of land, therefore he denied that these reductions would be any special benefit to the agriculturists. But if they had been got up for the purpose of throwing dust in their eyes, after the plaintive tone in which the right hon. Gentleman acknowledged their distress, he at one repudiated any such impression in regard to them. He could understand now with what intent in that night's debate, and in debates elsewhere, so much effort had been made to impress them with the idea that whatever present prices might be—and they were only the consequences of extraneous and temporary causes—prices yet might be higher. For if the agriculturists would fake up the notion, pledge their estates, borrow money, and keep large crowds of the people employed, then down would come the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, and point to the state of the country as a demonstration of the advantages of free trade. When the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer talked about the ruin that would befal a nation that went on borrowing, he could not help thinking it a little inconsistent to ask the landed interest to take these loans and pledge their estates, their only prospect being the price of wheat continuing at 35 s.
 Mr. HENLEY  asked whether the arrangement with the East India Company, as to the payment of 60,000 l. 1036 l
 MR. HUME  said, this vote was among the estimates being considered by the Committee upstairs; but he believed it might be reduced one-half with benefit to the service.
 MR. HUME  said, as the other side had voted the number of men, he was not disposed to deny the men their wages. The proper way to reduce this vote, was by reducing the number of men; and it was too late to do that now.
 MR. HUME  thought the treatment practised towards the medical officers of the Navy a disgrace to the country.
 MR. HUME  said, that the very gratifying manner in which the announcement of even so small an amount of relief had been received, ought to be a lesson to those who had hitherto been parties to saddling the country with increased charges. He believed that the relief now proposed was a proper relief, but it would mainly serve those who had all along been benefited by excessive taxation. He had, however, expected that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not have dealt merely with an avowed surplus, but would have endeavoured to show the House why such large establishments were kept up, and why a much larger reduction had not been effected. He wanted to know if this was the only relief the country was to have. The reduction of the duty on bricks, and the equalisation of the stamp duty, he considered to be wise and useful measures; but he had great doubts as to the propriety of lending money to the proprietors of land, whether in England, Ireland, or Scotland. He thought it a bad principle, and one which the House ought not to sanction unless necessity required it. The right hon. Gentleman had shown no such necessity, and indeed it would be very difficult to show it, as long as money could be borrowed at 2½ per cent, which was the case at the present moment. He objected to the mode in which the loans were to be effected. Parliament ought not to inter-
 999 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1000 l. l. l. 1001
 MR. HEYWORTH  said, our mode of taxation had been exceedingly mischievous and injurious to the working classes. In his opinion, the only hope of escaping from the difficulty now pressing on the country lay in the transfer of the burdens of the country to direct taxation, by means of an income or property tax.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  wished to know if there had been any new issue of swords to the cavalry of the invention of the hon. Member for Birmingham.
 MR. SLANEY  thought the remission of the duty on bricks would be a great advantage to the humbler classes, whose interests in its remission were deeply concerned. Hon. Gentlemen on all sides of the House desired to have some mode of lightening taxation. He would ask, was there no other method by which the weight of taxation might be diminished, except that of reducing taxes? He thought there was another mode, and that was by stimulating the industry, the enterprise, and the spirit of the people, who created the capital of the country. At present the humbler classes had no facilities open to them for the safe investment of their savings. Did they desire to buy a piece of land? The cost of the conveyance and the complexity of the title were such as to operate as complete obstacles to their carrying that desire into effect. The difficulties were equally great if they wished to invest their money in mortgages, in which case they were almost sure to become the prey of some needy attorney. He asked the House and the Government to consider the justice and policy of giving these parties fair play with respect to opportunities for the investment of their small capital which they had accumulated by their industry. He thanked Her Majesty's Government for the remission of the taxes on the conveyances of small properties. At the same time he was convinced, if they investigated their taxes generally, they would find they were not imposed fairly upon all classes of the community, and that the humbler classes had to pay more than their share.
 MR. EWART  did not think that the repeal of the duty on bricks would be productive of very great advantage. He felt that if they would not reduce their expenditure they must continue taxation. It was impossible that they could repeal duties which acted oppressively on trade—such, for instance, as the soap duty—if they did not contract their expenditure. He was glad to find that the principles laid down by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer were the principles advocated by all sound practical reformers. For his own part, he had a great objection to those taxes which affected the transfer of property, and he would be glad to see the advertisement duty repealed. If the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer thought it right and prudent to lay by a sum for the reduc-
 1008
 MR. F. MACKENZIE  said, the two or three observations which he had to make, were on a subject more especially affecting that part of the united kingdom with which he stood connected. He understood that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed a grant of money for the purpose of drainage in the united kingdom, that was to say, in England and Scotland conjointly. Now, he was told, that because, in regard to the last grant made by the House, Scotland had shown her prudence and foresight to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, by having secured to herself three-fourths of it, and England had found out, from Scotland taking it, the loan was a good thing, that now, in the case of a new grant, she was to be limited. That was a very poor return to them for having come forward to avail themselves so readily of the boon offered them by the House. He was sure they would agree with him that they were hardly treated, if having come forward in competition with England and her greater population, they were now to be precluded from participating in another grant, because England had found out it might be used with advantage.
 MR. CAREW  feared that the want of confidence in all agricultural investments was such that the good old system of leasing for a term of years, which had heretofore existed, would be given up. No man had sufficient confidence in land now to take a lease. There was another boon also
 1030
 SIR DE L. EVANS  wished to make an observation in allusion to the proposed change in the stamp duties. He feared his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not paid attention to the stamp duty on receipts for small sums. The threepenny stamp duty was found to be very oppressive to small traders all over the country, and its continuance was regarded by them as a hardship.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, there was a single point in the statement of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer which required some explanation, which no doubt could be given by the hon. the Secretary for the Treasury. In one part of the hon. Gentleman's speech he assumed that 2,000,000 l. l. l. l. l. 1003 l. l. l.
 SIR J. GRAHAM : Who receives this annuity of 10,000 l.
 MR. PETO  would not have risen in this debate had it not been for the observation of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, that the free-trade policy had tended to the degradation of the working classes. From very extensive knowledge of the working classes, he was able to say they felt a debt of gratitude was due from them for their cheap supplies of food—a benefit that future generations would appreciate, though at the present moment it might not be perceived. He thanked Her Majesty's Government very sincerely for the remission of the brick duties. ["Hear, hear!"] It might be thought he was interested in this question, but he assured the House he was not, only as it affected the comfort and well-being of the working classes. He knew of no duty of similar amount the repeal of which would tend so much to improve the habitations of the poorer classes, for brickmakers having hitherto paid the duty upon the raw material, before it was burnt, were not able to afford the loss of it, and the consequence had been that the cottages of the poor were almost uniformly built with refuse materials that could not be used in better erections. On these several accounts Her Majesty's Government deserved thanks for what they proposed; and he trusted they would hereafter be induced to substitute a house duty for the window tax. The window tax was the most unpopular duty in the empire, besides being most injurious to the social
 1014
 MR. LABOUCHBRE  felt assured that if the House entertained any measure of this kind, it would have the effect of spreading a panic through the country. Even the probability of the House agreeing to a Bill of this kind would be most unfortunate. It appeared that his hon. Friend the Member for the city of Edinburgh introduced the Bill in the expectation that the two companies would come to some agreement, and he hoped the House would never consent to the second reading of a Bill—of the main provisions of which they decidedly disapproved—in the vain hope that the parties concerned would come to a settlement. The Bill before them was objectionable, not only in detail but in principle, violating the good faith of parties.
 MR. E. ELLICE  said, that Bills had been read a second time, by which parties got rid indirectly of guarantees which that House had authorised. The most obvious way of protecting persons and their properties from such proceedings would be to insert a clause, similar to that inserted last year, in all unpassed Bills, that nothing in the Bill contained should interfere with or in any way impair guarantees, or other obligations previously entered into under the sanction of the House, If Committees received that instruction, a clause could be put into every Bill that would give ample securities to parties having guarantees under former Acts, and without such a clause no parties could think them selves safe.
 MR. E. ELLICE  would move on the following day that it be an instruction to Railway Committees to introduce such a clause.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, that his name had been put on the back of this Bill, but he altogether disapproved of it, and thought it ought to be thrown out.
 The CHANCELLOR or THE EXCHEQUER  said, that his object was to assimilate the duties in both countries, and in effecting that object the duties now payable in Ireland would, in a few instances, be augmented, but in most cases they would be considerably reduced.
 MR. FAGAN  said, that the great majority of the holdings in Ireland being under 50 l. s. s. d.
 MR. V. SMITH  suggested that some precautions should be adopted in the distribution of the loan, otherwise the persons
 1066
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  stated, that ample and excellent security was to be obtained for the advances made for drainage in Ireland; and the House, he was satisfied, would be prepared, not indeed to grant, as the hon. Member for Tavistock mistakenly supposed, but to lend the money proposed to that part of the united kingdom which required advances most, which had long suffered from oppression, and on which the hand of Providence had weighed so long, but which had approved its good faith by paying its instalments more regularly than any other portion of the empire. What they wanted in Ireland was money; they were not beggars; and he repeated that they were ready to give good security for the advances which might be made.
 SIR D. J. NORREYS  said, that he objected to the proposition which had been made by the hon. Member for Limerick, as he thought that it would have the effect of depriving the counties of the intelligence of many of the towns. He was afraid that the hon.' Member who suggested the plan was personally interested in the matter.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the effect of this proviso would be to retain the old qualification which the Bill proposed to abolish.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the proviso was opposed to the whole principle of the measure. It was expedient to try the amended franchise for a while, at all events, with an annual registration. If this did not answer, the hon. Member for the city of Cork would have a far better case.
 SIR R. FERGUSON  moved that the following words be struck out of the clause:—" Excluding nevertheless from such lists all persons registered under the said Act in respect of any qualification heretofore requiring the elector to be or to have been in the actual occupation of the premises." His object was, that the names of persons now on the register should be retained until they were objected to, such persons as might hereafter establish their claims being added to the list.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the proposal of the hon. Baronet would alter one of the main principles of the Bill, which proceeded upon the English borough registration system. That plan had worked more satisfactorily and less expensively than the English county registration system; and he thought the clause as it stood would establish the most simple and satisfactory mode of registration.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  observed, that their not being on the register would not enable them to escape payment of their rates, and the franchise was to be viewed as a trust cast upon the persons indicated by law as the parties to whom it should be committed.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, surely there was balm in Gilead without resorting to so extreme a measure as the disfranchisement of all Ireland, which one hon. Member had stated as the only cure. The point to note, was the wonderful unanimity of Members on both sides the House, in declaring that the suffrage was abhorrent to Irishmen, a thing no man would accept if he could help it, and this, as had been plainly said, through the intimidation of the landlords on the one side, and the priests upon the other. In this condition of things, the promised Motion of the Member for Tralee for the ballot in Ireland, would come like oil upon the troubled waters, and he hoped all parties would remember their unanimity for its necessity.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that hon. Members seemed to disregard the operation of preceding clauses, which rendered it impossible for this provision to disfranchise a voter.
 MR. P. WOOD , pursuant to notice, moved that the Committee of Inquiry as to the oaths of Members do consist of twenty-one Members. He wished, as Mr. Disraeli would not be able to attend, that
 1082
 MR. P. WOOD  could not answer for the Committee, but so far as the terms of the Motion went, and so far as his own intentions went, the Committee would be one like that which sat in the case of Mr. Pease—simply a Committee to report on Acts of Parliament and precedents. It would consist of twenty-one Members, being six beyond the usual number.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  moved that the number be twenty-two.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON : Sir, I have heard very many arguments during the progress of this debate about the franchise—its increase and its diminution; but as I differ in some points from hon. Members, I will beg to make a few remarks. I do not pretend to much knowledge of the county franchise, though convinced of the necessity for its increase; but I confess my impression is, that an 8 l. 1073 l. locum tenens Ex uno disce omnes. 1074
 COLONEL CHATTERTON : Sir, I am convinced the assurance just made by the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer that there is an experienced engineer officer sent over to inspect the work of the Board of Works, will give infinite satisfaction in Ireland. I assure the right hon. Gentleman that the Board are by no means popular in Ireland, They are very dictatorial and imperious in their decisions, and in many instances the work is shamefully done and neglected. The injury they did during the years of famine can never be forgotten or forgiven—destroying good roads and finishing scarcely anything they commenced. I am happy the right hon. Gentleman has made the selection of Colonel Forster, of the engineers, whose experience and talent I am very happy to bear testimony of.
 MR. CLEMENTS  moved a proviso at the end of clause 15. His object was to strike out from clause 15 to clause 19, with a view to the substitution of the clerk of the union for the high constable, as the officer who would have to prepare the lists of persons qualified to vote, and to make out the objections indicated in clause 19, and to receive general claims and objections. He also proposed that the lists so prepared should be forwarded to the clerk of the peace, who should be the officer to cause the lists to be printed and exhibited, and likewise that the lists should be made out by parishes and townlands alphabetically. He contended that the clerk of the union was the proper officer to prepare the lists, more especially as the baronies over
 1081
 MR. FOX MAULE  was glad his hon. Friend the Member for the city of Edinburgh repudiated the authorship of this measure—he was glad he denied having any participation in the objects of it. One, however, would imagine, from the speech of his hon. Friend, that this Bill was brought in for the advantage of the Caledonian Railway Company, and for the
 1052
 MR. VESEY  observed, that this Bill had been introduced professedly as a boon to the people of Ireland—as a means of extending the franchise, and giving every person possessing a qualification the right of voting for representatives in Parliament. As this clause now stood, however, the Bill would not in many cases be regarded as a boon; because, under the clause, every person possessing a qualification was to be placed upon the register, whether he wished it or not. Every one acquainted with Ireland was too familiar with the agitation and heartburnings attending elections in that country, and many persons possessing the requisite qualification as voters would prefer not being upon the register, that they might avoid the annoyance to which they were liable to be subjected at elections.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that if he was to understand that the hon. Gentleman wished that certain boroughs might be combined, for the purpose of reducing the number of Members to Parliament, he would have serious objections to such a course; but if he meant that each of the present representative boroughs should form the head or centre of other contributory boroughs, so as to make an increase in the constituencies, it would be well worthy of consideration. With regard to the proposition of the hon. Gentleman, there would be many difficulties, both in principle and detail; but he did not see that there could be any prominent objection to it. He would not be justified in saying that he would oppose it when it may be brought forward; and he would observe that during the recess the question would be considered, and he would endeavour to collect every information on the
 1071
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I think it is just to Mr. Denison that I should read to the House a statement which he sent to me, which I received this morning, and which professes to be a statement of his opinion as regards the supremacy of the Crown as connected with this case. It is as follows:—
 "I have not denied, and do not deny, that the Queen's Majesty is supreme governor of this Church and Realm, and is, in virtue thereof, supreme over all causes ecclesiastical and civil, judging in causes spiritual, by the judges of the spiritualty, and in causes temporal by temporal judges, as enacted by the statute 24th of Henry VIII. c. 12. And I have not impeached, and do not impeach, any part of the regal supremacy, as set forth in the second canon and in the 37th article of our Church. But I humbly conceive that the constitution does not attribute to the Crown, without a synod lawfully assembled, the right of deciding a question of doctrine; and this, although disclaimed by the Lords of the Judicial Committee of Her Majesty's Privy Council, is what, as appears to me, has been done, indirectly indeed, but unequivocally, in the late case of 'Gorham  v (Signed) "GEORGE ANTHONY DENISON. "March 18, 1850." 1056
 MAJOR BLACKALL  wished to know, if they agreed to the resolution in its present form, whether they would be prevented from proposing the extension of the grant for other purposes at a future stage?
 MAJOR BLACKALL  believed it would be a hardship in some cases to compel persons to be upon the register, and they might perhaps leave their rates unpaid in order to avoid this.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, if abuses existed with respect to the carrying on the drainage in Ireland to any very serious extent, as they might suppose from the observations they had heard, it was not at all improbable that there would be an animated discussion on the next stage of the Bill. Although some advantages may have resulted from some of those kinds of grants, he never would borrow one farthing from them, as he would not allow the management of his estate to be taken out of his hands. He could not help feeling that the Government was stepping out of its proper province in making these loans, as they appeared to have no control over the expenditure.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that one effect of the proposition would be, to semi-disfranchise the electors of the towns which they proposed to unite, by giving them one vote for a borough Member, in place of
 1077
 MR. COWAN  rose to move that the order for the Second Reading of this Bill (which stood for this day) should be discharged. As the intentions of the promoters of the Bill had been a good deal misunderstood, he begged to make a few observations on the subject. About sis months ago it was thought desirable that an amalgamation of the Caledonian Railway and the Edinburgh and Glasgow Railway Companies should, if sanctioned by the various classes of parties interested, be brought about. The circumstances of the Caledonian company had some time since rendered a committee of investigation necessary, and Mr. Blackburn, the chairman of the Edinburgh and Glasgow Railway, made a proposition to that committee with the view of such amalgamation. The Caledonian line had been approved of by Railway Commissioners appointed by Government; and after a severe Parliamentary contest, was sanctioned by a Committee of the House of Commons in 1845. It was constructed in a wonderfully short space of time, and reflected the highest credit on the engineering skill and talent of his hon. Friend the Member for Honiton. It was now universally acknowledged that such a line ought not to have been made, as it not only went through a district noted for bleakness and sterility, but was in addition exposed to the competition of two nearly parallel lines, one on each side of it. The Caledonian company was now proved by the report of its own committee to be, at this time, in a state of utter inability to meet the claims upon it, whether arising from debentures or from guaranteed lines; and the only object of the promoters of the present Bill was to raise the question whether or not means could be adopted by which the business of the two railway companies might be conducted by one establishment—one secretary, one engineer, and one set of clerks and bookkeepers, so that a very large amount of saving might be effected to both companies. He readily admitted that if there
 1051 Times
 MR. LUSHINGTON  scarcely considered it necessary to kick the carcass of this defunct and unprincipled Bill, but begged to say it was an insult to the House to propose to its consideration so unscrupulous a measure.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer talked of having a surplus, but he apprehended he had no right to say that he possessed such a thing until he had paid his debts. The present measure would not confer any benefit upon him or upon his tenantry: he gave no leases, and he had no tenants who wished to have them. If they disliked each other, why they got rid of their bargain, and that was all about it. The Chancellor would have done more service to the country if he had removed, or even lessened, the duty on stamps for fire insurance, which were more than 300 per cent. The immense duty deterred a great number from insuring; and if he followed the precedent of reduction in this instance, he would increase the revenue instead of diminishing it, and he would confer a boon upon the country.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the reduction of duty applied to transfer of all property. As regarded the second question, he should say the subject had already been matter of debate in the present Session, and had
 1062
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that, although by the resolution he was about to place in the Chairman's hands, he proposed at present to deal with only that class of stamp duties which related either to the transfer of property on mortgages or bonds, he was by no means prepared to say that there were not other branches of the stamp duties which required consideration; but it would be remembered that the subject of a general revision of the stamp duties had been under consideration for many years past. In the time of Lord Althorp a scheme was actually prepared and laid before the House. A similar scheme was entertained by is right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Admiralty; and he rather thought that the right hon. Gentleman opposite the Member for Cambridge had also had a scheme for that purpose under his consideration. But, upon all those occasions, the amount of the details and the difficulty of carrying them at once had deterred all his predecessors from undertaking such revision; and the consequence was, that although fifteen years had elapsed since such scheme was first prepared, little had been done until he had himself taken a step in that direction in the course of last year. He thought it right, therefore, rather to take up the matter piecemeal, to see how much they could carry out. The class of stamp duties with which he meant now to deal was that which related to conveyances, transfers, mortgages, bonds, and leases; and the general tenor of the proposal he had to make was, instead of the present exceedingly unequal and unjust rates, to adopt, as nearly as might be, the principle of an  ad valorem l. l. l. l. l. l. ad valorem 1058 l. l. s. s. l. l. s. s. l. l. s. s. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. l. l. l. s. l. ad valorem ad valorem "There is one suggestion that I would make with reference to the expense of" the conveyance of property of small value; that is, that the stamps upon the sale of land should not stand,
 1059 l. l. l. l. l. s. l. l. s. d. l. l. s. l. s. s. l. s. d. l. l s. s. l. s. l. l. s. s. l. s. l. l. s. l. l. s. d. l. l. s. l. l. s. d. l. l. s. l. l. s. s. l. s. l. l. s. d. l. l. s. l. l. s. l. l. s. l. l. s. l. s. l. l. s. l. s. l. l. s. l. s. l. l. s. l. l. l. s. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1060 l. "The consequence of that is, that that small stamp attaches to a 150 l. l. ad valorem l. l. l. s. d. l. l. l. s. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. l. l. s. d. l. l. s. l. l. l. s. l. l. l. l. s. d. 1061 l. s. d. l. l. s. l. s. s. d. l. l. s. s. d. l. l. s. s. d. l. l. s. s. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that the terms of his resolution were so large as not only to include
 1065
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  suggested the propriety of reserving discussion on matters of detail for another occasion.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he rose to propose a resolution, to authorise the Lords of the Treasury to make advances, for the purpose of drainage and other improvements of landed property in Great Britain and Ireland, to the amount of 3,000,000 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  should say that he proposed on the whole a considerable reduction on the duty in Ireland; and the cases in which the duty would be raised were very few indeed.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  repeated it would be impossible for the Treasury to control in detail the carrying out these works. All those petty complaints should be made to the Board of Works, and not to the Treasury. As for the Government interfering, he could only say that appeal after appeal had been made to it by Irish Gentlemen to come forward in this matter. They stated that where there were three parties holding land in the same district they never would agree in the principle of the drainage of their lands unless the Government interfered.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  could only say that of the 2,000,000 l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, his answer to the questions of the hon. and learned Gentleman was, that no repayments would at once be carried to the credit of the revenue, nor be applied to the reduction of the debt—the amounts would be carried to the credit of the Consolidated Fund. He hoped, when the repayments exceeded the advances, some future Chancellor of the Exchequer would be called upon to apply the amount to the reduction of the debt.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it would be utterly impossible for the Treasury to examine into all the cases, or to exercise control over all the works in detail in every part of Ireland. Complaints had been made in that House, but except in one or two instances they had not been received at the Treasury. The proper place to apply to, in case of an alleged cause of complaint, was the Board of Public Works in Ireland. Every care, however, had been taken to exercise a proper control, and for this purpose he had sent over an engineer officer, unconnected in other respects with Ireland, to superintend
 1067
 MR. E. B. DENISON  expressed his approval of the Motion of the hon. Member for Edinburgh, and of the course taken by the House with respect to this Bill.
 MR. F. FRENCH  pointed the attention of the House to the system which compelled landed proprietors in Ireland to bear the burden of expenses in the expenditure of which they had no control. One half of a district could compel the other half to proceed with works upon an estimate furnished by the Board of Works, the officers under which were paid, not by the job, but by the time they employed, which was always excessive. As an illustration of the system, he observed that he had undertaken and completed a work for 1,500 l. l.
 MR. F. FRENCH  approved of the proposal of the hon. Member for Limerick. He had gone carefully through the list of boroughs, and he found that there would be no difficulty whatever in adding towns to such of them as required it, in order to bring up the population to nearly 20,000, and the constituency to a respectable figure.
 MR. F. FRENCH  considered, that to deprive voters legally on the register of their franchise would be an injustice quite without precedent. If the 50 l.
 MR. F. FRENCH  proposed an Amendment, for the purpose of preventing the; striking off from the list a voter whose residence only might have been changed, his qualification remaining still the same.
 MR. F. FRENCH  said, he did not wish to waste time. He left his Motion in the hands of the House, and if hon. Members wished to divide, let them do so.
 COLONEL DUNNE  thought it would be most unfair if men who had for years, by a compliance with the law, maintained their names on the register, were now, by a penal enactment, dispossessed.
 COLONEL DUNNE  observed that the arterial drainage was carried on altogether under the control of Government officers, and although numerous complaints had been made of the conduct of several of them to the Board of Works they were never attended to.
 MR. SCULLY  said, the hon. Member for Stirlingshire lamented the misapplication of Irish advances, but had not said a word about Scotch jobs—the Caledonian Canal for instance. The money already expended in arterial drainage had been productive of great advantage in Ireland. He also advocated the application of a portion of the advance—say half—to the promotion of railways. Immediate advances for public works were necessary to keep the people from starvation and the workhouse.
 MR. SCULLY  said, with respect to duty on leases in Ireland, it was of great importance that the tenants should be encouraged to take them. In certain cases, according to the Bill which it was the intention of the right hon. Gentleman to move, the rates of duty would be lowered, whilst in other cases they would be raised, as, for instance, in one case, from a shilling to 2 s. d.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  thought the money might be more beneficially applied under the Land Improvement Act.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, the proviso went further than hon. Gentlemen seemed to conceive, since, in point of fact, it not only continued the votes in question for the remainder of the eight years, but absolutely perpetuated them.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  wished to impress upon the Committee the importance of approaching the consideration of this question without reference to party feelings. He was sure they must all feel it desirable to prevent the anomaly of increasing the county constituencies, and diminishing the constituences of the boroughs.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, that as the clause stood, a person with a 50 l.
 MR. H. HERBERT  thought that, by the alteration proposed in the stamp duties for Ireland, a lease relating to a property of 100 l.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that before this matter passed through Committee, he would ask to be allowed to say that some months ago he had been in a part of Ireland, where these drainage works were being carried on. He had spent some days in going over some of the expensive works, and he was bound to say that the mode in which they were being carried on was, as it appeared to him, exceedingly satisfactory.
 1069
 MR. BRIGHT  thought the right hon. Gentleman lost sight of one material point in the objection he raised to the Motion of his (Mr. Bright's) hon. Friend the Member for Cork city; the right hon. Baronet said that the House had decided a certain way as to counties, and his hon. Friend wished them to decide another way as to boroughs. This Bill in many boroughs was alleged to be quite certain to diminish the number of electors, and it appeared to him likely to be the case. It was a serious thing to pass a Bill to disfranchise anybody where corruption had not been proved. There was no such allegation here; the parties whom
 1078
 COLONEL RAWDON  said, seeing that the franchise was not to be extended in towns, the proposition of the hon. Gentleman opposite was well worthy of consideration. At the same time, it must be remembered that the only antagonistic influence in the counties against landlord power would come from the towns.
 MR. REYNOLDS  regarded the proposition of the hon. Member for Limerick as a very reasonable one. Perhaps the best illustration he could give of the necessity of some such arrangement was the case of Portarlington. Portarlington would have under this Bill, if it passed, 110 persons rated to the relief of the poor at 8 l. 1075 Cries of 1076
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, he should certainly vote with the hon. Member for the city of Cork, but he could wish that his proviso bad been limited to the class of 10 l.
 MR. REYNOLDS  should say that whilst the proposal to regulate the stamp duty was an improvement on the present system, he regretted the right hon. Gentleman had not extended a little more indulgence to Ireland. He begged to remind the House that by the assimilation of the law regulating the stamp duty between England and Ireland, which took place about five years ago, Ireland was forced to contribute 150,000 l. 1063 l. l. l l. l. l. l. d. l s. d. l.
 MR. SADLEIR  said, that at no period had there been sufficiently large constituencies in Irish boroughs, and the result had been the grossest corruption. The noble Lord at the head of the Government would find very little practical difficulty in ascertaining what would be the actual constituencies of the Irish boroughs, if he adhered to the provisions of the present Bill. The constituency of the borough he represented was now reduced from 470 down to 210. Under the proposed Bill he apprehended it would be much decreased.
 MR. TRELAWNY  felt it necessary to enter his protest against making the grants now proposed. Hon. Gentlemen who supported the measure did not agree among themselves, differing as to the proportion to be appropriated to the different parts of the country with which they were respectively connected. One hon. Gentleman had asked why nothing was to be granted for railways. In short, it was a great communist scheme with which the country was threatened. The Government might act more wisely than individuals in applying the grants, but they ought not to fritter away the wealth of the country in experiments which the Government themselves admitted could not be successful. The Chancellor of the Exchequer offered a most potent argument against the grants, in stating that it was impossible the Treasury could supervise when they came to be applied. If the Government wished to stave off the recurrence of protection by buying the land, they ought to say so at once.
 MR. HENLEY  observed, that from the evidence laid before the Committee, of which he was a Member, on the Miscellaneous expenditure, it appeared that the Board of Works was much overlaid with duties. He was not surprised that Irish Gentlemen should remonstrate when their estates were taxed for works of drainage, although they had no control over the expenditure.
 MR. HUME  said, that he held two documents in his hand which purported to be protests against the late decision of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, in the case of "Gorham  v. "I, George Anthony Denison, clerk, M.A., vicar of East Brent, in the county of Somerset, and diocese of Bath and Wells, do hereby enter my solemn protest against the state of the law which empowers the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council to take cognisance of matters of doctrine, and against the exercise of that power by the said Judicial Committee in each particular case; and I do hereby pledge myself to use all lawful means within my reach to prevent the continuance of such a state of the law, and of the power claimed and exercised under the same." "I, George Anthony Denison, clerk, Ac, do hereby enter my solemn protest against the said sentence of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, and do warn all the Christian people of this parish to beware of allowing themselves to be moved or influenced thereby in the least degree; and I do also hereby pledge myself to use all lawful means within my reach to assist in obtaining, without delay, some further formal declaration, by a lawful synod of the Church of England, as to what is, and what is not, the doctrine of the Church of England in respect of the holy sacrament of baptism." 1055 v.
 MR. HUME  thought that if a Bill had passed that would have the effect of repudiating
 1054
 MR. B. OSBORNE  begged to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, whether the Government of this country, or our Ambassador at Constantinople, were parties, by advice or otherwise, to the conduct of the Turkish Government in condemning Kossuth and the other Hungarian refugees in Turkey to banishment and confinement in the interior of Asia Minor? And, if the British Government had not been a party to that most unjustifiable proceeding; he also wished to ask whether the British Government had made any remonstrance to the Porte on the subject?
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, whatever was proposed by the hon. Member for Limerick was always intended for the benefit of Ireland, and he thought that the hon. Gentleman was deserving of public thanks for having made this suggestion. For himself, he thought it would be well if the Government would consider this point, not only with reference to Ireland, but England also, for he had a strong idea that, by uniting boroughs, they would do more for the purity of elections than by any other system. Let them take for example the borough of New Ross. At this moment that borough, so ably represented at present, had just a constituency of 80, and, with this 8 l.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  was surprised that the name of the hon. Member for Youghal, who had given much attention to this subject, had not been included in the proposed Committee.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  wished the hon. Member he had named placed on the Committee, because that hon. Gentleman knew more of the subject than any one else. He should move that the name of the Earl of Arundel and Surrey be omitted; not that he had any objection to the noble Earl personally, but that he might make the substitute he had proposed. If he had any support he would divide the House. 1083
 MR. SHEIL  said, that the operation of the Amendment would be to produce the very effect apprehended from the clause—namely, a contest between the territorial and sacerdotal influences. His advice was to avoid registration contests altogether. There certainly would be such contests if they did not provide a self-acting registration, as the landlord would say stay at home, while the priest would exhort them to register. His (Mr. Sheil's) opinion was that both influences should be neutralised.
 MR. R. C. HILDYARD  was anxious to learn how the instalments were to be repaid. They had been told that three millions were to be raised, Was this money in hand, or was it to be borrowed, and repaid within a limited period? If it was to be repaid by instalments, were they at once to be carried to the credit of the country; and thus, if there was a deficiency in the public revenue, it would diminish the apparent amount; and if there was a surplus, it would help to swell it up. The right hon. Gentleman had not explained whether this was the case, nor had he stated whether the repayments were at once to go to the reduction of the public debt.
 MR. ANSTEY  thought that, according to the view of the hon. Member for Queen's County, the House should proceed to disfranchise Ireland.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  bogged to ask the right hon. Gentleman if the leases, as regarded transfers of land, applied to house property, as also if it were his intention to introduce into the Bill an alteration in reference to stamps which persons taking up their freedom were obliged to pay. He begged to remind the right hon. Gentleman that by the Municipal Act of 1835, all fines on redemption were abolished by that House. There was a class of persons in the City who felt greatly grieved and annoyed at the tax, which fell very heavily on them. They did not complain so much of the amount of the tax—3 l.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he was one of the parties whom the Bill kindly proposed to divest of property. With respect to the particular part of the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Member for the city of Edinburgh, in which he said he was in hopes that the parties would agree amongst themselves, he (Mr. Gladstone) wished the hon. Gentleman and the House to understand that no opportunity of agreeing had been given. The House had not seen one-half of the case. No doubt the Bill proposed in the first instance to make contracts between two companies, one of which dissented from it, and the other did not assent to it: but, in addition, it proposed to destroy six or eight contracts, all framed under a special Act of Parliament, promoted by mutual consent of the parties,
 1053
 MAJOR BERESFORD  objected to the constitution of the Committee. There were thirteen Members of it favourable to the Jewish claims, and only eight unfavourable. He should, therefore, meet the Motion to add one more to the number of those who were favourable with a decided negative.
 MAJOR BERESFORD  said, he should object to the list of the Committee, and divide the House on it, unless he received a distinct assurance that the Committee was not to consider and report upon the admissibility or non-admissibility of Jews, otherwise than by Bill. It ought to be confined to the objects stated in the Motion.
 MR. W. FAGAN  hoped that sufficient time would be allowed to the people of Ireland to consider this proposition. He was very much afraid that, if adopted, the effect would be to abstract the intelligence and influence of the towns from the counties, and hence to allow the landlord influence to predominate there.
 MR. W. FAGAN  proposed to add a proviso to retain those electors who had been registered within eight years previous to the 1st of December next, so long as they continued to possess the qualification in respect to which they were registered.
 MR. W. FAGAN  had not anticipated any objection to his Amendment, which he thought exceedingly reasonable. There were many cases in which persons occupying 10 l. l.
 MR. FORBES  was of opinion that the scheme propounded by the Chancellor of the Exchequer on Friday was ludicrous, if
 1064
 MR. FORBES  hoped precautions would be taken against the abuses which existed in Ireland in the application of the late advances—abuses which hon. Members for Ireland had pointed out, and which ought to be avoided.
 MR. HAYTER  moved the First Reading of the Bill to repeal the Duty on Bricks; and, in reply to a question of Mr. Hudson, said, that no provision had at present been made in the Bill for a return of the duty on the stock of bricks in hand, but the matter was under consideration.
 MR. MONSELL  did not know what abuses existed with respect to carrying out arterial drainage in Ireland, but he would suggest, before the question again came before the House, that any memorials which had been presented to the Government from the proprietors of land which was charged with the expense of arterial drainage, complaining of abuses as to the carrying on the works, should be laid on the table, and be printed.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he did not moan to object to the clause, but he wished to call the attention of the House and the Government to the position in which many
 1070 l. l.
 MR. MONSELL  said, in the county he represented there was no borough, therefore it could have no effect upon his constituency. On the other hand the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had considerable influence in the borough of Mal-low, so that his opinion perhaps was not quite so impartial as his (Mr. Monsell's).
 MR. GROGAN  thought the noble Lord at the head of the Government had now
 1072
 MR. GROGAN  did not understand why, if the old principle was so good, as implied by the hon. Member for the city of Cork, a new principle was requisite.
 MR. GROGAN  called the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer especially to cases in which arterial drainage was to be effected, by means of small rivers running into larger. He knew instances in which parties had been induced to give the necessary assent for the improvement of such small rivers, and in one the estimate
 1068
 SIR G. GREY  remarked, that the evil of pressure upon the elector would not be remedied by so shaping the law that he would not only be pressed for his vote, but pressed to send in his claim to be registered.
 SIR G. GREY  observed, that if one hon. Member moved to have a Committee of twenty-two, another hon. Member might propose twenty-three. It was better to adhere to the numbers usually appointed, namely, fifteen, or occasionally twenty-one.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the provision would not affect the franchise or the register, but merely provided for the accuracy of the high constable's list.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  would not enter upon the merits of this question. He understood that the one company entirely repudiated the measure, and that the other had not given its consent to it. It would be, therefore, slaying a suicide to say one word upon the matter, except that he could never agree to any Bill of this nature.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  admitted that the proposition of his hon. Friend would be an improvement on the Bill, as it would save expense and greatly facilitate the operation of the measure. He would, there-fore, agree to insert the proviso to omit the clauses as proposed; the substituted clauses could be brought up at the end of the Bill.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that his hon. Friend proposed to extend to the borough constituencies the privilege which the House had already decided should not be extended to the counties. If his hon. Friend would read the Bill, he would see that what he proposed was entirely opposed to its principle. The principle of the Bill was to form one perfect register, to be revised every year. The freemen would have to come forward and register, the same as the other voters.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  believed that he could satisfactorily answer many of the objections which had been made in the course of this discussion with respect to the effect likely to be produced by the Bill; but he abstained from doing so, in the hope that the Committee would remain satisfied with the assurance given by the noble Lord at the head of the Government that the subject should receive every consideration, and that hon. Members would now allow the Committee to get on with the Bill.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON , in answer to the question of the hon. Gentleman, whether Her Majesty's Government had been a party to the transportation of the Hungarian refugees, said, that Her Majesty's Government had only so far interfered as having, through Her Majesty's Ambassador at Constantinople recommended to the Porte to make the detention of those persons—if the Porte considered itself bound by its engagements with Austria to detain them at all—for as short a time as was consistent with those engagements; and in the meantime to render their detention as little irksome and inconvenient as possible. He had no difficulty in saying, as his own opinion, that it would have been desirable if the Porte could have set them at liberty, and not detained them at all. It was not for Her Majesty's Government to judge what were the engagements and communications entered into by the Porte with the Government of Austria; but, taking a broad view of the matter, it would have seemed that if the Porte had felt itself at liberty to act fully and freely, that engagement which the Porte was bound to fulfil—namely, preventing the Turkish territory from being the scene of intrigue for the purpose of disturbing the tranquillity of its neighbours, would have been accomplished by removing altogether from the Turkish territory those persons on whom the Austrian Government looked
 1057
 MR. E. ELLICE , seeing the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade in his place, begged to state to the House the reasons which had induced him to give the notice of Motion that appeared on the paper with respect to the introduction of a certain clause in Railway Bills. The clause of which he had given notice referred only to existing rights—it referred only to obligations that had been confirmed, sanctioned, and created by Parliament—it referred only to obligations in the nature of debentures, bonds, or guarantees, or whatever denomination they came under, that had legal rights attached to them; and all he asked to do was, to secure to the parties that held those obligations the full exercise of the legal rights they at present possess. It was a fact that was perfectly notorious, that a large amount of property had been invested in those securities. They had been looked upon as one of the most unexceptional
 1090 1091 verbatim
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, that for some years past the contracts for provisions furnished to the Admiralty had been open to foreign as well as to home traders; and with regard to the first question put to him by the hon. and gallant Member for Cork, he had to state that it was quite true that in September last the Admiralty advertised for 6,000 tierces of pork, of which 1,500 were taken by a foreign house. With reference to the second question which had been put to him, he saw no reason to make any alteration in the present practice; and as to the remaining question, he had only to observe that the Emigration Commissioners were not under the control of the Admiralty, and that, consequently, he was not in a condition to say whether they had rejected any of the Government stores. He could state, however, that the provisions in question, so far as they had been supplied to our own Navy, had turned out to be very good.
 SIR F. T. BARING  could not say; but tenders had been received from foreign houses on former occasions.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, there was one point on which he was anxious to set himself right with the House, and that was, that free trade had nothing to do with this question. He would appeal to hon. Gentlemen opposite in a spirit of amity, and with a desire to set out of sight any past or future struggles on that subject, whether the principle of free trade did not consist in the denial of the policy of giving to one part of the community a monopoly on the ground that it was to be a source of wealth to the community at large. It was a question of free trade in stolen pocket handkerchiefs that was now before the House. It was the question whether they would discontinue their efforts to suppress crime that they had now to consider, and the question of free trade was not at all involved in its consideration. Having stated what was not connected with the subject, he might be allowed to say what was. It was always unpleasant to aim at individuals; but nobody felt compunction
 1156
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  then gave notice that immediately after Easter he would bring the subject to which his question
 1093
 COLONEL CHATTERTON , pursuant to notice, begged to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty if the Admiralty, in September last, accepted tenders for the supply of 1,500 tierces of navy pork from a Hamburg house, at 5 l s d
 CAPTAIN PELHAM  denied that the officers of the Navy had admitted that the squadron had wholly failed in its object, or that nothing more could be done. As a matter of economy, this Motion would prove a perfect delusion. It would not only be injurious to the character of the country, to the best interests of the naval service, and to the commercial interests of the country, but it would also very materially increase the horrors of the slave trade, and disappoint those who were advocates for giving up the present efforts; and the day was not far distant when the people of this country would regret the decision which so many hon. Members were now disposed to come to. Sir Charles Hotham's opinion had been very much misunderstood; and the opinions attributed by the hon. Mover of the resolution to the naval officers were not borne out by the evidence given before Parliament. It would be found from the evidence, that in 1835, in consequence of the treaty made with the Spanish Government, the Spanish slavers had been obliged to resort to the protection of the Portuguese flag; and that before the treaty the price of slaves in Cuba was only one-fourth what it was now, owing to the smaller number imported. It was said we had effected nothing in the Brazils. Where 94,000 slaves were imported into Brazil, not more than 50,000 were now taken there; and the evidence of Lord Howden and others showed that the price bad risen from 25 l l l. 1155
 MR. GRANTLEY BERKELEY  could not help stating, when one hon. Gentleman alluded to the great good which might be done by the reduction of the size of the vessels, that he (Mr. G. Berkeley) had been in correspondence with a person connected with this question, and intimately connected with Africa, and he stated that there were steam slavers employed on the African coast that set at defiance sailing vessels, and were capable of carrying from 1,400 to 2,000 men; and if they carried their trade on the coast of Africa to a greater extent than ever—as to another remark of the hon. Member, when he proposed that rewards should be given to those who captured steam vessels—he would give a recommendation not to throw good money after bad. They had done too much already. They had already paid 20,000,000 l 1130
 MR. G. BERKELEY : He was glad to hear that explanation. He maintained that the most effectual, the most religious, and the most moral way for putting an end to the slave trade, was by refusing admission to slave produce. It struck him that when they abolished slavery in the English dominions, they should have seen that the Spanish Government did not depart from the bargain they had made; that they should keep to the treaties made with this Government, for the Spanish Government appeared to enter into the question of the entire abolition of slavery, whereas they were still flourishing by the effect of the slave trade. All accounts which were received from British Guiana were in opposition to the right hon. Gentleman's observations. Every respectable man had deserted colonial legislation, the country was in a state of devastation, the clergy were not paid, the chapels were deserted, and in many places the people were retrograding to a state of barbarism. If he was not right in making this statement, if he was not borne out by the fact, there was an hon. Gentleman in this country lately returned from that colony, who had made an inspection of it, and be was certain that the hon. Member for Lynn would bear him out in the statement he had made. Under these circumstances, he should cordially support the Motion. He saw that the African squadron, whilst it was costing this country an immense sum, was totally and inadequately ineffective for the service over which it had been placed,
 1131
 LORD H. VANE  said, the hon. Baronet who had just sat down had alluded to the two Committees over which his hon. Friend the Member for Gateshead had presided, but it should be recollected that though technically not the same Committee, they were both, in point of fact, to be regarded
 1142 1143 1144
 LORD J. MANNERS  asked if any contracts for provisions had been taken by foreign houses in previous years?
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, I own that I am more anxious than I ever remember to have been before, that the House, in coming to a decision on this subject, should be impressed with a due sense of its importance. It is a subject, I think, the importance of which it is quite impossible to exaggerate, or even to state in its full bearing. But, Sir, to give some idea of its importance, allow me to remind the House that at the beginning of this century England had slaves in all her colonies—that we carried on and permitted the slave trade—and that the other Powers of Europe which possessed colonies likewise sanctioned stavery. In the course of time—almost at the beginning of this century, we have seen the Parliament of England abolish the slave trade; we have seen Eng-
 1174 1175 bonâ fide 1176 1177 1178 l l 1179 1180 1181 1182 1183
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  wished to be allowed to explain the reasons of the vote which he would this night give against a Government the general policy of which he cordially concurred with. He would support the Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Gateshead, because he thought that its success would prevent this country from continuing to attempt the moral government of the world on principles which, to his understanding, had ever been and were still condemned by the moral Governor of the Universe in every page of his works.
 MR. CARDWELL  entirely concurred with the noble Lord who had just sat down, that they were now considering the great question—should they or should they not at once and for all abandon the policy to which they were so deeply committed? He watched, in the Committee which sat on this subject, the painful and conscientious attention which the noble Lord gave to the evidence, and he deeply regretted the conclusion to which it had brought him. He deeply regretted to share with the noble Lord the despair which must now descend upon the prospects of the African race if the supporting and civilising influences of this great empire were now to be withdrawn from them. The noble Lord said that he despaired, because he believed that it was impossible for us to continue our efforts. As a Member of the Committee, he (Mr. Cardwcll felt that Her Majesty's Government would find it a task of great difficulty to continue their efforts if conclusions lightly come to by a Committee of the House of Commons were to encourage opposition in Cuba and Brazil, to discourage their friends in America and in France, and to have a tendency to paralyse their efforts in the House of Commons, and to circulate in the public mind a belief that no mischief would be done by the squadron being withdrawn. At that late hour he would not trepass upon the attention of the House by going into details on this question; but he thought it right to read one or two extracts to the House. He conceived that a complete analysis of the testimony given on this subject—on which, after all, their proceedings must now be based—he greatly deceived himself if a fair and complete analysis of this testimony would not stand out in striking contrast to the conclusions which had been attempted to be instilled into the public mind, and, if he might say it without offence to those who had spoken, in striking contrast to the speeches of several hon. Members. They were told that the operations of the squadron had been
 1145 1146 "As soon as I had blocked up Gallinas on the west side, by means of the chiefs of the Sherbre, I culled upon the Cape Mount, Manna, and Singary people to do the same on the east side, which they immediately did, by sending nearly 3,000 men to threaten them with an attack from that quarter." "I had now the Gallinas fast locked up. They had only communication with the interior on the north, whence they could get no supplies." "After some correspondence, I was completely successful. All my demands (to surrender white slavedealers, and to give up slaves) were submitted to in the humblest manner. The slavedealers wrote to me to beg of me to allow them to come on board my ship, as they would be murdered the moment they crossed the frontier. This I knew very well, for our Cape Mount friends would have cut off all their heads, to a certainty; and as I did not wish to have their blood on my head, I thought it as well to grant their request, though it was more than they deserved." There were fifty-five of them, including merchants, their clerks, and some crews of captured slavers. The four principal merchants, namely, Don Benito, Don Pablo Crespo—Hermos, and Franco Canello, were Spaniards; the others, and all the clerks, Brazilians. I sent a vessel up here with them, and now there does not remain even the shadow of a slavedealer in the whole of the Gallinas and Solyman countries, nor is there a vestige of slave trade between Capo Verd and Cape. St. Paul. Whether it will ever be brought back to Gallinas depends entirely upon the steps Her Majesty's Government may adopt. If a proper agent is appointed to reside for some time at Gallinas, a little assistance given to the chiefs, and a man-of-war kept off the place, very soon legitimate commerce will be firmly established. If, on the contrary, nothing is done by Government, the slave trade will revive in full force in a few months." …" It released between 1,000 and 2,000 slaves, obtained all cannon, irons, &c., strengthened the league for attacking dealers in future, quite put an end to a war which for seven years had supplied the slave trade, and occasioned indescribable misery," "I was quite glad to see the slavedealers in a miserable plight, exhausted from bad living, even the principal merchants;
 1147 1148 1149 l l l 1150 1151 "Considering, as far as we are able to learn,
 1152 l 1153 1154
 MR. BAILLIE  seconded the Motion. He believed that the grounds on which some of the West India body had supported the policy of the Government in the present case was, not that the squadron would suppress the slave trade, because experience had proved the contrary, but because they were of opinion that the effect was in no slight degree to raise the price of slaves. By raising the price of labour they enhanced the cost of the produce, and, there-lore, those connected with the West Indies believed that by that means the competition which had been so unjustly brought to bear upon them would be rendered a little less Injurious than otherwise. He did not wish to see that interest protected circuitously, in a manner that they would not do openly. The Committee of the last and the previous year was the means of getting together a large mass of valuable evidence which had been laid before the House and the country in a condensed form. All doubt and dissatisfaction were therefore dispelled, and not a shadow of pretext could exist for delay on the part of the Government in coming to some final decision as
 1111 1112 1113 Excellent "Royal Naval College, Portsmouth, July 12, 1848. "My Lord—I regret much not having been able to appear before the Select Committee at the House of Commons, but as your Lordship desires to know my opinions on various points connected with the slave trade, I will endeavour to give them as concisely as possible. I am most fully of opinion that the system which we are now pursuing on the coast of Africa, without in the least diminishing the traffic in slaves, adds very considerably to its horrors. I do not think that any blockade, however strict, even if carried on with double the number of vessels composing the present squadron, could, under the existing system, stop the traffic. Possibly, were we able to make it felony universally, and to imprison or transport the persons found on board slave vessels, we might succeed to a great extent; though even then I doubt if we should stop it entirely." "I feel convinced that the measures now in force on the coast of Africa add considerably to the misery endured by the slaves in their transit to the Brazils, from the generally wretched as well as crowded state of the vessels." 1114 "If, then, you are aware, from historical knowledge and evidence, that such horrors existed when no British legislation interposed to prevent them, can you consistently attribute the present horrors of the slave trade to the existence of such British legislation?—Yes. "Will you be pleased to explain the last answer?—Because, in the olden time they never suffered from want of water; contaigious diseases might have been produced on board from the imprudence of the captain, or from many other sources, but that wholesale murdering for want of water I believe never occurred then, or only in cases of imprudence on the part of the captain; that part of it is only historical, or from men who I have heard speak of it who have been engaged ill it. "Are tile slaves ever hurried on board with an: insufficiency of water and other accommodations necessary for their subsistence? Yes that frequently occurs. "From what cause is it that a sufficiency of water for the voyage and of other provisions is not put on board?—A part of it arises from depending upon getting water in casks on the coast of Africa, because if found with them it would condemn the vessel in going out; sometimes it arises, perhaps, from the inability of getting casks; at other times from being hurried, in consequence of knowing, or perhaps seeing a cruiser in sight, they are obliged to cut and run at once. "Then the sufferings on board the slavers engendered by such circumstances are directly attributable to our attempts at suppressing the slave trade?—Entirely so." 1115 1116
 MR. LABOUCHERE  thought that the House should hold as a general rule that those who had preference shares should not be deprived of the security they possessed. He thought, however, the clause would require consideration before the House could agree to adopt it, and he was willing to consider in what form the House could most conveniently and properly effect the object desired.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  explained. He had not made the slightest allusion to the West Indian planters. He only said that British capital might be found engaged in the traffic.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he rose to address the House upon this occasion with feelings of great anxiety, for he could not divest his mind of the conviction that in the decision which the House might come to upon the subject before it were involved not only the sacred interests of charity, but the character and honour of the country itself. He was at least thankful to his hon. Friend who had brought forward this question for not having disguised from the House the nature of his real intentions, and the consequences which he anticipated to result from this Motion. The hon. Gentleman had told them distinctly that in calling upon them to determine that they should at once take measures to procure the withdrawal of the squadron which had hitherto watched the coast of Africa, and proposing no substitute whatever to check the slave trade, he wished them, the Commons of England, to announce to the world that henceforward, as far as they were concerned, the slave trade should prevail over every sea without let or hindrance—that they gave up the object for which they, and greater men than that House now contained, who had passed away, had struggled before them, as a romantic and impracticable object, and that from this time England at least would take no interest in the matter beyond that barren mockery of saying that we regretted it indeed, but that our influence should not weigh in the scale against it. However desirous the people of England might be for economy, he was sure that he represented their feelings and wishes when he said that they would not acquiesce in such a decision without the most mature consideration—without that House deliberately weighing all the consequences that must follow—without their examining in the
 1119 1120 l 1121 l l l s d l s l s l 1122 l l l l l l "To sum up the evidence which you have given upon the point—are the Committee to understand that it is your opinion that to withdraw the squadron without substituting some other plan for suppressing the slave trade, would be most injurious? " "My opinion is, that to withdraw the squadron without offering a substitute, would be highly injurious to the honour of this great country, which has boon embarked so long in this particular cause; I should regret to hear that the squadron had been ordered to withdraw, and nothing substituted in its place." "In saying that it would be injurious to the honour of this great country, would you say that it would be injurious to the interests of this great country? " "In a case of that description, I apprehend that honour and interest would, to a certain extent, go together." 1123 "Are the Committee further to understand, that it is your opinion that without entering into a "peculation for which you have not the data, as to whether the number of slaves exported from Africa would be increased or not, you feel convinced that the cruelty of the trade would be increased by the withdrawal of the squadron?—My opinion on that subject must of course only be speculative; but I am impressed with the idea that if the squadron were withdrawn, and the trade thrown open, a smaller description of vessels would be introduced, and that the slave would be carried across in a more economical manner, and, therefore that his sufferings would be increased." "The slaves would have been much cheaper in Brazil; there would have been a greater number imported; and the horrors of the middle passage would have been very considerably increased by the fact of the slave merchants being inadequately provided with capital for the purpose; they would, therefore, have sailed in smaller vessels, and the trade would have been subjected to greater horrors." 1124 1125 1126 1127 "At the present moment, indeed, with reduced wages and increased prices of produce, sugar cultivation must again become remunerative, and for a time at least the abandonment of estates be arrested. While deeply deploring, therefore, the fate of those who have been ruined in the struggle, or who are left so irretrievably involved as to retain no prospect of extrication, I will not allow myself to despair of seeing the agriculture of this fertile colony placed on a sounder basis than it was possible for it to rest on at any previous period of its history, when its prosperity was found ed either on slavery or on fiscal protection. It is of course impossible to foretel with any precision the future prospects of agricultural operations thus dependent upon two circumstances, both so subject to the influence of a multitude of unforeseen and independent contingencies as the cost of labour and the value of sugar. It seems to me, however, unreasonable to doubt that sugar cultivation must in the long run be profitable in a country like this, where it is carried on with less labour, and therefore more cheaply, than in any other spot in the world." 1128 1129
 MR. W. PATTEN  had intended to oppose the introduction of this clause, but agreed with the hon. Gentleman that it was better to leave the matter in the hands of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade. He was sure the right hon. Gentleman would produce such a clause as would effect the objects they had in view, without inflicting injury on any parties. From the situation he held as Chairman of the
 1092
 MR. ANSTEY  said, the hon. and gallant Member who spoke last had addressed himself to the question of the interests of a particular class, to which he himself belonged. He (Mr. Anstey) did not think the interest of that class was the matter immediately in question; but, if he had turned his attention to that point alone, his vote would still have
 1133 1134 sine qua non "A nation is not justified in assuming rights which do not belong to her, merely because she intends to employ them for a laudable purpose; and that no great end, no eminent good, can be lawfully or rightfully prosecuted by unrighteous means." 1135 Albert "And in consideration of the signature of this treaty the Queen of Great Britain, in the presence of Almighty God, makes the following presents—one pair of boots, one shirt," 1136 v. l 1137 1138
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I hardly know whether it is for the convenience of the House—which I wish entirely and exclusively to consult—that I should proceed to address it this night. I had believed that there was a general expectation of an adjourned debate; and, in that case, if it would be more for the convenience of the House I would postpone my address; but I would be reluctant that this question should go to a division, and that I should vote, as I intend to vote, in favour of the Motion of my hon. Friend the Member for Gateshead, without having taken an opportunity of stating to the House, as briefly as I am able, some of the grounds on which I would give that vote. I do not disguise from myself the serious nature of that vote, or endeavour in any matter, or in any degree, to blink the magnitude of the question. I will not dwell pointedly upon the objection that this is not a Motion for the withdrawal of the squadron, but a Motion for the removal of a preliminary bar to discussion, because it is said
 1157 1158 1159 1160 1161 bonâ fide 1162 1163 1164 l 1165 1166 1167 1168 1169 1170 1171 1172 1173 bonâ fide
 MR. W. EVANS  said, that he should not propose the Amendment of which he had given notice on this subject, in consequence of what had taken place that morning. He therefore should withdraw it, but in doing so, he wished to make a few observations on the Motion before the House. His hon. Friend who brought forward the Motion appeared to have brought forward a number of facts in support of it; but he (Mr. Evans) could not come to the same conclusion as his hon. Friend did. His hon. Friend said the squadron had no effect in preventing any portion of the slave trade, and that every country got exactly the number of slaves it wanted, as if there was no squadron on the coast of Africa. Another conclusion his hon. Friend had come to was, that in consequence of the existence of the squadron the slaves were carried at a cheaper rate to the Brazils than they would be if there was no squadron. He (Mr. Evans) knew that the squadron had not done much, and he wished it had done a great deal more; but they must make allowances for the great difficulties and impediments in its way. Before 1838 they had no treaties to enable naval officers to seize vessels which were only prepared to take in slaves; but in 1839 an Act of Parliament was passed, which enabled the captains of our cruisers to make such seizures. The contrast between the number of vessels seized before and after that period was very remarkable. During the nine years ending in 1839, 166 vessels engaged in the slave trade were seized; while in the nine years ending 1848 not less than 687 vessels were captured. That was, they had taken about a vessel and a half a week on the average for that period. There surely must be some reason for this great difference between the two periods. He found also about 40,000 slaves were brought into Cuba in 1835, while in 1844 the number was 1,371, and in 1845 about 1,700. It appeared also that in the Brazils the number of slaves imported in 1837 was 94,000, but shortly after the Act passed, enabling the British squadron to seize vessels equipped for the traffic, the number was materially reduced, until in 1844 it was 14,244. He might be told that there was an increase in 1847, but he found that, for some reason or other, no
 1117 Fair Rosamond Black Joke 1118
 SIR G. BROOKE PECHELL  trusted that the House would not sanction a resolution directly calculated to degrade this country in the eyes of the civilised world. The evil had been, not the existence of the squadron, but the inadequacy of the means supplied to the Foreign Secretary by the various Boards of Admiralty for carrying out the views which, with so much ability, he had impressed upon that House from time to time. There had been continued difficulties and delays in the way of the noble Lord, what with the inferior description of vessels sent on the station, the want of efficient treaties with Spain and with Brazil, and that letter of the Earl of Aberdeen on the barracoons which gave such encouragement to the Brazilian slave trade, and paralysed the efforts of our officers. Our efforts had from these causes failed to be quite successful; we had, however, done a large amount of good, and prevented a large number of slaves from being sent to the Brazils and to the Spanish colonies, who would otherwise have been carried there. The useless 10-gun brigs had, after a long contest with the Admiralty, been done away with, and steamers and a better class of cruisers had been put on the station in their place. But these steamers were still inadequate to the great object in view, for those vessels only were sent to the African coast which were unfit for general service anywhere else. A steamer, for example, that was complained of at Portsmouth or Plymouth was sent off to the African station to be out of the way of further criticism and censure. This would not do. There must be a superior class of vessels put on that station, and he was quite willing that for this purpose the fleet in the Mediterranean or that at Lisbon should be reduced. He remembered on one occasion the hon. Member for Newcastle-under-Lyne thumped the red box on the table very vehemently about the legitimate trade with the west coast of Africa being interfered with by the squadron there: remove that squadron, and what would become of your legitimate trade? Why, Mr. Button in his evidence before a Committee of the House of Lords, stated that if the squadron was withdrawn, his factories would all be inevitably destroyed. The twenty-four vessels now on the station were not more than
 1132
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, asked, would they repeal the Sugar Duties Act, or would they not? He (Sir R. Inglis's) answer was, that he would cordially concur in any proposition which would have that effect. The hon. and learned Gentleman had next asked, what would they do with the squadron? His only reply was equally decided. He would maintain the squadron. However he (Sir R. Inglis) and his friends might differ from Her Majesty's Ministers on their unhappy measure in relation to the sugars of slavetrading countries, he at least would cordially support them in regard to the squadron. For he could never forget that the cause of Cliristian humanity—he would not desecrate the subject by using a lower term—with respect to the slave trade had always found consistent and powerful advocates in the party represented by the noble Lord at the head of the Government. He grieved when he thought that there had been such a deviation from their true principle; and that the slave trade, which should never be directly or indirectly encouraged, had been—against all warning and all remonstrance—promoted, though not in name recognised, when the noble Lord permitted himself to sanction the introduction of the Sugar Duties Bill. This was on one side of the Atlantic; on the other side, in Africa—if England had fulfilled her obligations to the black chiefs, as they had been prepared to do with respect to their share of the treaties, much mischief would have been avoided. The hon. Member for Gateshead had this year raised the number of his men in buckram. Not content with the sum of 700,000 l l l l l 1139 1140 1141
 MR. HUTT  rose to bring before the House the Motion of which he had given notice on this subject, and said that the time had at last arrived when, in accordance with the reports of two Committees of that House, appointed to consider the best means which Great Britain could adopt for providing for the final extinction of the slave trade, it became his duty to submit a Motion to the House upon that grave and important subject. The Motion to which he called their attention was, in effect, that it was expedient for this country to desist from all acts for suppressing the slave trade by force of arms. To carry out that declaration, it was, in the first instance, necessary that this country should be released from all its treaties and engagements which hound her to the maintenance of the African squadron. A conviction of the expediency of adopting such a course was strongly impressed upon the minds of the majority of both Committees of which he was the chairman. The House would permit him to advert for a moment to the strenuous efforts which had been made to decry the report of the Committee of, 1849, by stating that it was carried only by his casting vote. ["Hear, hear!"] He would only say, in reply to those cheers, that if that statement had been confined merely to writers in newspapers, or to scribblers of pamphlets, he should have left them in undisputed possession of the last word upon that, as upon all other points of the slave-trade controversy; but as the observation was made by Members of this House, and especially by the noble Lord at the head of the Government at the close of the last Session of Parliament, and that, too, when he (Mr. Hutt) was absent from illness, he thought it was necessary he should now notice it, He heard with regret and with much surprise that the noble Lord had made that statement, for he (Mr. Hutt) thought it was scarcely becoming the high character and position of that noble Lord. The statement was, in fact, one of those half-truths that disingenuous men
 1094 1095 l "I have the means of proving that the slave trade has been, since the year 1815, and now is, carried on to a greater extent than it has been at any former period. This contraband trade is attended by circumstances much more horrible than anything that has ever been known to former times. It is not necessary here to enumerate the horrors respecting it, but it cannot be denied that all the attempts at prevention have tended to increase the aggregate of human suffering, and the waste of human life in a ratio far exceeding the increase of positive numbers carried off into slavery. The dread of detection suggests expedients of concealment productive of the most dreadful sufferings to the cargo. The numbers put on board each vessel are far from being proportioned to the capacity of the vessels, and the mortality is frightful to a degree unknown since the attention of mankind was first called to the horrors of this traffic. There is no hesitation in declaring that it would have been far more consoling to humanity, and that by far a smaller number of human beings would have lost their lives by lingering and cruel suffering, if the trade had never been abolished by the laws of any country." 1096 "The state of the foreign slave trade has for some time past engaged much of the attention of Her Majesty's confidential advisers. In whatever light this traffic is viewed, it must be regarded as an evil of incalculable magnitude; the injuries it inflicts on the lawful commerce of this country, the constant expense incurred in the employment of ships of war for the suppression of it, and the annual sacrifice of so many valuable lives in this service, however deeply to be lamented, are not the most disastrous results of this system. The honour of the British Crown is compromised by the habitual evasion of the treaties subsisting between Her Majesty and foreign Powers for the abolition of the slave trade; and the calamities which, in defiance of religion, humanity, and justice, are inflicted on a large proportion of the African continent, are such as cannot be contemplated without the deepest and most lively concern. To estimate the actual extent of the foreign slave trade is, from the nature of the case, an attempt of extreme difficulty: nor can anything mere than a general approximation to the truth be made. But I find it impossible to avoid the conclusion, that the average number of slaves introduced into foreign States or colonies in Ame-
 1097 "In this estimate a very large deduction is made for the exaggerations which are more or less inseparable from all statements on a subject so well calculated to excite the feelings of every impartial and disinterested witness. But, making this deduction, the number of slaves actually landed in the importing countries affords but a very imperfect indication of the real extent of the calamities which this traffic inflicts on its victims. No record exists of the multitudes who perish in the overland journey to the African coast, or in the passage across the Atlantic, or of the still greater number who fall a sacrifice to the warfare, pillage, and cruelties by which the slave trade is fed. Unhappily, however, no fact can be more certain, than that such an importation as I have mentioned presupposes and involves a waste of human life, and a sum of human misery, proceeding from year to year, without respite or intermission, to such an extent as to render the subject the most painful of any which, in the survey of the condition of mankind, it is possible to contemplate. The preceding statement unavoidably suggests the inquiry, why the costly efforts in which Great Britain has so long been engaged for repressing the foreign slave trade have proved thus ineffectual? Without pausing to enumerate the many concurrent causes of failure, it may be sufficient to say that such is the difference between the price at which a slave is bought on the coast of Africa, and the price for which he is sold in Brazil or Cuba, that the importer receives back his purchase money tenfold on the safe arrival of his vessel at the port of destination. We must add to this exciting motive the security which is derived from insurances and insurance companies, which are carried on to a great extent, and combine powerful interests. Under such circumstances, to repress the foreign slave trade by a marine guard would scarcely be possible if the whole British Navy could be employed for that purpose. It is an evil which can never he adequately encountered by any system of mere prohibition and penalties. Her Majesty's confidential advisers are therefore compelled to admit the conviction that it is indispensable to enter upon some new preventive system." 1098 "That, notwithstanding the measures hitherto adopted for the suppression of the foreign trade in slaves, the traffic has increased, and continues to increase under circumstances of aggravated horror." "That the utter failure of every attempt by treaty, by remonstrance, and by naval armaments to arrest the progress of the slave trade, proves the necessity of resorting to a preventive policy founded on different and higher principles." 1099 "It is a distressing truth, that our present blockade is no check whatever to the slave trade; it is flourishing at this moment to such a degree, that the last accounts from Brazil reports more than 8,000 slaves in the market there without any purchaser; and not long ago a cargo of slaves arrived at the same place, which found such a
 1100 1101 1102 "he that will give an higher price for any commodity shall obtain it by something or other, for such is the force, fraud, and subtlety of the course of trade." 1103 1104 "Looking to the extent of that coast, and to the facilities which the coast affords for the shipment of slaves, do you imagine that it would be possible, by any means of naval force, to suppress the slave trade, so long as there existed a high demand for slaves on the other side of the Atlantic?—I am perfectly convinced that it would be impossible. Are you acquainted with the particular plan for the suppression of the slave trade which has been proposed and strongly recommended by Captain Denman?—I know the general outline of the plan. Have you read the sketch of it which he submitted to the Admiralty?—Yes. Do you think that the vigorous enforcement of that system would effectually extinguish the slave trade?—I cannot think that it would. Do you think that it would to any important degree diminish it?—I do not think it would. Are you of opinion, that though by means of that system of blockade some stations might be effectually restrained in regard to the slave trade, the slave trade would shift its quarters and break out elsewhere?—I entertain no doubt whatever of it." 1105 "As a naval officer and a Lord of the Admiralty, are you acquainted with the transactions of the African squadron while under the command of the late Commodore Sir Charles Hotham?—Yes. Were the operations of the fleet conducted on the part of that officer with zeal, intelligence, and skill?—I have heard the Board of Admiralty, both collectively and individually, give their opinion as to the manner in which they considered the services had been performed on the coast of Africa by Sir C Hotham, and I cannot explain that better than by reading a letter which I have in my band, which was the last communication made to Sir Charles Hotham on his striking his broad pennant at Spithead. From whom is the letter?—The letter is signed by the Secretary of the Admiralty, by the direction of the Board, Will you be so kind as to read it?—' Admiralty, April 12, 1849. Sir, I am commanded by my Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty to acquaint you that your return to England affords their Lordships an opportunity they have much desired of conveying to you the expression of their approval of the ability and energy with which you have conducted your late command; and it is with much satisfaction that my Lords attribute to your judgment and discretion your having successfully secured the co-operation of your foreign colleagues throughout your employment abroad.—I am, Sir, your most obedient servant, W. A. B. Hamilton,'" "Do you think that if it had been possible to stop the slave trade by such means as were confided to Sir Charles Hotham, the slave trade would have been stopped?—I am decidedly of that opinion." "Was that force in a high state of discipline, generally speaking?—I thought so. Were your views carried out by the officers under your command to your entire satisfaction?—Entirely so. What was the result of your operations; did you succeed in stopping the slave trade?—No. Did you cripple it to such an extent as in your opinion is calculated to give to the slave trade a permanent check?—No. Do you consider that the slave
 1106 1107 l contre projet. 1108 l l 1109 l 1110 ignis fatuus "Vain cozenage—'tis all a cheat, Yet, fooled by hope, men favour the deceit; Hope on, and trust to morrow will repay— To-morrow's falser than the former day, Lies more—."
 MR. HUTT , in reply, was understood to complain that it had been unwarrantably assumed by the opponents of his Motion that he had no plan for the abolition of the slave trade in reserve, but at that late hour he would not take up the time of the House by its development.
 MR. BERNAL  could corroborate the statement of the hon. Baronet, that in the greater number of local Acts which passed that House, the payment of the rates by the landlords of small cottage properties was made compulsory, and no discretion was left to the vestry. Those Bills varied as to the value of the tenements for which the owner was declared liable; but they appeared to have worked well, and if the House were justified in making the operation of these local Acts compulsory, why should they not adopt a similar course in legislating for the entire country? In his opinion, the less local legislation they had the better. He considered this a measure which would work for the benefit of the poor.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  hoped his hon. and learned Friend would persevere in his Amendment, and protested against the doctrine that the House of Commons were not to do what hon. Members felt to be right, on some apprehension that if they did so the Bill might be thrown out elsewhere. That was not a mode of proceeding that would obtain for them the respect and confidence of the country. The optional clause in the present law bad given occasion for much strong party feeling and irritation in Southampton, and other towns;
 1192
 CAPTAIN HOWARD  hoped the measure would not be made compulsory. He believed that the Bill would be a great boon to the poor, even if the landlord should make a corresponding addition to his rent. The occupiers of these tenements would much rather pay the same sum in the rent than in the form of rates, because, in the event of their temporary inability to pay their rent, they might expect to have a little time from the landlord; hut, when the rate collector came round, their goods were distrained upon if they could not pay the poor-rates.
 SIR J. HANMER  remarked that it had been stated that the object of the Bill was to make property pay the rates, but it appeared that it was intended by it to make the owners pay the rates. He believed this Bill, if it should pass, would operate as an Act for the abolition of cottages. This was not only his own opinion, but also that of many persons in the part of the country with which he was connected. Cottages on an estate were generally very unprofitable; and he knew instances where lords of manors were owners of 300 or 400 of them, which would not be kept up if they found themselves liable for the rates. Under such circumstances he thought he was justified, at that stage, in expressing his opinion against the Bill, as this first clause involved the principle of it. If any hon. Gentleman would divide upon it he should certainly vote with him.
 MR. E. B. DENSION  having been thus appealed to, would not hesitate to say that the object of the Chancellor of the Exchequer in repealing the brick duty was to benefit the poorer classes, and he (Mr. Denison) believed that the measure would have that effect. With respect to the Bill now under the consideration of the Committee, the chief reason which influenced its framers in making the payment of rates compulsory was, that there might be no opportunity for jobbing or evasion, but that all property should contribute its fair proportion to the rates. It was well known that at present a large portion of cottage property was unfairly exempted from the payment of rates. It was not his opinion that the Bill would have the effect of diminishing the number of cottages. It was said that in some parts of the country cottages were let at a nominal rent; but he believed that the owners obtained the annual value of the cottages either in meal or in malt. They obtained from their tenants services which were equivalent to
 1199
 MR. BERNAL  was inclined to agree with his hon. and learned Friend the Recorder. He begged to call the attention of the House to the fact, that the Bill extended to the united kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. Without saying anything offensive or disrespectful to his fellow-countrymen in Ireland, he might be permitted to remind the House that party prejudice ran very high in that country, and to ask hon. Members if they thought it would add to the peace of the sister kingdom, or to the happiness of hon. Gentlemen who resided there, if the trial of supposed criminals on charges of stealing to the amount of 1 s
 COLONEL THOMPSON  had only to say, that he had the least possible confidence in what he had heard termed the concurrence of the prisoner. He thought the power to be conferred by this Bill was one which no prudent man in the position of a magistrate would wish to embarrass himself with.
 MR. LAW  said, the object of the Motion he was about to make was to discuss this Bill on its merits by dividing it into two Bills. It was highly probable, from the experience of the past, that the House might be disposed to sanction the application of the Juvenile Offenders Act (which was limited to persons of fourteen years of age) to persons of the age of sixteen; but the question was totally different when they were to consider the law as applicable to adults. By applying the rule to them, they would be taking the first step to deprive the subject of trial by jury. It involved that question to a large extent, and that magistrate who asked to possess this power was seeking to have a fatal power placed in his hands. By granting to the magistrate that power, they would deprive him of the respect and love of all those around him; they would make him the enemy of the poorer classes of society, and his decisions, instead of being respected, would be suspected. It was merely the duty of a magistrate, acting in his proper capacity, to put a case in course of further inquiry without performing an act which properly was within the province of a jury; and if he went beyond that, he would expose himself to suspicion on
 1200 1201
 MR. LAW  could not withdraw the Amendment he had moved, as he was satisfied that it would be very inconvenient to move it in Committee. He wished to take the sense of the House on the proposition that the principle of the two measures embodied in one was not safe.
 MR. LAW  said, that after the suggestion of the right hon. Home Secretary, he would not press the Amendment then, but reserved to himself the power of doing so at the proper opportunity. Almost every hon. Member who had spoken was in favour of the compulsory clause.
 MR. LAW  was strongly in favour of making the Bill compulsory; and, as that appeared to be the general feeling of the House, he would move to insert, after "It shall be lawful for the vestry of any parish to make the order," the words, "and they are hereby required." This would make it compulsory upon the vestry to meet and make the order.
 MR. BOUVERIE  then proposed to leave out all the words in the proviso of the hon. Member for Hertfordshire after the word "thereof," and that in place of them should be inserted others, that such occupiers should be entitled to be placed on the burgess roll under the Municipal Corporations Act, although they had not paid the poor-rates for such premises, provided they were otherwise duly qualified,
 MR. BOUVERIE  intimated his willingness to postpone his Amendment if the hon. Member for Herefordshire would do the same with respect to his.
 MR. PACKE  was friendly to the first part of the Bill, but very hostile to the second. They had nothing whatever to do with each other.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  suggested that the Committee should entertain no amendments which had not been printed with the votes.
 MR. E. B. DENISON  protested against amendments of this description being brought forward without notice. It was unfair to call upon the Committee to give an opinion at once, aye or no, upon the important point raised by this Amendment.
 MR. E. B. BECKETT  observed that the first part of the Bill did not raise any new principle, but the latter part raised a question for the first time, the House not having yet decided whether adults should be tried by summary jurisdiction. He was therefore fully of opinion that it would be better to divide the Bill into two. With respect to the general object of the measure, he would take the liberty of putting-magistrates on their guard against it. This was a Bill asking the House to confer on them larger powers than they had ever yet possessed. It involved very serious questions—so serious that the measure ought to have been brought forward by the Government if they were of opinion that its principle could be safely adopted.
 MR. E. B. DENISON  said, if this was not the case, they would exempt the property from paying all these rates.
 MR. E. B. DENISON  recommended the postponement of the question, to allow time for its consideration.
 MR. E. B. DENISON  thought it was rather hard on those Members who were endeavouring to make the Bill perfect in its details to be met with sweeping denunciations of its principle, or amendments moved without notice. He hoped that hon. Members who had amendments to propose would be kind enough to cause them to be printed.
 MR. E. B. DENISON  had always objected to the system of exempting particular persons from the payment of rates, because he was aware that in many cases the persons who asked for mitigation or relief were the mere agents of the owners. This was quite notorious. Tenants pleaded they were unable to pay; the authorities relieved them from the rate, and the landlord, m the end, got the benefit. He should be glad to see magistrates relieved from the unwholesome power of remitting poor-rates
 1189
 MR. E. B. DENISON  wished the Committee to observe that not one hon. Member had addressed them who did not admit that the principle of this Bill ought to be compulsory. Where the danger to the Bill was to come from, when the House were so unanimous, he could not conceive. The discussion had, however, been valuable, because it would go forth to the public, and parties concerned would ascertain that the avowed opinion of the House of Commons was in favour of the compulsory principle; and they might expect that those parties would attend most diligently to the opinion so expressed by the House.
 MR. E. B. DENISON  was in favour of making the clause compulsory, and thought that one of the most objectionable features in the present law was, that there should be any doubt upon the subject. He thought that all property ought to be rated to all rates, nor did he see why, if a speculator in cottages wished to lay out his money in building a considerable number of cottages, he should do so in the expectation that this property would be relieved from the payment of poor-rates. So long as magistrates were enabled to exempt persons from payment of poor-rates, so long would jobbing, favouritism, and partiality exist in obtaining this exemption.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that the real character of the Bill had been just explained, for the first time, by the hon. Member for East Somersetshire. He (Mr. Aglionby) thought the Bill gave sufficient safeguard to the prisoner, and be was ready to support the principle of it, both in regard to the first and second parts.
 MR. COMPTON  would be sorry to do anything to risk the loss of the Bill, but he would support the proposal to make it compulsory.
 MR. WYLD  said, he would not press his proviso then, as he believed the Bill to be a most beneficial measure. He was glad to hear from the hon. Baronet the Member for Evesham that so many as 1,400 cottages existed on the property of one person, which were let at a mere nominal rent; he wished more instances of the kind could be quoted.
 MR. WYLD  then proposed an addition to the clause, the object of which was to enable occupiers of tenements at a rack-rent not exceeding 6 l
 MR. ELLIS  gave the Bill his cordial support, believing that it would be highly beneficial.
 MR. WALTER  said, it was his intention to have proposed an Amendment similar to that of the hon. and learned Member for the University of Cambridge, and if the hon. and learned Member should press his Amendment to a division, he would vote with him. When the whole question came to be more fully considered, and after the present Bill had worked for some time, the proposal to make its provisions compulsory would not, as he believed, excite that diversity of opinion with which it was at present regarded. He contended that no species of real property, whether cottage property or otherwise, should be suffered to be exempt from poor-rates. But the question was one of convenience as well as of principle; for in cases where it happened that the owners of small tenements did not reside in the same part of the country, it was found almost impossible to collect the rates from the occupiers, and this difficulty and inconvenience were provided for by obtaining payment of the poor-rates from the landlord. This was a question in which he (Mr. Walter) took great interest, and he tendered his thanks to the framers of the Bill for having brought in a measure on
 1193
 MR. WALTER  said, there was one question upon which the compulsory clause appeared to him entirely to depend, and he, for one, required to be set right on that point. It was this—whether or no, under any circumstances, the power of exempting certain cottages from rating was to be continued to magistrates, because, if that power of exemption under any circumstances was to be continued, he thought the whole object of the Bill would be defeated.
 MR. W. PATTEN  intended to propose that vestries should have the option either of making an abatement with the landlord, if he paid the rates, or of collecting the whole of the rates from the occupiers. In some cases vestries might prefer to obtain the rates from the occupiers. He thought that in cases where they elected to obtain the rates from the landlord, they ought to be empowered to make an abatement from the assessment.
 MR. HENLEY  wished to guard himself
 1195
 MR. HENLEY  said, the two last speakers rested their support of the Bill on the fact that the prisoner was given a right to demand being tried before a jury; but he would ask, what chance of a fair trial would such a man have, if the jury were told that he had refused a summary trial? He saw great objections to the working of the Bill in detail; and he must also own, that he did not much like the principle of the Bill either.
 MR. HUME  was anxious to take the
 1205
 MR. BAINES  said, the question was an extremely important one, and be had no doubt whatever the effect of this Bill, coupled with the 54th of George III., c. 170, s. 11, under which these excusals took place, would leave the law in this state—that with regard to cases in which the vestry determined to rate these owners, the rate would be recovered from them under the provisions of this Bill; but when that resolution in vestry was not come to, then the occupiers would continue to be rated as at present, the magistrates having the same power to excuse as they now had.
 MR. BAINES  said, that Mr. Poulett Scrope's Act had laid down an invariable rule for ascertaining the assessable value of property, although it appeared that it was not so strictly adhered to as it might be. He apprehended they were to look to the definition of assessable value as given by that Act, and the words "rateable value," therefore, were the best to be inserted in this Bill.
 MR. BAINES  considered the Amendment of the hon. Member for Berks objectionable. Its effect would be to repeal the principle to which they had just agreed as to the rateable value. The question ought to be, what was the assessable value? and not what was the particular contract between landlords and tenants.
 MR. BAINES  thought the House ought not to decide that question without further consideration. He had every wish to preserve the franchise to all who now possessed it; but he could not help seeing that one consequence of the Amendment of the hon. Member for Kilmarnock would be, that the occupiers of tenements under 6 l l
 MR. BAINES  agreed with his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge as a matter of principle, that a measure like the present ought to be compulsory in its operation. He was, however, anxious to obtain the greatest amount of good that he could procure, and he feared that if the Amendment were carried, the success of the Bill would be endangered. Still, he felt so strongly on the subject that if his hon. and learned Friend gave notice that on a subsequent stage of the Bill he would submit a clause making the Bill compulsory, he (Mr. Baines) would vote for it. The consent of a bare majority of the vestry only was required by Mr. Sturges Bourne's Act, and if that were sufficient to enable the vestry to make an order in respect of houses of from 6 l l l
 MR. P. HOWARD  believed there would be great anxiety on the part of parish vestries to enforce the provisions of this Bill.
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, that by a subsequent part of the clause it required a majority of two-thirds of the vestry to rescind the order for the operation of the Act.
 MR. P. SCROPE  confessed that he should prefer making the Bill compulsory. If they left it optional they would throw a firebrand into almost every parish vestry. There would be a struggle, in the first place, to obtain a bare majority in favour of the order, and then there would be a never-ending struggle to repeal it.
 MR. P. SCROPE  protested against the measure being proceeded with, and regretted that Her Majesty's Government had not interfered to stop it. It was a measure of great importance to a large class of the community, for it proposed to alter the position of the owners and occupiers of property to the number of two millions. One million of this number were at present excused altogether from the payment of poor and highway rates; but this measure was intended to impose rates upon them to the extent of 500,000 l l l 1188 ex post facto
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, the law as it now stood was much evaded, although considerable expense was incurred by the parishes to ascertain a correct valuation of property.
 MR. P. SCROPE  felt that his hon. Friend the Member for Flint was perfectly justified in the course he had taken in discussing the principle of the measure on the question being put that this clause stand part of the Bill. He doubted whether the owners of property would be induced to build cottages in consequence of the remission of the duty on bricks. He was desirous that they should exempt all small cottages from rates, for in such cases the occupiers would derive the benefit, and not the owner. He would appeal to the hon. Member for the West Riding as to whether he anticipated any beneficial results from the abolition of the brick duty? The object of the proposed Bill was to abolish all cottages, or to make them so dear that the peasantry could not occupy them.
 MR. W. MILNES  was sorry to hear-the right hon. President of the Poor Law Board express so strong an opinion in favour of making the provisions of the Bill compulsory. He hoped that the Bill would be passed in its present state, and then, four or five years hence, if it should work well, it might be made compulsory. The compulsory provision might pass this House, but elsewhere it would endanger the success of the Bill.
 MR. SPOONER  was decidedly in favour of the compulsory clause.
 MR. SPOONER  contended that the Bill did not take away a single privilege now possessed by the jury; it left the person accused the right of having a jury if he chose.
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  suggested, that if the Bill were made compulsory, its success might be endangered elsewhere. He trusted, therefore, that his hon. and learned Friend would not persevere in his Amendment.
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  concurred very much with what had fallen from the hon. Member for Stroud. He thought the practical effect of rating the owners of small tenements rather than the occupiers would be to diminish any inducement people might have to build cottages for the poor. The great object in country parishes was rather to hold out inducements to do so; but he was afraid that when a landlord who might be desirous to build comfortable cottages found that he was to be saddled with rates for so doing, he would, in many instances, give up his intentions. He was perfectly aware that the chief ground on which the measure was brought forward was to render it more convenient to collect the rates from small tenements. He admitted that inconvenience was at present felt; but still he thought that where people had laid out the savings of a long life of industry in the purchase of a small portion of land, and had, besides, invested money in the erection of a building on the faith of the law as it now stood, it would be unfair, by means of an  ex post facto
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  thought it better the Amendment of which he had given notice should be moved before the proviso of the hon. Gentleman. It was to this effect:—
 "Provided always, that no owner of any such tenement shall be assessed on any higher valuation than the sum at which the said tenement shall be let to any occupier thereof." 1196
 MR. SLANEY  had had charge of a Bill on this subject for three years. A Committee upstairs had sat for three months, and they decided in favour of such a measure as the present. He was also favourable to the compulsory principle. But he thought it better to discuss the proposal to make the Bill compulsory at a future stage.
 MR. SOTHERON  recommended that the compulsory clause should not be proposed until the Bill came out of Committee.
 MR. M. GIBSON  said, that he was only influenced by a desire to make it a fair and impartial Committee.
 MR. HALSEY  moved that the following proviso be added at the end of the first clause:—
 "Provided always, that in every case where the owner of such tenement shall be so rated and assessed to the rates for the relief of the poor, in respect of such tenement, instead of the occupier thereof, it shall be lawful for such occupier to demand at any time to have his name substituted on the rate as the party assessed, instead of such owner; and after such demand and payment, or tender, of the last made rate, if then in arrear in respect of such tenement, such occupier shall be entitled to exercise all rights, privileges, and franchises whatsoever, as fully as if his name had originally appeared upon the rate as the party assessed."
 MR. HALSEY  then proposed, that in line 14 the words "rent or" should be omitted, and the word "rateable" inserted in their place.
 MR. HALSEY , in reply, said, that the onus of paying the rates would be thrown on the owners of cottages.
 MR. HALSEY  wished to deny the charge that in bringing forward this Bill, he desired to keep down the population. He believed that the Bill would encourage the formation of a better class of houses.
 MR. HALSEY  proposed to omit the words "by a majority of two-thirds," so as to leave the adoption of the clause to be decided by a bare majority of the persons present at the vestry.
 MAJOR BERESFORD  complained that the two counties with which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester was more immediately connected—namely, Suffolk and Lancashire—had no less than five Members on the Committee, leaving only ten Members for the rest of England. It was his intention to move that the Earl of March and Mr. Deedes be substituted for Mr. Kershaw and Lord Rendlesham.
 MR. EWART  also entertained strong objections to the Bill. In particular, he objected to the magistrates having the power of deciding whether a child was six-
 1204
 MR. M'CULLAGH  denied that ample time had been allowed the House or the public to become familiar with the merits of the Bill between its first and second reading. With respect to the Motion of which he gave notice for that occasion, he was inexperienced enough to postpone it
 1203
 MR. CAREW  believed that they had lost several Bills with the compulsory clause, still he would vote for making the Bill compulsory if it came to a division; but rather than lose the Bill, which he believed would be of great public advantage, he would support it in its present shape. He had received assurances from several vestries that they would avail themselves of the permissive powers of the Bill if it were passed in its present form.
 SIR G. GREY  repeated his opinion that so important a change in the Bill should not be proposed without distinct notice.
 SIR G. GREY  joined in the same request. No notice had been given of any Motion or Amendment to make the powers of the Bill compulsory, and it would be better to make such Motion, not in Com-
 1191 l l
 SIR G. GREY  hoped, that as the House had already affirmed the principle of the Bill on the second reading, the hon. Member for Stroud would allow the Rill to go into Committee. The hon. Member assumed that cottage property was now by law exempt from rating. Now, it enjoyed no such exemption. The exemption which magistrates were entitled to give was a personal exemption, and he believed that great inconvenience and inequality arose from the exercise of this power of exemption. It was said it was bard a retired tradesman should not be able to invest his savings in the construction of some cottages without making himself liable to the poor-rate in respect thereof. But the Bill, in fact, only placed the law on the same footing with regard to property under 6 l l l l
 SIR G. GREY  did not see how the Amendment raised the question which the hon. and learned Recorder wished, by expressing disapprobation of the second part of the Bill. He should have thought the best course to take in order to carry out the views of the hon. and learned Gentleman would be to go into Committee, and then to move the omission of that part of the Bill which related to adults.
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  denounced the Bill as a mischievous attempt at legislation. It was preposterous to delegate to vestries the power of deciding important questions between landlord and tenant.
 SIR H. VERNEY  did not believe that the owners of cottages for the poor would be influenced by considerations of such a nature as had been suggested by the hon. Baronet the Member for Flint. At present in many parts of the country the cot-
 1198 l l
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  wished to know from the hon. Member for Hertfordshire what would be the effect of the words, "such owner shall be rated and assessed?" In a case of the owner of a cottage, where he lets at a nominal rent of one shilling a year, was it intended that he should pay all the rates on the house and garden? How was he to reimburse himself without raising the rent?
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  thought that the Amendment now proposed would aggravate what he conceived to be the evil tendency of the Bill; he alluded to the check it would exercise upon the benevolent intentions of landlords who built cottages and let them to labourers at a merely nominal rate. It was within his own know-
 1197 s
 SIR J. GRAHAM  was in the position of not being friendly to either of the two portions of this Bill, and would have much preferred voting for the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Dundalk, that the Bill be committed that day six months; but coming to a division on the preliminary question, whether the Bill should be divided, he must vote with the Recorder of London. There, were, certainly, two distinct portions of this Bill: the first, whether the age at which the adults were distinguished from juvenile offenders should be altered. He objected to any alteration of that age. From the time of Edward III. till now, the law, as laid down by Sir Matthew Hale, made the age of fourteen the limit between the period during which a man was responsible for his actions, and that during which he was irresponsible. He was not prepared to alter a rule of law which was reasonable and had worked well. The second portion of the Bill he regarded as open to the gravest objection, and thought it should at once be rejected.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  trusted that he would not be asked to serve on the Committee, as it would be impossible for him to attend.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  denied that the Gentlemen on the list were the most competent that could be selected for the duties to be imposed upon them. They were to be charged with the care of a Bill containing ninety clauses, besides several schedules, and which was to deal with the whole of the internal affairs of the kingdom, and to repeal a great number of Acts of Parliament, and yet there was not a single professional lawyer in the list proposed.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  could not help thinking that he had some little reason to complain of the course which had been taken by the hon. and learned Member for Cambridge University on the present occasion. Some considerable time since this Bill came on for a second reading, with due notice and with ample preparation, in the usual manner. Upon that occasion the hon. and learned Member for Dundalk had a notice on the paper that he would move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. The hon. and learned Gentleman attended in his place, but did not move his Amendment at that time, when the principle of the measure was fairly at issue. Now, he (Sir J. Pakington) found upon the notices for to-day, that upon the Motion that Mr. Speaker do leave the chair, the hon. and learned Gentleman intended to make the Motion of which he gave notice on the second reading, and which ought to have been made then, if at all. He found also, that without any notice at all, the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Cambridge
 1202 s
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  thought it would be better if the adoption of the measure was made compulsory instead of being left optional with the vestry. He should have moved an Amendment to that effect, but that he feared he might thereby endanger the ultimate success of the Bill. Several local Acts had been passed by the House containing these compulsory enactments. These local Acts had worked very well, while the public Act to which the; right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary had adverted, which gave an optional power to the vestry to obtain poor-rates from the landlords of houses of between 6 l l
 MR. W. MILES  said, he agreed with hon. Gentlemen opposite that trial by jury was the palladium of English liberty; but, at the same time, it should be recollected, that that right was not taken away by the present Bill, inasmuch as it left the accused party the privilege of objecting to the summary jurisdiction of the magistrate, should be think proper, and of requiring that his case be sent before a jury. The Bill also gave a discretion to the magistrate to send the case to a jury should be so think fit.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  was sorry the hon. Baronet the Member for Flint had not made his speech on the second reading of the Bill, instead of now getting up a discussion on the principle of it when they were considering the details.
 MR. CARD WELL  understood the case to be this—the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, for technical reasons connected with the rules of the House, had no opportunity of giving notice of alterations; at the same time, important alterations had been submitted to the right hon. Gentleman, and so far entertained by him, as to be under serious consideration. Would it be possible to convey to the parties interested, through some channel or other, the nature of those alterations, to enable them to judge of the Bill at the time of the second reading? The principle of the Bill would be mainly contained in the details, and would turn upon the actual arrangement of those details; and would the right hon. Gentleman adopt some means of giving the parties interested a definite notion of what the Bill actually was, in order that they might know whether they considered that those arrangements constituted a principle to which they would assent or not?
 SIR F. T. BARING  observed, that there was no objection to these returns as far as the Admiralty was concerned. He had been pressed for the former return, and he had given all the papers which were ready, and others would shortly be furnished. Some, however, which had been asked for were not yet in the possession of the Admiralty, but when they arrived in this country they would be produced, but it would be necessary to send out for others.
 SIR F. T. BARING  replied, that the payments were made under a specific Act of Parliament, which it was now proposed to alter. It would not be fair to these parties to withhold payment under the existing law. When the estimates came on, his hon. Friend would have ample opportunities of discussing the question, when he would have in his possession all the papers in the possession of the Government. He trusted the hon. Gentleman would allow this Bill to proceed without going into the other question.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, there was no power to withhold payment under the existing law. Under this Bill the decision for the future in a case of this kind would be left to the discretion of the Admiralty.
 MR. BOUVERIE  bogged to ask, if the right hon. Gentleman would make any statement of the Amendments he proposed to make in the Mercantile Marine Bill?
 MR. FOX MAULE  hoped the hon. Member for North Warwickshire would not press his Motion for adjournment, for there were sufficient Members present to debate the question, and it would be but fair to go into it. But at the same time he hoped that hon. Members would not go into the old debate again. With respect to the composition of the Committee, his right hon. Friend the Member for Manchester had taken every means to make it a fair one, and he thought that the country gentlemen of England, acting as magistrates, were better judges of these matters by themselves than the lawyers; and of that body of gentlemen he would say that if he thought this measure tended to undervalue them, he would be the first to vote against it. But he did not think that such was its tendency, while it would satisfy the ratepapers that the rates were properly disposed of, and would, he be
 1225
 MR. CHARTERIS  did not rise to prolong the discussion, but he wished to ask
 1216
 MR. FREWEN  believed that there had been great trouble in constituting the Committee, and that many Gentlemen of great practical experience, when requested to serve, had declined. He had been asked by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester to serve, and he would give the question the best attention he was able, for his constituents felt very warmly on the matter. What the Committee would have to do was to alter the Bill as much as possible to suit the different circumstances of different counties; and of which there was a great variety. In Lincolnshire there were three distinct commissions of peace, and Suffolk also had customs peculiar to itself in regard to the rates and expenditure; and the Committee would have no little difficulty in framing the Bill to meet these varying cases. However, if it was the wish of the House that the noble Earl the Member for West Sussex should serve, he (Mr. Frewen) was willing to resign in favour of the noble Lord.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the object of the Motion of his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for North Essex was not a party object, and defended his proposition.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  repeated his conviction that the Committee would not carry any weight with it as proposed to be constituted. Names had been suggested to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester, and if he would not avail himself of the facilities thus opened to him, the responsibility of a one-sided selection would rest upon him alone. He hoped the Motion for the adjournment of the debate would be withdrawn. He had to complain before of so few Members being in their places on his side of the House, and he
 1226
 MR. NEWDEGATE  considered that the real tendency of this Motion was an attack upon the laws of primogeniture, and that mode of descent of property upon which the aristocracy of the country, as a body, depended. He believed that the hon. Member for East Surrey was a member of the National Freehold Association, which was but the Anti-Corn-Law League revived, and had been greatly aided by the exertions of that association in multiplying the number of small freeholders in that part of the country which he represented. It might probably be considered by some persons that it would be desirable to have a commercial succeeded by a social revolution, and he could conceive of no better mode of bringing about such a state of things, than by the adoption of the principle embodied in the resolution of the hon. Member for East Surrey. He should also wish to know whether the resolution had not an ulterior object in view, and was to be considered only as the precursor of that future movement of which the hon. Member for the West Riding had given them ample notice, for a complete alteration of the tenure of landed property, a change of the depositaries of public power—in fact, a social revolution.
 MR NEWDEGATE  explained that what he said was, that during the recess the hon. Member for Manchester had been instructing the public that there ought to be a very large subdivision of landed property in this country.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the Motion of the hon. Member for East Surrey comprehended two subjects: first, facilities for the transfer of landed property; and, secondly, an alteration in the state of the law as to the division of real property. He was not prepared to say that the first object of the Motion was one which ought not to be supported; but hon. Gentlemen would remember that this subject had been referred to the Real Property Commission, from whom a report might soon be expected, and he did not think that at present any great advantage would be derived from the passing of an abstract resolution. With regard to the second part of the Motion, which proposed to alter the distribution of landed property in cases of intestacy, he did not agree with its object. He believed that, on the whole, as his hon. friend the Member for Pontefract had said, there was a general accordance of habits and opinions in this country with the present state of the law, and, therefore, he should feel bound to oppose the Motion.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, the hon. and gallant Officer had, no doubt, a strong feeling upon this question, and had a perfect right to oppose this Committee, but it was rather extraordinary he should allude to this thin state of the House, caused by the absence of his own Friends. But when the hon. and gallant Member insinuated that hon. Members on his (Mr. Ag-lionby's) side of the House were pledged to get a majority in that Committee, he answered for himself, and he believed for the other Members around him, that they were present in the ordinary performance of their duty, in going through the public business set down upon the Votes of the evening. What ground had the hon. Member for North Warwickshire for saying that the decision of the Committee would have no weight? Were hon. Gentlemen on the other side to be alone the judges of what the opinion of the country
 1224
 MR. LABOUCHERE , in reply to the
 1208
 MR. LABOUCHERE  had been in communication with the hon. Gentleman's constituents in Liverpool, as well as with merchants in Glasgow, London, and other places, and had endeavoured to state frankly to them the nature of the alterations; and he did not think, when they came to discuss the Bill on the second reading, that the Gentlemen who represented the sea trade would be at all in ignorance of the general purport of those alterations—alterations which, he repeated, were not at all directed to the principle of the Bill. That being the case, he thought there would be considerable convenience before he finally made up his mind to the alterations, in his hearing the discussion on the second reading. He thought it was better that they should adhere to the usual course, and not lay any formal statement
 1209
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, it often happened that debates went on at that hour in as thin a House as that was.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that as had spoken a great deal on the subject of primogeniture outside the walls of the House, he was desirous of saying a few words before the House divided. He was not disposed to conceal the objects which hon. Gentlemen opposite, who were so timid on this question, might suppose the friends of the Motion had in view, but he would assure the hon. Member for North Warwickshire that they would not take a single acre of his property without paying him for it. They were not destroyers of property, as they had been called, but the improvers of it.
 MR. BRIGHT : The Motion did not propose to interfere with the manner in which a man might bequeath his estate,
 1217
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  wished to know in what order the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade proposed to take the Bills relating to this subject.
 MR. HUME  stated, that they would shortly be called upon to vote 98,000 l
 MR. HUME  asked whether the Government had yet paid any portion of the 98,000 l 1221
 MR. HUME : I am too old.
 MR. HUME  thought that the hon. Gentleman who last spoke had made a reasonable request when he asked to be informed what the Motion meant. For his own part, he never wished for concealment, and though he could not pretend to interpret the views of the hon. Member who brought forward the Motion, he could state what
 1214 l l 1215 l
 MR. HUME  hoped that as there was already one Member for Sussex on the Committee, the hon. and gallant Gentleman would not press his Motion for adding another.
 MR. HUME  moved for the following returns:—Copies of the instructions from Sir Francis Collier to Commander Farquhar, alluded to in Mr. Farquhar's report of the 25th day of August, 1849 (page 9); of Sir Francis Collier's report, adverted to in Lord Eddisbury's letter of the 9th day of November, 1849 (page 11); of Sir James Brooke's despatch to Lord Palmerston,
 1220
 MR. HUME  said, he highly approved of the Bill; but he protested against the money being paid until evidence was adduced to show that the persons killed were pirates. For his own part he was prepared to show that they were not pirates, but injured and innocent persons.
 MR. L. KING  said, that as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had referred to the Real Property Commission, he begged to repeat to the right hon. Gentleman a passage from the evidence which a gentleman gave before that commission. The witness said—
 "I was fleeced when I came of ago, again when I was married, again when my son came of age, again when he was married, and when I die I expect that my family will be severely fleeced."
 MR. L. KING  begged to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice, his object being to call the attention of the House to certain anomalies which exist with respect to the transfer of landed property in cases of intestacy, and to certain effects which still remain, when the causes for those effects have long since disappeared. In consequence of recent changes in their legislation, their attention was peculiarly called to the principles of free trade, the effects of which had been denounced by a very large and influential body in that House, and attempts had been made by that body to induce Parliament to re-enact protection. He would at once admit and deplore the fact, that very great and considerable in-convenience had been experienced by that party. A change, after all, in any system would at all times produce derangement until matters became adjusted; but the complaints that were made, and the demands almost insisted upon, forced upon their attention the necessity of considering what have been the causes of, and what are likely to be the remedy for the present state of things. The complaints had proceeded from a very large and influential body, but they bore only a lamentably small proportion to the rest of the population in this country, compared with other nations. It could not be said, however, that they were inadequately represented, or that their arguments had been unattended to. The House—consisting, as he might presume to say it formerly did, almost entirely of landed proprietors—did its very best to promote the interests of that body. Under its sanction one system of laws of more modern invention was continued with regard to real property; and another, and a totally different one of ancient date was revised with regard to personal property. The modern system, of encouraging a system of incumbrances upon land, had created in this country a body of nominal instead of real possessors, flattered their pride, and introduced with that pride the ordinary accompaniment of poverty, while the tendency of the system had been to increase wealth by the distribution of property in cases of intestacy. No obstacle whatever is placed
 1210 "I went by the field of the slothful, and by the vineyard of the man void of understanding, and lo, it was all grown over with thorns, and nettles had covered the face thereof." "The monopoly of land in the old world is a serious evil. The traveller passes over miles and miles of unoccupied and unimproved land capable of sustaining its thousands and millions in comfort; and upon the borders of those immense tracts of land are found thousands of human beings perishing for want of employment. This tract belongs to the Government. That tract belongs to the Church. This tract is held by some powerful individual, who chooses to keep it in its present state for his game preserves. Another large tract is devoted to some object which, if it had its value centuries before, has now ceased to be of use," 1211 l l Ià grande propriété 1212 Parliamentum doctum
 MR. M. MILNES  thought the importance of the Motion had been much exaggerated. He saw no objection whatever to it; but if the law were altered as the hon. Gentleman proposed, it would be but little operative, because very little landed property passed by descent. But there was a great collateral advantage which would result from this Motion, and that was, that it would tend to abolish the notion which was so prevalent on the Continent, and which so many men encouraged in that House, namely, that there was in this country a law of primogeniture. It was important that it should be well understood that all the conditions of primogeniture rested solely on the habits and manners of the people of this country, and not upon any law whatever. The whole matter was entirely permissive.
 MR. SPOONER  moved that, in consideration of the then thin state of the House, the debate be adjourned. The Committee, as it then stood, would have no weight with the country.
 MR. M. GIBSON  said, that his object had been to get a fair and impartial Committee, and he thought he had accomplished that object by the nomination as it stood. There were county Members and chairmen of quarter-sessions upon the Committee. But the question now was the withdrawal of the name of Sir James Graham; and he then proposed to go through the rest of the names, and move their appointment.
 MAJOR BERESFORD  said, that although he saw by the state of the House what would be the result of a division, he was determined to persevere. His objection to the Committee was a fair and proper one, and he represented the sentiments of a large body of country gentlemen whom he had consulted, and who declared
 1223
 MAJOR BERESFORD  replied that it was somewhat extraordinary to object to two Members for Sussex, when there were three for Suffolk, and two for Lancashire.
 MR. EWART  said, that he believed the principle of his hon. Friend to be not only theoretically sound, but one which, if adopted, would be attended with great practical benefits to the country at large. He wished it to be clearly understood, that neither he nor his hon. Friend wished to bring about a compulsory division of
 1213
 SIR G. PECHELL  expressed his satisfaction at the constitution of the Committee, and particularly at the circumstance of one of the hon. Members for Sussex being upon it. In his hands the inhabitants of Brighton would be safe. They complained, with great justice, of a system which compelled them to contribute enormous sums to the county without having the slightest control over their application. He hoped, therefore, that the hon. Member would not withdraw his name.
 SIR H. VERNEY  did not intend to say anything which would in the slightest degree reflect on the aristocracy. He believed there were no possessors of property in any country who did so much for those on it, and who received so little remuneration from it, as in England. Much good, however, might be effected by facilitating the transfer of landed property. There were 30,000 acres of unimproved land within a short distance of the metropoils, which, if there were facilities for its sale, would furnish employment for several hundred poor labourers in its cultivation. In
 1218
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  suggested that the names of the Earl of March and Mr. Deedes should be added to the Committee. The absence of lawyers had been remarked, and he could not but observe that, if some experienced members of the profession were not added, it would be a Committee  in doctum
 J. C. HOBHOUSE  would suggest to his hon. Friend the propriety of adjourning the debate, as it was clear that he was then too ill to do justice to himself or to the subject on the present occasion.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  did not think it advisable to press the Motion to a division. He had felt much pain in the course he had been obliged to take in reference to the nomination of this Committee, but still he thought the Government were not free from responsibility in the matter; and when he saw a Committee constituted as this was, he did not hesitate to enter his protest against such a constitution. His opinion was more and more fortified that this change ought not to have been left in the hands of a private Member of Parliament, but if undertaken at all, should have been undertaken on the responsibility of the Government. He suggested, however, to his hon. Friend the Member for North Warwickshire to withdraw his Motion for the adjournment of the debate. He was extremely sorry the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester had not acceded to the opinion expressed on his (Sir J. Pakington's) side of the House. The constitution of the Committee would certainly be forced upon them, but he could assure the right hon. Gentleman that none but those whose views were the same as his own would approve of it.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  called the attention of the House to the constitution of the Committee with respect to filling up the vacancies. It was painful to raise questions of an individual kind; but his hon. and gallant Friend behind him the Member for North Essex had given notice of his intention to move two changes in the Committee list, and he (Sir J. Pakington) considered that there was ample ground for that Motion, and he should vote for it if his hon. and gallant Friend pressed a division. The right hon. Member for Manchester must admit that a Committee upon such an important Bill should be so constituted as to give no ground of objection. It was a measure to effect great changes, and would require serious consideration; and he appealed to the House if the decision of the Committee, whether it came back in the form of an altered Bill,
 1222 seriatim
 MR E. COLEBROOKE  having assented, the Motion was, by leave, withdrawn.
 SR E. COLEBROOKE  said, he wished to bring under the notice of the House the
 1219
 MR. V. SMITH  said, that the right hon. Gentleman assumed that all these colonies had constitutions. That was not so. There were only two of them which had constitutions, and those had existed for only seven years. The right hon. Gentleman said that the Government took
 1262
 MR. BERNAL  informed the hon. Member that it would not be competent for him, if he postponed his Amendment, to bring it forward at a subsequent stage.
 MR. S. ADAIR  said, he should have voted for the Amendment had he not discovered from the papers that the nominees were not entirely subservient to the Crown. On the 16th of May last an address to Sir Charles Fitzroy was moved, in relation to a proposition which had been transmitted to that governor from the Colonial Office
 1272
 The CHAIRMAN  replied that he never recollected any instance of the kind.
 MR. A. B. HOPE  would support the Motion of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Midhurst, because it carried out a principle which had long been deeply implanted in his mind—he meant the necessity of giving to our colonies English habits, English feelings, English manners, English government, and, above all, he would say, though he knew it was in the face of the prevailing feeling of the day, English monarchy. Of course, in advocating a colonial peerage, he was not foolish enough to suppose that there were yet in Australia, or in any of our other colonies, the materials to form such a peerage as would be anything but suggestive of ridicule. He knew that the prestige of wealth and hereditary descent was the very last thing that could grow up in any new colony whatever; but while he felt the importance of avoiding any immature and hasty plan for establishing a monarchical system in our colonies, he was yet of opinion that we ought to lay the foundation for it in all of them. He was aware that climate had great effect upon character—he knew the hardening and roughening effect of a northern, and the enervating effect of a tropical climate; but in Australia and New Zealand, where the climate was as temperate and the habits of life the same as our own, he knew no reason why our Anglo-Saxon institutions should not thrive as well there as in the old country. It was clear then that the question was reduced to this dilemma—either that the old English constitution was a fallacy—which he did not admit—or that in a colony like Australia, founded by Englishmen and with an English climate to dwell in, it must be the fault of our Legislature if they did not enjoy English institutions. In what shape these institutions should be introduced—whether, for instance, there ought to be titles of honour given—he did not mean the highest titles of nobility, but whether there should not be baronetcies with the right of sitting in the upper chamber—he would not then stop to inquire; but he thought it was as clear as daylight, that if we were to retain the monarchical system ourselves, and at the same time preserve our colonies, we must give them far more of monarchical prestige than we had hitherto given them—that we must let them taste of its sweets
 1294
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY  had Come down to the House to support the proposition in favour of two chambers, and he believed he should have voted for the proposition of the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst, but, from the debate, to which he had listened with considerable attention, his opinions had entirely changed. There were two or three things which struck him as particularly striking respecting the question under discussion. The wishes of the colonies, it was very certain, had not been consulted. From all the extracts which he had heard quoted, he was inclined to think that the colonies were very doubtful whether they were fit for the proposed change. And another great reason, in his opinion, for leaving the colonies to choose for themselves on this question was, that Englishmen, as
 1328
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, he must be allowed a few words, without which he could not vote with credit. He had agreed with, and had cheered nearly everything said by the hon. Member for Southwark, and had made up his mind to vote for the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst, till the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) directed attention to the after-intentions avowed by the hon. Mover. He made a point of never following, where there was an after-intention he could not approve. The intention avowed by the hon. and learned Mover, was that in the end there should be a legislative council appointed by the Crown for life, with a proviso that not more than one-third should hold offices of emolument. Now who was there that wanted to land in this? Those who did, might vote for the Amendment; but to those who did not, he would suggest opposing in the present stage.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  regretted that he could not accede to the proposition of the hon. Gentleman, although if ever there was a case in which gentlemen were clearly entitled to compensation for the loss of their offices that was one, one of those gentlemen having, he believed, held his situation upwards of forty years. However, the House was well aware of the many complaints that had been made against the introduction of compensation clauses into Acts of Parliament, and of the very great difficulty that the House had in understanding the exact nature of the cases submitted to it in which such claims were made. It had, therefore, decided long since, that all such cases should be submitted to the Treasury for decision. That course had been pursued last year in the case even of the Palace Court, where people had actually paid money for their
 1347
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  was totally unable to form an opinion whether these parties were entitled to compensation; but believing it was possible they might be, he had, with the consent of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, introduced the word "employment" into the clause, which would include such cases, if the claims, in the opinion of the Treasury, were good.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he had a question to put to the noble Lord respecting the filling up of the blank in this clause with "one-third" of nominated members, which it would be convenient to have answered before the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst brought forward his proposition. As the clause was framed, one-third of the members of the legislative council were to be nominated by the Crown; but he believed it was intended that of these only one-half or one-sixth of the whole chamber might be officials. As the Act was framed, however, it was doubtful whether the whole one-third might not be officials. He wished to know from the noble Lord whether one-third or one-sixth only might be officials?
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, he could scarcely understand from the speech of the hon. Member for Montrose whether he intended to support the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst or not. The hon. Member stated that he was in favour of a second chamber; and yet he appeared to have come to the conclusion that he would vote against a Motion which provided that there should be in each of the colonies of New South Wales and Victoria a legislative council and a representative assembly. Now he (Mr. Scott) could not understand how, after stating that he was in favour of two chambers, the hon. Member could come to the conclusion of not voting for the proposition contained in the Amendment. The argument adduced by the Under Secretary for the Colonies himself would go against any legislation at all upon this subject at the present time. He said the House ought not to enter into a discussion upon the subject without having the express consent of the colonists themselves. That had been the opinion repeatedly expressed in this House, and upon that ground he (Mr. Scott) maintained that Her Majesty's Government were not at liberty to introduce the present Bill, They had not yet had the expressed consent of the colonists, and they knew it. The colonies of Australia differed in their circumstances and condition from one another to such an extent that it was impossible to legislate for them all alike. The only Australian colony he knew of which had a chamber constituted one-third of nominees and the remainder of elective members, sitting in one house, was that of New South Wales. The proposal contained in the Bill was sent out to that colony last year; and yet they had received no expression of feeling from New South Wales upon the subject. He was sorry that the question which had been introduced and argued so ably by his hon. and learned Friend upon a broad and extended basis, had been treated in so narrow a spirit by the hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies. It would not be his (Mr. Scott's) fault, therefore, if, in replying to the arguments of the hon. Gentleman, he confined himself to observations which might otherwise have been utterly unworthy the attention of the House. When he found it brought forward upon authority, and stated boldly, he might say with an
 1295 1296 "We are anxious to enjoy a form of government founded as nearly as circumstances will admit upon the principle of the British constitution; and to make this colony a subject of a theoretical experiment in legislation is a measure the justice or policy of which we cannot admit." 1297 1298
 MR. F. SCOTT : Had the petitioners the Bill before them at that time?
 MR. F. SCOTT : What is the date of that petition?
 MR. F. SCOTT  would vote with the hon. Member for Falmouth, for he was
 1269
 LORD J. MANNERS  said, no person could be more opposed to the single chamber—however constructed—than he was. They were told by the right hon. Member for Tamworth that the Crown should have some check, by nominees, on the democratic principle. However, he (Lord J. Manners) objected strongly to the representative system, whether in single or double chamber, where that representative system was checked by Crown nominees. The last accounts from Sydney stated that Mr. Lowe, a member of the legislative council, had given notice of a resolution declaring that no enactment which the House of Commons might pass, relative to the constitution of that colony, would give satisfaction unless it should contain a provision similar to that contained in the Amendment of the hon. Member. The  Sydney Herald
 LORD J. RUSSELL  was understood to say that if the hon. Gentleman the Member for Falmouth was determined on moving his Amendment in Committee, the present was the time; as, were it withdrawn now, he could not again introduce it in Committee.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the right hon. Gentleman seemed to suppose that the Government were able to decide the course which the hon. Gentleman should adopt, and in what manner the vote of that House should be taken. He begged to say that that was entirely decided by the forms of that House. It was quite impossible for them to do otherwise than the forms of the House directed, and if they had wished to alter the forms of the House,
 1266
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that he considered the present Bill would have the effect of limiting the number of persons holding office among those nominated by the Crown to one-half. That, certainly, was the intention of the Government in framing the Bill, but he was not able to state whether, legally, the words of the Act would bear that interpretation; if he found that they would not, he would take care that some words should be inserted which would fully carry out his views.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that he had referred only to the legal interpretation of the words; he did not consider that he was lawyer enough to give an opinion upon such a subject. The views of Her Majesty's Government had been clearly enough stated.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the House would recollect that originally the legislative council of New South Wales was altogether appointed by the Crown, and no person could sit in that council except by appointment from the Crown. That state of things had been altered by a subsequent Act of Parliament, and two-thirds of the whole body were allowed to be elected, one-third still remaining in the nomination of the Crown. The proposal of the hon. Member was to alter altogether that constitution, and to have one legislative council, excluding all members nominated by the Crown. An alteration of that nature would be a very extensive one, and one to which he was not prepared to assent.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the hon. Member for Leominster had put the argument in favour of the Amendment in as strong a light as possible, but had in his opinion failed to advance reasons which ought to induce the House to vote for it. Adopting the view which had been expressed by almost every speaker on the same side, the hon. Member had stated that it was proposed to introduce into the legislature of New South Wales what never existed before, namely, a body of members appointed by the Crown, and that they were starting a constitution utterly strange and wholly unknown to Parliament. Now, this rendered it necessary that he should state what had been the course of the Legislature on that subject. In July, 1840, he had the honour of introducing a Bill containing a provision for forming a council in New South Wales, consisting of 36 members, of whom 24 were to be elective, and the remaining 12 to be named by the Crown. In 1842, Lord Stanley, who had in the interval succeeded to the seals of the Colonial Office, introduced a Bill which he stated to be founded on that brought forward by himself (Lord J. Russell) but which he had not proceeded with; and, with the exception of some provisions relating to the franchise, its provisions were in reality nearly the same as those of the Bill of 1840. Now he thought it might be presumed from that fact that no great discontent or dissatisfaction had arisen in New South Wales from the proposals which he (Lord J. Russell) had made in that House. Between July, 1840, and the introduction of the Bill of 1842, there was ample time for expressions of dissatisfaction on the part of the colonists, and had such expressions been uttered, he Imagined Lord Stanley would not have introduced his Bill. The Bill of Lord Stanley met with little opposition, did not call forth much comment of any kind, and became an Act of Parliament. From that time to the present, the constitution which had been represented as so monstrous a machine that it could not work, as acting wholly unknown in principle, and which it would be impossible to carry into effect in practice—this
 1329 "In point of fact, the system now prevailing through the territories comprising the provinces of New South Wales was established by Parliament in 1842, and custom appeared to have attached the colonists to it. Public opinion in New South Wales appeared indeed to be decidedly opposed to an alteration in that respect of the existing institutions of the colony by the authority of Parliament." 1330 "That the report having reached the colonies of New South Wales, Van Diemen's Land, and South Australia in September last, appeared to have been received with a high degree of satisfaction, as indicating a policy on the part of the mother country towards the colonies which was calculated to produce a lasting attachment of the colonies to the Crown." 1331 "That this council is disposed to view favourably the proposition to separate the deliberations of the nominees of the Crown from those of the representatives of the people." 1332 l 1333
 MR. HAWES  complimented the hon. and learned Member upon the tone and character of his speech; and, before commenting upon it, would ask the House to bear with him whilst he explained the grounds and the circumstances which had induced the Government to propose the Bill as it stood. He should endeavour to show, in the course of this explanation, that, if they had departed from recommending those institutions which were time-honoured and universally respected in this country, it was upon no light grounds that they had done so. Her Majesty's Government believed that they were consulting the feelings and wishes of the colonists, and that they acted upon the broad principle which had ever been a distinguishing feature of the liberal party and of enlightened policy, of endeavouring to frame our institutions and conduct our government so as to obtain the consent and approbation of the people at large. The hon. and learned Gentleman had alluded to the despatch of his noble Friend Earl Grey, dated January, 1847. It was that despatch which first opened, in our Australian colonies, questions of the greatest moment with regard to their constitution and future government; and the hon. and learned Gentleman was perfectly correct in saying that the subsequent discussions upon these subjects were originated by that despatch, and preceded any knowledge of the Bill now before the House. He (Mr. Hawes) was perfectly willing to make this concession, but without in the least relinquishing any part of the force attaching to the petitions and resolutions of the colonists, which were the basis and groundwork of the present Bill. The hon. and learned Gentleman had also referred to the report of the Committee of Council, and he had truly observed that the members of that body had
 1285 "Of this fact the most conclusive proof is to be found in the number of petitions recently presented to Her Majesty and the Houses of Parliament from large bodies of the colonists, praying that no change may be made in the constitution without the consent of the inhabitants." 1286
 MR. HAWES  entreated the House to consider the nature of the Amendment. First, let him state that the Bill introduced nothing new into the constitution of New South Wales. He would go a step farther, and say, not only did the colonists intimate in an authoritative manner, through resolutions, despatches, and petitions, adopted at public meetings, their satisfaction with the constitution as it stood, but their warm desire that no alterations should be made in it without their assent being previously obtained. Now, what they were called upon to do, was to make an important alteration in that constitution without their consent. The entire Bill was based in a desire to give satisfaction and content to the colonies. He altogether should dissent from the statement of the hon. Member for the West Riding, that they assumed the colonists were content with nominee legislators, as the Bill before the House conferred on them the power of altering their constitution as they thought fit. He denied it was in the power of the nominees of the Crown to control the council of New South Wales. The number composing that council was thirty-six, twelve being nominees, and twenty-four elected representatives. If the Crown and the Minister were disposed to change the
 1270
 MR. HAWES : February 2, 1848.
 MR. HAWES  admitted they had not, and had already admitted it; but though it might have been agreed upon in ignorance of the Bill, nevertheless whatever alterations might be proposed, the petitioners were all agreed in desiring that none should be made without the consent of the colony. There was also a petition to the same effect from Port Phillip. This petition objected to the constitution proposed by Earl Grey, as disturbing the form of government with which they were contented, and as altering their rights as British subjects. He referred to this petition because it afforded an indication that, with certain exceptions, they were content with the existing form of government. Another petition to the same effect from Windsor, New South Wales, and the inhabitants of Picton, prayed that all alterations in their laws and government might be "left in the hands of the Legislative Council as at present established." Then there was a memorial from certain inhabitants of the district of Port Phillip, forwarded in the Governor's despatch of September 23, 1848, which prayed that—
 "no pressure of public business may prevent your Lordship from taking steps to procure the separation of the district of Port Phillip from the colony of New South Wales, with a local representative council, which it was the object of the Bill to grant." 1287 "That although the council has deemed it a duty to give its opinion upon the several propositions contained in the despatch of the right hon. the Secretary of State for the Colonies, it cannot forbear from expressing its strong sense of the indignity with which the people of this colony are treated by the announcement that a measure so seriously influencing their destiny for good or for evil, will be introduced into Parliament without affording them an opportunity of previously expressing their sentiments upon it." "That petitioners believe that the said Bill is mainly founded on a report addressed to Her Majesty the Queen by the Lords of the Committee of Council for Trade and Plantations, of date the 4th day of April in last year, which report was approved by Her Majesty in Council on the 1st day of May in last year. That the said report having reached all the four colonies of New South Wales, Victoria, Van Diemen's Land, and South Australia, in September of last year, appears to have been received with a high degree of satisfaction by the people of each colony, as indicating a policy on the part of the mother country towards the colonies pre-eminently calculated to preserve the lasting attachment of the colonies to the Crown and Parliament of these realms." 1288 "That the colonists are entitled to expect that no important alteration in the constitution which they enjoy shall be made without their previous consent." "I regret the delay which has occurred (although from causes independent of Her Majesty's Government) in carrying into effect this necessary and urgently required measure; but the time lost will not be regretted if the consequence of that delay should be the framing of a measure more complete in all its parts, and more in accordance with the now ascertained views of the Australian community, than could have been the case if legislation had been attempted during the present Session." 1289 "We think the form of government that is to be upheld in New South Wales should be extended to Van Diemen's Land, inasmuch as colonies so closely connected should have the same form of government." 1290 1291
 MR. ADDERLEY  thought, that the proposition of the hon. Member for Falmouth had been most unfairly met by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, who represented it to be against the principle of the Bill, whereas it was quite in accordance with it. As he understood the right hon. Gentleman, the Legislative Council was to be a constituent body, and, therefore, ought not to have nominees amongst its members. If then the colony was to be appealed to in order to form their own constitution, he should certainly vote with the hon. Member for Falmouth, considering that there ought to be no nominees, but reserving to himself the right to vote for the Amendment of the hon and learned Member for Midhurst afterwards.
 MR. DIVETT  said, that it was most important that the Bill should be sent out as soon as possible to the colonies, but he was afraid, if the House continued to discuss the question of what was the best form of constitution as they had done, that the Bill was not likely to pass that Session. He only wished, at present, to call the attention of the Government to the fact that the people of South Australia were apprehensive of being placed under the dominion of New South Wales. On that account he had given notice for the purpose of striking out the federal clause; but he understood that it was possible so to amend the Bill that it would be unnecessary for him to do so. He objected to the course proposed by some hon. Gentlemen of making the constitution of too artificial a kind. He was in favour of one chamber, because he did not think that the materials for a second chamber existed in some of the colonies. He thought that there should be as little delay as possible in separating the province of Victoria, and giving it a representative assembly. With respect to the land fund, he would reserve any observations he had to make till they went into Committee; but he hoped that the principle of a maximum fund would be strictly maintained
 MR. MOWATT  said, that in that case he would move the Amendment of which he had given notice, namely, the omission of such part of Clause 2 as leaves to Her Majesty the nomination of one-third part of the number of the members of the legislative council. He admitted that the alteration he proposed was an important one, but its only effect would be to leave the legislative assembly free to declare whether in their opinion it was desirable or otherwise that there should be in it an official person or persons nominated by the Crown. He believed the colonists were at present indifferent whether there should be a single or double chamber. But he was of the opinion of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, that that House should consider, not only what the colony might desire at the present time, but,
 1261
 MR. MOWATT  said, that he had no objection to postpone his Amendment, in order to allow of the main question being first decided, if he could bring it forward when that question was disposed of.
 MR. MOWATT  was of opinion that it was a question of comparatively little moment whether the colonies had one or two chambers, provided the power was left with them of deciding which they would have. The only blemish in this Bill was the clause which they were now discussing, in which it was proposed to nominate one-third of the council proposed by the Bill, and afterwards provided that the colony should make such alterations as they thought proper—the very power of expresing an opinion upon the subject being taken from the colonists by the introduction of the Crown nominees into the council. He was anxious to know whether the Government intended to adhere to that part of the Bill with respect to Crown nominees?
 MR. MOWATT  should have much preferred that the question of a single or double chamber had taken precedence of his own Amendment, as also whether both chambers or only one, as the case might be, should be entirely elective. He believed the question of double or single chamber was of less importance than the elective question. The noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government, in bringing in the Bill, as much as declared the unfitness of the parties in the colonies to form a legislative body; and therefore he thought to remedy that unfitness by the appointment of Crown nominees. No he (Mr. Mowatt) viewed the measure in the light of a plan by which the colonists might, on the arrival of the Bill amongst them, assemble a body of their citizens, and from them select the fittest representatives; but at the same time, their influence would be more or less neutralised by the power of appointment retained by the Crown. His object was, that the colonists should have a full opportunity of expressing their free opinion; and if one-third of the Members of Council were nominated by the Crown, he contended the expression of opinion emanating from such a body could not be called the opinion of the colonists.
 MR. MOWATT  conceived that those Members who were in favour of a second chamber must vote for his Motion, as it was only one step towards the attainment of that object. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth seemed to be alarmed at the increase which the adoption of this proposition would give to the democratic element; but surely the right hon. Gentleman did not rely upon the nominees in the council being an efficient aristocratic check.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that he was most anxious to give a second chamber; but yet he dared not vote with the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst, because his proposition was one that he did not deem to be at that moment expedient to adopt. He desired not to force his opinions upon others. He could not ask them to act upon that opinion, until they felt that what was given to them was a good thing, and one that they would be ready to maintain under all circumstances. Having the opinion of the colonists themselves, that they did not desire a second chamber, he dare not be a party to impose one upon them. At the same time he was anxious to place within their reach the means of acquiring such a constitution as they might think best adapted to their circumstances. If they were dissatisfied with the present council, they could elect another, and that council would have uncontrolled power to adopt such a form of constitution as they might think fit. Could this House judge for the colonists as well as they could judge for themselves? He believed not. He quite concurred that two chambers were desirable but, as at present advised, he should vote for leaving the question to the discretion of those for whose benefit the measure under consideration was intended.
 MR. AGLIONBY  believed that it was the sincere wish of the Government to give the colonists the power of choosing their own form of constitution; but with a certain number of nominees in the legislature they would not have the opportunity of deciding on it themselves. It had been stated that the inhabitants of New South Wales were satisfied with their present constitution; but he denied it. They only deprecated having forced upon them a worse constitution than they had already got, and they had declared that they were anxious to enjoy a form of government founded, as nearly as circumstances would permit, on the principles of the British constitution.
 MR. AGLIONBY  thought, that if the Committee carried upon a division that there should be Crown nominees in the one chamber, it would most materially affect
 1263
 MR. BAILLIE  thought it a very strange
 1264
 MR. LABOUCHERE  considered that Her Majesty's Government, in bestowing the form of constitution which it did, gave it with the understanding that the colonists had the power of altering their institutions whenever they thought fit. His (Mr. Labouchere's) opinion, regarding the number of chambers, was, that a constitution could work better with two chambers than with one. But then much, he might say all, depended on the circumstances of the colony; such as the state of society, the advanced position of the population, and the means at hand for the composition of a second chamber. His object in rising was to protest against the interpretation put on the intentions of Her Majesty's Government, which were the very opposite of those interpretations; because, while conferring on the colonies these institutions—which they had reason to believe would be hailed as being of great importance—they at the same time thought it right to concede the power to the colonists of altering these institutions whenever they should think fit.
 MR. LABOUCHERE : Sir, I promise the Committee that I shall not detain them long, but I am unwilling to give a silent vote on the question now before them. I am unwilling to do so in the first instance, on account of my deep sense of the importance of the decision at which we may arrive; and I am also unwilling to do so, because it was part of my duty, as one of the Committee of Privy Council to whom the question of the constitution of Australia was referred, to consider the bearings of this important question, and to form an opinion upon them. I think I may further claim credit for the Government with regard to this measure, that the course which we have taken has been a frank one, and has been marked by good intentions towards those for whom those institutions were preparing, and I strongly feel on a question of this kind the truth of the observation of Burke, "that good intentions, plainly expressed, are of no mean force in the government of human affairs." I confess I do derive the greatest satisfaction from the result of all the intelligence that hitherto has reached us from the Australian colonies—intelligence, in my opinion, not the less important because it is derived in no great degree from official sources, but from newspapers there published, in which it is expressed with so much unanimity that it is impossible to doubt that upon the whole the measure proposed by the Government has been welcomed by the inhabitants of that colony. It is looked upon as a measure designed in a spirit most friendly and kindly towards them, and is in the main a measure that meets their wishes, and will provide for their wants, and which will establish a state of things in the colony to which they look forward with hope and confidence. I derive comfort from that knowledge, which supports me very much from the cavils and attacks which I hear made on this measure. I do not believe those attacks will mar the fair prospect that exists of this House and the Government being able to accomplish that which I deem to be a most arduous and difficult task, namely, to frame a constitution that will give freedom and good government to a population separated from us to the extent nearly of the habitable world, and to establish for them institu-
 1299 1300 1301 1302 "However valuable the aristocratic principle may be in a country such as England, it will utterly fail if you introduce it into Canada, where the circumstances are so entirely different; " "Even Mr. Pitt (said he) is afraid to tell the names of his new peers in Canada; he is afraid to do it; the House would laugh at it." 1303 1304
 MR. LABOUCHERE  considered the proposal of the hon. Member as altogether at variance with the principle of the Bill before the Committee. The object of the Bill was not to make new constitutions for the colonies, but to take those constitutions to which they had reason to believe the people of the colonies were attached, and enable them to build upon those foundations such improvements as time and experience might suggest to them. The opinion which had been expressed by the colonists was not against any particular form of constitution, but against any plan being sent out to them by this country different from that which they then enjoyed, without their having had the opportunity of expressing their opinion upon its merits. He did not feel called upon to argue upon this stage of the Bill whether the proposed constitution was a good one or the reverse, or whether the power of nomination should or should not continue in the Crown. He was satisfied, from the inquiries and investigations which he had been able to make upon the subject, that the safest course for the Committee to follow would be to confirm the powers which the colonists already possessed, and give to them fresh powers to make such alterations hereafter as they might deem advisable. He altogether objected to the Legislature of this country taking it upon itself to decide questions which the colonists were better able to decide for themselves.
 MR. SEYMER  did not think the Government system, as at present constructed, could work well. He believed the democratic principle would prevail after, it may be, a lengthened and painful struggle over the system of Government nominees. Also thinking that there should be a double chamber, and that both should be elective, he was prepared to vote for the Amendment of the hon. Member for Falmouth.
 MR. J. E. DENISON  thought that if the Motion of the hon. Member for Falmouth was now discussed and decided, it would also go far to decide the question whether there should be a single or a donble chamber, because if there were no power of nomination left in the hands of the Crown, it would then be necessary, for the purpose of constitutional government, that a second chamber should be called into existence; they were now discussing a Bill which gave four constitutions to four different colonies, all of which were differently circumstanced. For instance, the colony of new South Wales, from possessing more experience in public business, might be prepared for more advanced constitutional forms than Victoria or South Australia; and, therefore, it might be desirable to adopt a different rule with regard to colonies which were, for the first time, to be raised to a constitutional rank, and those which already possessed constitutions. He thought that the lesser colonies should follow in the wake of the larger ones.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, there was a body of men known as copying and engrossing clerks, who were paid by office sheets, and not paid salaries; the clause in its present shape, would not give that class of men full protection. He was desirous to hear whether it was intended they should be superseded without compensation? Many of them had been employed in the offices of the court for periods varying from five to forty years.
 MR. HUME  said, that it would be much better if they repealed every Act connected with these colonies, and passed a simple one for them. If they left things as they were, it would only lead to inextricable difficulty and confusion.
 MR. HUME  thought, that as the Bill proposed to give two elective councils to the Cape of Good Hope, there was no reason why the Australian colonies should be dealt with in a different manner. If the power of appointing the Crown nominees were removed, he believed the measure would meet with the general concurrence
 1260
 MR. HUME  said, that on the last division he voted with the minority, because he wished to give to the colonists the option of deciding what form of constitution they should have, and whether there should be one or two chambers. He objected to official nominees being placed on the council, for, if there were but one-third of the whole number devoted to the governor and his measures, he had only to bribe and allure four or five of the elected members to command a majority. Hence it was desirable to have the council entirely elective, that it might be a true exponent of the opinions of the colonists as to whether they would prefer one or two chambers. With regard to the proposition of the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst, he should say that one more inapplicable to the real condition of the colonies he had never heard. The hon. and learned Gentleman proposed to introduce into the Australian colonies institutions similar to those which now existed in this country, without considering whether or not they were adapted to the circumstances of the colonists. If he understood him right, he would institute a House of Lords with a bench of bishops, and he (Mr. Hume) was surprised to hear the hon. Gentleman say that we had acted wisely and well in trying to establish those institutions elsewhere. What was the fact? Why, that there had never been any peace in the colonies where they existed until they had been abolished. And with the knowledge of this fact, he was not disposed to scatter still wider the seeds of discord and disaffection by adopting the proposition of the hon. and learned Gentleman. He was decidedly in favour of a second chamber or senate, as a deliberative assembly, exercising a check upon the proceedings of the other house. He could not vote with the hon. and learned Member, however, because he thought the hon. and learned Gentleman was wrong in what he would force upon the colony. He looked upon the present measure as alike wise and liberal. It was the only way in which England could preserve her colonies. If we persisted in the mad and improper proceedings of the last five or six years, not a colony would be left us in a very short period; and on that ground he regarded the measure as a wise and politic one, that would secure to us the allegiance of the colonies, and all the advantages which could be derived from their possession. He was not one of those who would willingly part with the colonies,
 1293
 MR. BASS , feeling, as he did deeply interested in the colonies in New South Wales, had felt it to be his duty to make some inquiries from gentlemen connected with these colonies, and who were now in this country, as to the feeling of the colonists on this question. He was most unwilling to vote against the Motion of the hon. Member for Falmouth; but he should do so, as he found the general feeling of the colony was in favour of maintaining the Legislative Assembly as it now existed.
 MR. COBDEN  thought, if he understood the noble Lord aright, that the colonies, after all, should have the power of deciding their form of government. But the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade assumed what he (Mr. Cobden) did not at all admit—namely, that the colonists preferred having a portion of their rulers nominated by Government, a portion of one-third nominated by the Crown. He could not imagine how any person could assume that a body of Englishmen, resident at the Antipodes, would prefer being legislated for by nominees, to being legislated for by their own representatives. What he was anxious for was, that they should legislate at present in such a manner as to prevent the necessity of the Bill coming back to them in a more obnoxious form, and perhaps at a time when they would not have a voice to pronounce a free opinion on the matter. Had the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade considered the effect that the intelligence of their giving a constitution to the Cape of Good Hope free of nominees would have on their Australian colonists? Could it be doubted that the Australians would argue in this way—"The Cape colonists have got a freer constitution than we have received, because they put themselves in a menacing attitude, in an attitude of almost open rebellion, and therefore the Government have given them a better constitution." He thought it was desirable they should not give the Australians grounds for such an argument. He apprehended the Australians were competent to legislate for themselves, as competent as were the hon. Members sitting in that House; yet it was proposed to give them one-third nominees, who would have a control over the public purse. He thought if they sent the Government measure
 1268
 MR. MANGLES  wished to ask the Chairman whether it was not competent for the Committee to postpone the consideration of this subject, as they had done the preamble? It appeared to him to be most absurd that the Committee should be thus trammelled by the forms of the House.
 MR. WALPOLE  then rose to move the following Amendment:—
 "And be it enacted, that there shall be within each of the said colonies of New South Wales and Victoria a Legislative Council and Representative Assembly. If that Amendment should be carried, to move the insertion of other clauses, whereby it
 1273 1274 Propugnacula populi et speculœ Imperii Anglicani 1275 1276 "—Mutato nomine, de te Fabula narratur." "We think it desirable that the political institutions of the British colonies should be brought into the nearest possible analogy to the constitution of the united kingdom. We also think it wise to adhere as close as possible to our ancient maxims of government on this subject, and to the precedents in which those maxims have been embodied. The experience of centuries has ascertained the value and the practical efficiency of that system of colonial policy to which those maxims and precedents afford their sanction. In the absence of some very clear and urgent reason for breaking up the ancient uniformity of design in the government of the colonial dependencies of the Crown, it would seem unwise to depart from that uniformity." 1277 "Should Your Majesty be pleased to adopt our advice by sanctioning the creation of a general legislature in the whole colony, in which its inhabitants should be represented, the next question to be determined would be, should that legislature consist of a single deliberative body, on the principle of the Legislative Council of New South Wales, which, with the governor, should exercise the powers of legislation, or whether it be better that the old colonial system should be adopted, of a legislature of three estates, consisting of a governor, a legislative council, and a representative assembly? We have no hesitation in giving it as our opinion that the latter should be preferred." 1278 "You are aware that in the older British colonies the legislature, as in New South Wales, is generally composed partly of nominees of the Crown, and partly of the representatives of the people; but there is this important difference between the two systems, that in one case the legislature is divided into two separate houses and chambers, in the other the representatives of the people and the nominees of the Crown form a single body under the title of the Legislative Council. It does not appear to me that the practical working of this last system would by any means justify the conclusion that it is an improvement upon that which it was formerly the practice to adopt; on the contrary, I see many reasons for belief that the more ancient system by which every new law was submitted to the separate consideration of two distinct houses, and required their joint consent for its enactment, was the best calculated to ensure judicious and prudent legislation," 1279 "The recurrence to the old form of colonial constitution by the division of the legislature into two separate chambers, will not, I apprehend, be ill received, at all events by those persons in the colony who understand the subject, and will give it fair consideration. I can have no hesitation in stating my own opinion, founded upon long practical experience, that it will be a decided improvement upon the present form of legislation in this colony." "It only remains for me to add my own opinion, which is, I believe, confirmed, and that of the most experienced and unprejudiced persons who have watched the workings of the present constitution of the colony, that the assimilation of the constitution of the colony to that of the older British colony, where distinct legislative bodies exist, would be generally considered to be extremely advantageous to its interests," &c. "March 10, 1849. "Without wishing or presuming to give an opinion on the general question of the real form of legislative body, I may say that, under the peculiar circumstances of these colonies, I should most strenuously recommend the adoption of a second or upper chamber. …The members of this, call it senate, or what you may, will be raised in some measure above the general level of society; they will be rendered independent of popular blame or approbation; but being also free from the suspicion of acting under the control of the Government, they will conciliate popular feeling, and hold a fair position between the Executive and the Legislature." 1280 1281 1282 1283 Populus enim, non omnis cœtus hominum quoque modo congregatus, sed cœtus multitudinis juris consensu atque utilitatis communione sociatus juris consensum utilitatis communio 1284
 MR. WALPOLE  rose to move the omission of the clause, when
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, it appeared to him to be the desire and the object of Government that the Amendment should be brought under the consideration of the House, and that the hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat brought in his Motion then, not because he conceived it the best opportunity, but because he was afraid that no fair opportunity would be allowed him at a future stage, were he to postpone the Motion at present. If such was the case, and if the Government were disposed
 1265
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that in venturing to implore the attention and indulgence of the Committee at that late hour, he would endeavour to merit it by passing in review as lightly and as rapidly as he could the arguments adduced upon this subject. Indeed, he should not have presumed
 1334 1335 1336 1337 1338 1339 1340 1341 1342 1343
 MR. W. P. WOOD  thought the question was one of such great importance that every Member might be excused for explaining his opinion, notwithstanding the impatience of the House. The House was about to take a step in proceeding with this measure which would affect the future happiness or misery of that part of the empire which he trusted would be long a flourishing State. The hon. Member for Roxburghshire was perfectly right in the observations which he made when he said that, in point of fact, they were then deciding upon the question of the two chambers. If they decided for the Amendment
 1271
 MR. GROGAN  said, that after the explanation of the hon. and learned Gentleman, he would not further press the subject; and he hoped the case would be favourably considered by the Treasury.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he wished to propose an Amendment for the purpose of securing to a Mr. Clancy, and to two other officers of the courts, annuities equal to the present salaries to which they were entitled, they having full freehold interests and rights in their offices.
 MR. F. PEEL  said, he rose for the purpose of shortly supporting the Amendment. He said shortly, because he had already at an earlier stage of this measure taken occasion to state generally his acquiescence in the views of those who advocate a distribution of legislative power different from that contemplated by the Bill. His hon. and learned Friend, in recommending to the House the adoption of his Amendment, dwelt on the importance of assimilating the institutions of the colonies to those of the mother country, and of introducing the features and substance of the British constitution into the colonial governments of our empire. Many other reasons, he believed, might be urged in support of the Amendment; and, indeed, he greatly doubted, whether it would be possible for us to construct in our colonies a schema of government at all resembling that which prevails in this country, because we all knew that the constitution of this country had not been the work of any Act of Parliament, but had been the slow growth of a long series of ages. We all knew that the form of our Legislature represented a great deal more than simply the expediency of requiring the concurrence of two bodies in legislative acts. We knew it represented corresponding arrangements of society, and corresponding ranks and classes in the social state of our community, none of which could be created in the Australian colonies by any act of ours. But this very consideration made him more solicitous that we should hot make any false step in the direction we were taking; because, whatever was the form of constitution we recommended for the Australian colonies, it would have to rest for its support exclusively on the influence and authority of those who constituted the governing body, and on the good opinion of
 1325 1326 1327
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  suggested, that as the hon. Member for Falmouth would not have the opportunity of again bringing forward his Amendment in Committee, if he then postponed it, the better course would be to proceed at once to a decision upon the point raised by his Amendment.
 SIR R. PEEL , in voting upon this question, would exclude all contingencies that might arise on a future occasion with reference to the constitution of another House. He should consider this clause simply on its own merits, namely, that he was to assume there should be one legislative assembly, and to provide the mode in which that assembly should be constituted. If there was to be a democratic body without any external check, it did not necessarily follow there should be another council, either elective or nominated; but to effect that he had to alter the constitution that at present existed in New South Wales, without, as he understood, provoking any discontent or dissatisfaction on the part of the people. He had, indeed, a single assembly there; but the democratic principle in it was qualified by a certain power of nomination on the part of the Crown. That might be a bad way of qualifying the democratic power, but it was the only way that existed at present, and he had, therefore, to inform the inhabitants of New South Wales, who had expressed no dissatisfaction with the way of qualifying the democratic principle, that without consulting them he had altered their constitution—that he had been content to forego that degree of check he at present possessed, and to form a constitution on pure, unqualified, unmitigated, democratic principles—and that he applied that to New South Wales, and to the colony of Victoria also. If he was to assume that there was to be but one body, he could not say he was prepared to say he was so very liberal as to part with the qualified check which he at present possessed, and which he understood gave no dissatisfaction to the people.
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  should say he was in favour of legislation by a double chamber, because the principle appeared better than legislation by single chamber for new communities, both chambers to be based on the elective principle. If they were to have only one chamber, he preferred it should be wholly elective to one-third being nominated by the Colonial Office. If the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government intended to form a convention, and give the inhabitants of New South Wales a power of determining the constitution, he confessed he would have no hesitation in voting with the noble Lord. But the noble Lord proposed
 1267
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH : I am anxious, Sir, before the Committee comes to a final decision on the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst, to make
 1305 1306 1307 "he could have no hesitation in stating his own opinion, founded upon long practical experience, that two separate chambers would be a decided improvement upon the present form of legislation in that colony." "the reasons which induced him to recommend that a legislature should consist of two chambers were so obvious that he need not trouble the noble Earl with stating them." 1308 1309 1310 1311 1312 1313 1314 1315 1316 1317 1318 1319 1320 élite 1321 prima vivorum 1322 1323 1324
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  thought that the uncertainty of the noble Lord as to the meaning of this clause afforded a pretty strong proof of the necessity of simplifying the Bill.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  regretted the trouble and inconvenience to which his right hon. Friend had been exposed, and inquired whether he would have any objection to limit the amount of the window duty?
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  had a question to put to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Treasury, on the subject of an encroachment on the Green Park. Some discussion took place on the 1st of March, on the subject of a wall, which had been built without the knowledge of the noble proprietor, round the garden of Bridgewater House, and the right hon. Gentleman then gave him an assurance that the wall should be removed. The wall, however, had not only not been removed, but an embankment had been raised, and he wished to know whether the embankment in question was within the terms of the lease?
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL , in resisting the Motion, trusted to be able to convince the House that there was no ground for granting a Committee of Inquiry into the management of this property. The grounds alleged by the hon. Member for Tavistock for his Motion, were that the property was mismanaged, that it was managed so as to injure the public, and that acts of oppression were exercised under the mode in which it was managed. It was manifest that the House had no right to inquire into the management of any property unless it was of a public character. They had no right to inquire into the management of property purely of a private nature, and the hon. Gentleman himself had admitted that this property was  primâ facie 1376 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1377 l. l. l. 1378
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, as the inquiry into the management of the Woods and Forests, over which he had the honour to preside, had been alluded to, he would take that opportunity of thanking the Government for the very abundant information they had laid before the Committee. He was unable to give his assent to the Motion now submitted to the House. If anything had struck him more forcibly than another in connection with the inquiry in which he was engaged it Was this, that of all the institutions in the world the House of Commons appeared to be the worst steward of the property placed under their charge. He would not inquire into the reasons why or how; but had that property been more diligently looked into, and had it been placed in pure hands, he believed they would have found much less to complain of. With respect to encroachments made on the property of the Crown, though it might have been oppressive in former times, it appeared to him that in modern times the Crown had been more sinned against by the neighbouring proprietors, than the neighbouring proprietors were sinned against by the Crown. The present resolution was drawn up in a way which might lead to the impression that the managers of the Duchy of Cornwall had been oppressive to the tenants; but he firmly believed that they had done no more than their duty to their employers, as the steward of any private estate might have done. With respect to the question
 1389
 COLONEL ANSON  said, he very much regretted that he had not had an opportunity of bringing forward the Ordnance Estimates in their regular course, and that he was now obliged to have recourse to the unusual proceeding of asking the House to vote a sum of money on account, for the purpose of defraying those branches of expenditure which might come into course of payment after the close of the financial year. This was not the first time he had stated that he thought it would be very desirable that those estimates should be brought forward at an early period of the Session. He admitted that there was very great inconvenience in the delay which had taken place. It was inconvenient to the Government, to the department, and, he believed he might add, to the House. But however desirous the Government might be to get through the public business, and however anxious the department might be to have the sanction of Parliament, in order to be enabled to carry on those services placed more immediately under its control, the House must be aware that there were circumstances which the Government could not control, which might occasionally intervene to prevent business of importance being brought for ward, from the time occupied by debates on other subjects, and also by measures introduced by independent Members of that House entirely unconnected with the Government. He only mentioned this to prove that the Government was not at all to blame, and that the department was not at all accountable for the delay that had taken place, and, also, that he was obliged to resort to this unusual proceeding before any general statement had been made of the services to be provided for and the expenditure to be incurred. The House was aware that no funds were available for public services, unless sums were provided by votes on account after the termination of the financial year; and as this would take place during the recess, and some accounts must be paid at that time, it would
 1390 l.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  did not feel it necessary to go into the question whether the salaries of the Judges were too great or too small; this—which was not the question now—would come before the Committee. But he apprehended that the law of the hon. Member for Cirencester was not correct; it would be a national misfortune indeed if the case were as he had stated it, and were so to remain. In the instance of private individuals, a person with power to grant a sum out of the estate of another might grant a less sum; but if that rule applied under this statute, a Government could reduce the salary of any Judge who offended them; whereas the leading object of the Acts upon this subject was to make the Judges totally independent of the Crown. The 2nd and 3rd William IV. ran thus:—
 "It shall be lawful for His Majesty to grant the several and respective annual salaries hereinafter specified to the Judges hereinafter enumerated—(that is to say) to the Chief Justice of the Court of King's Bench at Westminster 10,000 l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. V. SMITH  said, he entertained no doubt but that the law of his hon. Friend the Solicitor General was perfectly correct; but in that case, what an instance of negligence did it not exhibit against the Government and all preceding Governments for the last sixteen years, because it appeared that if Lord Denman had died at any time during that period, his executors might have claimed the full amount of his salary. He considered that the salary in all such cases should be fixed, and that there ought to be no bargaining between the Government and lawyers looking for appointments. Such an arrangement could not, however, have been made with a nobler nature than Lord Denman. He thought it was premature to decide on what the salaries of future Chief Justices ought to be, until the Committee investigated the subject; and if now called upon to give a vote on the point, he felt unable to decide whether 8,000 l. 1396
 COLONEL THOMPSON  saw very little force in the reasons urged on the opposite side why salaries should be reduced in the
 1410
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  remarked that only one single member of the profession had spoken that night; and as a humble member of it himself, he should not vote, unless assured by his learned brethren that he might properly do so, for cutting down the rewards bestowed upon great professional services.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  hoped, notwithstanding the lateness of the hour, the House would allow him shortly to explain the provisions of a Bill which he wished to introduce to provide more ample and effectual securities for advances to purchasers of incumbered estates in Ireland, and which he was anxious to have printed, so that it might circulate throughout Ireland during the Easter recess. The House was aware, under the Incumbered Estates Commission, the operation of the Act on the subject had been very extensive, and according to the last report, property, upon which there were mortgages to the amount of 13,000,000, had come under the operation of the commission. The House would see that the Act operated in two ways. The one class affected were persons who had taken or inherited estates upon which there were not personal mortgages, but the land itself was subject to mortgage. It was very much to the interest of that class of persons to depress the value of such land, and then become the purchasers, with, in point of fact, reduced mortgages on it. They would borrow the money to purchase, and they would get the land at a reduced value. The other class was composed of persons who were liable for the payment of debts, who would be severely affected by the depreciation of property. It would have a serious effect, and cause land to be sold at a less value than it really possessed. In order to avoid this circumstance, they had devised a plan which it was hoped would induce capitalists from England to take an interest in these sales. Now, supposing we got purchasers for all the land, and had paid ten or twelve millions of these incumbrances, there would
 1415 1416 1417
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that the question was of a double character—first, the right of making the inquiry, and secondly, the expediency of making it. He had heard the remarks of the hon. and learned Solicitor General with great surprise upon this being private property, into which the House had no right to inquire. Why, if there was any one property in the whole country of a character to justify a public inquiry, it was the property of the Duchy of Cornwall. It had been created by Act of Parliament; it had been constantly dealt with by Act of Parliament; and it was now under the management of trustees created by Act of Parliament. His hon. and learned Friend must know full well that this was not a matter of doubt or dispute—that the grant by Edward III. which constituted the Duchy of Cornwall was an Act of Parliament, and could only stand as an Act of Parliament. But not only had the property been created by Act of Parliament, but it had been constantly dealt with by Act of Parliament. At the time of the establishment of Queen Anne's civil list it was expressly assigned by statute to the Crown for the maintenance of its honour and dignity; and it had been specified in subsequent civil lists, either in terms or specially excepted, but excepted by name—thus showing the right of Parliament and the public to take a direct interest in it. If, as he earnestly hoped, the Prince of Wales should come to man's estate, the House of Commons would be asked to make provision for him. This Duchy was an appanage of the Prince of Wales, given to him by Act of Parliament, and to which he had no right but by Act of Parliament; and it was therefore a very material public question in what manner the property was managed, and how the revenues were disposed of, for it might be that the property was so valuable, and the revenues so growing and productive, that in the course of some fifteen years the produce, if discreetly managed, might yield so large an in-
 1379 l. s. d. "Payment to the account of the Duke of Cornwall at the Bank of England, under the Act 7 and 8 Vict., c. 65, of a portion previously paid to the revenue account of His Royal Highness, of the purchase-money for the enfranchisement of copyhold property at Kennington, required by the London and South-Western Railway Company, 3,750 l. 1380 l. s. d. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1381 "He could not help declaring, if it should be resolved that Parliament had not the right to interfere, to reform, or, if necessary, to resume the grants they had made to the Crown for public purposes, in short to see to the proper application of the money, there was at once an end to the liberties of the country; such a vote would in its consequences amount to a dissolution of the Government as modelled at the period of the Revolution." l. l. primâ facie
 LORD J. RUSSELL  stated, in reply to Mr. B. Osborne, that on the first night after the recess the Ordnance Estimates would be placed first in Committee of Supply, and his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for South Staffordshire would enter into a full explanation.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  was ready to admit the inconvenience mentioned by the hon. Gentleman, but if he were to accede to the various requests that were made to him, much of the public time would be lost. He had postponed several measures which were to have been brought forward to-night; and if he also gave up the first
 1391
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that this seemed to him an occasion which ought not to be lost for fixing the salary of the Chief Justice of the Queen's Bench. Lord Denman took that office with an understanding that the salary should be 8,000 l. 1393 l. l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  explained, that he had no objection to leave out that part of the Bill which referred to the salary of the Chief Justice of the Common Pleas, as it would properly come under the consideration of the Committee, but he did not think it would be convenient to leave the salary of the Chief Justice of the Queen's Bench on the understanding on which it had rested so many years with Lord Denman, and, therefore, must ask the House to go into Committee on that portion.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the Committee would have as much power to inquire into his salary as into those of the Chief Baron, the Chief Justice of the Common Pleas, and all the Puisne Judges.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the House, and especially the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, did not seem to understand the present state of the question. The hon. Member for North Warwickshire said, that it was very clear there was no salary fixed at the present moment for the Lord Chief Justice, and that the Government were now coming forward with this measure to enable them to give a salary to the Lord Chief Justice of the Queen's Bench. Now the fact was, that there was a salary fixed by an Act of Parliament passed in the year 1832, and that salary was 10,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1402 l. l. 1403 l. l. l
 LORD J. RUSSELL  understood the substance of the hon. Member's question to be this—whether that part of the National Gallery now occupied by the Royal Academy for the exhibition of pictures, and for the purposes of their schools, was henceforth to be appropriated to the reception of the pictures given to the nation by the late Mr. Vernon, and of others which might hereafter be given by individuals to the national collection. Taking that to be the sum of the hon. Member's question, it was his (Lord J. Russell's) duty to state in reply, that an arrangement relative to this subject had for some time been under consideration, which there was reason to expect would soon be brought to completion; and in the meantime he would, for the satisfaction of the House, state generally what were the intentions of the Government. It was the wish of the Government that the National Gallery should be devoted to the reception of works of art, at present belonging to the nation, including the pictures of the late Mr. Vernon, and any others that might be given to the country. At the same time, George III., having given the Royal Academy rooms in Somerset House, and various privileges, with a view to the founding of a national school of art in this kingdom, by means of which the Academy had been enabled to maintain schools both of sculpture and painting, it was due to the Royal Academy, as well as desirable in a national point of view, that the Academy should have it in their power to carry on their schools. The Government, therefore, did not think it right to ask the Royal Academy to give up the rooms which they possessed in the National Gallery for the reception of national works of art, without proposing that the House of Commons should grant that body a sum of money to enable them to obtain a site for a building which they might devote to the purposes to which the rooms they now occupied in the National Gallery were ap-
 1369
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the prospective salaries of Chief Justices would of course be a matter for their consideration. If a change should be deemed expedient, it would not affect the present holders of these offices.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, it would be better at once to bring in a Bill declaring that all Acts might be altered or amended
 1414
 LORD J. RUSSELL  had stated more than once—he was not sure that he had done so upon every occasion—that although that might be the general rule of making appointments, it could not apply to every case, more especially an office of this kind, which a Judge would not be likely to take upon an uncertain salary.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  would have preferred that a Committee had been appointed which should have considered together
 1409
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that he had stated that Lord Campbell had accepted the office upon the understanding that the salary was to be 8,000 l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that he could not agree to such an arrangement as that.
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  said, that as the Brick Duties Bill was on the paper for the evening, he wished to ask his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer what the Government had determined to do on the subject of drawback? He would also ask him to state at what time the brick duty would cease, because at present there was a complete stagnation in the brick trade, the brickmakers being afraid at present to proceed with their operations. He also begged to ask his right hon. Friend what the Government proposed to do with respect to contracts for the supply of bricks entered into under the idea that the duty would be charged?
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  said that, after hearing the statement made by his right hon. Friend, he would not press the instruction to the Committee which stood in his name on the paper.
 MR. COWAN  seconded the Motion, and stated that the only object which the directors of the Caledonian and Edinburgh and Glasgow Amalgamation Railway had in view in introducing the Bill, to which he presumed the right hon. Gentleman had referred, was that of consolidating the interests of the shareholders.
 MR. LUSHINGTON  said, that before the Secretary to the Treasury answered that question, he wished to state that his constituents would regard the completion of that structure as a very great hardship and grievance.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  approved the resolutions, and expressed a wish that the right hon. Gentleman would introduce a clause into all Railway Bills prohibiting the companies from increasing their fares.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that his question was directed, not as to the salary but as to the particular appointment.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, as he understood the noble Lord, all appointments made since the last Session of Parliament were to come under the consideration of the Committee. He would ask why there was such breathless haste in this Bill? He recollected that in 1841 Lord Campbell was appointed Chancellor of Ireland, which office the noble Lord filled for seventeen days and three hours, and for this the noble Lord received an outfit of 1,000 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the same question had been put to him by an old lady, who had been buying a great number of bricks, and he had been obliged to tell her that no drawback could be allowed upon them.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that with regard to the first question put to him which related to the drawback, he saw a deputation three or four days ago, and on reference to what had been the practice on the repeal of other excise duties, he found that there were only two cases in which a drawback had been allowed. The usual course had been to allow some time to elapse before
 1365 1366
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought that the repeal of the window duty was not so desirable as that of the duty on bricks.
 MR. E. B. DENISON  hoped that great watchfulness would be exercised over any special reports of Committees on the subject of departing from the general rule to be established as to preference shares, otherwise it was possible great disadvantages might result to certain companies, and proportionate benefit accrue to others.
 MR. E. B. DENISON  said, there appeared to be some misunderstanding with respect to the intentions of the noble Lord at the head of the Government. As far as he understood the noble Lord, he proposed by this Bill to set at rest all questions with respect to Lord Denman's claims,
 1399 l. l.
 MR. O'CONNOR  said, he had given notice of his intention to bring in the Bill on the earliest possible day after Easter; he was so reported in all the newspapers, and in that sense he was understood by all the Members present on the occasion, and therefore he was astonished to find that his Motion was set down as for to-morrow in the Votes. As to whether the Bill would be a public or a private one, he would say now, as he had before said, that before he introduced it he would consult the best conveyancer, the best equity lawyer, and the best common lawyer, in order that it might be drawn systematically, and not according to his own caprice. He would bring in the Bill as soon as he could after Easter, and he hoped it would be satisfactory to the House, and beneficial to those who had invested money in the scheme.
 MR. O'CONNOR  said, that would depend entirely on the advice he might receive from the persons whom he meant to consult. Perhaps the hon. Member, who was more expert at such matters than he
 1370 Laughter.
 MR. FRENCH  said, that he entertained a high opinion of the legal knowledge and constitutional principles of the right hon. Gentleman, and in the absence of a legal officer for Ireland, could desire no; more fitting person to take charge of legal measures affecting this country; but now that one so highly gifted, and standing so high in his profession as the hon. Member for Windsor (the Solicitor General for Ireland) was in the House, he thought this branch should be left in his hands. The object of the Incumbered Estates Act was, professedly, to get rid of incumbered proprietors—to replace them by men who would have at their disposal the entire resources of the estates; who would be enabled to improve their properties, build farm-houses, and give employment to the people. For this, great sacrifices were made; but now it would appear all was to be upset by the present Bill, which was, in truth, designed to replace the present Celtic and Saxon proprietors by English purchasers, who were to be encouraged by a new incumbrance of the land to buy to double the amount of their capital. Why should the Government step in to give these purchasers assistance which they refused to the existing proprietors? The right hon. and learned Gentleman, last year, came forward to free the land from legal fetters, and to make it a marketable article at the cost of ruining the individual Irish owners. He now proposed to rebind the land, and to remove incumbrances from the persons of the proposed new English owners. It was true it was not possible to prevent the remortgaging of lands after they passed through the incumbered estates court; bat it was now proposed to hand them over directly to needy individuals who would begin the world with estates dipped, it might be, to one-half their value. Instead of bringing capital into the Irish land market, the measure would in fact keep it out, for, by permitting a moiety of the thirteen millions, of which the right hon. Gentleman spoke, to remain as a debt instead of being paid down in cash, it would prevent the immediate reinvestment of so much, which otherwise would at once take place.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, 700 years of the worst legislation that had ever been inflicted on a country ought to prevent an Irishman being surprised at anything; but he must confess that the Bill he had just heard proposed had surprised him. Its object was not to relieve the proprietors, but to get rid of a race the proposers of it did not like. Did they wish to drive Irishmen abroad and to force them to another Fontenoy? He should oppose the Bill. It could not be brought in that night; and, in order to prevent it, he should move that the House be counted.
 MR. TURNER  did not think any debate should take place on the question before the House, but trusted the House would excuse his saying a few words, as he happened to differ from the hon. Gentleman the Member for Cirencester, and his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General. He apprehended the words of the Act had an imperative and not a discretionary application, as the hon. Gentleman the Member for Cirencester seemed to suppose, and that the Crown was most clearly bound to grant the salary mentioned by the words, "it shall be lawful," &c. With great deference to his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General, he differed from him as to there being any danger from the executors of Lord Denman applying for the arrears of salary. No executor would be heard in any court of justice with such a claim after Lord Denman had received his salary for so many years; and, entertaining as he did such an unqualified high opinion of the honour, honesty, and upright character of that noble Lord, he was sure that if such an idea could cross his mind as that his executors could make a claim against the country for that which he (Lord Denman) had not asked, the first thing he would do would be to insert a clause in his will to preclude them from doing so. No man's honour or character could stand higher, and he had brought the bench and the bar of England to a pitch of reputation which would carry his name down to remote posterity. He could not sit down without correcting the statement of the hon. Member for Montrose, that the Suitors' Fee Fund in Chancery was public money. That fund was the floating balance of suitors' money paid into court but not employed, and belonged as little to the public as to the hon Gentleman's balance at his banker's. As to the proposition of the noble Lord, he was in a great dilemma. He felt there would be great difficulty in the Committee reducing the salaries of the other Judges, if the salaries of the Chief Justices were fixed by the House at the pre-
 1397
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that without expressing any decisive opinion at this moment on the point, his first impression was that the cases referred to by the right hon. Gentleman involved so many various interests, that it would be difficult for the House to lay down any general rule upon the subject.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the question as to the increasing of fares had already been referred to the Railway Commissioners.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the House the other evening unanimously expressed a strong opinion that railway companies ought not to be allowed to alter the terms on which preference shares were granted under the guarantee of an Act of Parliament, and that to come back to Parliament and ask leave to depart from those terms was in point of fact a breach of
 1362 "That in every Railway Bill by which it is proposed to authorise a Company to grant any preference or priority in the payment of interest or dividends on any shares or stock, there be inserted a Clause providing that the granting of such preference or priority shall not prejudice or affect any preference or priority of interest or dividend which shall have been granted by the Company by or in pursuance of any previous Act: unless the Committee on the Bill shall report that such provision ought not to be required, with the reasons on which their opinion is founded. "That no Railway Company shall be authorised to alter the terms of any preference or priority of interest or dividend which shall have been granted by such Company under any previous Act, unless the Committee on the Bill report that such alteration ought to be allowed, with the reasons on which their opinion is founded."
 MR. BRIGHT  did not understand from the right hon. Gentleman's statement, that the drawback would be allowed to persons having bricks in their possession, but who were not the makers of them. Supposing a person to have bricks actually delivered
 1367
 MR. BRIGHT  thought the question was now brought within a very small compass. After the speeches that had been made, he was sure that the House would not believe this Bill was brought in to save the public the risk of being called upon to pay the extra 2,000 l.
 MR. STANFORD  thought it impossible to grant the Committee, as it would be to confound the distinction between public and private property.
 MR. STANFORD , on rising to address the House, was met with cries of "Divide, divide!" I must confess. Sir, that it is rather difficult to ascertain the  mollia tem pora dicendi 1404 magnum vectigal est parsimonia. "He doth bestride this narrow world Like a colossus, and we petty men Walk under his huge legs, and peep about To And ourselves dishonourable graves." 1405 l. l. Cries of 1406
 MR. TRELAWNY  begged to move for a Committee to inquire into the management of the Duchies of Cornwall and Lancaster. His Motion had two distinct objects, public economy and private security. He claimed that the property should be managed as productively as possible, consistently with due regard to the rights of tenants. But with regard to the past, neither object had been secured, not that there had been no amelioration. He believed the inhabitants of these two Duchies were exposed to greater hardships than those of other parts of England. It was perfectly true in the county of Cornwall there had lately been some alterations, but these had not been carried nearly so far as they ought to be. Seeing that the country would at no distant day be called upon to provide an income for the Prince of Wales, it was desirable that his property in the Duchy of Cornwall should be improved to the utmost possible extent in order that a considerable fund should be accumulated by the time His Royal Highness required a separate establishment. The right was questioned, and the  Morning Chronicle 1371 l. l. l. 'Anxious as His Majesty must necessarily be to relieve the Prince of Wales from these difficult-
 1372 l. l. s. s. d. 1373 l. Morning Chronicle nullum tempus d. 1374 was primâ facie
 MR. HENLEY  said, the hon. Member had not informed the House whether the Bill was to be a public or a private one.
 MR. HENLEY  called upon the hon. Member for Nottingham to state whether he intended to bring in to-morrow the Bill of which he had given notice for winding up the affairs of the Land Company with which he was connected; and also whether the Bill was to be a public or a private one?
 MR. HENLEY  said, the question was then narrowed to the salary of the Lord Chief Justice. He never could before understand the breathless haste with which it was attempted to settle this question, that had rested quietly for the last eighteen years; but now he thought the whole matter was too transparent, the real reason being to fix the salary of 8,000 l
 MR. HENLEY  considered 7,000 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. HENLEY  certainly had an impression that the question was put to the noble Lord as to the appointment then expected to be made of the Chief Justice.
 MR. HUME  said, that the noble Lord had informed him (Mr. Hume), in answer to a question put to him a short time since, that in the appointment of the Lord Chief Justice the salary should be fixed, subject to any alteration that might be made by the House of Commons.
 MR. HUME  wished to know, as the Committee had determined that 8,000 l
 MR. HUME  would like to take any dozen members of the profession, and ask them whether the profits of the profession were now what they were formerly. He was informed on good authority that lawyers made only one-third of their former incomes; but taking their receipts to be one-half less, that was a very great reduction. His hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Bradford would look at a guinea, but he would not take it, unless it was offered by a friendly hand. The hon. and gallant Member should, however, recollect that he was not dealing with his own money, but that he was a trustee for the public. He hoped that those who had been professors of economy so long would not pause, now that they had arrived at the threshold.
 MR. HUME  suggested, that all reference to the salary received by Lord Tenterden should be struck out of the Bill, and that the sense of the House should at once be taken as to the future salary to be paid to the Chief Justice of the Queen's
 1408 l
 MR. HUME  said, of the power of the House in this matter he had no doubt; public property was within the cognisance of Parliament on all occasions if they saw ground to make an inquiry. Twenty years ago he had brought the case of the Duchies before the House; and he could recollect the time when nearly the whole revenue was employed in paying salaries. In the management of the Duchy of Lancaster much improvement had taken place; but as there were still charges which absorbed 20,000 l. l. l. l. 1388 l. l. l. l.
 MR. HUME  did not think the law of the hon. Gentleman opposite the Member for Cirencester correct, as the Act of Parliament said that the salary shall be 10,000 l. 1395 l. l l. l.
 MR. HUME  observed, that as the hon. and gallant Member had very properly reserved his general statement, and these votes were proposed merely to enable the Government to carry on the service of that department, he (Mr. Hume) would defer any observations he might wish to make on the subject until the estimates came regularly before the House.
 MR. MULLINGS  thought this Bill ought not to be pressed. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had told the House that recent appointments were made subject to such reductions as Parliament, on consideration, might think just. The Bill was wholly unnecessary in order to guard against any claim on the part of Lord Denman to the 2,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. nisi prius 1394
 MR. MULLINGS  withdrew his Amendment.
 MR. MULLINGS  did not think that any Bill was necessary. If he understood the noble Lord at the head of the Government aright, Lord Campbell had accepted the Chief Justiceship upon the same terms as those which Lord Denman had enjoyed. In that case the matter so far resolved itself into an affair of contract, and therefore he saw no necessity for hurrying on the Bill.
 MR. MULLINGS  moved the omission of the words "and shall, as," and "be deemed to have been," in order that the clause might run thus, "shall be from the death of Lord Tenterden;" and then said it was his intention afterwards to move that the salary of the present Lord Chief Justice should be reduced to 7,000 l. l.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  would support the Motion of the hon. Member for Oxfordshire, and would do so, not because he thought the saving of 1,000 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. SPOONER  observed that when prices rose, the salaries of the Judges rose with them. He thought it passing strange that three weeks ago the noble Lord should
 1411
 MR. SPOONER  said, on bringing up the report he should propose a clause to the effect that nothing in this Act contained shall prevent such course being taken by Parliament respecting the salaries of the Chief Justices as it might deem advisable. What he wanted was, to make provision for altering the salaries of the Judges if the Select Committee should report to that effect.
 MR. SPOONER  thought this arrangement would be inconvenient; for it was desirable that these estimates should be discussed in a full House, and it was probable that for the first day or two after Parliament met many Members might be detained in the country by their duties at quarter-sessions.
 MR. SPOONER  said, the question now came to this—was the House prepared to say that they would give Lord Campbell 8,000 l.
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  said, he had intended to move an instruction to the Committee "that they have power to make provision for the prospective reduction of the salaries and emoluments of the Lord Chancellor, the Master of the Rolls, the Vice-Chancellors, the Chief Baron, and all the Puisne Judges;" but in consequence of the notice given by the noble Lord at the head of the Government of his intention to propose the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into these subjects, he (Mr. Christopher) would not press his Motion. He wished, however, to ask the noble Lord whether, under these circumstances, he thought it advisable to press the present Bill, because if the House acquiesced in all its enactments the proposed Committee would be prevented from taking into consideration the salaries of the present Lord Chief Justice of the Queen's Bench, and of any other legal or diplomatic functionaries who might be appointed before the Committee made their report. It appeared that the Lord Chief Justice Denman had been entitled, under an Act of Parliament, to receive during the time he held that office a salary of
 1392 l. l.
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  thought that there ought to be a general reduction in judicial salaries; but as the noble Lord at the head of the Government had stated that he would bring all such salaries under the revision of a Select Committee, he hoped that the hon. Gentleman would postpone the discussion of his proposition until the report of the Committee was before them. For his own part, he would rather that the salary of Lord Campbell should be reduced at once to 7,000 l. l. l.
 MR. M. GIBSON  said, the House had been told by the hon. and learned Member for Oxford that the courts of the Duchy
 1387
 MR. GLADSTONE  had no objection to the specific clauses proposed by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, but there was a point connected with this subject which appeared to him to be a matter of considerable difficulty, and at the same time of such great importance as hardly to be fit to be referred to the consideration of a private Committee, unless assisted by some general rule of the House in regard to it. He would suppose a case, that where a company like that of the York, Newcastle, and Berwick Railway had contracted—as was the case—with a company like that of the Great North of England to purchase its line, and that under altered circumstances the York, Newcastle, and Berwick Company came to the Great North of England to ask for a modification of the terms, and that the latter company held a meeting and agreed to such a modification; and that the York, Newcastle, and Berwick Company then brought in a Bill—as they had done—to give effect to such altered terms—now, in this case, he wished to know how the rights of the dissenting minority of the Great North of England Company ought to be dealt with? It was difficult to say whether Parliament, in passing such an Act, ratified the contract on behalf of only one part of the selling body, namely, those who consented to the contract, or on behalf of the whole. This was a point, nevertheless, of great public importance, and one upon which he did not think a Committee of the House would be justified in forming a decision without some previous general declaration on the part of the House.
 MR. DEEDES  said, that if anything were wanting to convince him of the extreme inconvenience and had policy of the
 1413
 MR. EWART  begged the noble Lord at
 1368
 MR. FORBES  supported the Amendment. He thought it would be more respectful to the feelings of the country not
 1401
 MR. FORBES  thought the whole question for the Committee to decide was with respect to the power of the taxpayer to bear the enormous amount of taxation extracted by the present and other extravagant salaries. If for the last eighteen years the duties of the office had been discharged for 8,000 l. l.
 MR. HAYTER  said, that immediately after the 1st March a communication took place between the architect of the Woods and Forests and the architect of the Earl of Ellesmere; and the architect of the Woods and Forests had been directed to prepare a report, which had not yet been presented. Not, only, however, had the wall of which complaint had been made not been proceeded with, but a great portion of it had been taken down, and it would undoubtedly be a great detriment to the public, and a great injury to the beauty of the park, if no means could be found by which the stringent provisions of the lease could be in some respects modified. If, however, they could not be modified, it would be the duty of the Commissioners of Woods and Forests to have that structure levelled. With regard to the embankment, there was nothing in the covenants of the lease which would prevent its being made.
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  wished to know whether the arrangement proposed by this Bill would affect the salaries of the present as well as of the future Lord Chief Justices?
 MR. W. P. WOOD  said, that when he was called upon as a professed reformer in financial matters, he must beg to say, with all respect to the Committee, and without regard to any observations which might be made upon his professional status, that the Committee would act with singular indiscretion if they commenced by cutting down the salaries of those who had the highest and most important duties to perform. He confessed that he should have felt a difficulty about going into Committee on the Bill, but as the House had decided that it would go into Committee, he had no hesitation in saying that 8,000 l. 1412 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. W. P. WOOD , being in some degree connected with the Duchy of Lancaster, thought it his duty to make some observations with regard to the terms of the Motion, and the object it had in view. His hon. Friend the Member for Kilmarnock had contended that this property ought to be distinguished from private property on several grounds. No doubt, in one respect, it was distinguished from private property, inasmuch as, at certain periods, it might be right for Parliament to take its amount into consideration, such as at the settlement of the Civil List, or of an appanage upon the Prince of Wales. But there were no such questions now before the House; and the property of the Duchy of Lancaster was, at this moment, vested in Her Majesty for Her private use, just as in like manner the property of the Duchy of Cornwall was vested in the trustees of the Prince of Wales for his private use. It was not the mode in which a property was created, but the purpose to which it was applied, that made it belong to the public; and with regard to the property of the Duchy of Lancaster, his hon. Friend was in error if he assumed it had been created by Act of Parliament. It was originally a private property, and it had always been
 1382 l. 1383 de die in diem;
 SIR B. HALL  could not suppose that the idea of a Committee had originated in the mind of the noble Lord this evening for the first time; it must have been in the mind of the Government for the last few weeks, and perhaps at the time of Lord Campbell's appointment. If so, then he thought it unfair that Lord Campbell's salary should be the only one excluded from the consideration of the Committee. They ought to have told him that while they conferred on him the appointment, his salary was to be determined by a Committee whom they intended to appoint. He thought, therefore, that the salary of Lord Campbell ought primarily to come before the Committee. They were not now dealing with the amount of the salary; but if the salary should come before the House that evening, then there was this important point to consider—that the noble Lord had not as in the case of other Judges, resigned an important profession or lucrative emolument. He had resigned an office, no doubt, with a seat in the Cabinet, but the office itself was neither of great importance nor of high salary, and he thought that was an element to be taken into account in fixing the salary. If they did appoint this Committee, it would be found that it was empowered to inquire into the salaries of all the Judges but Lord Campbell's.
 SIR B. HALL  admitted, that might be true; but as Lord Campbell had been so
 1400
 SIR B. HALL  said, that he did not say the appointment was a prospective one. What he had said was, that, under all the circumstances of the case. Lord Campbell's appointment ought to be treated as a prospective appointment, because the noble Lord and the Government must have had it in contemplation to appoint the Committee for the revision of all the salaries.
 SIR G. GREY  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, seemed to be of opinion that the office of Lord Chief Justice was to be excepted altogether from the investigation of the Committee. He asked what would be the position of the other Judges if their salaries were reduced, while that of the Lord Chief Justice was unaltered? The answer to that question was, that the Lord Chief Justice would be precisely in the same position with the Chief Justice of the Common Pleas, and all the other Judges, whose salaries might be
 1398
 SIR J. GRAHAM  presented a petition, which he expressed a wish to present in the presence of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, from two Peers, the Earl of Bradford and the Earl of Clancarty. The petitioners stated that they were entitled to seats in the House of Lords; that one of them, the Earl of Clancarty, had a title to vote in the election of representative Peers in Ireland, and that they
 1364
 SIR R. PEEL  said, that some experience in Parliamentary discussion had led him to the conclusion that he was an unwise man, who, speaking in the House of Commons, should deny the absolute right of the House to do anything it thought proper. The power of the House of Commons was very wide and expansive. In this case the question was not the abstract right, but the justice and the expediency of exercising that right—namely, of instituting certain inquiries, and doing certain things. If any one had used the expression that the House of Commons had no right to institute an inquiry, he apprehended it was meant thereby to draw a distinction between inquiry into that hereditary property of the Crown, which the Crown had assigned to the public in lieu of a certain allowance for the civil list, and into such property as that of the Duchies of Cornwall and Lancaster, which had been specially reserved by the Crown, and which continued under the exclusive management of the Crown. In the case of the Crown property assigned to the public during the endurance of the civil-list arrangement, there was clearly a right, on the part of the House to institute inquiry; for they had a direct, manifest, and present interest in swelling the revenues of such property so far as they could, and in seeing it properly administered. But the case of the property of the Duchies of Lancaster and Cornwall, especially that of Corn-
 1384 l. l. l. 1385 l. bonâ fide 1386 Morning Chronicle bonâ fide
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  proposed that a clause be inserted allowing this Bill to be repealed or amended during the present Session.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN , referring to the question under this head, which he had put yesterday to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Treasury, moved for a copy of any application for permission to build walls in the Green Park, in front of Bridge Water-house; also any minutes or other documents relating to the garden attached to Bridgewater-house, which had been passed or considered by the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Woods and Forests. He was exceedingly anxious to explain, with regard to this Motion, that it was by no means a personal matter, nor was it in any way intended to reflect upon the Earl who was immediately concerned. He believed that the encroachment on the Green Park was made without the knowledge of the noble Earl, but it was made with the knowledge of his architect, who was anxious to make an Italian garden before the house. He was exceedingly sorry to hear that the architect of the Woods and Forests had not yet made his report on this subject, because it convinced him that any party might make encroachments on the Green Park, and a number of weeks would elapse before the Commissioners of Woods and Forests could take any notice of it. The lease was granted in 1795, but it was quite dear from what Mr. Fordyce, who was then the manager of the Crown lands,
 1420
 MR. FITZROY  wished to ask a question of the right hon. the President of the Poor Law Board, with respect to a trial which took place on the Western Circuit before Mr. Justice Talfourd, a report of which had appeared in the public journals. Two persons were there charged with causing the death of a young girl whom they had obtained from the neighbouring workhouse at Bideford, in the capacity of a servant. The treatment this unfortunate girl had received, had excited feelings of indignation and horror in the breast of every person who had become acquainted with the affair; but through some informality or legal technicality in the proceedings, the perpetrators of these horrors had totally escaped punishment. In the course of the proceedings an allegation was made, or rather not denied, that the master of the workhouse at Bideford, Thomas Surnam, bad not only failed to discourage, but had actually excited and encouraged, these two monsters to further barbarities, if possible, towards this unfortunate girl. So much so, that upon one occasion, when the poor girl was unable to carry a pail in consequence of the barbarities which had been inflicted upon her, the workhouse master, when informed of her inability to do so, brutally said, that "that they ought have broken a stick about her back," This was denied by the master of the work-
 1419
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN , in reply, said it was clear the Earl of Ellesmere was not aware of any encroachment having been made. It was certainly the duty of the Woods and Forests, or their officers, who were paid high salaries, to look after these matters. But they knew nothing of them, and Mr. Pennethorne's examination before the Select Committee was most unsatisfactory in this respect. He was, for example, asked where was the boundary of the Park at this particular point; and his reply was, "That is more than I can tell." It appeared from this, that the officers of the Woods and Forests did not know the boundaries of the Park. If they had done their duty he should not have brought this matter forward; but he was very glad to hear the noble Lord at the head of the Government say, that in walking past he had discovered the wall to be higher than necessary. The question was, whether, under the lease, there was any power to build the wall at all. In his opinion the lease contained no such power.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN : Then, were all the persons who had houses abutting upon the Park to have the same power? Was every man in the position of a Crown tenant to ride over the covenants of his lease just as he thought proper? The provisions of Crown leases should be effectually carried out, for modification was highly unconstitutional, and the sooner it was done away with the better.
 MR. J. S. WORTLEY  thought the Government was right in not resisting the Motion; but he hoped it would be understood that it was not for the interests of the public to insist upon the strict right; for if the proposed improvement should be removed, it would be a great public injury. Much had been said as to encroachments upon the Park. The fact was, that in this case there was no encroachment at all. There was really nothing in issue but the question of a breach of a covenant in a lease. Part of the garden was the freehold property of the Earl of Ellesmere; and if he was animated by the curmudgeon spirit of a desire to
exclude the public, he might erect a wall there as high as he pleased, whilst, by the terms of the lease, he could plant trees upon the other part if he chose. But the Earl of Ellesmere was moved by no such sentiments. The noble Earl was admitted to have done a public service by the erection of so magnificent a
 1425
 LORD J. RUSSELL  had frequently had occasion to object to the production of returns of this kind, and he remembered one occasion, when the hon. Gentleman carried a Motion of this nature, that the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth induced the House to rescind it. The hon. Gentleman had laid no ground for the Motion. He might maintain all the opinions he had expressed, that the Royal Academy did not promote art, that it ought not to be allowed accommodation in a public building, erected at the expense of the public, and that Reynolds and all the great artists connected with it were mere daubers; but how the hon. Gentleman could maintain that the House was entitled to investigate the amount and application of the money received for the exhibition of their pictures, he (Lord J. Russell) did not understand. If the House had that power, he did not see why they should not inquire into the proceeds of every exhibition in London, and ask Madame Tussaud how much she made by her wax figures—[Mr. HUME: If you gave her a house to show them in, I would.] If George the Third and his Ministers had said to the Royal Academy, "We will allow you to exhibit your pictures in rooms belonging to the public; and, in return, we will require you to give us an account of all the money you receive"—that would have been an engagement; but there was nothing of the kind. It was evident, then, though the House had a perfect right to turn the Academy out, and say, "You shall no longer have rooms in Somerset House or the National Gallery," that right, without such a stipulation, did not give the power to ask what sums they received. Those sums had not been received from the public, but from the exhibition of pictures, which, after all, were their own property. It was true the public provided the rooms in which the pictures were exhibited, but the pictures which the public went to see were the property of the artists; and it was this which governed the question. He certainly regretted the
 1428
 LORD J. RUSSELL : All encroachments upon the space set aside in the parks for the healthful recreation of the people must of course be prevented; but in the case to which the attention of the House had been directed, nothing of that kind had occurred; indeed, on the contrary, all that had been done was for the public advantage. It was true that as he was walking in the park some time ago he saw a wall being raised, as if for the purpose of making the garden of Bridgewater-house more private, which, if carried up higher, might have obstructed the view from the Park, and impeded the free circulation of air in the particular locality; but the Board of Works immediately interfered, and, upon their remonstrance, the intention of carrying the wall higher, which was not part of the original plan made by the Earl of Ellesmere, was immediately abandoned.
 1422
 MAJOR BLACKALL  hoped, if his hon. and gallant Friend postponed the Motion, it would be on the distinct understanding that, during the ensuing year another column or schedule, giving the required information, would be included in the returns for the ensuing year.
 MR. HAWES  said, the Academy was established by a charter of George III., who gave them rooms in Somerset House for the exhibition of their works. Those rooms were afterwards surrendered to the public, and in consideration other apartments were granted in the National Gallery. Did these circumstances make them come under the jurisdiction of Parliament? Certainly not. They had never had one farthing of public money. The Academy had raised a school of art which was an honour to this country, entirely by their own exertions and ability; and if anybody had a right to spend their own funds as they pleased, they were that body. They sent artists abroad, and granted pensions to the widows of deceased artists; such was the mode in which they applied the funds into which Parliament was now asked to inquire This subject had been discussed three or four times in that House to his knowledge, and in every instance the decision was that the funds of the Academy were private. He was sure that if the accounts could be obtained, the funds would be found to have been disposed of economically, and in a manner that did honour to the Academy; but there were no grounds for alleging misappropriation. Parliament having no power to interfere, whilst no public advantage
 1430
 MR. NEWDEGATE  looked upon the Royal Academy as a private body which had had certain facilities afforded them by the public; and he could not see what right Parliament had to require a return of their funds—the proceeds of their own industry—with the view of disposing of them, for that was what the Motion amounted to. If it were thought desirable, let them turn the Royal Academicians out of the present building, and let them erect one for themselves; but it was a gross injustice to insist upon their making returns similar to those which were exacted under Schedule D. He should resist the Motion, and the more because he was by no means prepared to vote for a grant of money to the Academy should it be proposed.
 MR. F. FRENCH  said, that this was not the first time the attention of the House had been called to the subject, and the Irish Members were very anxious upon it, inasmuch as very fallacious opinions had for a long time prevailed upon the incidence of taxation upon Ireland. They contended that they were more heavily taxed than in England. It was alleged that the Irish did not pay the income tax, but they alleged that more than half the
 1434
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that after what had fallen from the right hon. Secretary to the Treasury he could not of course object to postpone his Motion; but it was very necessary that the true financial position of Ireland should be known at this moment.
 COLONEL DUNNE  begged to move for a return of the amount of income tax paid in England, and reckoned as English income, but which was derived from Irish property.
 MR. BANKES  said, that if he felt prepared to advance one shilling of public money to the Academy, he should support the Motion, but he was not; and under present circumstances, he was surprised that the noble Lord should contemplate such a proposition. At the same time, he could not commit himself to the proposition of the hon. Member for Montrose, as it appeared to be doubtful whether the Academy was a public or a private institution. But, whether public or private, he concurred in the opinion that, for a limited period, its doors ought to be thrown open to the public. The objections against that course were absurd. If any danger were apprehended to the miniatures, they could be either withdrawn or enclosed. He wished to see the Academy removed from the National Gallery as soon as possible, because room was wanted there; but if they were, as alleged, a private institution, let them build their own chambers.
 MR. BANKES  did not know whether the noble Lord made this Motion on the ground that the embankment would prove objectionable or injurious to the neighbours who resided near to Bridgewater House, or on public grounds only. If it were based on the former of these grounds, the Motion was perfectly justifiable; but if on the latter, he, as one of the public, must be allowed to say that, so tar from suffering any inconvenience, he felt great pleasure in seeing the rise of a palace the most splendid and most perfect in point of architecture which could be found in this metropolis, and which only wanted a suitable garden to make it a complete residence. He remembered the time when the Green Park was a receptacle for filth, and abounded in nuisances; when it seemed as if nobody owned it, and it was a disgrace to the Crown to have it called Crown property. He thought that the public were much indebted to the Earl of Ellesmere; for gardens of this description, instead of being an inconvenience, were a source of much public pleasure and enjoyment. If, therefore, it should be found necessary to modify the terms of the lease, to authorise the completion of the garden, which was all the palace wanted; he, for one, was quite ready to support any enactment for accomplishing that object.
 MR. HENLEY  did not think that the hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies had succeeded in setting the question at rest whether the Academy was a public or a private body. The hon. Gentleman said that it was constituted by charter, and that apartments were granted to the body in Somerset House. How were those apartments granted? In perpetuity, or in fee. If not, by what tenure did they hold them, and who paid for the repairs of the building they now occupied? He presumed that it was the free use of the building which enabled or aided them to accumulate their revenues. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had announced publicly in his financial statement that he intended to ask for a grant of public money to the Academy; and if he (Mr. Henley) was to be called upon to consider such a vote, he should like to know something about the position of the society. The Academy already enjoyed the permissive use of a public building, and the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer declared his intention of asking Parliament for money for the society. And for what purpose? Because he wanted the building the Academy now held for another use. That being so, the public had a right to know whether this society was not rich enough to build for themselves, or whether they came without funds, and on fair ground, to ask for public assistance. Their charter had, no doubt, been granted to them for public purposes. Indeed, it was alleged to them that they pensioned the widows of artists; and sent out students to the Con-
 1431
 MR. HENLEY  said, it was quite clear there had been an intention to build a high wall that would give facilities to make mounds inside, upon which trees or shrubs
 1426
 MR. HUME  moved for an account of the receipts and expenditure of the Royal Academy in each year since 1836. He expressed his regret that it was the intention of the noble Lord at the head of the Government to oppose this Motion, the object of which was only to obtain such information as the House was entitled to possess. The evidence before the Committee in 1836, showed that a fund of no less than 47,000 l l l 1427
 MR. HUME  said, that the Government ought to deal with the rich and the poor alike. No poor man would be allowed to make such encroachments, and he did not see any reason why any should be allowed
 1423
 MR. HUME , in reply, said, that when the Royal Academy desired to obtain public assistance, they came to that House and were ready enough to show their accounts, alleging that up to that period they had only accumulated 47,000 l 1432 l l
 MR. BAINES  said, that so long as the subject was before the ordinary criminal tribunals of the country, the Poor Law Board considered that it would have been unbecoming to have taken any steps in the matter. As soon, however, as they had received a report of the trial, they thought it right, in the exercise of the general authority possessed by the Board over the masters of workhouses, to direct the fullest and most searching inquiry into the conduct of the workhouse master of Bideford, as connected with the transaction. He would assure the hon. Member that that inquiry should be proceeded with without delay.
 MR. P. HOWARD  did not think that the charter granted to the Academy had constituted them a public body; but it was not upon that ground that he intended to oppose the Motion. Considering that the nation had only given some house-room to the artists of England, he thought it would be unjust and ungenerous to require from them an account of their proceeds, arising, as they did, not from public funds, but from the payments of private individuals. He might quote the words of Prior, which were as philosophical as true:—
 "To John I owed great obligation; But John unhappily thought fit To publish it to all the nation; Sure John and I are more than quit."
 MR. EWART  said, that if the Academy occupied a private building at their own expense, there might be some justice in the view taken by the noble Lord; but so long as they held a large portion of the National Gallery they were responsible to Parliament. Not only were they now in a public building, but the House would shortly be asked for a grant of public money, to place them in another public building. Did not these circumstances render them responsible to the country? The Academy appeared to have a double weapon. When they were asked for an account, they said they were a private body; but when they wanted accommodation for nothing, they declared they were a public body. So that one of the legs of this huge colossus stood upon public benefit, and the other upon private monopoly, whilst the House could get no accounts in either one capacity or the other. Let the Academy declare what they actually were. With reference to the noble Lord's remark concerning Reynolds, he would only observe that it was not the
 1429
 MR. HAYTER  said, he wished to correct, in the first instance, the statement made by the hon. Member for Montrose with respect to Sutherland-house. In the Committee which sat last Session, under the presidency of the noble Lord the Member for Bath, a most rigid inquiry had been instituted into the rights under which these alleged encroachments had been made, and it was discovered that a great many nuisances had been removed, without any prejudice to the interests of the public. With respect to the garden belonging to Bridge-water-house, a portion of it was the Earl of Ellesmere's freehold property, and a portion of it had been assigned to him by lease subsequently to the report of 1797. The hon. Member for Montrose said that the Treasury had no right to grant a lease. He (Mr. Hayter) was at issue with him there. It was proved before the Committee that they had power to grant leases, subject to certain restrictions. With respect to the wall which had been erected in the first instance, that was certainly inconsistent with the covenants of the lease, and with the intentions of the
 1424
 MR. HAYTER , in explanation, said he had stated that there was no such power in the lease.
 MR. HAYTER  said, there was no objection on the part of the Government to afford such information, but he understood that this Motion had been made before, and that it had been then stated that there were no means of making such a return, and that if the House made such an order, there were no means of obeying it. He would, therefore, suggest to the hon. Gentleman to withdraw his Motion for the present, and in the meantime he would ascertain whether it was possible to produce such a return as would meet his views.
 MR. HAYTER  repeated that no objection existed to give information, but as to the suggestions of another column or schedule being added to the returns for next year, that could not be done unless permitted by the Act of Parliament under which the Commissioners were bound to frame their returns.
 SIR B. HALL  censured the illiberal conduct of the Royal Academy in not admitting the public free on certain days of the week, observing, that although the funds of the institution certainly arose from the payments made by the public to see the works, and although the works were those of private artists, and not public property, it should be remembered that the Academy occupied and exhibited those works in a building belonging to the public, and free of rent—a circumstance very favourable to the increase of their private funds. If any proposal should be made hereafter for a grant of public money to the Royal Academy, he should most certainly object to it, and he should support the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose.
 SIR B. HALL  said, that the hon. Member for Dorsetshire had complained that the noble Lord the Member for Bath had not based this complaint on any allegation of individual grievance. He (Sir B. Hall), as one of the metropolitan Members, had to thank the noble Lord for bringing, not only this matter, but many others connected with the public parks, before the House. Great complaints had been made to him in reference to this matter, and he had himself been requested more than once to bring the subject forward. He agreed with the hon. Member for Dorsetshire that Bridgewater-house was the greatest ornament to the metropolis that at present existed. But he believed that it would have been impossible for the public to see it, if the intention of the architect had been carried out. Even now, the wall which had been complained of was as high as the railing of the Park, or, at all events, there was a difference of a very few inches. Holes had been drilled in the coping for rails, and it had been intended to place on the top of the wall a railing, which in process of time would have been covered with boards or slates, and the public would have been entirely excluded from the view. He had heard of encroachments in Hyde Park, near Apsley-house; and there was a plot of ground near Albert-gate also, which was formerly open to the public, but which was now railed in.
 SIR DE L. EVANS  observed that the speech they had just heard ought to be regarded as a speech in favour of the Motion, for it was just that simple want of a garden to complete the beauty of the palace which was likely to prove so injurious to the public. If they allowed this encroachment to be made on that principle, where was it to end? The palace required a small garden; well, other structures in the same
 1421
 ADMIRAL DUNDAS  said, that there were two points in the speech of the hon. and gallant Member which he felt called upon to reply to. The hon. and gallant Member said that there were no candidates for the situation of assistant naval surgeons. Now, at the commencement of last year there were 178 applicants on the list who had passed, and there were now on it 263 names. Of these 23 had been placed on half-pay, and 39 were waiting for appointments. During the present year they had only been able to take eleven names from the list for appointments. He believed there were more candidates for the office than there had been for many previous years. He did not believe, also, that the hon. and gallant Gentleman was right in speaking in
 9
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, he was sorry he bad not risen to address the House at an earlier stage of the discussion. No man in the House of Commons entertained a greater feeling of respect for the assistant surgeons of the Navy, nor could any one in that House wish to see them placed in a higher position than himself; but he not only believed that it was not only for their good that they should not be placed in the ward-room, but also that it would be a great blow to the efficiency of the service if they at once sent the assistant surgeons to mess in the ward-room. With respect to a separate cabin, which had been alluded to, he would ask whether it was likely that an assistant surgeon would like to mess in his own cabin alone? The hon. and gallant Member said this class of medical officers were in a worse position than the officers of the Royal Marines, He would venture to say that many a young man who entered the service in the Royal Marines, and who had not the assistance
 11 12
 SIR F. T. BARING  regretted that the House had expressed its opinion upon the proposition submitted to it by the hon. and gallant Gentleman in the way it had done, and that he (Sir F. Baring) had not had the opportunity of speaking upon it. As, however, the majority had so declared its opinion, he was not prepared again to divide the House upon the subject. This question, after all, depended upon the practicability of carrying out the views affirmed by the House. From the statements made by naval officers themselves, it appeared there were practical difficulties in the way, which he was afraid would prove
 13
 COLONEL ANSON  said, it now became his duty to bring under the consideration of the Committee the estimates for the Ordnance service for the present year. One of the principal difficulties connected with the discussion of these estimates on former occasions had arisen from the vague statements which had been made by hon. Members with reference to the conduct of the department, and which bad been so varied and conflicting that it had been difficult for those who had occupied the station he had the honour to fill to meet such general statements in a manner satisfactory to the House. He was happy to say, however, that that difficulty no longer existed. These estimates bad been submitted to the consideration of a Select Committee, and the hon. Members who had sat upon that Committee, as well as those who had taken the trouble to dive into the largo blue hook containing the evidence given before them, would be able so to frame their inquiries as to elicit clear and explicit answers. He rejoiced that this was the case, because he should now feel far less difficulty and embarrassment in answering any charges that might be made, or affording any explanations that might be required. He might be allowed to remind the Committee of the circumstances under which the Select Committee to which he had referred was appointed. In 1848 a reverse had come over the affairs of this country; it had fallen from a state of high prosperity into one of considerable depression; the public expenses had largely increased, while the finances had diminished; and it became apparent that either the expenditure must be reduced, or some extraordinary means must he taken to meet the increased expenditure. The increase which had taken place in the Army, Navy, and Ordnance estimates naturally attracted the attention of those hon. Members who took an interest
 22 l l l l l l l l l l 23 l l l l l 24 25 l l l l l l 26 l l l 27 l l l l l l l l l l 28 l l l l l l 29 30 l 31 l l l l l l l l l 32 l l l l l l 33 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 34 l l l l l l 35 l l l l 36 l l l l l l l l 37 38 l l l l l l l l l l 39 l l l l 40 l
 COLONEL ANSON  did not wish to trouble the House again, but really his hon. Friend made such extraordinary statements that he could not allow them to pass. The hon. Member told them that the mastery of the Ordnance details was an easy business; but he could only say that he never knew any one who had attended to them so long as the hon. Member, and who knew so little. It was impossible to allow the House to be misled into the opinion that the Ordnance Office was upheld for no other purpose than the superintendence of the stores. There were a great many duties to be performed; and he did not believe there was any other department of the Government where so much business was done. He should like very much if the hon. Member would come and sit in his office for a couple of days, when he would find that he would be required to go through as many figures daily as he was crammed with for a supply night. With regard to the amalgamation of the office with the Horse Guards, that was a question that would come before the Committee now sitting on the Army; and though the hon. Member has shown that his mind was made up on the question, yet he (Colonel Anson) would not give any opinion till he had heard the evidence, further than this, that if they broke up the establishment, he did not know whether they could conduct the business with the same facility as at present; but he was
 45 l l l
 COLONEL ANSON  said, that return was incorrect.
 COLONEL ANSON  said, he did not mean it to be understood that the reductions were completed, but time must be allowed for making the necessary inquiries into the case of each establishment.
 COLONEL ANSON  said, that provision was making for its reduction.
 COLONEL ANSON  said, that the lan-
 48
 COLONEL ANSON  reminded the hon. Gentleman that he had already stated that such an arrangement had been made with regard to Australia. After the 1st of October next those expenses would be paid by the colony.
 COLONEL ANSON  said, that that was obviously a question which it was not for him to answer. As Earl Grey had stated it to be his intention to apply the rule to the other colonies, no doubt it would be done.
 COLONEL ANSON  said, that that rule had not been deviated from wherever it was possible to observe it. The articles supplied to the Government from Woolwich and other places were only those that could not be depended upon if supplied by ordinary manufactures.
 COLONEL ANSON  said, that three-fourths of all the gunpowder was supplied by contract, but as to the brass guns the hon. Gentleman was very much mistaken. They required to be made of a mixed metal, which could not be depended on unless great care were taken in the fusion and amalgamation. They could not entrust their manufacture to other than their own hands.
 COLONEL ANSON  said, that they must have a store of muskets besides what were actually in the hands of the troops. They
 51
 COLONEL ANSON  said, that they were always liable to that chance; but it was in common with other nations. They should keep up a sufficient store of good arms.
 COLONEL ANSON  said, that 4,000 tons used to be the regular store, but they would now have not more than 3,500 tons. He thought it better to keep it in a refined than a rough state.
 COLONEL ANSON  replied, about five years' consumption. But as to India supplying a store when wanted, they would find, if an emergency arose, that the price would be doubled, or more, upon them.
 COLONEL ANSON  rather thought that none had been repaid as yet. When any would be paid it would be paid into the Exchequer, and appropriated in aid.
 COLONEL ANSON  said, that the additional expense was occasioned by the map of Ireland being under revision. The system of contouring was found to be much superior to the system of hill sketching, and the whole survey was being now revised upon the plan of the field survey, it having been completed upon what was called the townland survey. Those additional expenses might seem inexpedient, but they were as necessary as outlays upon new guns and changes in the form of arms, which they had been shortly before discussing. They had begun the English survey upon the scale of one inch to a mile, but they had subsequently altered it to a scale of six inches, as far more useful for the large towns. The maps of the largo towns were being engraved, as the survey was being completed. The townspeople were anxious to have the maps, and were applying for them in order to carry out the more perfectly their sanitary improvements.
 The CHAIRMAN  suggested that the amount proposed to be reduced on the entire vote would be the regular course. The diminution in the larger sum would be first put.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, that if he rightly understood the hon. and gallant Gentleman, what he proposed was to reduce the salaries of the Lords of the Admiralty, and also of the staff of the Admiralty—of those gentlemen whose offices were not political, but who were, in fact, merely the head clerks of departments. The hon. and gallant Gentleman also proposed to reduce the number of Lords of the Admiralty from six to either four or five.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, that the difference was only in the application of a term; for the parties referred to were the heads of the department at Somerset House. There were two or three points in reference to the hon. and gallant Member's proposition to which he would address himself. And, first, with respect to those Parliamentary officers belonging to the department, he would only say, that after the notice given by his noble Friend at the head of the Government, that that matter would be submitted for the consideration of a Committee of the House, on which occasion the question of their salaries could be finally entered upon, he (Sir F. Baring) thought it would not be expedient to anticipate the decision of that Committee. He did not conceive it fair, however, that the hon. and gallant Member should confine the vigour of his attacks exclusively to the Admiralty, and that he had permitted the Ordnance Estimates to pass without making any similar remarks upon the system of that department. But all these matters would be considered by the Committee to be appointed to inquire into them. With regard to the other officers, he thought his noble Friend had acted
 55 l l l 56 
 
 In 1821 … … £39,000 
 In 1829 … … 32,000 
 At present, only … … 18,000
 MR. FITZROY  said, if the hon. and gallant Member had confined his proposition to a reduction of the number of the Lords of the Admiralty, he might not have made any observations on the question; but when it was proposed to cut down the salaries of two secretaries to the extent of 500 l 57 l
 SIR F. T. BARING  explained, with respect to the establishment, that there had been ten vacancies of extra clerks, which it was not intended to fill up. With regard to the visits of inspection to the dockyards, so far from thinking them a waste of time, he considered it would be more advantageous for the service if these visits could be more frequently made.
 SIR F. BARING  was understood to say that the matter would receive attention.
 SIR F. T. BARING  assured the hon. Member that no one was more anxious than himself to give efficiency to the map department of the Admiralty. The delay he believed arose from the great care and attention paid by the Government officer to those charts. He should be very glad to do all in his power to expedite the publication of the charts, and any suggestion which the hon. Member could offer to further this end would be willingly attended to.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, it was in the power of the Admiralty to give the information with respect to any individual ship, but the hon. Member must not ask for the expenditure under this head of every ship in the Navy. He was not aware that the practice alluded to existed in any of the dockyards, and certainly any officer who should be found guilty of such tricks, would, if continued in his situation, receive the severe censure of the Admiralty. The charge was rather a serious one; but, for himself, he could not give credence to any such supposition. In answer to the hon. Member for Montrose, he would observe, that this vote had been reduced 75,000 l
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, his only answer was, that he did not believe it to exist. What happened many years ago, the hon. Baronet might perhaps know, but unfortunately he did not.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, that the returns would be laid upon the table of the House as soon as they could be obtained.
 SIR. F. T. BARING  said, as the hon. Gentleman had given notice of a Motion to reduce the vote for stores, it would probably be better to defer any discussion upon the question of the Navy, generally, till then. He hoped the House would allow the two votes before it to pass, and he would go no further that night. But with regard to statements that had been made in that House and elsewhere, as to the number of ships broken up, and their state of efficiency, he wished to make one or two observations. The average age of ships that had been broken up was 37 years, so they certainly could not be considered very young. They had sold 18, the average age of which was 37 1–3 years. Of vessels taken from the enemy 24 had been broken up, whilst the average ago, since the date of their capture, was 26 years, and 26 ships had been sold, the average of which was 20 1–3 years. Now, with regard to the  Canopus Implacable Canopus's l Implacable l
 MR. FITZROY  had heard it stated on all sides that these men were now in a state of great efficiency, and he trusted that no such reduction would be made.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, that the hon. Member for Montrose must recollect, that when these artificers were called out, considerable alarm prevailed in the country. The expenditure occasioned by training them had at first been considerable, but it was now materially reduced. Now, that they were properly organised, a small sum of money would be sufficient to keep them in their present state of efficiency. Though we were at peace now, that might not always be the case, and we ought to be prepared for an emergency.
 SIR F. T. BARING  replied that the old system was done away with, and that the Admiralty were selling the old telegraphs as fast as they could.
 MR. MOFFATT  wished to know what was the nature of the Amendments which were now proposed. He thought it only reasonable that the House should have some explanation on the subject. One of the chief objections to the Bill was, that it proposed to place a stamp duty on many transactions where it had never been charged before.
 ADMIRAL BOWLES  believed that too much money was expended in repairing an inferior class of ships, and thus keeping up the inferiority of our Navy.
 Captain BOLDERO  recommended the adoption of a unform national scale for these surveys.
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO —after presenting petitions from the medical faculties of the Universities of Glasgow and Edinburgh; King's College, London; Guy's Hospital; Leeds; Charing cross Hospital; Greenwich, Chichester, Stockport, Reading, Graves-end, Canterbury, Sheerness, Brighton, and numerous other places—said, that the prayer, in spirit and substance, of all these petitions was the same—namely, that the assistant surgeons in the Navy should be removed from the cockpit, and mess with the officers in the gun-room; and that, in respect of rank they should be placed on an equality with assistant surgeons in the Army. His object in bringing this matter forward was to have a fair, full, and impartial consideration of the question; and he would endeavour to lay before the House such facts connected with it as would lead them to a just conclusion, leaving it to the House to decide whether this state of things should be continued any longer. The House would see from the petitions which he held in his hand that they came from all quarters of the kingdom; he believed from every university or college entrusted with the education of youth for the medical profession. Petitions had also been presented from the large public hospitals of London. Every one would ask how it was that the medical practitioners in all parts of the empire bestirred themselves in favour of the assistant surgeons in the Navy. It was on account of the unwise and systematic neglect which had been
 4 élite 5 6 7 8
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO , in answer to the question put to him, by the hon. and gallant Officer who had just resumed his seat, why he had not, when a Member of the Administration, brought forward such a proposal, said, that the hon. and gallant Gentleman had surely been long enough in office to know that it was not customary for a person attached to one department to interfere with another. At the same time, he had always made every effort in his power to accomplish the object of his Motion. The House had confirmed that Motion, and he now left it in their hands.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON : I am very glad of this assurance. There is one more item to which I beg to call attention—namely, "coals and candles in barracks in Great Britain and Ireland, 74,968 l d 49
 COLONEL CHATTERTON : I have spoken strongly, for I strongly feel this crying injustice; and I would beg to say if my gallant Friend or any Member of the House imagines I have spoken too strongly in reprobation of this matter, I request they will move for copies of the correspondence which has taken place between the authorities and myself, upon my regiment leaving Edinburgh in the year 1846, when the system I complain of was in full activity. Before I leave this branch of the Estimates, I would beg to ask if any steps have been taken for erecting buildings in barracks for the convenience of married soldiers? It is really subversive of all the rules of decency or morality for married soldiers to occupy the same rooms with the bachelor soldiers. But I do not see any item in these estimates to provide for a requirement so essential.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  said: I perceive amongst other items "stores damaged or deficient by troops, 8,775 l 47 d d s l d d d
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  said: I have very great pleasure in hearing my hon. and gallant Friend so ably propose the Estimates entrusted to his charge; and I am happy in giving them my entire support; so far from thinking our force of artillery too large, I am quite disposed to vote for its increase. In all our warlike affairs we have been sadly deficient in that most valuable and important branch—Artillery—
 44
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, that this had been under the consideration of Government, and that last year 4,000 l
 MR. S. HERBERT  said, that so long as it was necessary to keep up a peace establishment, and no war to call out the ships in reserve, there would of necessity be some ships which must rot without going to sea. The Admiralty might prevent this taking place by sending out every ship in its turn, instead of keeping the same ships at sea for a length of time; but in the end this would be found the more expensive method of the two. His impression was, that they did not let their ships rot half fast enough, and that a great deal too much expense was incurred in repairing ships which ought to be broken up. The number of years which the ships were kept up in the Navy was far greater than was considered at Lloyd's to be the proper term for any ship in class A 1, which was the state in which the Admiralty professed to keep all their ships of war.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the hon. and gallant Colonel had fallen into an error with respect to the Committee for which he was about to move. The Committee would certainly inquire as to the salaries of the First Lord of the Admiralty and the other Lords, Members of Parliament; but it would not inquire, with regard to the salaries of the Accountant General or the other permanent officers of the department. He thought the heads of departments much better able to make reductions from time to time than any Committee that could be selected. For instance, if they took the case of the comptroller of steam machinery. It would be difficult for any Committee to determine whether this office were necessary or not; but his right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Admiralty, with the necessary information at command, had found the office to be superfluous, and had accordingly abolished it. With respect to officers of departments, he likewise thought the Government better able to judge of them than any Committee could be. The vacancy caused by the death of Mr. Brooks-bank had not been filled up, nor would it he, as the Government were of opinion that the business could be got through without.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  repeated, that although the Committee might include the Lords of the Admiralty in their investigation, they would not inquire as to the salaries
 59
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that if it could be proved that, consistently with the efficient discharge of the public service, reductions could be made in the amount of official salaries, no doubt that was a fair subject to be investigated by a Committee. But if the definition given by the noble Lord as to the functions of the proposed Committee were the correct one—if their investigations were to be confined to Parliamentary, judicial, and diplomatic salaries—he (Mr. Disraeli) thought the Government ought to have been prepared with a measure on the subject which should state the grounds for those reductions which the Government admitted were necessary. When the noble Lord on Friday moved for this Committee, he (Mr. Disraeli), in moving his Amendment, should be prepared to show why he thought the noble Lord's proposal impolitic and inexpedient.
 MR. HAWES  said, copies of the resolutions which the hon. Baronet had just quoted had been received by the noble
 3
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, after what had fallen from the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, he was willing to press only that part of his Amendment which referred to the reduction of the number of the Lords of the Admiralty to four.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that under such circumstances he should press his proposition to a division.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  was satisfied with the assurance of the noble Lord that the Committee were to investigate the subject of the salaries and numbers of those composing the Admiralty.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he had given notice of his intention to call the attention of the Committee to this Vote. He had to propose a reduction of the present establishment of the Admiralty, particularly as regarded the number and salaries of the Lords. The right hon. Baronet opposite held the office of First Lord with a salary of 4,500 l l l l l l l l l l l l
 COLONEL SIBTHORP , in accordance with that suggestion, begged to propose that the salaries of the secretaries and principal officers be reduced as follows:—The first Secretary from 2,00 l l l l l l l l l l l l 54 l
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, the House had been reminded that the noble Lord at the head of the Government had proposed a Committee. If the noble Lord would assure him that that Committee should be appointed, he would leave his proposal to its decision; but the case reminded him of the words,  Timeo Danaos et dona ferentes
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  begged to ex-plain. He did not wish to touch the salaries of clerks at all. They were the working men. It was the officials who were only nominally clerks, head clerks, superior clerks, gentlemen clerks, in fact, whose salaries he thought ought to be reduced.
 MR. MOWATT  said, all the communications which he had had from the colony convinced him that the resolutions were opposed to the general wishes of the colonists.
 MR. ARKWRIGHT  was of opinion that much unnecessary expense was incurred by the tours of inspection that were periodically made by the Lords of the Admiralty. Shortly after the prorogation of Parliament in August last the Board were at Plymouth, and he found it stated that the first Lord examined a bakehouse, and that in the evening he honoured the table of the admiral superintendent with his presence. On another day, it appeared, the Lords embarked in the  Lightning Impregnable Dragon Queen Black Eagle Excellent 58
 MR. LABOUCHERE  could not immediately call to mind the facts of that case, but he was ready to admit that in many instances their merchant vessels were very inadequately provided with maps.
 MR. WYLD  wished to know whether any, and if any, what proportion of the expenses incurred by the survey of the metropolis had been paid as yet by the ratepayers of the city of London?
 MR. WYLD  thought it was a matter of much importance to the merchant service that the charts should be speedily produced. They were now covering the seas of the world with their steam-ships, and therefore the production of the charts was more necessary. In slow-sailing vessels they could ascertain the depth of water, but with the swift sailing of the steam vessels that could not be so easily done, and accidents were more likely to happen. He hoped, with the improvements now taking place, the right hon. Gentleman would take into serious consideration the necessity of making one uniform scale, and publishing the charts, that they might be made available for the general merchant service. He would also call the right hon. Gentleman's attention to the surveys of the Eastern seas, and hoped, as it was intended to extend their steam navigation to that part of the world, the Government would pay attention to them.
 MR. J. E. DENISON  said, that if the House thought fit to lay out the sum of 120,000 l
 MR. J. E. DENISON  objected to the expenses incurred by the Irish Ordnance Survey. The first estimate of the expense of the survey of Ireland was 30,000 l l l 52 l l
 MR. HUME  said, the keeping of a stock wasted more than what the difference in price would be. Those stocks were a monstrous source of loss. They had been obliged to throw aside as useless no less than 24,000 iron guns.
 MR. HUME  said, the question was whether, without trenching on the private property of map makers, some means could be taken, whereby persons having maps should produce them to the hydrographer, by whom, if correct, they would be stamped.
 MR. HUME  complained of the high price at which the  Nautical Almanack l
 MR. HUME  said, that the Committee upstairs had pointed attention to the enormous increase of those establishments beyond any possible want of the service. When the expenses were considered, they ought to produce twice as many ships as were required, and, consequently, there was a large portion of labour wasted, and he thought that was unsatisfactory, particularly
 62
 MR. HUME  begged also to call attention to a speech made by Captain Ross, at the Geographical Society, at Bombay, in which he stated that three ships of war had been lost, in consequence of not having proper maps on hoard. It appeared that the scales drawn for the East India Company and for the Government were different, and that no trouble had been taken to bring them together, or to make the surveys of India valuable. They knew the East India Company at great expense had
 61
 MR. HUME  quite agreed to the reduction of 7,100 l
 MR. HUME  asked if the establishment had been reduced in Australia, as the troops had been reduced there?
 MR. HUME  asked whether, if the military department was transferred, as it ought to be, to the Horse Guards, any man in his senses would give 66,000 l
 MR. HUME  said, the matter might, perhaps, be difficult of proof; but he would venture this observation, that if the military and store departments were separated, as in the Bengal army, the business would be efficiently done at one-fourth of the expense, and without that waste of stores which was continually occurring now. He also defended his statement of the Ordnance expenditure in 1835, which he said he had taken from a return ordered by Mr. Baring, and signed "J. Parker."
 MR. HUME  said, he was not going to occupy the time of the House at any length. He wished to do the gallant Officer who had just sat down the justice to say, that on the Committee which had sat upwards of four months, the hon. and gallant Gentleman had devoted his whole attention to the subject before them, and had done everything in his power to lead the inquiry to a satisfactory result. The House would recollect that the Ordnance department were called upon by the Army and Navy to provide certain stores which they had to furnish,
 41 l l l l l l 42 43
 MR. HUME  said, it would be convenient if the noble Lord would inform the House at this period what were the state of the negotiations with reference to our differences with Greece, or whether there was any prospect of their termination. The noble Lord was aware that, under existing circumstances, the trade of the country was materially interfered with; and it was very desirable, on that account, to know what prospect there was of a settlement.
 MR. HUME  asked if any arrangements had been made with regard to the payment by the colonies of the expense of barrack accommodation to be hereafter provided for the troops?
 MR. HUME  said, that that vote involved the whole principle of manufactures, of which he had so often found occasion before to complain. It had been decided in 1828 that no manufactured arti-
 50
 MR. HUME  wished to know how many years' supply that was; for, so long as they held India, they need keep no great stock.
 MR. HUME  asked how much saltpetre they had in store?
 MR. HUME  said, that many of the old stock had become useless as being obsolete. There were daily improvements being-made in small arms, and he feared they were now making a store which would be declared obsolete in a few years.
 MR. HUME  objected that 90,000 l
 MR. HUME  felt obliged to the hon. and gallant Gentleman who brought this subject forward. The question was, whether the Navy, as a branch of the public service, was not entitled to have as able medical men as the Army. It was notorious at present that no man would go into the Navy as an assistant surgeon who could find employment in that capacity in the Army. It appeared to him that the system of accommodation on board ships for the assistant surgeons was a gross injustice to the service generally. The gallant Admiral said that there was no room for the accommodation of this class of officers in the ward-room; but the Admiralty gave the same answer seven or eight years ago; but since then three additional officers have been placed in the ward-room. The gallant Admiral also stated, that there was a very numerous class of candidates for the office of assistant surgeon in the Navy; but Sir W. Burnett, the head of the medical department in the Navy, said, in his evidence in 1848, that he hardly ever saw
 10
 MR. HUME  said, the report of the commission of 1840 recommended various alterations and improvements, which, if carried, would have conferred the greatest improvements in the way of increased accommodation. But though it certainly stated that the evidence went to show there was a practical difficulty in finding room for an additional cabin, yet it should be recollected that since that period they had found room for three additional cabins. If any hon. Gentleman would read over that evidence, he must come to the conclusion that if "there's a will there's a way." There was a want of will on the part of the naval officers to afford this accommodation. Their habits of education made certain impressions upon them, which induced a certain portion of them, at all
 14
 MR. HUME  said, that during the last twenty years 229 ships had been broken up, one half of which were better than the new ones which had been built, for they had not been built by the Surveyor of the Navy. At present we had a fleet of 400 sail, and he saw no use in building 400 sail more until they were actually required. The number of ships which had been launched from Her Majesty's dockyards from the 31st of March, 1828, to the end of the year 1848, had been 264, with a burden of 220,404 tons, at a cost of not less than 4,840,000 l l l 64
 MR. HUME  said, that what he complained of was the waste which had taken
 65 l
 MR. MULLINGS  observed that this Bill proposed to make a vast variety of alterations. They had been told that the Bill would make a considerable reduction in the stamp duties; but he was satisfied that it would lead to a great increase. He was satisfied, instead of its leading to a reduction of 300,000 l
 MR. BUCK  hoped the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Admiralty would answer the question of the hon. Gentleman
 63
 MR. COBDEN  said, he had paid particular attention to that point in the Committee last Session, and he was convinced that the parties examined could give no very clear idea of what was the cost of the articles manufactured. For instance, in the manufactory of gunpowder, they kept a large stock of saltpetre and of sulphur, enough for twenty or thirty years' consumption; they had a large establishment of blasting machinery, a number of dwelling-houses for the superintendents and cottages for the workpeople; but all that capital was put down as nothing. They simply took the wages and the cost of the raw material, put the amount of the two as the expense of manufacturing the article, and then compared that with the cost of what they purchased from private individuals, who were in the habit of putting down all their capital, fixed and floating, as entering into the cost of their manufactures. He did not think the evidence given was worth one straw; and he did not believe that anything made in the department might not be purchased cheaper of the manufacturers. He did not include gun carriages, because they were merely an adaptation of articles which they had in the yard; but he believed that gunpowder and brass ordnance might be bought cheaper.
 MR. COBDEN  called attention to the following passage in the report of last year's Committee on the Ordnance Estimates:—
 "The largo and increasing amount required for barrack accommodation in the colonies induced your Committee to request Earl Grey, the Secretary of State for the Colonies, to afford some information as to the practicability of any future reduction under this head. His Lordship stated that, in his opinion, the colonies ought to contribute more than they have done to the expense of lodging the troops, and since he had been in office he had never lost sight of the importance of gradually obtaining from the colonies contributions towards defraying this expenditure; with this view he had now proposed that in Australia the whole charge of the barracks should be transferred to the colony."
 MR. COBDEN  said, they had at homo and abroad eighty Ordnance establishments, with storekeepers, deputy storekeepers, clerks, and all the other officers necessary in an establishment for keeping stores. Now, that was one of the points to which the Committee drew the attention of the Government in expectation of a considerable reduction being made in the number of these establishments. The hon. and gallant Gentleman had told them that there was a reduction of four establishments; but he thought the Committee looked to see a great deal more done. Harwich, he observed, was still retained; but Harwich was pointed out by the Committee as an establishment that might be dispensed with; and with the present facilities for travelling, more es-
 46
 MR. C. ANSTEY , pursuant to notice, rose to call the attention of the House to the illegality of reprisals when made by officers in Her Majesty's Navy without the authority of an Order in Council. He should begin by referring to the blue book which had been printed, containing the correspondence relating to certain claims of British subjects upon the Greek Government, and which had recently led to unpleasant results. He did not approach the subject in a spirit hostile either to the position taken up by the claimants, or to the policy which had been assumed by the Government on their behalf. On the contrary, he was satisfied that it would have been a national dishonour if the Government had remained inactive, and had not taken up the claims of those parties, and done their best to obtain redress. What he complained of was the informality of the procedure. Under the date of the 30th of November, 1849, he observed a letter he might call a duplicate, for the two were nearly in the same terms, from the noble Lord the Foreign Secretary to Admiral Sir William Parker, and to Mr. Wyse, in which the noble Lord stated that he had been commanded by the Queen to cause the requisite instructions to be given to Sir William Parker to put himself in commnnication with Mr. Wyse on the subject of these claims; and if the proper satisfaction were not given, then, after concert with Mr. Wyse—let the House observe this—Admiral Parker was to have recourse to such measures as he might think best calculated to obtain satisfaction. It appeared by this letter, which was the only document, as the noble Lord himself had informed the House the other night, which contained any instructions on the subject, that Her Majesty had been advised to depart with her exclusive prerogative in favour of Admiral Parker—that awful and tremendous prerogative of war or peace—which, according to the constitution of the country, could only be exercised by Her Majesty herself in Privy Council. It might be objected to him that this was mere
 15 16 17 18 19
 MR. THORNELY  wished to know whether the old system of telegraphing was still resorted to, as there was an unsightly pole at the top of the Admiralty, which led him to infer that the electric telegraph was not always employed.
 MR. HAYTER  should be happy to receive any suggestions from the hon. Gentleman as to what he considered the objectionable parts of the Bill, and he could as-as-sure him they should receive every attention.
 MR. HAYTER  hoped the House would consent to his proposal, that this Bill should be read a second time and committed  pro formâ
 MR. HAYTER  said, it was intended by the general principle of the Bill not to touch any property but that which was now subject to a stamp duty.
 SIR H. VERNEY  thought the contouring most important. Had there been maps completed in such a manner when all the railways that now intersected the country were projected, it would have saved the outlay of millions of money in surveys.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  understood that it had been the practice in the dockyard to charge the repairs of one ship to another. For instance, suppose repairs were to be made in the  Vanguard Brilliant Vanguard
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, the right hon. Gentleman had misunderstood him. He had made no charge against any individual. He believed that in former times such a practice existed, and he had asked whether it existed still.
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies a question relative to an order issued by the Governor of South Australia, directing the publication of certain resolutions with regard to the new constitution of that colony, and which were to be proposed at the next meeting of the Legislative Council. These resolutions were to the following effect:—
 "1. That the Imperial Parliament should confer upon the Government of South Australia complete power over all local concerns; and that in withholding from colonial jurisdiction any subjects which exclusively concern the empire, the Colonial Parliament should carefully define those subjects. 2. That the form of the legislature
 2
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I am sure nothing could be fairer than the manner in which the hon. and learned Gentleman has brought this legal question before the notice of the House. He has, I am bound to say, entirely separated it from anything of a political character; and he has, in that spirit, stated his opinion upon its legal and constitutional bearings. All I can say is, without pretending to follow the hon. and learned Gentleman into the historical details he has given upon this matter, that I am advised by those by whose legal opinion I consider it my duty to be guided in my official conduct, that no Order in Council is necessary for effecting reprisals, so far as they have been effected in this particular instance—that is, for the detention of vessels as pledges for obtaining redress from the foreign Power upon whom demands for redress have been made. I am quite ready to concede to the hon. and learned Gentleman, that if it were necessary to go a step further, and to condemn or confiscate and sell the vessels, for the purpose of realising the reprisals, an Order in Council would be necessary. I am quite ready to concur with the hon. and learned Gentleman that an Order in Council would be necessary for the purpose of establishing a commission to condemn and sell the vessels; but I stand upon the advice which has been given to me, and I am perfectly convinced in my own mind that the advice is sound, that, for the purpose of seizing and detaining vessels with a view to future proceedings, it is sufficient there should be an order from the responsible officer of the Crown, being the Secretary of State, signifying the Queen's pleasure, as Sovereign, to the Admiralty, in reference to the orders to be communicated to the officers whose duty it may be to carry them into execution. I can assure the hon. and learned Gentleman he is mistaken in supposing that if these measures should, as I trust they may, lead to a satisfactory result, and the vessels should be released without the necessity of confiscation and
 20
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : There is nobody in this House who takes a deeper interest in the prosperity of the kingdom of Greece than I do. It fell to my lot to take part in those proceedings which led to the emancipation of the Greek nation, and to Greece being made an independent State; and upon every ground, I can assure the hon. Member, it has been exceedingly painful to me to feel it my duty to be the organ by which any measure could be adopted that would in any way press upon the Greek nation. But it is not against the Greek nation, but the Greek Government, that we have been obliged to take these steps. The last accounts we had from Greece stated that Baron Gros, who is employed by the French Govern-
 21
 MR. DUNCAN  said, that in February, 1847, the leasing powers were taken, though the seal of the company was not attached to the agreement until the month of October following, after full investigation. The second agreement entered into was with the Dundee and Arbroath line, and which agreement was sanctioned by the proprietors. As to the matter being a good or bad bargain he knew not, as he had not a shilling interest in the line; yet he could not but think the House would pause before allowing a Bill to be thrown out without full investigation.
 MR. T. EGERTON  considered that House was not the place where agreements between railway or other companies should be entertained. If the agreement were good, a court of law was the place to decide the question. He, therefore, trusted the House would not establish a precedent by entertaining the present question.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, repudiation was an awkward sound, and he was not aware that the House was obliged to support parties because they had repudiated. Another point he must resist, was the doctrine that the House ought not to interfere in railway proceedings. On the contrary, he believed, that not a sparrow fell to the ground in railway matters, for which this House was not held responsible whether for good or evil. It was clear that time was wanted for further knowledge,
 68
 MR. CHRISTOPER  suggested that the Bill be referred to the consideration of the railway department of the Board of Trade.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN,  after presenting several petitions praying for the repeal of the window tax, said, he did not think it was necessary to make any long apology for having again brought this subject before the House. The first time he brought it forward was in 1845, when the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth was at the head of the Government, when he moved for the appointment of a Committee of Inquiry into the window tax, before which, had it been granted, a great exposure would have taken place. He, however, had no reason to regret having brought forward the subject, as the right hon. Baronet said that he might, perhaps, be prepared to take the matter into consideration at some future time. The second time he brought the subject forward was in 1848, which was a season of great depression. At that time the noble Lord the Member for the city of London was the First Minister of the Crown, and he did not regret having made his Motion on that occasion, as the noble Lord admitted that, so as far as any argument could be adduced, it was all in favour of the Motion, and that he only regretted that the deficiency in the finances of the country would not at that time permit the relief he (Viscount Duncan) was anxious to obtain. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had, previous to his (Viscount Duncan) making his Motion in 1848, brought forward a measure to increase the income tax
 69 "Her Majesty has learnt with satisfaction that the measures which have been already passed for the promotion of the public health, are in a course of gradual adoption; and Her Majesty trusts that both in the metropolis, and in various parts of the United Kingdom, you will be enabled to make further progress, in the removal of evils which affect the health and well-being of Her subjects." 70 "The repeal of the window tax would be a very great boon to the window-glass trade, which is at present in a state of severe and unexampled depression. The oldest house in the trade, lately carried on by Sir Matthew White Ridley and his partners, has been closed for two years." "It is understood in the trade that no house has escaped a very large loss of capital for two years past." "The supply has greatly exceeded the demand, and consequently largo stocks have accumulated, with the almost impossibility of effecting sales in the usual manner. This increased supply has arisen from very exaggerated notions having gained credence as to the effect of the repeal of the duty; from the speculative joint-stock mania of 1845–6; and, in no small degree, from the 'poetry' of Sir Robert Feel, who sought to persuade the public that, the duty being once repealed, everything would be made of glass. What was the result? Previous to the repeal of the duty there were 13 window-glass (crown and sheet) manufactories in the united kingdom, all working short time. On that measure taking effect, these were placed on full time, and also considerably enlarged; in addition to which, 11 other manufactories were established, making a total of 24—increasing the supply 300 per cent, while the increased demand did not exceed 25 per cent, except for a very limited time, until parties had replaced their stocks. Glass has consequently gone down to the cost price at the most economical manufactories, at which rates 11 have been suspended at an estimated loss of 250,000 l 71 s d s s d s d s 72 l l l 73 "The principal objection to such taxes is their inequality—an inequality of the worst kind—as they must frequently fall much heavier upon the poor than upon the rich. A house of 10 l l "In general all poll taxes, even when they are not arbitrary, which they generally are, may be esteemed dangerous, because it is so easy for the Minister to add a gradual percentage to the sum chargeable, until the taxes become altogether oppressive and intolerable." s s s "That whereas it has been found from experience, that the duties granted by former Acts of Parliament have been greatly lessened by means of persons frequently stopping up windows in their dwelling houses, in order to evade payment." 74 75 l l l l l 76 "Leave to the air its free and unrestrained course—put no impediment upon its buoyant natural action; but, on the other hand, guide and direct on scientific principles, and by mechanical aid, the course of water. And by such means and in such proportion will you mitigate 'those ills which flesh is heir to.'" 77 "Before I leave this part of the subject, I will just mention that light, which plays an important part with regard to animal and vegetable life—for plants, we know, die or lose their colour in the dark, and tadpoles remain tadpoles all their lives, without changing into frogs—has also an effect, though not as marked a one, on mankind. Dr. Wylie says that there is a difference of three to one between the sickness among the soldiers on the light and dark sides of the barracks of St. Petersburg; and Mr. Toynbee, Dupuytren, Dr. Edwardes, Mr. Ward, and Dr. Arnott, distinctly assert that living in darkness acts very disadvantageously on health, especially in the case of children. I could multiply medical evidence and statistical proof about the cause predisposing to disease, and favouring its extension, if not generating it, to an indefinite extent. The reports of the Health of Towns Commissioners, the works of the able and benevolent Mr. Chadwick, those of Mr. Combe, Mr. Quetelet, Professor Alison, and the  Journal of the Statistical Society "I will mention one plan which I have adopted myself in building cottages on the estate which I
 78 "the practice of ventilation at all seasons of the year, by opening the doors and windows the first thing in the morning, and thoroughly airing the bedclothes for a short time before retiring to rest—the introduction into the windows of a perforated zinc plate, or other cheap and effectual means of admitting fresh air, without occasioning too much draft—and leaving the chimney open." l s d "At an interview with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in May, 1844, relative to a modification of the window duties, it was intimated to the
 79 —"must let in a portion of light, and if so, will such apertures he chargeable to the window duties; and whether, therefore, lights of whatever construction, glazed or not glazed, placed in privies or water-closets, are free of window duties; and whether apertures, such as lancet light, to ventilate cellars, larders, &c., if protected by perforators, but not glazed, are permitted, without being chargeable to the window duties? " "That windows or lights are not exempt if the privies or water-closets form part of or communicate with the dwelling-house; secondly, respecting apertures giving light to cellars or larders, &c., they are exempt from duty. The secretary stated he was directed to say that the board declined giving any definite answer to so general a statement; but the Commissioners beg to observe the exemption much depends on the merits of each case." 80 "That there was one measure so intimately connected with sanitary improvement that no sanitary measure could be tolerably complete without it, but which formed no part of the measure of the Earl of Lincoln, inasmuch as it omitted any modification in the mode of assessment of window duties, although a principle of assessment had been pointed out by the adoption of which the revenue would lose nothing, while great facilities would be afforded for the better construction of dwelling-houses, and for the freer admission to them of light and air." "The window duties are a tax upon light and air—a tax more vicious in principle and more injurious in practical consequences than a tax upon food." "step in between God and the people, and, by laying a tax upon the light of Heaven and the breath of life, to render them absolutely unattainable by large classes of the population." "In proportion, then, as the window duties exclude light from human dwellings, they tend to deteriorate the population; they interpose a positive and definite obstacle to the full development of the physical constitution, and consequently of the physical strength and vigour of the people." 81 l s s d l s d l s d l 82 "I have to report that there are houses and localities within the City which are irremediably had—places which the uninterrupted presence of epidemic disease has stamped as absolutely unfit for human habitation: places where drainage and water-supply, indeed, are defective, but where the perfection of these necessaries might exist, in all probability, without giving healthiness to the inhabitants. The prominent evil in the localities referred to is their thorough impossibility of ventilation." "The inhabitants of open streets can hardly conceive the complicated turnings, the narrow inlets, the close parallels of houses, and the high barriers of light and air, which are the common characteristics of our courts and alleys, and which give an additional noxiousness even to their cesspools and their filth. There are very few who, without personal verification, would credit an account that might be given of the worst of such dwelling places." "And in most of these localities, in addition to other sanitary errors, there predominates that particular one to which I am now inviting your attention—the absence, namely, of sufficient ventilation." "As a palliative measure, applicable in many of the least aggravated instances, I may suggest the removal of unnecessary walls which intercept the current of air from place to place; the formation of counter-openings in various blind courts; and, not least, in regard of many houses thus situated, the admission of light and air by additional windows. I cannot pass this portion of the subject without recording my opinion that the operation of the window tax is in direct opposition to the sanitary interests of the people; and I must venture to express my hope that some different method of assessment may presently be adopted, in place of one which presses on the occupier in proportion to the healthiness of his tenement." 83 "We cannot pass this subject, however, without recording our opinion that the operation of the window tax is directly opposed to the sanitary interests of the population of the City, and that its continuance must in a great degree neutralise the effect of those exertions which your honourable court is making for the purposes of sanitary improvement. We find that it affords inducements to the construction of houses with defective supply of light and air, that it opposes great obstacles to the improvement of such houses as have already been constructed on a faulty principle, and that these circumstances tend to aggravate the frequency and malignity of epidemic diseases, and to increase the mortality of the population." "We beg most respectfully to call the attention of your honourable court to the following extract from a letter sent by the medical officers of the West London union to their hoard of guardians, November 10, 1848, which letter was afterwards adopted by the whole of us:—'As respects ventilation and light, this curious inquiry cannot come under our hands, but we may be permitted to remark on the strange anomaly that Government should appoint boards of health, and deprive by taxation this first necessary and natural element to its production.' In alluding to the above paragraph, we beg most earnestly to assure your honourable court that in the exercise of our official duties we find daily cause to lament its truth. We can only regard this as a sanitary question, and we believe that we need not occupy much of the valuable time and attention of the court in demonstrating the baneful effects of this tax on the Almighty's first gift for the benefit of his creatures. We find in ancient houses where windows were, and when our ancestors deemed light and ventilation necessary to health, and even existence, bricks supply the place, both to rich and poor; we see also that in the more modern house the proprietor builds with the view to avoid the window tax. In a sanitary point of view, what is, what must be, the result, more especially to the objects of our official duties, in the production of fever, of dysentery, and of diarrhœa, and during
 84 85 l "When saving measures were professed, A lamb's head was the wolf's request; The fox submitted, if to touch A gosling would be deemed too much?" l l 86 "To accomplish with perfect security and efficiency those objects of safe custody, legal appropriation, and record, it is obviously necessary that all public money whatever, should, in the first instance, be paid into the Exchequer. But it appeal's from the accounts laid before Parliament that the whole amount of public income is not so paid, but that the amounts derived from divers sources of revenue are received and disbursed without the intervention of this institution, or being in any way submitted to its control. It is also certain that considerable sums arising from taxes and other matters are deducted from the gross receipts, and retained and expended by several departments, which only account to the Exchequer for the net amount after such deductions. We think this practice ought to be discontinued, and we recommend the gross receipt of the Crown property under Woods and Forests and other offices should be placed, without deduction, in the Exchequer, and be accounted for to Parliament, whose authority should be necessary for the appropriation of the whole. We feel this principle to be one of paramount importance, a principle which we believe to be a necessary preliminary to all satisfactory financial reform." "This House cannot be the effectual guardian of the revenues of the State, unless the whole amount of the taxes, and of various other sources of income received for the public account, be either paid in or accounted for to the Exchequer. That no department of revenue ought to be allowed to stop any portion of its gross receipts in their progress to the Exchequer without the previous authority of Parliament. That no department of expenditure should be permitted to appropriate to the public service any other sums than those sanctioned by previous votes of Parliament, and that all receipts from sales of stores, or other sources, should be paid into the Exchequer. That whereas the expenditure of many departments escape Parliamentary control, either wholly or in part, in
 87 l
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN , in reply, expressed his regret at the silence of the numerous advocates of sanitary reform, now this question, upon which so much depended in regard to the health of the people, was under discussion. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, when he said
 99
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to provide more simple and effectual securities for advances to purchasers of incumbered estates in Ireland. In consequence of what had occurred when he moved for leave to introduce this Bill on a former occasion, it would be necessary for him, as concisely as possible, to explain the object of the Government in proposing it. That object had been completely misunderstood by the hon. and gallant Member for Portarlington, when he said that it was to benefit English capitalists. It was, on the contrary, to benefit Irish landed proprietors solely; and if others were benefited, it would be only by means of the benefits conferred on those individuals. The operations under the Incumbered Estates Bill had been so expensive
 101 102 103 104 105 106 107
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  begged to say a few words in explanation. With respect to what he had said regarding English purchasers, he certainly did not speak the opinions of the Government. He spoke his own individual opinion only, and no one but himself was responsible for them. But he certainly thought, from personal observation, that purchasers of landed property generally wished to live upon and enjoy personally the benefit of their property, and for that reason he thought that English proprietors would
 116 117
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  would acquit the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down of any unreasonable opposition to this Bill; but it should be remembered, that it had been estimated that the aggregate amount of the charities under 30 l l 126 l 127 128 l 129
 LORD D. STUART  said, that as this question deeply interested that portion of the metropolis which he represented, and as he had presented petitions against the tax signed by 5,000 ratepayers, he was anxious to say a few words before the House went to a division. He believed that there was no tax looked upon with more disfavour by the people of this country than the window tax. It had lasted some years, and its collection had always been attended with clamour and discontent. He thought that his noble Friend who had brought forward this question again and again had done himself infinite honour, and had endeared himself to the people of this country; and, on the other hand, he believed that the Government, in resisting it, would earn their lasting resentment. The last time his noble Friend brought forward the subject was when the noble Lord at the head of the Government introduced his financial statement. The noble Lord entreated the House to accept his budget on account of the then existing distress, promising that if they agreed to raise the income tax to five per cent, distress would be relieved, and in two years or so prosperity would return. It appeared that the noble Lord was perfectly right in his prophecy, for now, at the end of two years there was a considerable surplus, and they wanted to know what taxes were to be removed. The House did not answer to the noble Lord's appeal, they did not vote the budget, but still none of the calamities occurred which the noble Lord had prophesied. The interest on the national debt continued to be paid, and although no increase had been permitted to the income tax, prosperity had returned, and the country now had a surplus. The House was determined not to permit any increase in the income tax, and the result showed that when the House was determined on any point, the Minister contrived to get on without those taxes which he
 93 l
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  said, that as the House was desirous of going at once to a division, he should detain them only with one or two remarks. He could not, however, go to a vote without expressing his determination to support his noble Friend the Member for Bath whenever he brought this proposition for the repeal of the window duty forward. He must say, after the pretensions of sanitary reform under which his right hon. Friends below him came into office, and their appointing a commission in furtherance of that object, which had strongly recommended the abrogation of this tax, as being absolutely necessary to any effective system of sanitary improvement, their present refusal to mitigate or moderate it in any way, must result in a great loss of character to them. He had received communications from several supporters of the Government, expressing their surprise that, after their professions in favour of sanitary improvement, they should still insist on continuing the tax upon light and air without any alteration or mitigation.
 MR. STAFFORD  regretted one obsersation which fell from the hon. and learned Solicitor General, that the Government had given up all hope of witnessing the investment of English capital in Irish property; but that though English capitalists would not buy land for themselves, they might be disposed to lend money to those who did. He must say that if that impression went forth as the opinion of the Government, it would increase the difficulty of obtaining capital for investment in Ireland. He wished to remind the hon. and
 114 115
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he was well aware how useless it was for so small a man as he was in that House to object to the vote of salaries to which he had objected on the preceding night, but he had felt it to be his duty to do as he had done. No one had a better right than he to uphold the salaries set aside for both the services. Those who had gone before him had been in the Army. He had lost a most amiable brother in the Navy—one who was a not undistinguished officer, for he had been honourably mentioned by the gallant admiral under whom he had served. And he had two sons at present in the Army, one of whom had served his country in the recent affair at Moultan. Therefore he discharged a painful duty last night when he proposed the reduction that he did. He did not know personally the individuals who filled those most important situations, the Lords of the Admiralty, except his old Friend the First Lord of the Admiralty and Admiral Dundas, and he had no motive but a sense of duty, to carry out that which was much professed at the present day on that side of the House and more professed on the other—the economical system. He took the sense of the House, and he had flattered himself that he should have been supported by a vast number of hon. Members on that side of
 118
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, his noble Friend, as he was always accustomed to do, had made a very able speech in favour of the window taxes being repealed, but he had not advanced any new arguments in favour of the proposition. He would not follow his noble I Friend into the other topics to which he had referred, for, in discussing the question of repealing the window tax, it certainly would not advance the discussion to refer to the management of the Woods and Forests, or to take into consideration the circumstances which interfered with the general revenue in its passage into the Exchequer. His noble Friend had said, that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had stated two or three years ago that economy in the public service could be carried no further, and yet that since that period considerable reductions had been effected. This statement was founded upon a misapprehension. What he had said on the occasion referred to was, that great reductions could not be effected immediately, and that in order to be executed with due regard to the wants of the service, and to real economy, they must be gradual. He was very far from having alleged that no further reductions could be made; but he repeated that, having due regard to the interests of the country, they must be made gradually. He would, however, say no more upon these extraneous topics. One of the main objections taken to the window tax by his noble Friend appeared to be founded upon the exemptions that were allowed; and he seemed to suppose that the exemptions were actually an aggravation of the burden, because the parties upon whom it pressed unequally had been relieved. But who, he would ask, were the parties relieved? Why, those who carried on the operations of agriculture, manufacture, and trade. Farmhouses, factories, and shops were exempt. It followed, then, that the exemptions were in favour of those who carried on the pursuits of productive industry. His noble Friend, however, complaining of exemptions altogether, had made one proposition which would have the effect of carrying the exemption still further. At present all houses with fewer
 90 l l l l 91 92 l
 MR. F. FRENCH  said, the hon. Baronet the Member for Clare had stated that it was difficult to give credence to the statement of the hon. and gallant Member
 111 l l l l
 COLONEL DUNNE  considered that the measure was one which would materially affect the currency in Ireland—it was one of great importance, and he would maintain that he had been fully justified upon a former occasion in calling the attention of the House to it. Such a measure ought not to have been introduced in any but a full House. At the time when he objected to it, there were only four Irish Members present, and not above twenty English; and he would now put it to the House whether it was not perfectly fair in him to have taken exception to such a Bill, brought in under such circumstances. At that time the public attention was not directed to it, and he must say that the tone and manner of the hon. and learned Solicitor General was now very different from that which he assumed when the subject was previously before the House. There was a history attached to the measure that he did not think was sufficiently known to the House. A measure of a somewhat similar character, and suggested by the success of a plan introduced in Prussia, had formerly been proposed by himself, and other Gentlemen deeply interested in the prosperity of Ireland, with a view of enabling advances to be made to Irish proprietors anxious to improve their properties, but it met with no support from Her Majesty's Government; and he was told that, if adopted, Irish estates would not be sold; and tonight he had heard, for the first time in an official quarter, a declaration from the hon. and learned Gentleman of good feeling towards the Irish proprietors. This alone was sufficient to have made him entertain doubts as to the spirit in which the Bill was conceived. He did not think the hon. and learned Member would find in the Irish newspapers an approbation of the scheme which he proposed, although they all advocated the principle put forward by himself, Mr. Frewen, and other Irish proprietors. At present, no man could borrow money in Ireland unless his estate were whitewashed by the Incumbered Estates Act, and yet they were daily called upon to apply more money to the improvement of their estates. He had always been opposed to the Incumbered Estates Act, to which this was a supplementary measure, and he considered it had failed in the objects it had proposed to accomplish. It had glutted the market with landed property, and a recent case
 108 l l l l l l l l l 109
 MR. TURNER  complained that the Bill had been generally put into the paper at an unreasonable time. In objecting to its being proceeded with after midnight, he had been actuated solely by a sense of the importance of the measure. It affected mainly the interests of the poorer classes, and threw a great responsibility on the House in selecting a tribunal for the proper administration of these charities. He regretted that such administration had often been tainted with political feeling. He was most desirous of hearing the suggestions of Gentlemen conversant with the working of charities in their respective neighbourhoods. The Bill dealt with all small charities under 100 l 122 l l l ex officio 123 pro formâ l l l 124 l l 125 l
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, it was, of course, exceedingly natural for hon. and learned Gentlemen belonging to the Chancery bar to feel great reverence for the court in which they practised; but the country did not like that court; and the great advantage of this Bill was, that it sheared that court of a considerable portion of its practice, and vested it in a body in which the public felt more confidence. He had received, from districts in which small charities were administered, communications in favour of the passing of a Bill which would relieve parties from the caprice and delay of the Court of Chancery. Bad as was the practice of the Court itself, that of the Master's Office was worse—even the place and the manner of administering justice were anything but calculated to inspire the public with confidence. He believed there was no greater evil than appeals, and that there was nothing which was viewed with greater impatience by the country than the delay and expense occasioned by this system of appeal. He could not agree with those eminent and learned men who had already spoken. He thought the change was a great advantage, and he thanked the hon. and learned Solicitor General for having carried out this work.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, there were several points in the Bill which deserved serious consideration, and he thought he could not do better than state the objections he entertained to it now on the second reading, in the hope that they would be duly considered by the Government before it went into Committee. It was extremely important that the object professed by the Bill should be achieved—the better and more economical administration of charitable funds. Every one knew that those at present invested with the management of these funds found great difficulty in providing fresh trustees without incurring great expense, and, in some instances, of giving due effect to the wishes and intentions of the donors. But this Bill would not effect what its title professed to have in view. It applied only to a particular class of charities, those under 100 l 119 l l l l l l l 120 121 l
 MR. SADLEIR  thought that power should be given to the Bank of Ireland, and to insurance companies in this country, to make advances on the certificates proposed in the Bill. He had always anticipated that great sacrifices would be experienced in the sale of incumbered estates under the recent Act. That Act was introduced for great and beneficial objects, but not for purposes of forfeiture, as was stated by his hon. Friend opposite. It was for the public good that estates heavily incumbered should be sold. As a means of benefiting both proprietors and tenantry, he had always advocated a diminution of the area of taxation; and, for the same reason, he held it necessary that excessive bankrupt properties should be brought to the hammer as speedily as possible. This might be injurious to individuals, but it was clearly for the benefit of the country at large. The great body of the proprietors in Ireland were unincumbered, and, as compared with those who were excessively incumbered, a great many more were only partly so. He was happy to hear the hon. and learned Solicitor General speak highly of the Bill, because he thought it would introduce a more simple mode of obtaining money on the security of Ireland, as he (Mr. Sadleir) looked upon a simplification of the means of borrowing money on land as a matter of the very highest consequence.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, he had no connexion with the Bill; but he thought no bargain could be fair that was founded on gross injustice.
 MR. HUME  thought a Committee upstairs the most fitting tribunal to investigate the matter.
 MR. HUME  rose amid impatient calls for a division. He hoped hon. Gentlemen who were so anxious for a division would have a little patience. It appeared to him that some explanation was necessary to put the question on a proper footing before hon. Gentlemen proceeded to vote upon it. The question was, whether, supposing the House determined on maintaining the present amount of expenditure, which he was not, this tax ought not to be abolished nevertheless, and a substitute found from some other source? He, however, was one of those who considered the tax might be removed, and the amount met by economy in the public expenditure. Ten years ago the income of the country was 51,000,000 l l l l 97 l l 98 l l
 MR. NAPIER  did not think they ought to refuse the hon. and learned Solicitor General permission to introduce this Bill, because the present circumstances of the country were peculiar; and he thought it was for the public interest that they should keep up the price of land. The present result he had anticipated, when the late Bill was before them, and pressed upon the attention of the House that its effect would be to force a great quantity of land upon the market. He could not agree with the hon. and learned Solicitor General that that was any proof of the beneficial working of the measure, because he remembered that a clause was introduced into the last Bill giving costs to every petitioner, and that he feared had operated as an inducement to collusive practices. It was said, that the late measure was an imperfect one. Be it so. But that was the greater reason for trying some experiment—and he admitted that this was an experiment—for improving its operation; and having talked over the question with many persons in Ireland, he found that differences of opinion existed with respect to it, and he thought, therefore, that the safer course was to allow the measure to be introduced. Another reason was, that as matters now stood there was a strong inducement to proprietors to exhaust the land; for as they had no prospect in the present state of prices of ever getting a farthing of the surplus from the sale of their estates, it would be found that between the notice and the sale the land was greatly exhausted. He thought, therefore, it was of great importance that the House should endeavour to prop up and get a crutch made for that which they had themselves made lame, till confidence was restored throughout the country. And he confessed he thought that, along with the introduction of other measures, confidence would be restored. Allusion had been made to one estate having been sold at a year and a half's purchase; but he believed that estate had not been sufficiently advertised, and he knew that parties would have given a good deal more for the estate if they had been aware it was for sale. But let them look to the north of Ireland, where there was so much agitation on the subject of tenant-right. He knew a case where the brother of a Presbyterian clergyman, one of the great agitators on the subject of tenant-right, had purchased the tenant-right of a farm at nine and a half years' purchase. The property was in an electoral division for-
 113
 MR. SPOONER  opposed the Bill, and cautioned the House how it interfered in a matter that should be made subject of investigation in a court of equity. He was not going to enter into the details of the measure, but his attention being called to it, he found it his duty to oppose the further progress of the Bill; and he therefore begged to move that it be read a second time that day six months.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, it struck him that the main difficulty in the way of this and many other reforms which might be suggested in the administration of justice, arose not by any means from that part of the subject which occasioned the principal necessity for legislation. There was an important practical distinclion between the administrative and contentious jurisdiction of the court in this class of subjects; and the great practical necessity for legislation, he would venture to say, had reference not so much to cases of supposed or actual breach of trust in small charities as to the very numerous instances of their administrative wants, which, in the present very imperfect state of the law, could not be supplied without the Court of Chancery. Take, for example, the appointment of new trustees—the most simple, and often the most necessary, thing in the world. One would suppose that there would be an equally simple, straightforward, and obvious way of doing it; but no, the only mode was by the costly machinery of a petition to the Court of Chancery, reference to the Master, a return to the Court to be confirmed, and, possibly, further questions arising out of the subject. Again, the taking and publication of accounts was an important matter; so, also, was the power of re-leasing when the estates of a charity required to be let; and the case where the funds of a small charity had so increased that it would be possible to extend the basis of the foundation consistently with the wishes of the founder. All these were administrative objects, and it was for the sake of those objects that the intervention of the Legislature was necessary. All that, however, might be supplied by the present Bill without entangling themselves in any of the difficulties which arose immediately they attempted to apply the same mode of summary jurisdiction in those difficult contentious cases which would arise in small charities as well as great. It was, he thought, worthy of consideration whether it would not be better, in the first instance, to pass a Bill which should provide a cheap, simple, and effectual mode of supplying the ordinary administrative wants of charities, whilst they reserved the consideration of that contentious part of the
 130 131 l l l l
 MR. ANSTEY  thought the House already over-wrought with questions of the kind; and they, therefore, should be careful of assuming a power that did not belong to them. A court of law was the proper tribunal before which to bring the matter; and he would, therefore, vote against the second reading of the Bill.
 SIR B. HALL  did not mean to detain the House long from the division for which Gentlemen opposite were so impatient, but he wished to make a few observations on the question before the House; and he would submit it to hon. Gentlemen opposite, whether the constituencies of the great towns, who were deeply interested in this question, would think it respectful to them that a division should be so impatiently called for when their interests were under discussion. With respect to the question before the House, one of the papers had that morning pointedly described the position of an individual Member who had to propose the remission of a tax in that House. If he brought it forward early in the Session, he was told to wait for the financial statement; and if he waited until that statement had been made, he was flatly told that the subject was not included, and, therefore, could not he considered. That was precisely the case with his noble Friend; but, although not likely to succeed on the present occasion, he trusted his noble Friend would take an early opportunity to bring it forward again. Allusion had been made to the Sanitary Commissioners, and their opinions as to the best means of promoting the health of the metropolis and other large towns; but it was perfectly idle to suppose that any essential benefits could be derived from the appointment of such commissions until all such taxes as the present were abolished. His noble Friend the Member for Bath had said, that it was hard upon the inhabitants of Great Britain that they should be subjected to this tax, from which the people of Ireland were exempt; and the Chancellor of the Exchequer had referred to the condition of the houses in Ireland, as showing that the absence of the window tax did not neces-
 96
 SIR DE L. EVANS  seconded the Motion, and was glad to think that the statement of the noble Lord the Member for Bath had been so comprehensive, so able, and so unanswerable. The noble Lord had pointed out a remarkable circumstance as to this tax, that there had scarcely been any augmentation of the revenue—that several exemptions had been made, but that these exemptions did not by any means increase the revenue. There was no means of solving the circumstance except by the fact that hundreds and thousands of houses had been deprived of a portion of light which they would otherwise have enjoyed, and many houses were subsequently built entirely with a view to evade this tax. It was clear that these houses had been limited and restricted in the light they enjoyed in consequence of this tax. Whenever the allowance for these sanitary Commissioners came before the House, he should vote against it. He would not attempt to restrict the amount of taxation to maintain the credit and establishments of the country. He was willing to agree that a substitute should be found, particularly that which had often been mentioned—the probate duty upon real property. Why not put the probate duty upon real property? There would be two objects accomplished in doing so. It would render the duty upon property more equal and more just. There were three distinct objections to the present tax—its inequality, its partiality, and its detriment to the public health. Its inequality—and, he might add, its partiality—was marked: because all farmers throughout the country paying rent under 200 l 89
 SIR G. PECHELL  mentioned, that in 1835 the then Chancellor of the Exchequer had promised his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Westminster, if he would withdraw a Motion which he then brought forward upon the window duties, the subject should be taken into consideration. It was high time the subject was taken into consideration, for a more oppressive burden could not be found in the whole catalogue of taxation. He complained that under the provisions of the law, the power of surcharging was a monstrous evil; whilst, according to returns produced in 1846, a considerable number of persons were imprisoned for non-payment of assessed taxes, of which the window duties formed a considerable proportion. Another evil arose from the requirement that no person should be allowed the privilege of a vote in the election of Members for that House who had not paid assessed taxes. This provision, according to the same return, actually disfranchised no less than 694 persons in the parishes of St. George's, Hanover-square, and St. Martin's-in-the-Fields. In whatever light the window duties were viewed, they were an enormous injustice. No Chancellor of the Exchequer had yet been found bold enough to tell the House what a window was; nor was it possible, for the surveyors and the Judges themselves had given very different decisions upon this very nice question. Under such circumstances no person could tell whether he was safe or not. If he made a hole in the wall, he might, or he might not, be liable to duty. Many persons had relied upon Lord Althorp's Act for protection in this respect; but there was not a single person that had opened a window under this Act who had not been surcharged, He contended that the repeal of the duty would have some effect upon the argument for a reduction in the amount of judicial salaries, inasmuch as the amount of judicial labour would, to some extent, he lessened. Twice a year the Judges held courts, at chambers, to decide appeals upon questions relative to assessed taxes. Take away this labour, and of course they would be less worked. Hon. Gentlemen upon the protectionist benches should look at the evils produced by the assessed taxes. In one case which came before the Judges, a party was charged with window duty who rented a farm under 200 l 95 l
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, he did not think the hon. and gallant Member had made out his case for a reduction of the Lords of the Admiralty. He considered that reduction might be more easily made by exercising a vigilant superintendence over the expenditure of the dockyards.
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  could bear testimony to the high respectability of Mr. Drew, from whom a petition had been presented in the early part of the evening, complaining that his estate, which was worth 2,000 l l 110
 SIR G. GREY  said, that he had before admitted that a great desire existed in the country for an extension of the jurisdiction of the county courts; but he wished to state to the House the grounds on which he thought that they ought to be at least cautious in adopting the Bill of the hon. Gentleman opposite, and in doing so he should wish to call to the recollection of the House the former proceedings which were taken in reference to the Small Debts Act. That Act was not hastily passed, and the limitation of jurisdiction was one which was approved of by the Select Committees in both Houses of Parliament to which he believed the Bill was referred at the time when the measure was first brought forward. A Bill similar in its provisions was proposed to Parliament by the Government of Lord Melbourne, in 1841, and subsequently by the Government of which the right hon. Member for Tamworth and Lord Lyndhurst were Members, with the same limitation as to jurisdiction. The Government by which the Administration of the right hon. Baronet was succeeded, saw no occasion to depart from the conclusions at which the Governments of Lord Melbourne and the right hon. Member for Tamworth had arrived; and with the general consent of both Houses of Parliament there was enacted a law giving jurisdiction to the county courts over small debts, but containing a limitation of the jurisdiction to debts under 20 l l 133 l l l l l l l l l l l 134 l l l l l l s d 135
 MR. LAW  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. J. EVANS  said, it was notorious under the old system, that debts under 20 l l l l in terrorem l 136 l
 MR. S. MARTIN  felt this to be another step to do away with trial by jury in civil cases. As had been before stated, if the argument was good in this case, it was equally so for stretching the jurisdiction of the courts to debts of 1,000 l l l l l l l 137 l l nisi prius nisi prius l 138
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  thought if any arguments of great weight had been used to convince the House of the necessity of acceding to the second reading of this Bill, they were those which had been adduced by the hon. and learned Gentleman who spoke last; for in the latter part of his speech he went into details which were new, at any rate to him (Mr. Christopher), if not to the House, as to the abuses which existed in the administration of the law in the superior courts. This Bill went to a considerable extent to remedy this state of things, and it was a measure called for from one end of the country to the other, with the exception of certain gentlemen of the legal profession in Westminster Hall; it was, therefore, the duty of the House to sanction its second reading. His right hon. Friend the Home Secretary had stated some grave objections to certain clauses in the Bill, such as the proposed increase in the salaries of the judges of the courts. In that objection he entirely concurred. He wished to call the attention of the House to the state of things which existed in Scotland. In each county in that kingdom there was a judicial officer, who had more extensive power than they gave to a judge of a county court in England, but who only received half his salary. He alluded to the sheriff-depute of the county. That judge was allowed to take cognisance of debts—not of 20 l l l l l 139 l l l
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, he wished to insert a piece of evidence for  quoad valeat l
 MR. CLAY  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department had repeated the question which he had put before, where was the House to stop as regarded the amount? Let the jurisdiction of the county courts be increased to that amount within which it was notorious that no sane man would go into Westminster Hall. The expense of proceedings in the county courts could never approach that of the superior courts. The country was beginning to open its eyes to a great deal of the absurdity of special pleading. The last ten volumes of reports were full of cases, the decisions in which turned on nothing but points of practice, without reference to the great principles of jurisprudence. The question of salaries was not material to the merits of the Bill; it might safely be left to the Committee. He believed that if the Bill passed, its working would be found so advantageous that some of them would live to see many causes of that class in which the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Pontefract was interested, no longer tried in the superior courts. He would be glad to see such reforms proposed by members of the legal profession; but as they would not originate them, others must come
 140
 MR. E. B. DENISON  said, it behoved the House to be cautious in their proceedings with respect not only to this but to other Bills now before them relating to the administration of the law. The House seemed disposed to make rather a rapid progress in this sort of legislation, both with respect to property and with respect to crime. There was a Bill before them giving magistrates an extensive summary jurisdiction over juvenile offenders, by which it was proposed to raise the summary jurisdiction over accused persons from the age of 14 to the age of 16. His own experience had shown him, that many crimes were committed by persons about fifteen years of age, which rendered this proposition a matter for serious deliberation. There was also another Bill, originally part of the same measure, but it was divided into two, by which even adults in cases where the value of the property was less than a shilling, were to be subjected to the same summary jurisdiction. There appeared then a disposition in the House to increase the jurisdiction of the magistrates beyond what it now was, and without resorting to trial by jury. Now, it was proposed to extend the jurisdiction of the county courts—not, he admitted, without trial by jury—but to increase it from 20 l l 141
 MR. MITCHELL  said, no commercial man would recommend a client to go into the courts to recover 100 l
 MR. HENLEY  said, he should vote with the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary against the second reading, on the ground that if the Bill passed it would effectually destroy the existing county courts, which were working very well. He conceived it impossible if they were to overlay the judges of those courts with larger sums and business and interests of a more extensive character, and with cases to be conducted by counsel, that they could pay the proper attention to smaller cases, and he believed that decisions as to smaller sums would be hurried over. He doubted, therefore, whether that system which worked well now, would continue to work satisfactorily to the class of persons who now approved of and benefited by it. The arguments in favour of the Bill might be good as applied to the superior courts, but they were not arguments for taking the business from them and giving them to other courts; for how could the enormous expense of keeping up our courts of law be justified, if now by legislation it was to be decided that they were unfit to do the business of the country? The hon. Member for Bridport was mistaken, if he supposed that those complicated commercial
 142
 MR. COCKBURN  would cordially support the second reading of the measure. He agreed with what had been said of the caution that should be observed in dealing with these matters; but he thought when they had gathered that throughout the whole country there Was But one unanimous opinion as to the excellence of these courts, the Souse would not be wanting in caution if they enlarged their jurisdiction. He could not see any great difference in dealing with the sum of 20 l l 143 144 145
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, notwithstanding the imputation which had been cast out, that members of the legal profession were biassed by selfish interest in their views respecting this measure, he should not shrink from openly and candidly stating his opinion of its merits, being, as he was, utterly indifferent to any such imputations. He felt so perfectly satisfied that, if this Bill were to pass, it would violate the rights of the subject, that he should be regardless of his public duty if he were not to offer it his decided opposition. If the House thought it consistent with their duty to pass this measure, upon them let the responsibility rest; but being convinced that if the Bill passed there would be a general outcry against the administration of the law, he warned them that they would, most probably, have to retrace their steps. He wished to observe, with respect to the suggestions his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Pontefract had offered to himself and the Members of the Government, for the reformation of the methods of proceeding in use in the superior courts, that the subject had not escaped the attentive consideration of the Government. Every one familiar with the practice of those courts must feel that it was deserving of consideration. The arguments of the hon. and learned Member for Haverfordwest were directed, not to the immediate question raised by the Bill, but rather to the general system of legal procedure
 146 l l l l l l l l l l 147 "I supply you with a short form of petition; but as every semblance of collusion should be avoided, and as that is best secured by each petition being prepared in the locality whence it emanates, it is advisable not to adopt the exact terms of that sentence. There are loud complaints in many districts against the fees now exacted, and hopes have been held out by the Government that the schedule will be revised, a percentage to be levied instead, and the of officers to be paid by salary; but the result of calculations made by the Treasury shows that this could not be effected without increasing the jurisdiction." "That the officers' fees are at present unequally levied in various districts; your petitioners, therefore, pray that business fees be repealed, and a poundage charged instead thereof. Your petitioners think that all public officers should be paid by salary, and especially those connected with courts of justice, in order that they may be maintained without reproach. Your petitioners see no reason why a regard for the privileges of the bar should be an obstacle to the increase of the jurisdiction of these courts; when the individual interests of all other classes have been required to be abandoned for the public good, the immunities of the advocate can have no peculiar claim to an exception." l l l l l l 148 l l l l 149
 MR. AGLIONBY  supported the Bill. The speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down was characterised more by declamation than by argument, and for himself he concurred, with one single exception, in the arguments employed by the hon. and learned Member for Southampton, in the able speech which he had addressed to the House. Without hesitation, he (Mr. Aglionby), asserted
 150
 MR. MULLINGS  gave his cordial support to the second reading. He could not understand the course pursued by the Government on this occasion, when, on the previous evening, they had brought in a Charitable Trusts Bill, which placed under the jurisdiction of those very county court judges charities to the amount of 30,000 l l l l
 MR. HUME  said, that the hon. and learned Attorney General had not given a very clear answer to the question which had been put to him by the hon. Member for Bridport, whether he would advise a client to go into the superior courts for a debt under 100 l 151
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL , in reply to the first question of the hon. Member, said that it would depend upon the nature of the demand, and the particular circumstances of the case, whether he would advise a client to go into any of the superior courts for a debt under 100 l
 MR. FITZROY  replied. He considered it was unworthy of the high position of the hon. and learned Attorney General, as the representative of the law of this country, to undervalue, as he had done, the expression of public feeling in favour of this measure. There was no evidence whatever that any of the petitions which had been presented to the House had been got up by the party to whom the hon. and learned Gentlemen had referred. He would ask whether the petitions which had been presented from Greenwich and the Tower Hamlets in support of the Bill could possibly have received so many signatures as they exhibited if there had been no stronger feeling in its favour than what could have been created by a clerk of a county court? The argument of the hon. and learned Attorney General appeared to be directed solely against the courts as they now existed; and if the hon. and learned Gentleman really felt so strongly against these courts as he professed to do, why did he not bring in a Bill to repeal their jurisdiction as it now stood? With respect to the right of appeal which the Bill contained, he begged to say, that when he introduced the measure last year, he was told by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department that it would be an excellent one if it was accompanied by the right of appeal. [Sir G. GREY: Quite the contrary.] He (Mr. Fitzroy) certainly so understood the right hon. Gentleman, and so had the gentlemen who took down their proceedings; for he was so reported in all
 152
 MR. HUME  asked whether, after the demonstration of the feeling of the House which had just been made, the Government would persevere in opposing so salutary a measure?
 SIR G. GREY  said, he should feel it to be his duty to object to any increase of the salaries of the judges; but he could not undertake to say whether any further opposition would be given to the measure by the Government.
 MR. EWART  said, that with a view to obviate the objections made by several hon. Members on the second reading of the Bill, he proposed to make two important alterations in it. The first was, to limit the operation of the Bill to boroughs whose population exceeded 10,000; and the second was, to make it necessary for the town council of any borough, before determining to carry this Act into effect, to call a public meeting of ratepayers and to obtain the distinct consent of those present. He begged to state also, that in Warrington, Liverpool, and other places, a movement had already commenced in anticipation of the passing of this Bill, to form public libraries freely accessible to all the inhabitants.
 MR. SPOONER  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  granted that it was most desirable that the means of information should be supplied to the people; but he believed that whenever that want was strongly felt it would be met in a mode far less objectionable than the one proposed by the present Bill. He was quite certain that those who considered the present period as one in which they were justified in taxing the public for objects not of immediate necessity, bad totally miscalculated the feeling both of counties and boroughs. He defied any one to deny that the pressure upon the
 155
 MR. STANFORD  said, that the hon. Member for Dumfries, while he proposed by the Amendment of which he had given notice that the town council should obtain the consent of two-thirds of the ratepayers present at the public meeting called by them before carrying the Act into effect, did not provide that any particular number or proportion of the whole ratepayers should be present at such a meeting. He (Mr. Stanford) thought, too, that three days was too short a notice of such a meeting. There should be at least ten days' notice. He cordially concurred in the object of the Bill, but it ought to be carried out in a fair and honest spirit. There was another objection he had to state. The fifth clause provided that admission to such libraries and museums should be free of all charge; but it did not follow that admission would be perfectly free, since town councils might impose recommendation as a preliminary. He considered that means should be taken to secure adequate publicity for any meeting to carry out the measure, and further that in all cases the rector or vicar of the district should be  ex officio
 MR. HUME  begged to remind the House that this was a permissive, not a compulsory measure.
 MR. LAW  objected to the Bill, as one which enabled the richer and more influential inhabitants of a community to tax the poorer inhabitants for their own special purposes. Nothing could be more tyrannical than to place in a municipal body the control over a library purchased without the consent, and perhaps against the will, of one-third of the inhabitants of the district, and not practically accessible even to the considerable proportion of those who paid for it. Another most objectionable feature of the Bill was, that it empowered a town council to mortgage, for the purpose of building a library, not only the separate rate authorised by the Act, but the borough rates generally.
 MR. BERNAL  said, that on a former occasion he had opposed the Bill, on the principle that it was unjust to tax the population of a district without their consent; but the Amendment now proposed to be inserted by his hon. Friend the Member for Dumfries removed this objection, by
 156
 MR. BROTHERTON  considered taxation most beneficial that tended to raise the character of the people; and, after all, the tax which this Bill permitted—for it was a permissive measure merely—was only one halfpenny in the pound. It was most incorrect to describe this as a Bill to enable the richer inhabitants of a borough to collect libraries for their own use at the expense of the poorer inhabitants. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge grounded his opposition to the Bill by misrepresenting every part of it. The Bill was entirely permissive, and no step could be taken under it without the consent of the ratepayers. The Bill did not authorise the purchase of books at all, but merely the erection of libraries in which to keep books that might be collected in a district by subscription or donation, for the general benefit. It was most shortsighted policy to object to taxation for any such purpose. Here were 2,000,000 l
 MR. BUCK  objected to the measure, as one imposing fresh taxation upon the already overburdened agricultural interest. If the Bill proceeded, he should certainly
 157
 MR. WALTER  said, he wished to put a question that appeared to him of considerable importance, in reference to the contemplated working of the measure. Supposing these libraries built and furnished with books, were the public in each district to be at liberty to take the books they wanted to read home with them, or were they to be obliged to read them at the library? He considered this a very material point, involving a very serious dilemma. If the books were to be lent out in considerable numbers, great inconvenience, he thought, must arise; and, on the other hand, if the public were not allowed to take the books they wanted home with them to read at their own firesides, but were compelled to read them in the library, he conceived the Bill would be of very little practical use, since it would be quite impossible to afford accommodation in the library for so large a population as that contemplated for each district, while to compel the population to go to the library to read the books they wanted would be altogether opposed to those domestic habits of the humbler classes to which we owed so much of the benefits of our social system.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, he could reply to the question only in this way, that in Salford, where the library contained 6,000 volumes, it had been hitherto found impossible to lend the books out; but so soon as enough books should be collected it was desired to make it a lending library.
 MR. C. ASNTEY  said, it was absurd to talk of the agricultural interest being injured by this Bill. The tax would be a general one, for the benefit of all classes alike. The object of the Bill was to enable the town council to provide buildings and places for the reception of books and works of art and science. There could be no question but that they would have presents enough sent in if the places for their reception were once provided.
 LORD J. MANNERS  said, there was another objection to this Bill, which he believed had not been alluded to, but which he thought of considerable weight. By agreeing to it the Legislature would show a disposition to regard in a more favourable light scientific institutions and mu-
 158
 MR. OSWALD  said, he understood that the Bill would not extend to Scotland; but unless words were introduced stating that point specifically, he should feel it his duty to oppose the further progress of the measure.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  wished to know if the hon. Gentleman also intended to make the Bill extend to Ireland?
 MR. EWART  said, it was not intended that the Bill should extend to Scotland. With regard to Ireland, he believed many hon. Gentlemen connected with that country were anxious that Ireland should be included in its provisions; and if the majority of the Irish Members were in favour of the extension, he was quite willing to accede to the proposition. He regretted that no less than three of the Members for the Universities should have opposed the progress of a measure for the establishment of public libraries. The hon. and learned Member for Cambridge University was mistaken in supposing that the Bill would authorise town councils to mortgage the general rates for the purposes of the Act; the Bill only authorised them, according to his intention at least, to raise money upon the security of the particular rate, and he (Mr. Ewart) was quite ready to adopt any words more completely securing this provision. With regard also to what had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman, he denied that it was a measure for the peculiar advantage of the rich. On the contrary, it was far more the poor man's than the rich man's question; and in proof of this he might refer to the library at Salford, which was found to be frequented by the poor far more than by any other class.
 MR. BRIGHT  considered that one-half of the objections against the Bill were not fairly put forward, while the other half did not apply. The objection of the hon. and learned Recorder seemed to rest solely on the ground that the people would have the opportunity, if this Bill passed, of learning many things which they did not now know, and of which he thought they should still remain ignorant. [Mr. LAW: I said nothing of the kind.] No; the hon. and learned Gentleman did not say so in so
 159 Daily News 160
 MR. LAW , in explanation, complained that the hon. Member had misrepresented his sentiments altogether. He had on no occasion expressed the slightest disinclination to the communication of the fullest information to the public—his objection was simply against the wealthy inhabitants of these boroughs coming to Parliament for powers to tax the poor ratepayers to provide the funds for establishing these libraries, instead of coming forward and establishing them by subscriptions raised amongst themselves.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  did not understand why, if this Bill were good for England, it was not equally good for Scotland, or why the inhabitants of Dumfries were not to have the opportunity of improving their minds as well as those of Sal-ford. The question of the principle of the measure having been decided on the second reading, he regretted that any opposition had been offered to going into Committee; but as it was, he should be compelled to vote in accordance with the view he had previously taken, believing with his hon. and learned Friend the Recorder that it would be far better to establish these libraries by means of private subscriptions than by a general rate.
 MR. BUCK  begged to inform the hon. Member for Manchester that in many boroughs at least one half the municipal rates were paid by persons connected with the landed interest.
 MR. SPOONER  said, that the borough of Birmingham for nearly two miles on one side, and for more than two miles on the other, extended into agricultural districts, the farmers occupying which would have to bear their full proportion of the proposed tax. As to the United States, the libraries there, he believed, were not maintained by taxation, but mainly by private subscription.
 MR. HUME  said, that the libraries in the United States were supported by taxation and by voluntary contributions in equal proportions.
 MR. PLOWDEN  stated that he voted against the second reading of the Bill, because, in its then condition, he considered it involved a principle of compulsory taxation; but the Amendment now introduced by the hon. Member for Dumfries having entirely removed that objection, he should have great satisfaction in giving the present
 161
 MR. W. J. FOX  considered that the Bill would confer a most valuable boon upon the intelligent and studious among the middle and poorer classes. In forming public libraries for such persons, the great difficulty was to obtain secure places of deposit for the books, the firm possession of which could be guaranteed. He had known several instances in which persons among the labouring classes had accumulated a considerable number of volumes, amounting even to thousands, but those libraries were at last broken up for want of the firm and independent possession of a place in which they might be deposited. The difficulty of obtaining buildings for the establishment of libraries was a serious one to persons of that class—one which they could not themselves be expected to surmount; and he thought the great landed interest of this country, and the ecclesiastical and literary interests, with their possessions and preferments, ought not to grudge assistance to their poorer brethren for the object of providing the necessary buildings. There were many persons whose libraries contained numberless volumes with which they could very well dispense, and whose mere duplicates would often furnish very valuable libraries for the poorer classes; but these books were not contributed to public libraries, simply because there was no safe and permanent place of deposit for them. The Bill proposed to obviate this difficulty; and he hoped, therefore, that the House would allow it to go into Committee.
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he had voted against the second reading of the Bill because it gave a power of taxation without any check upon the exercise of that power, and because the hon. Member for Dumfries would not pledge himself to introduce a clause giving the ratepayers the power of determining the amount of such taxation. Many hon. Gentlemen voted against the Bill on that occasion upon the same ground; and it was therefore unfair to say that a majority of the House was opposed to the principle of the Bill. The hon. Member for Dumfries had, however, since given notice of his intention to introduce clauses which would obviate his (Mr. Muntz's) objections to the measure, and he would therefore vote in favour of the Motion for going into Committee.
 MR. EWART  proposed the following alteration in the first clause as it stood originally in the Bill:—
 "After the words 'it shall be lawful,' to insert 'for the Town Council of any municipal borough—the population of which, according to the last account taken thereof by authority of Parliament exceeds 10,000 persons—for the purpose of determining whether this Act shall be adopted for such borough, to convene a meeting of persons rated to the relief of the poor within such borough, by notices signed by the mayor, or Ave members at least, of the said council, and given three clear days at least before such meeting by fixing the same on or near the door of the town-hall of the said borough, and on or near the door of the church or chapel of every parish or chapelry wholly or in part within the said borough, stating the special purpose of such meeting; and, if it shall be resolved at such meeting, by two-thirds of the voters there present, that this Act shall be adopted, then it shall be lawful for such Town Council.'"
 MR. STANFORD  suggested that fourteen clear days' notice of the meeting should be given, instead of three; to which Mr. Ewart acceded.
 MR. STANFORD  them moved a proviso
 163
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, that would tend to defeat the object of the Bill, as they could not expect in a town of 70,000 or 80,000 inhabitants, that one-third of the ratepayers should attend.
 MR. STANFORD  then said, that he would suggest an alteration in the Amendment which he had already proposed, to the effect that not less than one-third of the whole number of ratepayers in the borough should be present at the meeting, and that no ratepayer should have a right to vote who should be in arrear of his poor-rate.
 MR. HAYTER  objected that there was no machinery in existence by which the number and proportion of the ratepayers of a borough could be ascertained.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, that in the borough of Manchester, where there were some 30,000 to 40,000 ratepayers, it would be impossible to find a room that would hold the third of the entire number.
 SIR B. HALL  suggested, that instead of holding a meeting at which a certain proportion of ratepayers should be present, it would be better if a requisition or paper were previously prepared, which should be signed by a proper proportion of the ratepayers.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  approved very highly of the suggestion made by the hon. Member for Marylebone. It would be very easy to pack a meeting, and a requisition duly signed would give the only guarantee against the possibility of such a trick.
 The CHAIRMAN  inquired if Mr. Stanford intended to press his Amendment?
 MR. STANFORD  thought the proposition of the hon. Member for Marylebone the best that had been made; but unless he were assured that the Committee meant to adopt it he should press his own.
 MR. EWART  said, that at that hour, and under all the circumstances, it would be better to proceed no further that day. He should, therefore, suggest that the hon. Member for Marylebone should draw up a clause embodying his suggestions, which could then be taken into consideration, and he would move that the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 SIR B. HALL  declined to frame a clause. If the hon. Member for Dumfries would look in to the 1st and 2nd William IV., he would find such a clause already drawn.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the words were copied from the English Act.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  had intended to say, not only that the provision was in the English Act, but that it had worked well in England, and that he thought it would work as well in Ireland.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he did not expect that the noble Lord would bring forward so important a Bill at so late an hour. He had moved for certain returns on the 21st of February, with regard to grants and loans made to Ireland within the last few years, but he found that it was impossible to obtain them, though he had very good authority for saying that the Government were in possession of a great many of those returns. However, they had not thought proper, and they knew the reason why, to lay them before the House. On so important a matter, the whole of those returns ought to have been printed, not next week, but before the Motion for the second reading of the Bill was brought forward. He objected to any further grants being made, but not from an unkind, unchristianlike, or illiberal feeling, for he disdained any feeling of that kind. He objected to this grant of 300,000 l 176 Sic volo, sic jubeo
 MR. F. FRENCH  hoped the hon. and gallant Gentleman would adhere to the Amendment of which he originally gave notice, and not put the House to the trouble of dividing on his present proposition.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that with respect to this Bill the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Lincoln would recollect that he (Lord J. Russell) had wished to bring it forward a considerable time before Easter, and that he had more than once postponed it in accordance with the wish of hon. Members. He could not be accused, therefore, of now bringing it on unawares. He found that certain returns of the amount issued, the amount repaid, and the sum to be repaid, had been ordered in February. Those returns, however, had no immediate reference to this Bill, and of course it required a considerable time to prepare such accounts. An order for them had been immediately sent to Ireland, but they had not yet been received. He could assure the hon. and gallant Gentleman that they were not kept back for any purpose of the Government.
 MR. BANKES  thought the proposition of his hon. and gallant Friend was not unreasonable, and that they ought to adjourn the consideration of this important question to a time when the House might be better filled and less fatigued than it was at that moment, and when the Members who composed it were less exclusively Irish than those now present; for on looking around him, he saw on that side of the House a majority of Members who could not, he thought, but come to the discussion of the question with a strong bias. Heretofore it had been said to them, when they were called upon to concur in some of those large grants, that they would be the last sums that would be asked; and the noble Lord now said again this was the last time he would call upon the House to make such advances. But he (Mr. Bankes) wished to ask were they to be given as grants or as loans? [Lord J. RUSSELL: This is an advance, not a grant.] He thought that whether they were given in the shape of loans or grants, the result would be very much the same. With regard to this particular case he did not clearly understand, when the noble Lord made his statement, the precise ground upon which he rested this additional claim. He was quite aware the noble Lord made a statement, but it was rather briefly made. For those reasons he concurred in the propriety of the Amendment, and he should vote for an adjournment.
 COLONEL DUNNE  was surprised at the remark of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down with regard to the House being exclusively Irish. Certainly, of late, it had been a matter of serious disappointment to him, when questions of great importance to Ireland had been brought forward, to see nearly empty benches opposite, although, at the same time, he had not found much to console him in the presence of Irish Members on his own side of the House. He did not think that, in giving this grant, they had any guarantee that it would not be asked for again, and he was convinced that every Minister must ask for it so long as the ground which rendered it necessary—the Irish Poor Law—remained untouched. This was a part of the question deserving mature consideration, and for this reason he regretted that the measure came on for consideration at so late an hour. He had another reason for regretting that this measure had been brought forward at so late an hour, and that was that the application
 178 l
 MR. H. HERBERT  concurred in hoping that the debate would be postponed. He had documents with him which would enable him to disprove the assertion of the hon. Member for Dorsetshire, that loans to Ireland were tantamount to grants; but in order to do that successfully it would be necessary that he should go more into detail than he could well do at that late hour. He was prepared to show that the moneys which had been lent to Ireland had been fairly and honestly paid until the heavy misfortune of famine fell upon that country. He was further prepared to show, upon the evidence of Sir John Bur-goyne, that for a series of years there was a considerable profit made by England out of the loans to Ireland; and that even during the three years of famine Ireland repaid over a million of the money which had been advanced to her. With reference to what the hon. Member for Dorsetshire had said about the exclusively Irish character of the attendance that evening, he begged to say that it was not their fault that English Members were not present on that occasion—that Members who were usually foremost in every other debate should have deserted the cause of Ireland, and left the representatives of that country to the tender mercies of a Government whose actions they disapproved. With reference to the system of loans, he assured the House that no one condemned them more than he himself did, and that he believed they were caused solely by the disregard of the suggestions of those who best knew the true interest of that country.
 MR. R. M. FOX  also hoped the debate would be adjourned, in order to afford an opportunity to Irish Members to disprove the charge which had been made with regard to Irish loans. He believed it could be shown that, from the time the two Exchequers were consolidated up to 1828, the advances out of the Consolidated Fund to England and Scotland amounted to 16,000,000 l l l l
 The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHE-
 179  deeply regretted to find the Irish Members asking for a postponement of this measure, because they, of all men, must know the importance of passing it without delay. The hon. Member for Dorsetshire was quite mistaken in calling this a grant; and he was equally mistaken in supposing that there was no difference between a grant and a loan. He entirely agreed with those hon. Members who had stated that the loans to Ireland had been repaid, when such a result could hardly have been anticipated; but he did not think they would be justified in postponing this measure, in order to afford the Irish Members an opportunity of proving what everybody who knew anything of the subject knew already. If the House were to go into the various questions suggested by the hon. Members for Kerry, Longford, and Portarlington, it would be impossible to say when they would be able to pass this Bill. He appealed to those hon. Members if it would not be absolutely cruel to those unions whom it was proposed to relieve by this Bill, to postpone it for an indefinite period, as they proposed. He could understand those who were altogether opposed to the object of the Bill taking advantage of the forms of the House to delay it; but he must say that Irish Gentlemen, who could not but know the importance of an early decision of this question, rather astonished him when they proposed such a course. The desire to vindicate their country had surely made them forget its immediate necessities.
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  agreed with the right hon. Gentleman in thinking that the settlement of this question was of the utmost importance to Ireland. It was his strong conviction that this measure, small in amount, would do incalculable benefit to Ireland, and he believed the House would effect great injustice by delaying the progress of the measure.
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  protested against the observation of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in which he sought to identify the body of the Irish Members with an attempt to retard the progress of this Bill. His right hon. Friend totally misunderstood the feeling of Irish Members, if he thought there was any intention of not supporting him in any measure brought forward for the benefit of their unfortunate country. The hon. Member for Dorsetshire had thrown out an imputation against Irish Members generally; but that
 180
 MR. BANKES  begged to assure hon. Gentlemen that he had intended to convey no imputation whatever upon the character of the Irish people. What he had said, and he had said it with regret, was simply, that although Ireland had no doubt repaid as much as she could repay, she had not repaid so much as he could have wished her to repay, and that he feared her powers of repayment were not likely to improve for some time to come.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  agreed, that had the Government taken more active measures some time back, there would, in all probability, have been no occasion for this measure; but, as the occasion existed, he earnestly desired that the measure might be passed without delay, and he hoped hon. Gentlemen would not allow their judgment to be so carried away by their feelings as to prevent that result. The hon. and gallant Gentleman would have full opportunity to bring forward his documents in Committee; all that was sought at present was to read the Bill a second time.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he had spent the Easter recess in the districts to which the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer referred, and he could testify that such distress prevailed there as to render immediate relief essential. For his own part, he thought it would have
 181
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  said, he had been for a long time paying very close attention to two unions in his part of Ireland, and he found from his experience there that great economy in the administration of unions was perfectly practicable. At present, however, any efforts in this direction, as he had experienced, were thwarted by the commissioners themselves. For example, he had sent in a plan for reducing the salaries of the officers in the two unions to which he referred from 2,000 l l
 LORD J. MANNERS  said, that if the Government would give some pledge that a proper opportunity should be given for discussing the subject in Committee, it would be well to pass the second reading.
 LORD NAAS  said, that certainly his own vote would depend upon such a pledge being given.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  could only say, that if the House wished to delay the Bill, and to have a general discussion upon the affairs of Ireland, he was ready to bring on the next stage of the measure at an early hour of the evening, but he could not say that the evening of discussion itself would be, an early one. On the contrary, there were various measures left from last Session,
 182
 LORD J. RUSSELL  begged to inform the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln that the returns to which he had previously referred had already been laid on the table of the House.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said they were not upon is table. He should therefore move, as an Amendment, that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 MR. SPOONER  said, that as the returns had been laid on the table, he thought, according to the usual course of procedure, that the Government should have caused them to be printed. He considered that the fact that those returns had not been printed was a very good reason for adjourning the further consideration of the Bill until the papers were in the hands of hon. Members.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that he had repeatedly asked the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Treasury about these papers, as he was most anxious that they should be laid before the House; but he had not the least idea that they were already upon the table. He had, therefore, had no opportunity of moving that they be printed.
 MR. HAYTER  said, it was true that the hon. and gallant Member had repeatedly applied to him before Easter respect-
 183
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that if the Bill was now read a second time the returns on the table could be printed; and if the House entered upon the further consideration of the measure at an early hour on some subsequent evening, a full opportunity would be afforded for discussing the whole question. Unless, however, the Bill was now read a second time, he could not say when it would be again brought before the House.
 MR. BANKES  observed, that it was his impression that when papers having reference to a Government measure were moved for, the Government was responsible for their being printed. ["No, no!"] He believed that was the general usage. The Government had shown that they were aware of the importance of these papers by consenting to produce them, and it appeared that they contained information which Irish Members were most anxious, for the character of their country, to have published. He thought, therefore, that the House could not satisfactorily proceed with the discussion of the Bill until the papers were in the hands of Members, and he would vote for the adjournment.
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  said, that he believed some years ago the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken had held an office connected with the Government in Ireland, and he had occupied a seat in that House for many years. He was, therefore, surprised to hear the hon. Gentleman maintain that papers moved for by an hon. Member must necessarily be printed by the Government without any specific Motion being made to that effect by the Member who required their production. He wished to have the decision of Mr. Speaker on this point, and he asked the right hon. Gentleman whether papers moved for by a private Member must necessarily be printed by the Government, without any Motion for their being printed?
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that papers laid upon the table were referred to the Printing Committee, who decided whether they should be printed or not; but when any hon. Member wished to have particular papers printed, it was usual for him to express to the Printing Committee his wish that such papers should be printed.
 MR. MONSELL  considered that hon. Gentlemen who opposed the progress of the Bill were defeating their own object if they wanted to extract money from Ireland, because he understood that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had postponed the repayment of advances until this measure was passed.
 MR. BANKES asked if he was to understand that the Irish people meant to pay us with our own money? The hon. Member for Ennis seemed to have made some mistake about his (Mr. Bankes's) having held an official situation in Ireland. He was not aware that he had done so, but, perhaps, it might appear in the papers that had been referred to.
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  begged pardon of the hon. Gentleman if he had made a mistake.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he would arrange that the next stage of this Bill should be taken at an early hour in the evening, when, the returns being in the hands of Members, a full discussion could take place. But if he was to understand that the intention was now to oppose the Bill by repeated Motions of adjournment, he would say, let a division take place, and let the real character of the opposition be seen.
 MR. STAFFORD  had voted with the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln on the last division, because he understood that several Irish Members wished the debate to be adjourned; but as that did not seem to be the case, he would now support the noble Lord.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL : Twenty shillings costs was no check to vexatious objections, and as the system of double appeal had been successfully tried in England, he hoped it would be extended to Ireland. Let Ireland have the same protection against irrational and vexatious objections as England. If there was a risk that the revising barrister might abuse his trust, there was also the danger that advantage would be taken of the unrestricted right of appeal to oppress and break down an opposing party, by persisting in vexatious objections. An increase of the costs would not save them, because it would check proper appeals. He thought the assistant barrister might be safely trusted with the discretion of allowing appeals where he thought proper.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that he did not precisely sec the drift of the hon. Gentleman's question. As to the amount of rate charged upon the premises, the rate book would settle that question. About it there could be no dispute. The only question that could arise would be as to the occupancy, and if the guardians should refuse to accept the money tendered by a person calling himself the occupier, and to place his name upon the list, he
 175
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, it was true a Bill had been brought in for the purpose of raising the incomes of the deaneries of Wells and Salisbury from 1,000 l l l l l 166
 LORD J. RUSSELL  replied in the negative: all deans would receive 1,000 l
 LORD J. RUSSELL  replied, that it was the intention of the Government to act in conformity with the report of the Committee. It was intended that the Vernon collection should occupy a portion of the National Gallery, and accommodation should be provided for the Royal Academy elsewhere. This was in conformity with the report of the Committee, and it was certainly the intention of the Government. The question then was, what should be done at the present moment. It appeared far more easy, and better for the Vernon pictures, which were originally in the private house of Mr. Vernon, to be placed for the present in a house like Marl-borough-house, than to attempt to fit up that place for the exhibition of the Royal Academy. It would cause a great deal more expenditure to fit up that place for temporary accommodation of the Royal Academy than for the Vernon collection.
 167
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the hon. Member for the county of Limerick had asked, before the Easter recess, the Government to take into consideration a plan which he suggested, for adding to the constituency of certain boroughs a number of qualified inhabitants of non-parliamentary boroughs in the neighbourhood. He had promised that the proposition should meet with consideration, and he would then state the course which had been adopted by the Government. The matter had met with very attentive consideration, and he had communicated with the Under Secretary in Ireland, and other parties who were supposed to possess some knowledge of the subject. The result was that many objections appeared to exist against entertaining the proposition in the present Bill. In the first place, there were two modes in which such a proposition could be carried into effect; both modes were very different in principle, as they probably would be in detail. The one would be the adding very large towns which had not members themselves to the existing boroughs; thus they would combine all the considerable towns in the various counties in the borough constituency of Ireland. The other plan was to add some of them to the very small boroughs, so as to give the latter a sufficient number of electors. The proposition of his hon Friend the Member for Roscommon proceeded on the former plan, and he
 168 169 l l l
 LORD NAAS  said, that whilst it was intended to assimilate the English and the Irish practice, a very important difference was preserved. In England the revising barrister was appointed from time to time, but in Ireland the assistant barrister was appointed for life, and was therefore beyond the influence of control.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that a Bill was before the House which had for its object the raising of the income of certain deaneries from 1,000 l l
 MR. HORSMAN  was not sure that he correctly understood what had fallen from the noble Lord on one point, and, therefore, begged to ask whether the future Dean of Salisbury was to receive a larger income than other deans?
 COLONEL DUNNE  wished to correct an error of his hon. Friend as to the constituency of Portarlington. The number of electors under the Bill as it stood, would be, not 86, but 131. Since the subject was last before the House, he had been over to that place, and he found that the constituency would be greatly increased by a clause which he understood was to be introduced into the Bill.
 COLONEL DUNNE  objected to the words "if he thinks it reasonable and proper that such appeal should be entertained," which left it to the discretion of the barrister whether there should be an appeal or no. There might as well be no power of appeal; for these words made the barrister judge in his own cause. He moved that the words be struck out.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, it was certainly his intention to divide the Committee upon the omission of the words.
 SIR F. THESIGER  thought the objection of the hon. and gallant Member to those words was extremely well grounded;
 171
 SIR F. THESIGER  must repeat his objections to the clause as it stood, and urged that, as a matter of policy, it would be better to give an absolute rather than a conditional right of appeal.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, that if hon. Members would look at the 58th clause, they would see that it was impossible the power of appeal could be made an engine of oppression, because by that clause it was provided that in case of the party in whose favour the decision should have been given, declining to support the decision appealed against as respondent, the assistant barrister should name a respondent.
 MR. AGLIONBY , judging from English practice and English opinion, considered the present a wholesale provision, and, unless some reason could be advanced why the law in Ireland should be different from the law in England, he should insist upon their being made as nearly alike as possible. He believed that the Bill would be good for all parties.
 MR. H. HERBERT  had known frequent occasions of numbers of voters who had been rejected by the assistant barrister being placed upon the register on appeal by the Judge of assize. In one instance he knew as many as thirty had been thus placed upon the register. The right of appeal, therefore, did not restrict the franchise, but extended it; but he thought the appeal ought to be to the Judge of assize rather than to the Court of Exchequer in Dublin.
 MR. HATCHELL  also remarked that the appeal was confined to questions of law, and he observed that very few appeals could arise on questions of law if the protections were given, as proposed, that existed in the English Act. It had been said that the assistant barristers in Ireland were merely officers of the Executive Government—liable to removal. They were certainly not the fluctuating judges of a revising barrister's court; and when it was said they were removable by the Crown, he would only say that none had been removed by the Crown within his recollection. They must therefore be considered as holding their offices during good behaviour. He should support the clause.
 MR. HUME  begged to ask the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government, whether the Government had considered, or was willing to consider, the expediency of retaining the Vernon collection of paintings in the National Gallery, and accommodating the Royal Academy with rooms in Marlborough House? He did so in consequence of the Committee which had been appointed to report respecting the Vernon pictures of which the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth was a Member, having recommended that the Vernon collection should be placed in the National Gallery, and that the Royal Academy should be allowed to remain there until it could obtain premises suitable to them elsewhere; but the course stated by the noble Lord the other evening appeared to be directly contrary to this.
 MR. HUME  observed, that if the Vernon collection was removed to Marlborough-house it would require an additional number of persons to look after them.
 MR. NAPIER  said, that the assistant barristers did not hold their office for life, as stated by his noble Friend, but at the pleasure of the Executive Government. In the case of the municipal franchise, a power of appeal to the Queen's Bench was given; but it had not been much used, for he believed there had been only ten cases, a proof that it was not used for
 172
 MR. BUCK  begged to ask the right hon. and learned Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board whether any inquiry had been instituted into the conduct of the master of the Bideford union?
 MR. BAINES  replied, that he understood the question of the hon. Member to refer to the inquiry promised by the Poor Law Board into the conduct of Mr. Surman, the master of the Bideford union workhouse, with reference to the treatment of the poor girl whose shocking death had formed the subject of a late judicial investigation. In the course of that trial there was something said by Mr. Surman which induced the Poor Law Board, as soon as the report of the case appeared, to determine upon instituting an inquiry into his conduct, and he had stated, before the Easter recess, that instructions had been issued to that effect. When these instructions, however, went down into the country, it was found that Mr. Surman had already resigned his office as master of the Bideford workhouse, and, consequently, he was no longer an officer under the Poor Law Board. Of course, he was no longer amenable to the jurisdiction of that board, and it was impossible to pursue the inquiry, the object of that inquiry being to ascertain whether Mr. Surman was fit to continue in the situation which he held. Another
 165
 MR. SHEIL  said, that as the law now stood there was no appeal except on the assistant barrister disallowing a vote, and he thought they ought to adhere to it; but where was the evil of a double appeal? It would by no means have the evil effects that some hon. Gentlemen anticipated, because it was confined to questions of law. There could be no appeal on questions of fact; and, under these circumstances, it was right the assistant barrister should have the power of deciding whether the appeal should be given or not.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the only ground upon which the clause was defended was that of analogy with the English Bill. If that analogy failed, there was an end to the argument by which the clause was supported; but before pointing out where it failed, he would observe that the House was gradually getting into the dangerous practice of leaving to judges the power of determining whether there should or should not be an appeal. This practice, which had only recently been introduced, should not be extended. In England the revising barrister was appointed from year to year; in Ireland the assistant barrister was appointed by the Executive Government, and could be removed at their will. The assistant barrister, being then an officer of the Executive Government, it was inexpedient that he should have the discretion of allowing or disallowing appeals from his decisions. Again, in Ireland the same barrister would revise the lists, and he would most probably give the same decisions; whereas in England a different person was selected nearly every year, so that the same legal points were submitted to a different judicial officer. The analogy did not hold in these respects; and, as the clause was objectionable with the words remaining in it, he hoped his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General would consider the propriety of not insisting upon them.
 MR. CONOLLY  said, that the clause provided that in cases where a voter's name should be omitted from the list, he might pay or tender the rate to the poor-law guardians, and then claim to be placed upon the list. But he wanted to know what tribunal would have the right to settle any disputes that might arise between the guardians and those persons who might claim to vote, but whose claim should be rejected by the guardians?
 MR. CONOLLY  said, that he would divide the Committee on the question that the clause be negatived.
 MR. W. FAGAN  thought the clause ought to be passed as it stood, because it gave a double right of appeal to the claimant and to the objector.
 MR. KEOGH , without wishing to say anything very disparaging of the assistant barristers of Ireland, could not admit that they were entitled to the unqualified praise pronounced upon them by the hon. Member for Kerry. He assured the House he had known one that was blind, and many who had never had any practice at the bar whatever; and he must say that he, for one, was not prepared to intrust them with the power of deciding whether the judicial decision of such a body should be brought under the review of a higher tribunal or not. He had no fear of the power of appeal being used as a party instrument. The hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin had referred to the 58th clause as containing one check upon that abuse, and he (Mr. Keogh) would refer to the 59th as containing another, namely, the power given to the assistant barrister to consolidate appeals upon the same points of law.
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH , in spite of what had been said by the hon. and learned Gentleman, believed that there was not in the community a body of men who discharged their duty either with more satisfaction or more benefit to the public, than the assistant barristers of Ireland. The hon. and learned Gentleman, although objecting to allow the assistant barristers to decide whether there should be an appeal, had apparently no scruples against giving that power to any factious person who
 173
 MR. MONSELL  agreed with the noble Lord in objecting to their excluding all the town electors in Ireland from the county
 170
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  stated that it was not his intention to persist in proposing the Amendment of which he had given notice, for the substitution of a 12 l l
 MR. DRUMMOND : Sir, if the proposition of the noble Lord at the head of the Government had borne the smallest resemblance to the picture given of it by the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down—if it had contained only one point of similitude—if there had been the smallest indication of the remotest intention on the part of Her Majesty's Government to do any one thing but inquire, most unquestionably I should vote with the hon. Gentleman for the noble Lord's Motion. But, Sir, the noble Lord asks the House of Commons to inquire. To inquire of what? Why, the House can only inquire of him, who possesses twenty times more informa-
 269 Jerome Paturot in Search of a Social Position 270
 MR. C. BRUCE  observed, that there were in this Bill 368 clauses, and in another Bill connected with it—Police and Improvement (Scotland) Bill—148 clauses; and such being the case, he objected to the House proceeding with the measure at that late hour.
 MR. FOX MAULE  was quite sure there could be no dispute about the principle of the Sanitary Bill. Therefore he hoped the House would read it a second time, so that it might go into Committee, where the details could be discussed.
 MR. F. SCOTT  also objected to proceeding with a Bill containing upwards of 500 clauses at that late hour.
 SIR G. GREY  begged to remind the House that this was a Bill exactly similar in principle to the measure with respect to England, which had received the assent of Parliament. All they now asked, was to go through this stage of the Bill, and there would be time hereafter for the due consideration of the details.
 MR. OSWALD  wished to state some
 295
 MR. GRANTLEY BERKELEY  said, that notwithstanding it appeared to have been the practice of late for the Government to call for the votes of Members in their favour, under the threat of a dissolution of Parliament, he should nevertheless give his vote according to his conscience and the merits of the question. He was
 258 259
 LORD H. VANE  said, that if he thought no good could result from the Committee, he, as a sincere advocate of that economy which the public voice unequivocally demanded, should vote for the Amendment; but, as his decided opinion was that the Committee would be productive of the best results, he should cordially support his noble Friend's Motion. It was said, that Committees of that House were practically an illusion and a snare; it appeared, however, to him that the economical results of the various Committees which had of late years inquired into the national expenditure, were a practical and most complete refutation of the statement. The hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, speaking as the head of a party, was perhaps quite right in seeking to throw upon the Government the responsibility of the reductions contemplated; but those who simply desired to fulfil their duty as representatives
 257
 LORD J. MANNERS  said, the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer reminded him that the question that had been asked had not been answered. The right hon. Gentleman
 275 276 277
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, the objections which have been made to the Motion proposed to the House certainly will not require very much answer from me, because they have been met, and most of them disposed of, by the opponents of the Motion themselves. The hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone, who spoke immediately after the Amendment of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, and some others, said it was not a sufficient inquiry, because it did not go beyond the throe particular classes into which the inquiry was to be confined. To that the hon. Member for Oxfordshire answered, and I think very conclusively, that if all offices were to be included, the inquiry would last so long that we should not obtain any practical result from the Committee. These are the grounds which I think will be sufficient for the appointment of the Committee. Therefore, the hon. Member for Oxfordshire has disposed of one objection. Then the hon. Member for Montrose, somewhat to my surprise, objected to a Committee for the first time that I remember during a long period of years, and said that it would do no good; but in the course of his speech he admitted he had urged on the Government the appointment of a Committee on the Army, Navy, and Ordnance, and that the Committees had sat for some time with considerable advantage to the public. But then the hon. Gentleman goes on and says the effect is, if you have a Committee a great many facts will become known which otherwise we should not have before us, and thus the hon. Gentleman has answered his own objection. I cannot accuse him of wishing to conceal the truth, but we know there are many delusive ideas on the public mind on this subject, and the hon. Gentleman seemed to entertain some alarm as to certain facts becoming known to them. But we find the hon. Member always inquiring—we find him always moving for returns,
 278 279
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I meant to say, no person without an independent fortune.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, I am about to propose the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the salaries and emoluments of offices held during the pleasure of the Crown. It does not appear to me that it is requisite that I adduce many reasons to induce the House to appoint a Committee on this subject, for there are various precedents for such appointments of Committee for the purpose of inquiring into the various public departments of this country. In 1798 a Committee was appointed to inquire into various branches of the public service, and they went through many of the civil establishments of the country, and they presented several reports, the 27th of which related to the judicial establishments of the country, and to the salaries paid to the Lord Chancellor, the Master of the Rolls, and the other Judges. Various recommendations were embodied in these reports, which were afterwards acted on. In 1818, and again in 1828, similar Committees of Inquiry were embodied. After the Committee in 1828 had considered the nature of our military establishments, which led to some reductions. Lord Althorp, in January, 1830, proposed the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the salaries of persons holding office
 220 221 l l 222 223 
 
 AMOUNT OF ESTIMATE. Reduction. 
 1848–9. 1849–50. 1850–1. 
 £ £ £ £ 
 Army 6,520,835 6,142,211 6,019,397 501,438 
 Navy 7,951,842 6,273,428 5,849,423 2,102,419 
 Ordnance 3,115,218 2,654,270 2,434,417 680,801 
 Total reduction in the two years from 1848–9 to 1850–1 3,284,658 l 224 l l l l l l l l l 225 226 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 227 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 228 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 229 l 230 231
 MR. COCKBURN  said, he had for some time ceased to expect any consistency from his hon. Friend the Member for West Gloucestershire; but he certainly was not prepared for an inconsistency so glaring as that into which he had just fallen; for he told the House in the same breath that he was a free-trader, and yet ascribed the distress of the country to the measures which the Government had brought forward. ["Hear, hear!"] He could quite understand the cheers of hon. Members opposite; he could quite understand that they did not agree in the doctrines of free trade, and that they should ascribe the distress of the country to the consequences of adopting them, because he knew how strong political passions and prejudices were. He was not objecting to the consistency of hon. Gentlemen opposite, but to the inconsistency of his hon. Friend. But to pass from the speech of his hon. Friend—who never rose but to exhibit his bitter hostility to the Government—he must say that with regard to the question before the House, it appeared to him that the noble Lord at the head of the Government had taken the most straightforward, proper, and constitutional course. The House of Commons was the constitutional tribunal on all questions affecting the taxation and expenditure of the country; and the proposition for a Committee of the House of Commons to investigate and ascertain what reductions might be made in regard to the salaries of particular offices, was founded on constitutional principles. He admitted that if they had all the information before them already, to enable them to arrive at a correct judgment on the subject, he should go with the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire; but he did not agree in the hon. Member's statement that they had. He believed they had considerable information, perhaps sufficient in regard to the amount of the several salaries; but to enable them to decide satisfactorily what those salaries should be for the future, they required to know some-
 260 261 262
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, if I did not think that the Amendment I am about to propose to the Motion of the noble Lord at the head of the Government was one which, if adopted, would be to the honour of this House, and to the advantage of the country
 232 233 234 235 236 237 238 239 240 241 de novo; 242 243 244 245 pro formâ 246
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the hon. Member for Cockermouth, in bringing forward the Motion, had taken the opportunity of making one of the most unfair attacks upon the Church that he had ever heard. The hon. Member was constantly proclaiming his attachment to the Church, but never missed any opportunity of vilifying it. If that was his friendship, he could only say, if he were one of a body to which the hon. Member was attached, he would much rather have his enmity than his friendship. No person who had listened to the tone and temper of the hon. Member but could doubt that he was actuated by a spirit most hostile to the Church of England.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, the dignitaries of the Church would not be affected by this Motion, which he should treat as it deserved. The censure of some men was the very best praise to others.
 MR. P. WOOD  would defend the hon. Member for Cockermouth against the charges which had just been brought against him of being actuated by feelings of hostility to the Church. He entirely concurred in the spirit of the hon. Member's Motion, namely, that it was desirable for the Church of England that these great and serious questions, which must at some time or other be investigated, should be looked boldly and fairly in the face; and that in the midst of the vast spiritual destitution which they all knew existed to so awful an extent throughout the country, the prelates who were at the head of the Church should not be exposed to obloquy from invidious comparisons which constantly were suggeesting themselves as to the amount of incomes derived by them from those funds which were left as a solemn trust for the maintenance of the religious institutions of the country. He observed with pain a growing tendency in the minds of individuals to confuse funds of this kind with the general funds of the State, contributed and raised by means of taxation, under the authority of Parliament. He maintained that Parliament had an undoubted right to inquire into the amount and distribution of the revenues of the Church, and believed the time not far distant when it would be necessary to have a complete revision of the incomes paid to the dignitaries of the Church. He agreed with his hon. Friend that it did not tend to the character of the Church that there should be such incomes
 292 l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had listened with very great attention to all the arguments used, and the suggestions made by every hon. Gentleman who had spoken, and he really had never witnessed an occasion upon which there seemed to be a greater dearth of arguments, or difficulty of finding them, in opposition to the Motion of his noble Friend at the head of the Government. The hon. Member for Buckinghamshire was really at a loss, in making his speech, for arguments against the proposition of the noble Lord. The Motion of his noble Friend had been characterised as one that was proposed for purposes of delay, and it had boon said that no conclusion could be arrived at by the Committee during the present Session. The hon. Member for Montrose found fault with the Motion because it did not go far enough, complaining that it was confined to three or four subjects, and that they ought to have instituted an inquiry into fifty other departments of expenditure. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) entirely agreed, however, with the hon. Member for Oxford-
 271 272 273 274
 MR. HORSMAN : Now that the House had determined on this inquiry into official incomes, he thought he should have little difficulty in convincing it of the propriety of including ecclesiastical incomes; and he would do so very shortly, by showing that it was a legitimate inquiry, and within its province; and, secondly, that, possessing the power, it was a fitting occasion for its exercise. 283 l l l l l 284 l l 285 l Chargé d' Affaires l 
 
 £ £ 
 Queen's Bench—Chief Justice. 8,000 
 Queen's Bench 4 Puisne Judges. 20,000 28,000 
 Common Pleas—Chief Justice. 8,000 
 Common Pleas 4 Puisne Judges. 20,000 
 28,000 
 Carried forward. 56,000 286 
 
 Brought forward £56,000 
 Exchequer—Chief Baron 7,000 
 Exchequer 4 Puisne Judges 20,000 
 27,000 
 Chancery—Lord Chancellor 15,000 
 Chancery 3 Vice Chancellors 18,000 
 Chancery Master of the Rolls 7,000 
 40,000 
 £123,000 l 287 l l l l l
 MR. HORSMAN , in explanation, said, that he had made no allusion to the tenure of the property in question. He had given no opinion on the point whether it was of a public or a private character. The incomes of the bishops had been regulated by Act of Parliament, and he only asked Parliament to do what it did in 1836. He meant to reflect no more on the manner in which the bishops performed their duties than on the manner in which other functionaries discharged theirs.
 MR. HORSMAN : He accepted the correction, and it amounted to this—that of all the hardworked, underpaid clergy of the Church of England, not one could be found to take 1,000 l l 288 l l 289
 MR. HORSMAN  assured the right hon. Gentleman that he had not said bishops received their incomes for doing nothing. What he said was, that there was a distinction between bishops and deans, and that bishops had duties to perform which deans had not.
 MR. AGLIONBY  hoped that his hon. Colleague would persist in his Motion, unless the Government would give an explicit promise that they would move for an efficient, independent, and fair Committee to inquire into the subject; and if it be necessary, and it be found that the circumstances of the country, or of the bishops, requiry any alteration, introduce a Bill founded upon the report of the Committee; or if they would not do so, whether they would support the hon. Member in a Motion for a separate and independent Committee to inquire into the subject. He denied that this was the property of the bishops; it was the property of the country vested in certain persons for certain duties. That it was so had been proved by inquiries
 291
 MR. GOULBURN  said, the hon. Gentleman was only walking in the course he had always taken, for he had distinctly recorded his opinion that capitular bodies were altogether useless, and recommended their abolition as an essential reform in the Church of England. On every occasion when he could, he had taken the opportunity to disparage and lower in the estimation of the public the office of bishop, whilst professing to be a member of the Church of England, of which it was an essential element that there should be episcopal authority controlling the inferior clergy. He had drawn invidious comparisons, which had no application to the Motion, either in argument or justice; and it was impossible but to suppose that his ideas respecting episcopacy, being low, had been formed upon a very unworthy estimate of the duties of the office. The episcopal body might be brought into invidious comparison with the inferior clergy; but there was no sincere friend to the Church who did not know that its duties, adequately performed, were more effective for the dissemination of religious truth, and the enforcement of religious worship, than the labours of the individuals with whom they were contrasted. The argument of the hon. Gentleman was just that of those who, being at the botton of the scale, excited resistance against those who were above them; but whether in civil or ecclesiastical affairs, authority was equally indispensable. The hon. Gentleman had expressly stated that bishops received their incomes for doing nothing. He should not enter further into the question, because there would be
 293
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that if any hon. Member on his side of the House felt disposed to vote with the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, he thought he could explain the ground upon which he would do so. He believed that he would be influenced in coming to such a conclusion by the prevalent opinion that there was something exceedingly unreal in the actions of Committees of that House, and by the conviction that Committees were to a great extent shams. The same feeling led him to receive the proposition of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire with some degree of favour
 266 l l 267 l l 268
 MR. HERRIES  begged to offer a few observations before the House divided. He would begin by stating that it was his intention to vote for the Amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for Buckinghamshire. The real question at issue was, which of the two modes that had been proposed was the most effectual for securing a reduction of the public expenditure. He admitted that the intention of Ministers might be to effect a reduction in those heads to which their Motion applied; but the Amendment went beyond the limits of the Ministerial proposition. Not only did it include the same class of heads, though in a different mode, but it insisted on a wider range of reduction. The question was not whether, generally speaking, a Committee was the best mode of inquiry in anticipation of a reduction of salaries; but whether, in the present circumstances of the country as they now stood, it was desirable to proceed in this fashion; or whether the Government should themselves propose to the House that reduction of expenditure which it must be presumed they had in view when they made this Motion at all. It must be assumed that they intended to effect certain reductions, of which they had already conceived the character, description, and extent in their own minds. If, then, they had inquired into the nature of existing establishments, and made up their minds to what extent they would propose to Parliament, through a Committee, to carry their reductions, they, as the House of Commons, had a right to ask them fairly and candidly to open their minds upon the subject of the extent to which they proposed to go. He must say the noble Lord at the head of
 263 264 265
 MR. HENLEY  said, that when he first saw the noble Lord's Motion he was altogether at a loss for a conclusion as to what the noble Lord meant by it, and he must confess that he was not much better informed now than before. Because, though the noble Lord had said a good deal about what the Government had done in other directions, he had not in the slightest degree indicated whether, in his opinion, the matters which he proposed to refer to the Committee ought to be the subject of reduction or not. Upon that point he had left the House entirely in the dark. His (Mr. Henley's) first impression was that the noble Lord meant that the Committee should prepare a new "blue," "red," or "black" book, to contain the names of certain officers of the Government, with their salaries attached. The only fact before the House that would enable them to form an opinion with regard to the views of the noble Lord, was rather calculated to lead hon. Members to suppose that he did not contemplate making any alterations in one branch of the subject which he proposed to refer to the Committee, namely—the salaries of the Judges and the principal judicial functionaries. They had had some indication of the mind of the Government upon that question, furnished them by the Bill which they had recently introduced. In 1831 the late Lord Chief Justice of the Court of Queen's Bench (Lord Denman) received the appointment, which he held with great honour to himself and advantage to the country for so many years. At that time some negotiation or bargain took place between the then Government and that noble and learned Lord with reference to the sum which he was to receive as his salary, because he was not paid the salary which the law had attached to his office. The salary being fixed at 10,000 l 255 l l 256
 MR. HENLEY  said, he had been extremely puzzled to make out the drift of the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Cockermouth, and he had been still more astonished at the mode in which he had supported it. The hon. Member had not only contrasted the incomes of bishops with the salaries of various public functionaries, but he had gone on to state the amount of property left by a number of prelates; and he had endeavoured to lead the House to conclude that the existing revenues of bishops would enable them to accumulate similar sums. But the hon. Gentleman must have been aware that many of the prelates who had died during the last twenty years had held their incomes under the old system, and that those incomes had since been considerably diminished. The hon. Gentleman had endeavoured to place in an invidious light the incomes of bishops, by contrasting them with the salaries of various public functionaries; but he might as well have contrasted with those salaries the revenues of wealthy noblemen in this country. He for one, could never consent to deal with the trust property of the Church in the same manner as with the public revenue. If there was a case for inquiry, let it be proposed on its own grounds, and not in the invidious manner adopted that evening.
 MR. HUME  said, that the proposition of the noble Lord at the head of the Government consisted of three parts, each of which it was the duty of the House to con-
 249 250 l l l l l 251 l 252 253 l l 254
 MR. MANGLES  said, he had never heard a more bitter or unjust attack upon any hon. Member than that made by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge upon the hon. Member for Cockermouth. His hon. Friend had devoted much of his attention to the investigation of the condition of the Church, of which he was known to be an earnest and most sincere member; and that such an undeserved measure of the  odium theologicum
 SIR B. HALL  said, that he would offer a few observations not only as to what had fallen from the noble Lord at the head of the Government, but as to what had been observed by the hon. Gentleman opposite, who had just spoken. Before he did so, however, he must say that it was a source of great congratulation, not only to himself but other hon. Gentlemen, to find that when any question was brought forward which involved the reduction of the na-
 247 l l l l 248 l
 SIR G. GREY  said, that it appeared to him that the hon. Member was hardly doing justice to the object which he had in view by uniting it to a Motion for an inquiry such as that proposed by his noble Friend at the head of the Government. He (Sir G. Grey) did not deny the right of Parliament to inquire into the amount and distribution of episcopal and capitular revenues; that right had more than once been asserted and acted upon, and very recently under a commission appointed by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth. Subsequent to that inquiry ecclesiastical and capitular inquiries had been regulated by Act of Parliament. If, however, sufficient ground were shown for again inquiring into the subject, the House would have a perfect right to enter upon that inquiry. Episcopal and capitular incomes, however, stood upon a very different footing from those official, judicial, and diplomatic incomes which would form the subject of inquiry in the Committee proposed by the noble Lord. The latter class of incomes were derived from the public taxes of the country, and all that could be saved by a reduction of those incomes was so much saved to the public revenue of the country, and enabled the Government to relieve to that extent the pressure of taxation. The ecclesiastical revenues were, however, derived altogether from a different source, and any reduction which might be made would not go towards the relief of the burdens of taxation, but would go to other purposes, and it was no doubt a question of some importance as to the best mode of distributing ecclesiastical property, in a manner best adapted to accomplish the objects for which it was devoted. With respect to referring the subject to this Committee, he would plead in aid the argument used by the hon. Member for Oxfordshire, that if they overloaded the
 290
 MR. STUART  wished to know, with reference to the Securities for Advances (Ireland) Bill, which stood on the paper for that night, how many sales had actually been effected under the order of the Commissioners for the Sale of Encumbered Estates in Ireland, and in what counties; how many orders had actually been made for the sales of estates; and whether, in any case, and in how many, application had been made to the Commissioners to have the sale effected on the terms of paying one-half the purchase-money, and providing for the other half by certificate, according to the mode pointed out by the Bill before the House?
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  had received notice from the hon. and learned Gentleman too late to obtain the information. What he might state could only be matter of opinion; but if the hon. and learned Gentleman moved for a return on the subject it would be furnished.
 MR. STUART  observed, that it would be idle to proceed with the Bill to which he had referred till the information he sought was produced.
 SIR. G. GREY  suggested that the hon. and learned Gentleman should move for a return now.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  thought it would be more convenient to postpone the consideration of the question as to the propriety of taking annuities as consideration money, until they came to the schedule relating to that subject. With regard to the probable loss arising from the alteration
 318 l l l l l l s l l s l s l l l l s l s d l l
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  did not think the hon. Gentleman had done justice to himself or the other Members of the House, when he said they found a difficulty in understanding the Bill. All matters of figures were, to a certain extent, complicated; but all the provisions of the Bill were plain and capable of ready explanation; and the hon. Gentleman would find, if he would allow them to go into Committee, that any matters of difficulty which might occur to him or other hon. Gentlemen would be fully explained. If, after going through Committee, hon. Gentlemen should find themselves unable to understand any part of the measure, or the amount of relief it was intended to give, then the objection to further progress would come with some weight; but he had always found that the elucidation of Bills of this nature was much assisted by the discussion in Committee, and the explanations then given, and that in this respect a Committee of the whole House was far more useful than a Committee upstairs. If the measure was referred to a Select Committee, as the hon. Member for Manchester had suggested, a considerable time would be consumed in hearing long statements from one side and the other, and in preparing a report in the shape of a large blue book; but the result would be that at the close of the inquiry they would be much in the same position as they were now. Besides, as he was informed, the forms of the House would not allow of such a proceeding being taken in the present case. With regard to the principle of the Bill, the hon. Member for Manchester, and the country also, he believed, approved of it. No doubt that principle was distasteful
 322 l l l l l
 ALDERMAN THOMPSON  said, the best course would be to proceed with the Bill, for it evidently proposed a great reduction of expense to persons making transfers of property not exceeding 1,000 l
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL , in compliance with a request from Mr. Sadleir, stated that all instruments signed before the 5th of July, 1850, would come under the operation of the old law, both as to the stamp duties and the amount of the penalty. He further observed that the 6th clause was prospective.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  replied in the affirmative.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  replied, that if such a necessity existed under the Bill, it would be easy for the party affected by it to go the Stamp Office and ascertain the state of the facts; but, though an attorney might neglect to pay the stamp duty, that would not affect the title of the purchaser of an estate; the deficient stamp duty would be a debt to the Crown due by the attorney, supposing him to have been paid it in his bill.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the reason for charging interest at the rate of five per cent upon the amount of the stamp, or of the difference between the insufficient and the proper stamp, where such stamp duty or deficiency should exceed the sum of 10 l l l l l l l l
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that at present, although six months were allowed in England, and, as the hon. Gentleman had stated, sixty days in Ireland, for the stamping of a deed, after the date of its execution, yet, so soon as the prescribed period had expired, the penalty was enforced. This clause was allowed twelve months, during which, upon proof, by oath or otherwise, so that it was to the satisfaction of the Commissioners of Inland Revenue, that it was through inadvertence, necessity, or otherwise, that the stamp had not been previously affixed, the duty might be paid and the stamp affixed without any penalty being exacted; or the penalty might be lowered, according to the circumstances of the case.
 ALDERMAN THOMPSON  instanced a case where this proviso would be inconvenient. A person died leaving his property to three trustees, one of whom went to South America, and was absent fifteen years. If a deed were sent out to him, this trustee would not be likely to execute it, unless he first saw the signature of his co-trustees attached to it. Great hardship would thus be inflicted if the clause stood in its present shape, and he trusted the Government would adopt the suggestion made by his hon. Friend the Member for Cirencester, and omit this part of the clause.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said that, under the existing law, a stationer was allowed to charge what he chose for all stamps, except receipts. The clause merely proposed to put the latter class of stamps upon the same footing as the others.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  doubted the practicability of carrying out the suggestion.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  opposed the Amendment, on the ground that it would entail a considerable loss of revenue.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  said, that the
 347
 SIR. G. GREY  wished to remark that one of two things should be done—they should either discuss the question of adjournment or the merits of the Bill. The hon. Member for Oxfordshire had made a speech on the merits of the Bill, and he would now only wish the House not to take that hon. Gentleman's interpretation of the Bill as the correct one, and to postpone their opinion on the merits of the Bills until they came to their discussion. The hon. Gentleman appeared to charge the Government with offering opposition to the wishes of the Irish Members in wishing to press on the second reading of this Bill. But not a single Irish Member had asked for the postponement of the question. The hon. and learned Member for Newark took from the noble Lord at the head of the Government the chance of addressing his opinions to the House on the subject, which might have enabled them to get through the second reading that night. But now, as it was after 12 o'clock, if it was the wish of the Irish Members or the other Members of the House that they should adjourn the debate on the second reading, of course the Government would yield. The opportunity of carrying through was not lost by the act of the Government, but by the intervention of the hon. and learned Member for Newark.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  said, that he was sorry that the Government were obliged to yield to an adjournment of the question. He wished, however, to remark that there could be nothing more unfair than the suggestion made by the hon. Member for Oxfordshire, that Irishmen who were inclined to play the rogue would be sewed by this Bill. The class whom this Bill would serve was that of the puisne creditors, who would be in a hopeless position if the Bill was not passed, and the honest men who wished to have full control over their property called loudly for the passing of the Bill.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he was prepared to leave it to the House whether the debate should be adjourned.
 SIR. D. NORREYS  wished that his right hon. Friend had proposed to take the second reading of the Bill  pro formâ
 SIR. G. GREY : I rise, Sir, in pursuance of notice, to bring in a Bill to make better provision for the interment of the dead in and near the metropolis. The House is aware that, by an Act passed towards the close of the last Session, the Act 12 & 13 Victoria, c. 111, power was given to the General Board of Health to inquire into the state of the burial grounds in the metropolis and other large and populous places; and they were also empowered to prepare a scheme to be submitted to Parliament to prohibit the practice of intramural interments. In pursuance of the power vested by Parliament in them under
 355 "From the replies to queries issued by the General Board of Health, it appears that the number of public and private burial grounds at the present time in the metropolis is 138; but this cannot be taken as the actual number, since a great many parishes have not yet sent in their returns. The total number cannot be less than 200, and is probably somewhat more. There are then in London, situated at various distances from each other, and each differing in extent, 200 centres of more or less pollution, each pouring off unceasingly day and night, its respective contribution of decaying matter, but the whole together, reckoning only the gases from decomposing human remains, amounting, as we have seen, in one year, to upwards of two millions and a half of cubic feet. Whatever portion of these gases is not absorbed by the earth—earth already surcharged with the accumulations of centuries—and whatever part does not mix with and contaminate the water, must be emitted into the atmosphere, bearing with them, as we know, putrescent matters perceptible to sense. That these emanations do act injuriously on the health of the people resident in the immediate neighbourhood of the places from which they issue, appears to us, by the evidence that has been adduced, to be indubitably established. From the law of the diffusion of gases, they must be rapidly spread through the whole of the atmosphere that surrounds the metropolis; and though they thereby become diluted, and are thus rendered proportionally innocuous, yet that they do materially contribute to the contamination of the air breathed by two millions of the people, cannot, we think, admit of any reasonable doubt. We submit, therefore, that a
 356 357 358 359
 SIR. G. GREY  said, that was a matter of detail, but he was not prepared to say what sum would be required. The rate would only be levied in case of the fees and payments proving insufficient.
 SIR. B. HALL  was extremely thankful to the right hon. Baronet for this Bill, which he hoped would become law quickly. There was one board in London, the Commissioners of the Metropolitan Sewers, who had annually large sums of money passing through their hands; and he believed they had no power to order their accounts to be laid before Parliament. They were unaccountable. He suggested that a clause should be introduced into the present measure to avoid this mistake, and requiring the accounts to be rendered to Parliament annually.
 SIR. G. GREY  said, provision was made for a report of the board's proceedings and an abstract of their accounts being annually laid before Parliament.
 MR. LAW  understood that the object of the Bill was to reduce the amount of duty under 1,000 l l 328 l toties quoties
 LORD ASHLEY  said, that the Board of Health did not anticipate any call upon the public, in the shape of a rate, for they believed the fees and payments would be adequate to meet the expenditure.
 LORD D. STUART  did not know whether the Bill would or would not increase taxation. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had certainly said that it would decrease it. Whether it would be in the gross a remission of taxation or not, it would be a great remission to the poor people, and he (Lord D. Stuart) hailed the measure as a step in the right direction. He wished the poor and the rich to be taxed proportionably the same amount, and not, as had been the case, and was now the case, that the poor man should pay an infinitely larger proportion than the rich man. When Mr. Cobbett moved his famous resolutions with reference to the stamp duties in 1833, he said he would prove—and he (Lord D. Stuart) thought that Mr. Cobbett had proved—that in many eases the poor man paid forty times as much percentage as the rich man. This was an infamous state of things, to correct which the present Bill had been introduced; and the only fault to be found with it was that it did not go far enough. In 1833, Mr. Cobbett stated, on the subject of mortgages, that if the amount of mortgage was 25 l l l l 329
 LORD J. RUSSELL  did not see that, if the Bill were postponed for a week, or fortnight, or three weeks, the House would be any further advanced in the consideration of the subject. The objection founded on the condition of Ireland was an objection to the consideration of the Bill at all during the Session, and a proposal to defer the Amendment of the Stamp Acts altogether. Now, the inequalities of the stamp duties upon the transfer of land, and the great hardship inflicted upon the smaller proprietors by the very heavy charge placed upon them, had for many years attracted observation, and had been pointed out in a Committee of the House of Lords; and his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had, at least for the last year, given his attention to the subject. Very early in this Session it was stated to be a subject to which the attention of Parliament would be directed; and a month ago, in making the financial statement, he pointed out the nature of the measure he meant to propose. His right hon. Friend stated that what he proposed to do was to diminish the duty on the smaller conveyances and on transactions in small properties, and to make a more equable arrangement and distribution of the duties with respect to the larger amounts of property and conveyances. Therefore the principle of the present measure had been for a month under the consideration of the House and of the public. When the resolution was proposed, and the Bill brought in, the subject attracted a great deal of attention, as a matter of course, and his right hon. Friend had received numerous communications and various persons from different parts of the country, and various suggestions had been made to him, and objections offered, which he had endeavoured to obviate
 326 l l l ad valorem l l l l l
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, hon. Gentlemen would not he deprived of an opportunity of discussing the merits of the Bill by consenting to its second reading, and its committal  pro formâ
 LORD J. RUSSELL  hoped, at any rate, the House would not occupy much more time in discussing whether they should proceed with the Bill or not. Unfortunately, they had got into the custom, whenever a Bill of any importance came on at eleven o'clock, to enter into a long debate as to whether it should be proceeded with or not. The question simply was, whether no Bill should be proceeded with after eleven o'clock, for if that course was adopted, there would constantly be a termination of further business after that hour. At any rate, some determination should be come to on the subject. He thought that Bills might advantageously be proceeded with after eleven o'clock; but if the House thought otherwise lot them so determine, but do not go on with a discussion from eleven o'clock to one to decide whether they would proceed with a Bill or not.
 LORD NAAS  had intended to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months, but he was glad that he had yielded to his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Newark, who had made some 'important observations with regard to it. At that late hour he hoped the House would not ask him to go on with his statement, which would probably lead to some discussion; and he must appeal to the Government to postpone the measure till some future day, when he might have an opportunity of addressing the House when it was less weary than at present.
 LORD NAAS  objected to a Bill of this importance being brought in at so late an hour, without some explanation being given. He could not help expressing some surprise that the right hon. the Irish Secretary had not prefaced the Motion by any statement. Medical relief was afforded in Ireland in
 352
 MR. DISRAELI  thought with the noble Lord that they ought to proceed with Bills of importance, but there were circumstances which modified that proceeding. This was a question of great importance, on which the noble Lord behind him, the Member for Kildare, had already given a notice. There were many Gentlemen in the House, having connexions in Ireland, who had a right to offer their opinion. There was a general impression that tonight this discussion could not possibly
 349
 MR. DISRAELI  understood the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge to say that, if they adopted the  ad valorem
 MR. DISRAELI  said, they were now endeavouring, in constructing a new system, to do it on a just basis. The right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had put forward the anomalies and monstrosities of the old system, as though the House was responsible for them any more than himself, and as if reference to them were any answer to the objections on the present occasion. He spoke as if there were two interests before the House, that of the rich, and that of the poor. [An Hon. MEMBER:
 337 ad valorem
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the right hon. Gentleman had thought fit, whilst the House was in Committee, to address to them some general observations, which were however of a contradictory nature. He understood the right hon. Gentleman on a former evening to say, that he intended to bring in a measure for the advantage of the landed interest. The smaller proprietors, not the least important part of the landed interest, were to receive relief from a modification of the stamp duties that affected them. The right hon. Gentleman informed them that he could not make this beneficial change for the small proprietor, unless he, at the same time, made others which would affect the great proprietors, adopting an  ad valorem ad valorem l l l 315 ad valorem l
 MR. DISRAELI : The right hon. Gentleman had stated that the increase of the  ad valorem l l
 MR. HAWES  replied that his hon. Friend had scarcely stated what had been done by the Council of Malta quite correctly. The facts were these: In the council a proposition had been made for the amendment of the municipal code. In that part relating to religion there had been introduced, by a majority, a certain amendment which imposed a higher penalty on the interruption of the Roman Catholic worship. No ordinance had been passed; none, at least, had reached the noble Lord the Secretary of State. The Bishop of Gibraltar, within whose diocese Malta lay, had protested, and his protest had been received; but in consequence of these proceedings the noble Lord the Secretary of State had thought it right, if the amendment should be introduced into an ordinance couched in the terms stated, and imposing discriminating penalties on those who interrupted the worship of Roman Catholics, as compared with those who interrupted the worship of any other body of Christains, to declare that such ordinance should not be sanctioned.
 MR. HAWES  could give no further reply till the ordinance arrived.
 MR. SPEAKER  stated, that if the duties were entirely new it would be necessary for them to go through a Committee of the whole House; but if they were merely reductions of old duties, it would not be necessary.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was anxious to make a very short statement in order to remove any misapprehensions which might exist with regard to this Bill, because it was extremely in convenient that any discussion should take place upon the question of the Speaker leaving the chair, as almost all the points that could be raised must be upon the schedule of the Bill. There had, however, been so much misapprehension on the subject that he might state that in the altered Bill now before the House there was no increase whatever—no additional tax had been laid on; but there was a considerable number of reductions. He and the Chairman of the Board of Inland Revenue had received many suggestions with regard to this Bill, the whole of which had been considered and digested. Interviews had been had with many of the parties, and he believed he might say generally, that 99 of
 301 ad valorem
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in rising to address the Committee, he merely wished to state that he had never expressed any reluctance to hear objections on the Bill. When asked,
 312 ad valorem ad valorem 313 s l l l l l l l l 314
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was inconvenient to discuss the details of the measure at that particular stage, and he suggested that the House should go into Committee at once, when every question would be answered.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had stated distinctly that he increased the duty on the larger, and decreased it on the smaller transactions, and
 317 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it would not be in order to refer to what had passed in a former debate; but surely the hon. Member's memory must be defective, seeing that he had put words in his (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) mouth which he had never uttered, and—unintentionally of course—had misrepresented other words uttered not five minutes since. He appealed to the House whether, when he brought forward the stamp duties, he had not distinctly stated his project. What he had stated was, that he proposed a measure with regard to the stamp duties, the loss by which would be somewhere about 300,000 l l l l 316 l ad valorem ad valorem l l l ad valorem l l ad valorem l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained that the great bulk of the loss would be on conveyances, which, from the great number of the small transactions of this nature, he calculated at 230,000 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It would not be worth while.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  wished to state to the Committee what the law was, and what it would be. At present, on a bond not exceeding 50 l s s d ad valorem s l l l l l l l ad valorem l l ad valorem ad valorem s l s d ad valorem
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it would be better if the hon. Member for Cirencester would allow his Amendment to stand over for the present, as no notice had been given of it. He would not estimate off-hand what loss of revenue it would occasion, but he was told it would be considerable. He thought it was not too much to ask that he should have time to examine what its effect would be.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he presumed the hon. Gentleman the Member for Cirencester would allow his Amendments to this schedule to stand over in the same way. If the hon. Gentleman would communicate to him his proposals, he would take them into consideration. The duties in Schedule B applied to bonds and mortgages, which were put on the same footing. On the first item, where the consideration was under 50 l s s d s s
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, if the two first items were agreed to, the question of an  ad valorem l l s
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the clause was intended to give stationers sufficient inducements to sell stamps, and thus give accommodation to the public.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  then said, he gave the clause up.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  expressed his readiness to omit the proviso objected to.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he had stated a fortnight ago what the probable effect of the Bill would be. Upon all conveyances up to 1,300 l l l l l l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought it would be more convenient for him to give the explanation demanded by the hon. Baronet when they came to the schedule. He might, however, say, that there was nothing in the Bill which could fairly be called a new tax.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said he was in a condition to prove what would be the loss, but not to show what would be the gain—that must remain
 319
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  assured the hon. Gentleman that the Government were ready to listen to any suggestions that might be made on the subject of the Bill, and then to effect in it any changes which fairly could be considered amendments.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the deed would not be vitiated, or the purchaser rendered liable to any debt, in consequence of the attorney having omitted to pay the duty.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that some regard must be had to the revenue, though they were dealing with a surplus. At present the amount of revenue derived from this 1 l l l s l s d s l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I beg to state that, in consequence of the decision just arrived at by the House, it is not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to proceed further with this Bill to-night. I do not wish to be understood as assenting to any proposition implied by that vote—that I am anxious to guard against—but not knowing what the effect out of doors of this vote will be, though I know it will involve a serious loss of revenue, I must take time to consider before further proceeding with the measure.
 MR. CARDWELL  thought that the clause, if allowed to pass, would have the effect of saddling the public with an additional burden.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that he came down to the House prepared to support the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for Kildare; but having heard the objections of the hon. and learned Member for Newark to their going on with the question that night, he thought it would be better to postpone it. In his opinion, the Bill, instead of raising the value of landed estates, would tend to depress it.
 MR. MOWATT  thought it due to the Government to proceed with the clauses of the Bill. The Act would relieve an existing pressure upon small properties, while it would extend a more equitable principle of  ad valorem
 MR. BANKES  said, this question had not arisen out of a dire necessity, but out of a surplus—an extraordinary incident, no doubt—and the question how they were to deal with that surplus revenue had given rise to this discussion. His first impression as to the right hon. Gentleman's proposal was very different to that he now entertained, He had heard nothing of the  ad valorem ad valorem
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, there was but one opinion as to the expediency of making material alterations in the existing system of medical relief; but the Bill as it stood was open to very serious objections. His right hon. Friend proposed himself to introduce alterations into the measure, showing that he did not quite approve of it himself. He, therefore, thought it should be withdrawn, and a new measure introduced, particularly as if the second reading were now agreed to, they would be precluded from discussing its principle.
 MR. HUDSON  said, that there were some parts of the Bill liable to the strongest objection. He thought it would be better it should be postponed for a week. He was acquainted with many gentlemen of the legal profession, who had pointed out several parts of it that were very objectionable, and if the Committee were postponed for a week, some of these objections might be removed in the meantime.
 MR. G. SANDARS  said, he and his Friends on that side of the House made no objection to the remission of the duty on sums under 1,000 l ad valorem 
 
 ON BONDS OF 
 £1,000 at present was £5 proposed duties £5 
 5,000 … 9 … 25 
 10,000 … 12 … 50 
 20,000 … 20 … 100 
 25,000 … 25 … 150 
 100,000 … 25 … 500 
 200,000 … 25 … 1,000 
 
 ON MORTGAGES. 
 £1,000 … £5 … £5 
 4,000 … 8 … 20 
 15,000 … 15 … 75 
 40,000 … 25 … 200 l ad valorem 330 l l
 MR. GOULBURN  observed, that at present the one pound stamp was applied indiscriminately to conveyances and mortgages; but the right hon. Gentleman appeared to have discovered how many were applied to conveyances.
 MR. GOULBURN  disapproved of the application of the  ad valorem 335 l l s s d ad valorem s d
 MR. GOULBURN  said, he had already stated, in an early part of the evening, that the imposition of a heavy burthen on large bonds and securities would place restrictions on the employment of capital in various ways in which it was at present employed most advantageously for all classes. He did not ask that a smaller rate of duty should be placed on large sums than on small ones; but if the amount were heavy, especially in the case of mortgages on factories or shops, the parties might be prevented from obtaining such reduction of interest as they might otherwise secure. It was most desirable that the  ad valorem
 MR. GOULBURN  complained that its effect would be to allow a stationer to charge any price he pleased for stamps.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, he introduced an Amendment into the Stamp Act subjecting agreements to a stamp of 2 s d s d 334
 MR. GOULBURN  did not clearly understand by what means the right hon. Gentleman arrived at that result. He should like to know on what principle he had based his calculation to arrive at the conclusion, that after settling in his own mind the amount of loss which would arise from the decrease of the duty in the smaller, and the gain which would follow from the increase in the larger transactions, there would still be a loss of 300,000 l l l
 MR. GOULBURN  was unwilling to prevent the House going into Committee; but he trusted he might be excused whilst he pointed out what appeared to him to be a grave defect in the Bill. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had attempted to introduce a mode of levying stamp duties which had never been adopted in any previous Act, namely, the principle of levying an equal percentage on all transactions requiring a stamp. This had never before been acted upon, and for this simple reason—that, if you took an amount of duty in the lower part of the scale sufficient to produce the adequate revenue, it operated on the higher part of the scale with such extreme oppression that it would prove either ruinous to the party paying the duty, or be from evasion utterly inoperative as a measure of revenue. The right hon. Gentleman, therefore, had got himself into a difficulty, and if he proposed to make an  ad valorem 302 l l l l l l l l l l l 303 l l ad valorem 304
 MR. GOULBURN  said, there was considerable difficulty in dealing with the stamp laws; but, on the whole, he was disposed to think that, with regard to bonds and mortgages, when the object was to afford relief, it was better to have a duty that was too low than one which was too high. With regard to conveyances, he would say nothing, because where a man was wealthy enough to purchase an estate, it might be considered fair enough that the higher duty should be levied. The only difficulty in his mind was as to the effect the change might have on the revenue; but as only 60,000 l l 340 l
 MR. LACY  had no intention of offering the slightest opposition to the Motion, of which he approved; but he wished to know whether the Government supposed that the estimated total annual expense of 112,000 l
 MR. HEALD  thought the Bill would operate disadvantageously in the transfer of some descriptions of property. He was opposed to indefinite postponement; but, without a clear understanding, he would not affirm the principle of increasing the cost of stamps on property of the value of 1,000 l l
 MR. WYLD  suggested that a provision
 360
 MR. BRIGHT  thought the House was called upon to go on with the consideration of this Bill in Committee under circumstances of a most unfavourable character. He doubted if there were three Members in the House besides the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer who understood the Bill. There was a universal opinion out of doors, so far as he could gather it from the public papers, and
 320 l ad valorem l l ad valorem 321 ad valorem
 MR. HATCHELL  said, he was so personally referred to that he felt bound to come forward, even at the risk of postponing any information which his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General for England might be able to give the hon. and learned Member for Newark. With respect to the fact of his hon. and learned Friend having the conduct of this measure, whatever might have been intended by that allusion on the part of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, he begged to offer this explanation for his own vindication. The Incumbered Estates Bill was originated
 345 346
 MR. ROEBUCK  agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that the same rate ought to prevail from the bottom to the top of the scale, but could not consent to the amount of the latter being made an argument against the  ad valorem
 MR. ROEBUCK  wished to know why a poor man, wanting to borrow 10 l l l l
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he accepted it as a necessity that a certain amount of revenue must be raised; that was one of the objects of the Bill; otherwise it was one of the most mischievous in the whole series of legislation. Were it supported on any other pretence than that of wanting money, he would meet the whole thing in the face, and declare that there could be no more mischievous mode of taxing the people than this Bill proposed. He accepted it only as a direful necessity, and sought to reduce it to its minimum. If the House took his advice, it would throw the Bill out that instant, and prefer any other mode of raising revenue to this most mischievous interference with the administration of justice. There never was so great a mischief done to justice, so flagrant a bonus to injustice, wrong, and every possible fraud and perjury, as regarded the honest man in this country, as was derived from this Bill. It was a direful necessity. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer said he wanted to raise by it a certain sum; if he would assure the House that he could not raise that sum without beginning at 2 s d ad valorem 338
 MR. SADLEIR  thought it very alarming to hear the hon. Member for the important,
 323 ad valorem 324
 MR. SADLEIR  objected to the discretion given under this clause to the Commissioners of Inland Revenue to require an oath from parties claiming to have a
 332
 MR. SADLEIR  said, nothing could be more unfortunate than if it should turn out that the effect of the present measure would be to increase litigation. It was the opinion of an eminent conveyancer in this metropolis, that it would be most difficult to fix the amount of stamp duty payable upon deeds executed before the passing of the Bill.
 MR. SADLEIR  said, that the measure submitted to the House involved questions most difficult to determine, and comprised provisions which affected very many interests throughout the kingdom. He would ask the House to consider the circumstances under which they were now pressed to hurry into Committee on this Bill. They would well remember the declaration of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that he was about to propose an alteration in the duties which would operate as a great and substantial boon to the landed interest of the kingdom. That declaration was followed by a Bill which was now, he was glad to say, a defunct abortion, and of which, seeing that it was dead, he was unwilling to speak harshly. The right hon. Gentleman had evinced some impatience that he had been troubled with a great mass of suggestions for the improvement of the Bill. He (Mr. Sadleir) was bound to admit that, notwithstanding his impatience, the right hon. Gentleman had most gracefully and sensibly yielded to nine-tenths of those suggestions, and that, consequently, the House was not now called upon to consider the first Bill at all—a Bill which, he had no hesitation in saying, would, if it had passed, have brought an amount of disaster and ruin upon the commercial and agricultural interests of the country of which it was difficult to form any just conception. But although the worst parts of that Bill had fortunately been withdrawn, he thought there was great reason to complain that after the manner in which a similar effort was scouted by Parliament and the country in 1836, the Government should have again attempted to induce the House to adopt such objectionable provisions. He regretted to say, that the second Bill was not altogether free from objections; and although it might be very convenient for the occupants of the Treasury bench to avoid entering into any explanation of the Bill, especially as they might not be very conversant with the subject, it being a mixed question of agriculture, commerce, and law, they certainly ought not to have invited the House to consider the Bill in Committee without furnishing them with some explanations as to what they were determined to insist upon, and how far they intended to yield.
 308 l l l l 309 ad valorem 310 ex post facto 311 l l l
 MR. STUART  rose to explain. He had given notice of his questions in the early part of the night to the law officer of the Crown who had charge of the Bill, and he had not conceived it possible that he who was in charge of it was uninformed on the subject to which his questions referred. He had meant no discourtesy towards the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General for Ireland. One word with regard to the point on which he desired information. [ Cries of
 MR. J. STUART  said, he was really astonished to hear at so late an hour the Motion that this Bill be then read a second time. The avowed purpose of the Bill was to facilitate the operation of the Act of last Session, for the sale of incumbered estates in Ireland. It recited that Act, and purported to be a Bill for its more effectual operation. He thought nothing could be more plain than that, before they proceeded to carry farther the operation of the Act of last Session, the House should be in pos-
 343 344
 MR. HENLEY  observed that the right hon. Gentleman confined his statement to the single item of the 1 l ad valorem
 MR. HENLEY  hoped the House would not pass without notice the statement made that night by the hon. and learned Solicitor General, in order that they might fully understand the measure now before them when they arrived at the next discussion. The hon. and learned Gentleman had stated distinctly that this Bill was part and parcel of the Incumbered Estates Bill of last year. That Bill dealt, at all events, suddenly with landed property, and this
 350
 MR. HENLEY  said, that if the principle of an  ad valorem l ad valorem l ad valorem 307
 MR. HENLEY  wished to know on what data the right hon. Gentleman had arrived at the conclusion, that by changing the mortgage duty from 10 s s l
 MR. HENLEY , speaking as to deeds executed before the passing of the Bill, wished to know what was to be done with them?
 MR. HENLEY  thought he had reason to complain, after the explanation they had just heard from the hon. and learned Attorney General, of the conduct of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. On a former occasion, he had asked for some account of the number of stamps of a particular character which had been issued, and he was told by the right hon. Gentleman that he had searched the Stamp Office, but could not obtain the information required. Now it appeared the Government had it in their hands, and the hon. and learned Attorney General, quoting it, endeavoured to show exactly what the result of the proposed change would be, so far as the stamps on conveyances were concerned.
 MR. HENLEY  would vote for the Amendment if the hon. Baronet pressed
 339 l l
 MR. HUME  acknowledged that revenue was a matter to be considered in the present instance; but it seemed to him that they might obtain a greater revenue by beginning with a duty of 1 s s d s l s l
 MR. HUME  thought the Amendment a very proper one; it followed up the principle on which the Bill was framed, and did away with the extraordinary leap from 2 s d s
 MR. HUME  thought that some certain allowance should be made to vendors of stamps, instead of leaving them to fix their own prices, and thus arbitrarily increasing the amount of a tax.
 MR. HUME  said, that some limitation as to retail price ought to be instituted.
 MR. HUME  thought that if there was any portion of the community more likely than another to be benefited by the present Bill, it was the people of Ireland. There was very little difficulty in understanding the proposal, if hon. Gentlemen would consult the printed table with which they had each been furnished, inasmuch as that table contained the cost of the stamp for every conveyance or mortgage up to 1,000 l l 325 l l
 MR. HUME  had no doubt that there was a considerable aggravation of the charges upon larger sums, but the intention was
 306 l ad valorem l ad valorem
 MR. HUME  hoped that, except some very special grounds were shown, the House would not stop the further progress of the Bill, which appeared to him a very beneficial one, the object of it being to assist the purchasers of property, by not enforcing from them the whole amount of the purchase money, but allowing them a portion of it for the purpose of improving the land.
 MR. MULLINGS , in stating the objections which he took to this Bill, said, that he did not see that it contained any provisions which would repeal any of the clauses of the Act passed in the reign of George IV., which regulated the transfer of mortgages. He considered that the duties on such transfers should be put in the same category as those to which this Bill referred. If they repealed the stamp duty on leases for one year, it was no longer necessary with regard to conveyances. He did not see, in such cases, that this Bill contained any provision for the production of deeds. The objections made by the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, as regarded mortgages, were well worthy of consideration. He wished, however, that the right hon. Gentleman had not confined his objections to that part of the matter which related to mortgages on land only, but had extended it to mortgages on money, railway debentures, and a variety of mortgages. Bonds and warrants of attorney were now subjected to a very large duty. With regard to these, he thought that they ought to be all put in one class, and made subject to the same duties as the others. Taxing the public for loans, to the extent proposed by the Bill, was a very pernicious principle. It was, in fact, taxing the necessities and even the distresses of the people; for it frequently happened that parties who were obliged to execute a mortgage were not in circumstances to pay the expense of the instrument. Such cases had happened in
 305 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l
 MR. MULLINGS  believed that at present the 15 l l l l l l l l l s l l
 MR. MULLINGS  expressed his belief that the Bill was in an imperfect state, and introduced the principle of taxing transactions which had hitherto been exempt from the stamp duties.
 MR. MULLINGS  objected to the last portion of this clause, which provided that the deed must not have been signed or executed by any party thereto within the united kingdom when the same was so received as aforesaid from abroad.
 MR. MULLINGS  proposed an Amendment. By the present Act a stamp of 2 s d s s s d s
 MR. MULLINGS  believed, on the contrary, it would largely increase the revenue.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, that the highest amount of duty by the present scale was 25 l l
 MR. MULLINGS  at the suggestion of Mr. Hume, withdrew his Amendment.
 MR. SPOONER  complained that the right hon. Gentleman had not answered the question of the hon. Member for Stockport. The question was, what would the loss to the revenue be supposing there was no increase on the higher scale, while the right hon. Gentleman had told the House what was the estimated loss both upon the reductions and additions.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  wished to know whether the exemptions in reference to building societies were to be re-enacted?
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, benefit societies were exempted by the existing Act from stamp duties upon their transactions; and by a subsequent measure benefit building societies were placed upon the same footing. The Court of Common Pleas, on two occasions, had recently decided that benefit building societies were exempt from stamp duties. The transactions of these societies were of a very extensive nature. Large sums of money were invested in them not only by persons of the poorest class, but by others rather above them. It was, therefore, a matter of grave consequence to these parties that the exemption should be continued; but he did not find anything in the Bill upon the subject. He therefore wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether it was intended that the Bill should continue the exemption?
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that by the Bill all unpaid duties would become Crown debts; and, as they would never cease to exist till they were discharged, no man could tell whether he had or had not a good title to any estate that he might have purchased.
 MR. ANSTEY  trusted that Her Majesty's Ministers would do no such thing—as this, probably, was the best of the series of measures brought forward by the Government for the good of Ireland—it was to be hoped that they would not postpone it for a night, or even for a single hour. It had been stated, that they could not expect the House then to consider the Bill before it; but the objections appeared to be altogether against its details; and if there were any objections to any particular clause, that was not the time to deal with them. The hon. and learned Member for Newark said, he wished to give an effective security to purchasers. What was the argument of the hon. and learned Gentleman last year, when the Incumbered Estates
 348
 MR. CONOLLY  thought the consideration of the Bill ought to be deferred till Members were more fully masters of the subject. The readjustment of the stamp duties was a matter of great importance and difficulty.
 MR. MITCHELL  did not think it would be just to apply the  ad valorem l l l l ad valorem
 MR. MITCHELL  explained that his objection to the measure arose from this, that it would operate unjustly; the fact being, that even with the reduced rate of increase now proposed, a transaction which in the present state of the law would cost 25 l l
 MR. F. MACKENZIE  asked in what manner, after the passing of this Bill, it was intended to enforce the stamp duty on large transactions of this nature? Would it not be evaded in the same way as, according to the right hon. Gentleman's statement, it was now on deeds for small sums?
 SIR. H. WILLOUGHBY  said, he found in the amended Bill that copyhold estates and customary estates and memorials were included, and that they had not existed in the original Bill, or in the schedule which had passed through the Committee of the whole House, He wished to inquire, whether it was competent to the House to deal with any new heads introduced into a Bill of this nature, with the view of increasing the taxation of the country, without submitting them to a Committee of the whole House?
 SIR. H. WILLOUGHBY  thought it was only due to the landed interest that they should know what new taxes it was intended to impose. Would an agreement for a lease require to be stamped? As he read the Bill, he believed it would be liable to a tax under the head of covenants.
 SIR. H. WILLOUGHBY  said, he thought the first step too high. Instead of 2 s d s
 SIR. J. WALSH  did not rise at that late hour to address himself to the principle of the Bill; but he appealed to the candour and good feeling of Her Majesty's Government as to whether it was discreet and consistent with the general usages of that House to force on at a very late hour a measure which all admitted to be of very great importance, affecting as it did the sister kingdom, and involving the most important consequences. There was a general understanding that important Bills should not be forced on their attention at a late hour. That evening they had been discussing another Bill up to ten minutes past eleven, which was a very different measure from that before the House; it therefore was not possible that adequate attention could be given to this subject, he therefore hoped the Government would give way.
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  suggested that an order should be sent to Ireland to suspend the sale of incumbered estates until the fate of the Bill was determined,
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  wished to put a question to the hon. Gentleman the Under-Secretary of State for the Colonies on the subject of certain proceedings at Malta in reference to the Roman Catholic Church in that island. On the 10th of March, an ordinance was passed by which the Church of Rome was declared the dominant religion in Malta. On the 14th a proposition was made in reference to other religions, tolerating or protecting them. A Member of the Government of that island objected, and contended that the Church of Her Majesty, which Her Majesty had sworn to protect in all its rights and privileges, could not fairly be designated as a church tolerated in any part of Her Majesty's dominions, and maintained that it ought to be regarded as established. Her Majesty's Government were defeated, and the ordinance in its offensive form was passed. A protest was made by the Lord Bishop of
 299
 SIR. R. H. INGLIS  inquired whether the term "Established Church" would be used as designating the Church of Her Majesty?
 SIR. W. SOMERVILLE  said, that his reason for simply moving the second reading of the Bill was, that he understood some hon. Gentlemen intended to object to the principle of the measure, and he was anxious to reserve his observations until he had heard their remarks, otherwise he assured his noble Friend that he would not have made that Motion without a statement. He begged to say that he was anxious that the Bill should be read a second time that night, if possible, in order to enable him to get it into Committee  pro formâ 353 l l l l 354
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  thought the question of medical charities of Ireland should be settled as speedily as possible. Great inconvenience resulted from the present anomalous position of those charities.
 MR. EWART  seconded the Motion.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he had great pleasure in stating, that he did not feel it necessary to oppose the Motion. No one could doubt that it was of the utmost importance, and he thought it probable that the Committee now asked for might be able to obtain important evidence on the various subjects to which his hon. Friend referred. But, at the same time, it must he admitted that they were difficult as well as important topics. It would, no doubt, be of great consequence to the working classes, if they could obtain land in an easy and advantageous manner; and he hoped that by law reforms, as well as by fiscal reforms, that House would promote so desirable an object. He knew, both from observation and experience, that the cost of the investments was a very great bar to persons of small means who desired to invest their money in land. With regard to the law of partnership which existed in this country, the question was one which involved considerable difficulty. He believed the opinions of Lord Ashburton, Lord Over-stone, Mr. Palmer, and Mr. Norman, who were examined before the Committee of 1837 on this subject, were equally divided for and against the view advocated by his hon. Friend. He confessed, for himself, that he did not see how the present law of partnership could be altered, so as to allow persons to invest a limited capital on the principle of limited liability, without increasing the spirit of gambling amongst all classes of the community, which must lead to disastrous consequences both to the capitalist who might be induced to embark his money in a speculation over which he had but little control, and to the creditor who might be induced to deal with parties who had but a limited capital and a limited responsibility. With respect to the first portion of his hon. Friend's Motion, he had no fault to find, but he did not exactly understand that portion of it which the hon. Gentleman said was for affording the middle and working classes the means of forming societies to insure themselves against coming evils frequently recurring. He confessed he was quite at a loss to understand that part of the Motion. In Committee he would be glad to afford all the information in his power.
 MR. P. H. HOWARD  said, there was a point as regarded investments, which he trusted would not be lost sight of by the Government. It was considered advisable to bring in a Bill the other day, to give
 426
 MR. SLANEY  accepted the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, to agree to the Motion on leaving out the last clause. If there was any obscurity in it, he could quote a high authority in its favour. "Coming events cast their shadows before them."
 SIR J. C. HOBHOUSE  said, that if the answer which he gave to the hon. and learned Member was not so satisfactory as he could wish, or as the House might expect, a reason for it could be found in the speech just delivered by the hon. and learned Member. The returns for which the hon. Member moved, had reference to all patronage except that connected with judicial appointments, while his speech referred to nothing but patronage of this kind. It was impossible, therefore, for him to suppose, upon looking to the Motion, that a
 429 430 431
 MR. KEOGH  was not aware that this subject would have come on to-night until he came down to the House; he therefore had not expected any discussion on it. With respect to the speech of the right hon. Baronet, he would only say that they so seldom heard him address the House, which he did in so agreeable and pleasant a manner, that it was to be hoped they
 432 433
 MR. C. ANSTEY  hoped that the debate would not close until some hon. Gentleman who was supposed to represent the interests of the East India Company would say a few words respecting the doubts which had been raised by the hon. and learned Member for Carlow. That hon. and learned Member, he thought, had somewhat mistaken the case as to the blame resting with the East India Company, or with the Board of Control. There was some experience, he said, on record, of the mode in which judicial appointments in India were filled up, and he mentioned the case of a gentleman, not of the Irish but of the English bar, who had been unjustly displaced from the office of law adviser in a colony, and who, in the judgment of two colonial secretaries, was entitled to compensation, and was a proper subject for promotion. The claim was preferred to the Board of Control, and the opinion of that board was in his favour; but the opinion of the Chairman of Directors being that it was beneath the dignity of the Indian bench to suffer the promotion of a gentleman from another port, the claim was set aside, and another person of inferior merit
 434
 MR. LAWLESS  said, with regard to what had fallen from the right hon. President of the Board of Control relative to appointments having been refused by Irishmen, that it was no wonder Baron Richards had not accepted the offer; for he was then an old man, and it would have been astonishing if at his age he had gone out to India.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, the speeches of the Mover and Seconder had convinced him of what he knew before, that what were popularly called the taxes on knowledge, were among the very first which the Chancellor of the Exchequer would do well to remove. But when he looked at what had taken place only twenty-four hours ago, he was reminded of a homely proverb which said, that "nobody can eat his cake and have his cake." Last night would have been the time for Members with whom he generally voted, to have supported the removal of at least a portion of what the greater part of the population of the country considered a crying evil, the unequal rate of the taxation. But, instead of that, they had joined in the representation that
 405
 LORD J. RUSSELL  was certain that those Members who were not in the House at the time when his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer spoke, could hardly have any correct notion of the speech of his right hon. Friend from the representations of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just resumed his seat. He asked the House to raise themselves above mere fiscal views, and to consider this subject with the greatness that belonged to it; but he (Lord J. Russell) must think that the view taken by his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer was the more important one, and one upon which the decision of the House ought to depend. His right hon. Friend alluded in his speech to the proposition made after he had brought forward the financial statement of the year, and to the taxes which he had proposed to abolish, and he had stated, that after paying off an annuity of the value of 200,000 l l l l l l l 411 412 s d s d l l l l 413 Times d d 414 l 415 416
 MR. DISRAELI  wished, in a very few words, to state the reasons which influenced him in the vote which he was about to give. The question before them was this—ought they to agree to the first resolution of the right hon. Member for Manchester, a resolution which proposed to remove the excise from paper? That was the only question, he apprehended, on which the decision of the House was to be taken. He should not indulge in the general and somewhat impassioned views put forward by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, and the noble Lord the First Minister. They had both of them brought us to the Red Republic, and there he left them. Nor was it necessary for him to enter into the causes which, after a vast reduction of taxation, amounting to upwards of 9,000,000 l l 417 418 419 420
 MR. COWAN  begged leave to second the resolution. He was not ashamed to say before the landed aristocracy, that he owed almost all he possessed to that manufacture to which his right hon. Friend had
 388 s s d 389 l l 390 391
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could assure his right hon. Friend the Member for Manchester, that he did not intend to object in any way to his having brought this subject before the House; and still less objection had he felt to listen to so able and eloquent a speech as that by which the right hon. Gentleman had introduced the Motion. His right hon. Friend had, however, put into his (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) mouth, arguments which he never had used, and which he was not prepared to use, against the repeal or reduction of the duties to which the Motion referred. He was afraid that taxation was a necessary evil; and some taxes were more objectionable than others; when he had the means of so doing, he would readily remove those taxes which at the time appeared to him to press most heavily upon the people. It was only a short time since he had stated to the House the probable surplus of revenue in the course of the year which he conceived might be fairly devoted to the reduction of taxation; and he thought that the proposal he then made as to the taxes he deemed it most convenient to reduce, was received with satisfaction by the House generally. His right hon. Friend had quoted the opinion of the Commissioners of Excise as to the duty on paper; but he must remind the right hon. Gentleman that they expressed a still stronger opinion with regard to the objections to the duty upon bricks. The right hon. Gentleman had referred to what took place as to the reduction or repeal of various duties in 1842; but it must be remembered that the right hon. Member for Tamworth then imposed a new tax which raised an additional revenue of some where about 5,000,000 l 392 "Unlike other excise duties the process of their (paper) manufacture la exempt from excise interference." To which exemption the Commissioners attributed "the very great progress which had been made in the application of various improvements to this manufacture, especially those arising from the extensive introduction of machinery, which had enabled the manufacturers, by combining the two processes of making and drying the paper through the operation of large cylinders heated by steam, to complete in a few minutes a quantity of paper, which formerly occupied a period of as many weeks." 393 s d 394 l l l l l l l l l l l l l 395 l l l l l l 396 l l l l 397 l l l
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he should feel obliged reluctantly to vote against this Motion, and his reason was this: He asked himself what would be the practical advantage to the country arising from this question? If he were asked whether the resolutions were in themselves reasonable and expedient, he would answer that no man—not even the right hon. Gentleman himself—was more pledged to the subject
 404
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he would commence his observations with the proceedings of his hon. and gallant Friend who had just sat down. He (Mr. Roebuck) had watched him on the preceding day, and had seen him going out of the House to vote for the negative, when they were going to vote for that question which he thought so extraordinary. It seemed to his hon. and gallant Friend to be bad political economy to have commenced as they had done with the Stamp Act. He hoped no hon. Gentleman would take offence at
 406 l l 407 and a laugh 408 409 l 410
 MR. HUME  thought the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not fairly met the question. For himself, he had never heard any reference made to the doctrine of repudiation without protesting against it. He could assure the right hon. Gentleman that he entertained as warm a desire to maintain the public credit as himself, being convinced that any attempt to interfere with it would be attended with the most serious results. But the premises on which the right hon. Gentleman had asked the House not to agree to this resolution were not correct. The right hon. Gentleman had truly said that there was a general concurrence on the part of the House when he proposed the mode of dealing with the surplus. That was in respect to some of his propositions. He (Mr. Hume) considered the repeal of the brick duty a proper reduction, but he objected to applying any part of the surplus in reducing the national debt while such taxes as the window tax, and the taxes which were referred to in the present Motion, remained. It was, besides, absurd to talk of applying such a surplus to the reduction of a debt of 900,000,000 l 398 399 l 400 401 l l
 MR. M. GIBSON  said, before entering upon the subject of the particular Motion he was about to submit, he thought it would be right to make a few preliminary observations, in order to explain to the House why he had thought it necessary, entertaining the views he did of the whole subject, to submit that Motion in its present form of separate resolutions; to explain also, clearly, the way in which he wished the Motion to be put and to be understood by hon. Members; and likewise to explain how he could reconcile it to his sense of public duty to move for what some might consider rather a large reduction of taxation, after the reductions which had
 362 363 l 364 l l l 365 "It costs me in labour alone to help to charge myself with the duty on paper, about 100 l l 366 l l primâ facie 367 Commercial Dictionary s 368 The Struggles of a Book against Excessive Taxation Penny Cyclopœdia l l l l l 369 l Working Man's Friend l 370 371 "I view the stamp upon newspapers simply in reference to its effects upon the habits and feelings of the people; and it is in that spirit I should deal with it, and not in the spirit of revenue." l l l l 372 Punch Athenœum Builder Punch Daily News bonâ fide 373 Savory's Newspaper; Sam Sly 374 Sam Sly Paul pry Town 375 376 Lamp v " Sir John " Jester "For months past, as all the world knows, the minds of the English public have been kept in a state of feverish excitement by theological squabbles of the two Anglican worthies whose names head this paper. The good men and true of the Establishment became regularly pitted against each other. Dividing themselves into two parties, they prepared for a smashing encounter. The one stoutly maintaining, in the person of their right reverend leader, the old and orthodox dogma of spiritual regeneration by infant baptism; the other as boldly maintaining the opposite view, and cheering their chosen champion to the skies. What a scene to laugh at for those who had neither spiritual nor temporal interest at stake! How the Dissenters might chuckle and sneer, and turn up their nose in disgust, while witnessing these solemn tomfooleries. How they might scourge these grave puerilities which their own code of belief boldly repudiates, and which, to do them justice, they could neither sanction nor understand. But in what light did Catholics view this clerical set-to? Why, to them there was nothing strange to be seen; it was merely a repetition of some of the antics and vagaries of the mutinous crew of a leaky, shattered old barque, whose cable they wickedly cut some 300 years ago, and set her adrift without compass or rudder, and have kept her ever since beating about through rocks and shoals upon the stormy sea of uncertainty and error." v 377 Reynolds 'Political Instructor "Lord Palmerston flared and blustered in the House about the independence of Hungary; but not one bullet or one musket found its way from the Government stores to assist that noble people in their glorious struggle for freedom. In foreign lands our policy is stigmatised as perfidious; we are disliked and mistrusted. Never, perhaps, were the following lines of Lord Byron, when alluding to the position of England, more appropriate than at the present time:— 'Alas! did she but really, truly know How her great name is now throughout abhorr'd, How all the world is eager for the blow Which shall lay bare her bosom to the sword.' The condition of our colonies, under the flagrant misrule of Earl Grey, is deplorable in the extreme. Notwithstanding the floggings and shootings of those aspiring Haynaus in the Ionian Isles and Ceylon—Ward and Lord Torrington—the people of these possessions are determined, sooner or later, to throw off the merciless yoke of England. One by one our colonies, following the example of America, will free themselves from the chains of aristocratic domination." "A paper upon the necessity for an entirely new organisation of society, based upon principles not opposed to but in accordance with nature." Cooper's Journal, or Unfettered Thinker, and Plain Speaker, for Truth, Freedom, and Progress "The concluding paragraphs of the Queen's Speech merely confirm the report that it would allude to the ministerial purpose of altering the law relative to the franchise. It leaves us entirely in the dark as to what kind of alteration is intended, and how far it will be an extension. The Delphic oracle was never more enigmatical. 'The favour of Divine Providence has hitherto preserved this kingdom from the wars and convulsions which during the last two years have shaken so many of the States of the Continent of Europe. It is Her Majesty's hope and belief that by combining liberty with order, by preserving what is valuable, and amending what is defective, you will sustain the fabric of our institutions, as the abode and the shelter of a free and happy people.' If the  Weekly Chronicle 378 The Terrific Record 379 The Life of a Countess, or the History of Lola Montes "If there were also upon the counter, by the side of these penny publications, a penny newspaper, which gave a true account of the leading events of the day, there is not one in fifty of the customers who would not prefer it." "The people wish to read the news, in which they take an interest, and in which it is fit they should take an interest. In public affairs they are nearly concerned, and it is both their right and their duty to attend much to public affairs. I am of opinion that a sound system of government requires the people to read and inform themselves upon political subjects, else they are the prey of every quack, every impostor, and every agitator who may practise his trade in the country. If they do not read, if they do not learn, if they do not digest by discussion and reflection, what they have read and learnt, if they do not thus qualify themselves to form opinions for themselves, other men will form opinions for them, not according to truth and to the interests of the people, but according to their own individual and selfish interests, which may, and most probably will be, contrary to those of the people at large. The best security for a Government like this, for the Legislature, for the Crown, and, generally, for the public peace and public morals, is that the whole community should be well informed upon its political as well as its other interests, and it can be well informed only by having access to
 380 Times 381 Norwich Reformer "Inland Revenue, Somerset House, 7th March, 1850. "Gentlemen-The attention of this Board having been directed to some articles of public news contained in Nos. I. and II. of your publication, the  Reformer "J. TIMM, Solicitor of Inland Revenue." "Norwich, March 12. "Sir—I have received your intimation that the intelligence given in the  Reformer 382 Gentleman's Magazine, United Service Megazine, Tait's Edinburgh Magazine, Christian Observer, People's Journal Freeholder, Athenœum "THE EDITOR OF THE REFORMER." "Inland Revenue, Somerset House, March 13. "Gentlemen—I am this morning in receipt of a letter without signature, but purporting to come from the Editor of the  Reformer ".J, TIMM, Solicitor of Inland Revenue." "Greenock, Wednesday, March 13, 1850. "Sir—I sent you per post yesterday one each,
 383 Chambers' Journal, Hogg's Instructions in Truth d l brochure "JOHN LENNOX, printer, news-agent, &c." Norwich Reformer Greenock News Clout 384 l 385 Blackstone, Coke l l 386 l Daily News s d Morning Post, Bell's Life l Times l l 387 l
 MR. EWART  said, he was anxious to correct an observation which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer relative to the speech of the right hon. Member for Manchester. The latter right hon. Gentleman had laid down two preliminaries. One was the general rule that our first object ought to be to enlighten and instruct the people; and the second was, that, as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had a surplus, the stamp duty and the advertisement duty ought to be removed. The right hon. Gentleman had not pledged himself to remove 1,300,000 l 402 l l Spectator d 403 Chambers' Journal, Eliza Cook's Journal s d l
 MR. W. PATTEN  said, it was the practice of the House generally, that a minority of shareholders should not be heard against the directors. He thought the question should be left altogether to the decision of the Committee. When the Committee made their report, then it was open to his hon. and learned Friend to bring forward his proposition, and to move that the Bill be recommitted.
 MR. AGLIONBY  had heard accidentally that this was a petition of only six shareholders out of a number of 2,000 or 3,000; that five of them were not in a proper position to make themselves heard, inasmuch as they had neglected to pay up their calls. Seeing the noble Lord the chairman of the Committee in his place, he wished to ask whether this information was correct?
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN , as chairman of the Committee, said it was decided that they ought not to hear so small a number of shareholders against the company generally. They did not, however, think that there was any difference between these particular shareholders and the others; for they would have come to the same conclusion in any event. It appeared to the Committee that these five petitioners were the holders of shares amounting to about 12,000 l.
 MR. CARDWELL  thought it important that they should have a clear understanding upon this point—whether shareholders should be excluded from having a  locus standi
 MR. T. GREENE  said, that this was simply a matter of discretion with the Committee. A partnership had been entered into, and the minority were bound by the acts of the majority. If this application
 436
 MR. J. E. DENISON  thought that to tell the parties that they could be heard upon the Motion for a recommitment of the Bill, was, in effect, to tell them that they could not be heard at all. He hoped it would not be considered as asking too much, if he requested the noble Lord the Member for Lynn Regis, to inform the House whether, in respect to this petition, he had acted on the general practice, or whether he had entered into the actual merits of the case?
 MR. T. EGERTON  had always understood that a Committee in such cases took the matter entirely into their own hands, and, in the first instance, determined whether the parties had a  locus standi
 MR. F. MACKENZIE  believed that there was no practice of the House one way or the other. A similar case to this was some time ago taken up by the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon, and the question was considered, not on the ground of the petitioners being in a minority, but on the merits of the whole case. The same course should be followed in the present instance.
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  said, that he would consult the Committee again upon the matter.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  protested against the doctrine, that the majority of shareholders possessed uncontrolled power of representing a company for all purposes connected with promoting Bills before Parliament. If application were made to that House to alter the original contract on which the company was formed, it was unjust to prevent parties from being heard against the proposal, on the notion that the common seal represented the majority. Each individual shareholder was entitled to be heard by counsel against a Bill
 437
 MR. STAFFORD  rose to move as an Amendment, that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. He said that the House, by consenting to the admission of the Bill, had committed themselves only to an acknowledgment of the importance of the subject, and not to the principle contained in the Bill. He mentioned this because there were very many persons out of doors who greatly regretted that even that step had been taken, in the apprehension that the leading principle of the Bill had thereby been recognised. But when the sentiments uttered on that occasion by some hon. Members were remembered, and when the great caution observed by the noble Lord at the head of the Government in respect to the admission of the Bill was considered, it would appear that such apprehension was groundless; and that the House had certainly not recognised the principle of the Bill. Before stating his objections to the principle of the Bill, he must say that, in his opinion, the state of the education of the country at this moment had been too unfavourably drawn by the hon. Member for Oldham, because he knew that there were many rural parishes where the whole education of the children was undertaken; but, as there were no endowments in those parishes, and they were
 438 439 "Every true lover of education raises his standard high. In both processes of education and instruction he would have the sacred and common mingled and interwoven. They are in their own nature allied and mutually dependent and helpful. Everything true is in harmony with all other truth. No knowledge can we acquire of nature, of history, or of art, but if we will trace it either to its roots or to its end, we find it in God." "Nothing could be more natural and inevitable than that Independents should bear part in all
 440 "Man is something more than matter; he is a spiritual being. Any attempt to educate him, save religiously, is a mockery and an insult. We cannot, indeed, conceive of an education of man's nature without a constant appeal to his relations towards the Deity, and to the influence of rewards and punishments over him. What is defended as secular education is most superficial, considering the depths of his soul—most incidental, considering the laws of his being, most temporary, considering the revolutions of his duration. Such a secular education need not say there is no God; but it must not say there is one. Such a secular education need not say Christianity is a lie; but it must not say it is the truth, and no lie. It need not denounce the faith of an hereafter; but it, as a thing of an earthly  sœculum sœcula sœculorum 441 s Why
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, there were certain powers, as the power of complaint was left to parents and guardians.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, the hon. Gentleman might intend to include the words "parents and guardians" in the 7th clause; but as the clause stood, it certainly made complaints to originate with the children. The words were—"And be it enacted,
 442 443 "a selection of examples or precepts shall be made therefrom, and read and used in the said schools, but without reference to the peculiar religious tenets of any religious sect or denomination." "for the purpose of making this selection, a committee shall be appointed by the county board, constituted of nine individuals, no two of whom shall be members of the same religious denomination; and, in order that no peculiar tenets and no religious sects may be favoured, the unanimous concurrence of the committee shall be required in the selection." 444
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY  rose for the purpose of seconding the Amendment moved by his hon. Friend. The Bill, as it appeared to him, was founded upon one of two principles: either that secular education was more valuable than religious education, or that secular education was certain to lead to religion. The former, he apprehended, would not be maintained by any hon. Member; for he was not aware of there being in that House any professed infidels; and none but an infidel would contend that an education fitting man for this life alone was more valuable than an education for eternity. The second question was, whether secular education was calculated to lead men to religion? All experience proved the contrary. Man, born into this world, and surrounded by all sorts of material affections calculated to draw him to the earth, unless carefully instructed in his earliest youth, was much more likely to prove irreligious than religious. It was not wonderful that he should stand forward before the country to speak against a system of merely secular instruction, for the church of which he was a member had invariably maintained the principle that religion should be the groundwork of education, and that the education of the people should be placed under the care of the ministers of religion. It was for this great principle that the Roman Catholic Church had worked and struggled for years in France and throughout the Continent of Europe; and he would show the House the results which had been realised from a contrary policy. The House would pardon him for producing a few extracts from different publications on this subject, because he felt strongly upon it, and he deemed it absolutely essential that the natural results of a merely secular education of the people should be thoroughly known and understood. The works of Mr. Lang were well known to every hon. Member—he was a Presbyterian traveller; and Dr. Ullathorne, Bishop of Hetalona and Vicar Apostolic of the Central District, in his  Remarks on the Proposed Education Bill "Mr. Lang is admitted to be an authority upon this subject. He is a good observer, has not wanted opportunities, abounds in statistics, and is a Presbyterian in religion. He wrote his  Notes of a Traveller 446 "The following passage from Mr. Lang's chapter on the Prussian Educational System is too apposite to be omitted:—'If the ultimate object of all education and knowledge be to raise man to the feeling of his own moral worth, to a sense of his responsibility to his Creator and to his conscience for every act, to the dignity of a reflecting, self-guiding, virtuous, religious member of society, then the Prussian educational system is a failure. It is only a training from childhood in the conventional discipline and' submission of mind which the State exacts from its subjects. It is not a training which has raised, but which has lowered the human character.'" Observations on the Social and Political State of the European People in and being the Second Series of Notes of a Traveller "These doctrines and opinions, however true as abstract propositions, are not practically applicable to the existing Governments in Germany by any reform short of revolution; and national education in Government schools, under exclusively privileged teachers, has proved not merely a failure, but a powerful lever, overturning the Governments which established it as a support. In France we see it declared that all the teachers of the primary schools in very extensive districts are Socialists. Those who taught, qualified, and licensed them must be Socialists too; and tracing back to the fountain head the theories of Communism and Socialism, and the fanaticism for impracticable objects which have seized on the public mind in Germany and France, it is evident that a few dreaming philosophers in the chairs of the universities may infuse, through their educational machinery, a poison into the public mind which these educating Governments have no means to counteract." 447 State of Protestantism in Germany Described "Although they rejected, as I have said, all belief in the Divine origin of Christianity, they retained the name of Christians, and the language and profession of Christianity. Since our intercourse with the Continent has become free, many of the works of these divines have found their way into the hands of English students of divinity. It appears to me, therefore, indispensable that these students should have a clear conception of the principles of such writers, that they may not, by the deceptive use of Christianity, be betrayed, at a period of life when their judgment is not matured, into conclusions wholly subversive of Christianity." The Catholic Series 448 Morning Chronicle Foreign Quarterly Nonconformist Economist Popular Christianity "To bring the spiritual government of the world into sounder and more consistent relations with the existing intelligence of the age, it will be necessary at least to modify so much of the doctrinal teaching and external government of all Christian churches as is involved in the assertion of the following dogmas of the popular theology, namely—1. Of the vague and indefinite doctrine of the 'inspiration of the Scriptures.' 2. Of the doctrine of miracles and prophecy, 3. Of the really Pagan doctrine of the divinity of Christ as now taught. 4. Of the futile and fallacious idea of teaching Christianity by dogmatical creeds and articles. Such must be the basis of any really spiritual reformation, and the foundation of any truly Catholic Christianity." A Discourse of Matters pertaining to Religion "The most careless observer sees inconsistencies, absurd narrations; finds actions attributed to Jesus, and words put into his mouth which are directly at variance with his great principles and the general tone of his character." "Jesus, there is no dearer name than thine, Which Time has blazoned on his mighty scroll; No wreaths nor garland ever did entwine So fair a temple of so vast a soul. 449 There every Virtue set his triumph-seal; Wisdom conjoined with strength and radiant grace, In a sweet copy Heaven to reveal, And stamp perfection on a mortal face." Christian Theism "It may be asked why, on this hypothesis of imperfect views and mixed motives on the part of the Founder of Christianity, this age should be inclined to render him any allegiance whatever, and to connect his name more than those of many other reformers, possibly more wise and enlightened, with the cause of human improvement? If he were not God, nor the Son of God, nor a prophet, nor even the wisest philosopher or most perfect moral being that we conceive of; if he were, in fact, only a Jewish peasant, of intellect, imagination, and moral feeling, much, although not immeasurably, above the standard of his age and country, why should his name be enshrined in this costly manner more than those of many other philanthropists, which would now be scarcely recognised by any but the students of biographical dictionaries?" "Let Christian Theism then express the feelings of him who, while he admits no authority alone but that of man's reason, and no revelation besides that of Nature, yet listens to and honours one of the best expounders of God and Nature in the Man of Nazareth. Theists of every nation—Christian, Jew, Mahometan, or Chinese—can meet upon common ground. Whatever minor predilections each may entertain for his own most eminent teacher or prophet—whether Christ, Mahomet, Moses, or Confucius—their great principle is the same—to seek the knowledge of the human mind, and rules for the guidance of man, in the great volume stretched out before all men." The Soul, her Sorrows, and her Aspirations "Now, where the place of a Mediator is held by priests, saints, or a virgin, it would appear that uncompensated mischief results; but as applied to Jesus Christ, the doctrine of mediation is far more perplexed, owing to the manifold and complicated tenets held concerning his person. There are some who teach he was less than God, and yet that he is the Mediator between God and man. Where such a mediation is not a mere name received by tradition, where he is effectively believed to be a more lenient judge than God, to mc it appears certain that the belief is purely evil." Reverberations "PECCA FORTITER. "What help for hourly errors shall I find? How tread the dangerous path that must be trod? Guileless and simple be in heart and mind. Sin bravely man, and leave the rest to God." 450
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that the debate, so far as it had gone, proved to him how
 451 452 453 A laugh 454 455 456 457 458 in partibus 459 460
 LORD ASHLEY  said, it was altogether impossible to overrate the importance of this question; and he thought that its
 461 462 463 l. l 464 "That, were schools ever so abundant and excellent, they would be wholly beyond the reach of a large portion of the children employed in labour, on account of the early ages at which they were put to work." 465 466 l. l. 467 468 Conseil Superieur de l'Instruction Publique "Constrained by the evidence of danger to ask the Assembly to adopt a law of repression, we shall shortly ask one of a different character, one which shall prevent measures of rigour by founding our system of national instruction on the solid grounds of morality and religion." enfans trouvês
 MR. M. MILNES  said, he could hardly hope, after the manner in which the debate had been carried on, to divest it of the unparliamentary tone that had been assumed throughout. He believed that if a stranger had come in during their proceedings, he would have been quite at a
 469 470 471
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, I would be very glad if this Bill, which has been introduced for the purpose of promoting education, had been such as that I could fairly give it my support upon the second reading. In treating of this Bill I will endeavour to avoid as much as possible anything that may savour of passion or of intemperate language whilst stating my objections to it. I will endeavour to make every admission that I think is fairly due to the promoters of the Bill, and to the Bill itself. In the first place, therefore, I may say, notwithstanding some allegations that have been made, that I think there is still a lamentable want of education for the poorer classes in this country; and that it still remains a desirable object for Parliament to promote and succour the education of those people. In the next place, I must say that I think an unjust inference would be drawn from the words used by my noble Friend the Member for Arundel, who seconded the Motion for the second reading of the Bill this day six months, if it were concluded from what he said, that if we were to establish schools where secular education only
 472 473 "state of secular education in each parish of their respective districts, and of the adequacy of the existing provisions of each parish to afford secular education for the wants of the entire population thereof; and that in such reports the said inspectors shall take cognisance of secular education only; and in estimating the proportion of educational means to the wants of the entire population, private schools which submit to inspection by the inspectors of schools, and schools in connexion with the Established Church and any other religious body, shall be included; and regard shall be had to the effect of every exclusion from instruction, whether arising from the expense of schooling, from peculiar or special religious teaching adopted in any school, or from any other cause whatsoever." 474 s 475 "Against any such method these united Committees feel themselves bound to enter an earnest and renewed protest. The children whom it may be deemed necessary to educate, in whole or in part, at the public expense, are (equally with all others in more favoured circumstances) immortal beings; and any system of instruction which does not regard them in that light, and deal with their highest and most enduring relations, must ever he viewed by these Committees as essentially defective, and calculated by its omission to exert a most dangerous influence on those who receive it. A just regard to the welfare of the labouring classes, and of the poor generally, requires that in any provision to be made specifically for their education, daily instruction in the Holy Scriptures should be most carefully included." 476 "That in case no educational committee as aforesaid shall be elected in any parish, in pursuance of the direction of the said Committee of Council, or if no such plan as aforesaid shall be proposed by such educational committee, or being proposed shall not obtain the sanction and approval of the said Committee of Council, it shall be lawful for the said Committee of Council to undertake to supply the deficiency of provision for secular education by the establishment of a free school or schools under this Act, and to exercise the powers hereby given to the educational committee of such parishes." 477 l. l. l. 478
 MR. HUME  had entertained hopes that Parliament, seeing the extent to which ignorance not only prevailed, but was increasing, would have seized on this opportunity of applying a remedy. He was truly sorry that any part of the British nation should wish to withhold from their fellow countrymen that education which would enable them to study the truths of Scripture. Let them look at the United States, and say if secular education had produced the evils foreshadowed by the noble Lord at the head of the Government. After the speech of that noble Lord, he feared the case was hopeless, and he only wished to express his approbation of the Bill, on the ground that he wished to see the benefits of education shared by all. He
 479
 The MARQUESS of BLANDFORD : In presence of those opinions so ably and so religiously expressed which have fallen from hon. Members who have opposed the measure introduced by the hon. Member for Oldham, it is not with the idea that I may be enabled to adduce any additional argument that I rise to ask the indulgence of the House for a very few minutes; but, Sir, I feel that my conscience has laid upon me a responsibility from which I cannot acquit myself, of not permitting a measure of this nature to come before this House in which I occupy a seat, without endeavouring to give a more decided testimony against it than a mere silent vote would be able to afford. Sir, upon a question of such great importance, so intimately affecting so large a portion of the people of this country, it is not surprising that a variety of views should be entertained as to the method of communicating instruction, and a number of opinions expressed within and out of this House. But, Sir, we have here a proposition of a novel character, and one which, if its ultimate effects could be as clearly distinguished as its propositions are now clear and unmistake able, I do believe that every lover of his country's truest welfare would unhesitatingly reject. Sir, we are called upon by the hon. Member for Oldham to give our consent to a Bill which professes to supply the deficiencies which exist in our system of education, by the introduction of a purely secular element. The hon. Member has endeavoured to show, by statistical returns, that while, since the year 1842, there has been a general decrease in the number of commitments both in cases where the education had been good, and where there had been no education at all; yet among those who had only been imperfectly instructed, there had been a considerable increase in the number of commitments. Now, Sir, from the showing of the hon. Member we must infer from this that
 480 481 482
 SIR G. STRICKLAND , in seconding the Amendment, deeply lamented to see the attempts which were continually made to do away with that which from his earliest years he had been taught to believe was the dearest right of Englishmen—he
 500 "Let it be considered that this power is unconstitutionally given, at the very time when public opinion—we had almost said public indignation—had almost entirely put an end to the practice of flogging in the Army, where the necessities of discipline might have been some excuse. We believe that the old Mosaic law was humane, and that the number of stripes were defined by legislation. No such thing here. The flogging is un-
 501
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  said, that he thought that the time for debating the principle of the Bill was on the second reading. On the second reading there was a full debate and no division; and though the hon. and learned Member for Dundalk had given notice that on that reading he would move an Amendment, yet he sat in his place and moved no Amendment. The Bill was then fixed for Committee; and when it came to that stage an Amendment was moved that the Bill should be divided into two parts. And now, for the third time, the hon. and learned Member for Dundalk moved an
 502
 MR. P. H. HOWARD  should give the Bill his strenuous opposition, because he conceived that the powers which it conferred were not in accordance with the spirit of the constitution. As the Bill at present stood, the degrading punishment of flogging might be inflicted on females as well as males. ["No, no!"] Might it not? Then he was glad to find that the Bill was not so odious as he had thought it. It was still sufficiently bad, however, to justify him in offering it every opposition, and he trusted the House would reject it by a triumphant majority, for, without sharing in any feeling of distrust towards his fellow magistrates, he was unwilling to confide to mortal man such an extent of arbitrary power as this Bill proposed.
 MR. AGLIONBY  had great confidence both in the justice and the mercy of the magistrates, and if he were a criminal he would infinitely prefer being tried by them than to have the case sent before a jury. He cordially supported the Bill out of mercy towards the prisoners, whether innocent or guilty.
 MR. HENLEY  wished to know whether the hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich, in pursuance of the power given to the Committee, intended to divide the Bill into two parts or not, because upon the answer to that question would depend his vote?
 SIR G. GREY  wished to say, before the hon. Baronet answered the question, that after the expression of the opinion of the House on a former occasion, it would be the wisest course for the hon. Baronet to consent at once to divide the Bill into two parts. He begged it to be understood that, in going into Committee, he did so for the purpose of supporting that part of the Bill which extended summary jurisdiction to the cases of persons from fourteen to sixteen years of age, and that he expressed no opinion upon any other part of the Bill.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  said, it was quite
 503
 MR. LAW  doubted whether it was competent for the hon. Baronet to take the sense of the Committee whether or not they should obey the instructions of the House. But, supposing it was, he begged to remind the hon. Baronet, that, although he did not give notice of his Motion in the precise form he had moved it, he had given notice of one substantially the same, and had only altered it in order to meet a technical objection. Since the hon. Baronet was determined to oppose the division of the Bill into two parts, he (Mr. Law) must take a course which he should not otherwise have felt called upon to pursue, and vote with the hon. Member for Dundalk to negative the Bill altogether.
 The CHAIRMAN  announced that, according to an instruction of the House, the Committee had power to divide the Bill into two parts.
 MR. LAW,  in accordance with that instruction, begged to move that the Committee leave out all the words in the Bill which referred to adults.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  insisted upon the Bill being retained in its original shape.
 SIR G. GREY  said, it was quite true that the terms of the instructions agreed to by the House on a former occasion did not bind the Committee to divide the Bill, but certainly, after the clear and unequivocal expression of the opinion of the House on that point, he did not think it was expedient to reopen the question.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  considered himself
 504
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  was of opinion that it would have been much better if the Bill had originally been divided into two parts, because there was no necessary connection between them; but he should vote with the hon. Member for Droitwich against the division of the Bill into two, because he saw that the desire of those who advocated the division was to get rid of the latter part altogether.
 SIR G. GREY  observed, that the alteration which had just been effected would not render it necessary to begin  de novo.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  understood, then, that he was to proceed with the first part of the Bill.
 MR. HUME  suggested that as it had now been decided to divide the Bill, the better course would be for the Chairman to
 505
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  thought as there appeared to be a general feeling in favour of the first part of the Bill, they might go on with that now, leaving the latter part to be dealt with as a separate measure hereafter.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, they ought to understand what the Bill was. The whole of the Bill now before them was to extend the summary jurisdiction of magistrates in the case of young persons from fourteen years, as the law now stood, to sixteen years of age; and the question which the Committee had to decide was, whether it was advisable to give justices at petty sessions the power of flogging and imprisoning children of sixteen years of age summarily. The whole Bill was confined to giving the magistrates the opportunity of enjoying this pleasure. Every step of the proceeding went towards depriving the people of this country of trial by jury. By whom was this bill brought in? By a Chairman of Quarter Sessions, one of a class for whom, abstractedly speaking—as Martinus Scriblerus towards the Lord Mayor riding on a great horse—he had great respect, but nothing beyond, and whom he was not disposed to indulge with any more power over the poor of this country. They first asked for, and got, jurisdiction up to fourteen years. They now asked for a further extension to sixteen years; and, in fact, by a sly artifice, which he hoped would be prevented by the course taken by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Recorder of London, they sought to extend it to persons of any age where the property stolen was under one shilling. This would, no doubt, be a very easy mode of dealing with poachers who stole pheasants' eggs, and such offenders. Let the Committee understand in what way justice was administered to the poor of this country. The offender was brought into a back parlour in the squire's house by the constable of the parish. The squire had another squire to aid him, neither the one nor the other knowing the least of the law, but both having strong prejudices in the case. There was no bar; and, though a member of the profession, he would not hesitate to say that the presence of the bar on such occasions was a great safeguard for the freedom of the subject. There was not oven a reporter of a newspaper present; and even if the county newspaper had a representative at the proceedings, it was not very likely
 506
 MR. AGLIONBY  was not afraid of hard words, and would not suffer sarcasm to turn him from what he believed to be his duty. He was of the same profession with the hon. and learned Gentleman; he had been in the profession longer, and he had practised, he believed, more than the hon. and learned Member in courts where criminal justice was administered, and he begged to say most distinctly that he wholly differed from the hon. and learned Gentleman in his view of the subject. He was not, and never had been, a chairman of quarter-sessions; but he should none the less protest against ill motives being attributed to those functionaries, and against the assumption that the hon. Baronet, for example, was, as a chairman of quarter-sessions, less alive to the rights of the poor than the hon. and learned Gentleman. He had never even acted in petty sessions, and was therefore free from the charge of class predilections; but he would never admit that magistrates in petty sessions were guilty of the injustice which the hon. and learned Member imputed to them; and he strongly protested against the proposition of the hon. and learned Gentleman, that they took any pleasure in flogging people; he could not conceive, indeed, what pleasure there could be enjoyed by any man, on the bench or off it, in flogging people, and his conviction was that flogging, when ordered, was only ordered in fulfilment of what was always felt to be, on the contrary, a most painful duty. The hon. and learned Gentleman had complained that petty sessions were held in back rooms. He (Mr. Aglionby) believed that they were not now held, as they had been in the time of Fielding and some of our older novelists, in the back parlours of magistrates', or in the back rooms of pub-
 507
 MR. ROEBUCK  begged to assure the hon. and learned Member for Cockermouth that he had not had the slightest desire to point to him in the observations he had made. Indeed, he knew nothing about that hon. and learned Gentleman, and was not aware that he had any peculiar interest in this question. He (Mr. Roebuck) had simply dealt with the matter as one in which the people of England were interested. He would ask why they did not give the county courts jurisdiction with regard to the class of offences to which this Bill referred? He would ten thousand times rather that such a power should be given to the judges of the county courts, than that it should be exercised by magistrates in petty sessions. Let them give the power of deciding these questions to the judges of those courts, who were bred to the profession, instead of thrusting the poor into dark holes, The hon. and learned Member for Cocker-mouth might talk about hard words; but it was well known that the poor were robbed, in the cases to which he was referring, of the advantages of publicity, and were placed in the hands of men among whom, although many might be learned, enlightened, instructed, and benevolent, some were ignorant and prejudiced. He called upon the House to insist upon publicity, and to take the class of cases to which the Bill related out of the jurisdiction of individuals who might be influenced by local prejudices.
 MR. PACKE  was satisfied that it was quite unnecessary to defend the conduct of the magistrates of this country who sat in petty sessions against the animadversions of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield. He wished, however, to refer to one point to which that hon. and learned Gentleman had alluded—namely, the want of publicity with regard to proceedings at petty sessions. Every Gentleman in the habit of attending petty sessions knew that those courts were as much open to the public as the quarter-sessions
 508
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  said, the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield was so accustomed to indulge his sarcasm, and seemed to think it so necessary that he should give point to his speeches by attacking somebody, and the more sneeringly and ill-natured the better, that he felt no surprise that that hon. and learned Gentleman had selected him to-night as the object of his sneers. He was very happy to find, however, that the only ground on which the hon. and learned Gentleman sneered at him was because he happened to be chairman of the quarter-sessions. He would tell that hon. and learned Gentleman that he felt the fact of his having enjoyed the confidence of his brother magistrates for a period of sixteen years was no matter of shame to him, and he was quite willing to submit to any sneer in which the hon. and learned Member chose to indulge on that subject. When the hon. and learned Gentleman indulged in sneers and sarcasms at his expense, he thought, however, that he had some right to expect that the hon. and learned Gentleman should be accurate in his facts; and when the hon. and learned Gentleman, alluding to the measure of 1847, to which he (Sir J. Pakington) was a party, complained that persons of wealth dealt with the poor in their back parlours, the hon. and learned Member only showed his own utter ignorance. He thought it would be better for the character and credit of the hon. and learned Gentleman if he contrived to be somewhat better informed on the subjects upon which he spoke; for, if the hon. and learned Member referred to the Act in question, he would find that it gave certain powers to justices of the peace of any county, riding, division, &c., in petty sessions assembled, at the usual place, and in open court.
 MR. ROEBUCK  asked the House to deal with this subject as men of common sense, and to consider how justice was likely to be administered by two magistrates meeting at the accustomed place, in a country district, far away from anything like newspapers, lawyers, or attorneys. The hon. Baronet had talked about "open courts;" but he (Mr. Roebuck) knew something of these matters, for he
 509
 SIR G. GREY  hoped that this measure would be discussed without indulging in these personalities. Some hon. Members seemed to think that the Bill involved a new proposal to give summary jurisdiction to magistrates in petty sessions; but he begged to remind the House that Acts were passed some years ago, at the instance of the right hon. Member for Tam-worth, which gave to magistrates in petty sessions the power of summary adjudication in cases of malicious injury to property. There was also an Act now in force—the Juvenile Offenders Act—which had been considered by a Select Committee of that House, and which gave the power of summary adjudication to magistrates in petty sessions, where the offenders were under the age of 14 years. That Act was passed with the general assent of that House and of the House of Lords, and received the marked and distinct approval of Lord Denman, the late Lord Chief Justice of the Queen's Bench, who, indeed, proposed an Amendment, which he eventually withdrew, in order to bring within its operation persons of adult age. The real question they had now to consider was the proper definition of juvenile offenders. The hon. and learned Member for Cambridge University had argued that persons under the age of 14 came within the recognised legal definition of youth. He (Sir G. Grey) presumed that the hon. and learned Gentleman had founded his argument on the fact, that, in law, children above 14 years of age were considered  capax doli 510
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  regretted as much as the right hon. Baronet the personality which had been introduced into this discussion, but he thought he could not be accused of commencing that personality. The hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, however, if he came down and attacked every one who was a magistrate, must not be surprised if he got an answer. That hon. and learned Gentleman had made another blunder in supposing that magistrates in petty sessions had the power to stop footpaths, for when their decision was appealed against, such questions were referred to the determination of a jury. He considered that the present Bill, in extending what he did not hesitate to call the benefits of the Juvenile Offenders Act to persons of 16 years of age, would effect a very advantageous change in the existing law.
 MR. LAW  said, the legal maxim applicable to children charged with great crimes was  malitia supplet œtatem 511
 MR. HUME  was not disposed to throw any blame upon those who were engaged in carrying on the institutions of the country, because he thought persons who endeavoured to discharge such duties to the best of their ability deserved credit; but he believed that many offences were left to the adjudication of magistrates in petty sessions which might cause some persons to doubt whether justice was impartially administered. He thought, and he had made the suggestion some years ago, that they ought to have to every board of petty sessions a paid chairman who had been bred to the law. His suggestion had been objected to on the ground of expense; but he thought such expense would be true economy, if the better administration of justice was secured. Some complaints had been made of the places where petty sessions were held. An hon. Friend of his some time ago proposed the insertion of a clause in a Bill before the House, requiring that all petty sessions should be held in a public place, on particular days, and that they should be open to the public; but that clause was rejected. There was a return obtained with regard to petty sessions, and probably it would be found, upon going through it, that one-half of them were held in public-houses; in Cambridgeshire the number was 9 out of 12, and in Buckinghamshire about the same. In Worcestershire, it was stated, that there were 15 places where the petty sessions were held, and in four instances they were public-houses, in three they were the clerk's house, and in two the union workhouse. This was not the way to secure either publicity or respect for the administration of the law. As to what the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary had said, was it likely that a boy of fourteen would make a complaint to the Secretary of State? What said the prison inspectors? Was not the number of juvenile offenders increasing? He (Mr. Hume) should object to the extension of this summary jurisdiction from 14 to 16. If innocent persons were liable to be imprisoned three or four months, the courts should sit more frequently. The time was arrived, too, when the Government ought to come forward and commit the administration of justice to men learned in the law.
 MR. E. B. DENISON  objected to extend the jurisdiction of petty sessions to offences committed by persons of the age of 16. There could be no doubt that the class of offenders between the age of 14 and 16 formed a very considerable portion of the rising rogues of the kingdom, and it was on that account that he doubted the propriety of allowing them to be tried in petty sessions. The hon. Baronet who had brought forward the measure observed that it had the almost unanimous consent of the magistrates of the kingdom. Now he (Mr. Denison) belonged to the West Riding of Yorkshire, which contained very nearly the largest number of magistrates of any part of the kingdom, and he had thought it his duty the other day, as chairman of the quarter-sessions, simply to bring this Bill under the notice of the magistrates, without making a single comment, and gave them an opportunity of expressing their opinions upon it, but he had heard nothing of any manifestation in its favour on their part; and he had reason to believe that it would not be generally resorted to in his district. Even now it appeared that out of 120,000 or 130,000 prisoners tried in the course of the year, 85,000 were already dealt with by summary jurisdiction. But, in addition to that, he had a right to argue, that out of 10,000 more tried at the quarter-sessions, and not included in the 85,000, the greater part would go to swell the number subjected to summary jurisdiction if this Bill should pass. He asked whether it was wise so to extend the summary jurisdiction exercised by magistrates, however well he might admit them to administer the law? It was undoubtedly true that quarter-sessions were frequently held in public-houses, in back parlours, and other objectionable places. He also objected to extend the summary jurisdiction, because the former Act had only been in operation three years, which was not long enough to enable them to form a satisfactory estimate as to its advantages.
 MR. LAW  would move that the Chairman now leave the chair, with the view of raising the question as to the age of 16 years.
 MR. M. MILNES  thought, that if hon. Members had paid due attention to the state of juvenile crime in this country, they would see that the mode of dealing with young persons between the ages of 14
 513
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  said, the hon. Member for the West Riding had adverted to the absence of any manifestation in favour of the Bill on the part of the magistrates of the West Riding of Yorkshire; but, at all events, it could not be said that they had taken any active part against it, and he himself (Sir J. Pakington) had had the honour of presenting a petition in its favour from the magistrates of the East Riding. With respect to holding petty sessions in public-houses, no one more heartily disapproved of the practice than himself; but the same objection did not apply to holding them in clerks' dwelling-houses, many of which contained convenient and capacious courts fitted up for the purpose; but, as far as he knew, whether the sessions were held in public-houses or elsewhere, their proceedings were always regularly published in the local newspaper. The hon. Member for the West Riding had talked of sessions held in back parlours; he should be glad to know to what magistrate he alluded as having held petty sessions in his back parlour?
 MR. E. B. DENISON  had referred to the back parlours of public-houses only. With regard to the West Riding, he thought the magistrates of that district had shown something more than indifference, seeing that the hon. Baronet had sent round circulars to all magistrates urging them to support his measure.
 MR. ROEBUCK  wished to divest the question of all personal considerations, and begged the hon. Baronet's pardon if he had given him offence. The hon. Member for Pontefract, addressing himself to their sentimentalities, cited the instance of France, and told them that the age between fourteen and sixteen began and ended by distinguishing the boy from the man. What, then, did this Bill do? It enabled a magistrate to inflict punishment upon him when he had ceased to be a boy—a disgraceful and degrading punishment, which must cast a stigma on him for the rest of his life. Was the House prepared
 514
 MR. J. H. VIVIAN  called attention to the heavy expense which counties had to meet at present for removing criminals from sessions to gaols, and said that some alteration of the law in this respect was needed.
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  said, that the existing law in Ireland had been instrumental in suppressing much of juvenile delinquency.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, the knotty point before the House appeared to be—at what age posterity should be whipped. Now, he was not for whipping them at all; and upon that principle he would endeavour to regulate his vote.
 MR. ROEBUCK  objected to give the magistrates jurisdiction in the case of offenders sixteen years of age, and said he should take the sense of the Committee upon the point.
 MR. AGLIONBY  would be willing to accede to the Amendment, or to the withdrawal of the Bill, if he saw any evidence that Government would take the matter up, or that the jurisdiction of the county courts' judges would be extended to juvenile offenders; but, in the absence of any
 515
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  could not agree in the praises which they had heard bestowed on the Juvenile Offenders Act in this country or in Ireland. He believed the country would not be satisfied with any increase to the powers at present possessed by magistrates at petty sessions. The Juvenile Offenders Act had not proved a beneficial change in the law. He spoke from experience of the subject, having studied the working of the Act in the metropolis and elsewhere, and was convinced of the evils which had been caused by gaol contamination. He would just quote two instances of recent occurrence: one was a case of a boy not 12 years of age, who had been sentenced five times in a year and a half, and was now in prison; the other the case of a still younger boy, who had been punished twelve times in a proportionately short space of time. It was with surprise he heard hon. Members say that general satisfaction was evinced at this Bill. The opinion of Judges of the higher and inferior courts could be quoted against that assertion, and he had read many letters from all parts of the country which agreed in condemning its provisions. They could not, let them do what they might, they could not disguise from the people out of doors the fact that they were making one law for the poor and another for the rich; that they were exposing the poor to punishment without judge, jury, bar, or publicity.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he should vote for the Amendment proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Bath, though he was not influenced in the least by the arguments which he had heard on the subject, for those arguments had no foundation in fact. He was opposed to sending prisoners great distances to be tried, not so much on account of the prisoners themselves as on account of the witnesses, upon whom the demoralising effect of even a short stay in a large town was often strikingly apparent. Grand juries and magistrates had often remonstrated against the evil consequences of the present practice, With respect to the exercise of power by the magistrates, he could undertake to say that there was no jealousy felt towards them; quite the contrary was the fact; at the same time he did by no means think that their power should be extended in the manner now proposed by the Bill.
 MR. P. HOWARD  observed, that the civil law fixed the age of 14 as that at
 516
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  objected to that portion in which the preceding Acts were recited in order to give them effect. He said that the extension of this summary jurisdiction, and the giving the power to magistrates to inflict the punishment of whipping upon youths of 16, was unconstitutional, arbitrary, and cruel. He thought that in these days they ought to have recourse to moral instead of brute violence, and he should, therefore, move a proviso at the end of the clause to prohibit the whipping of youths above 14. "Provided alway, that nothing herein contained shall authorise or empower any Justice or Justices to order the punishment of whipping to be inflicted upon any offender whose age shall exceed the age of 14 years."
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  said, that the power of punishing youths under 14 years of age by whipping was already the law of the land, and it had been enacted with the humane and benevolent intention of enabling magistrates to save young offenders from the contamination of the gaol, by ordering them to be whipped and discharged. It had operated beneficially hitherto, and it might be found equally beneficial if it were extended to cases in which the offenders were of the age of 16. Why, whipping was a punishment that their own sons underwent in the public schools of this country.
 MR. ROEBUCK  hoped the House would not permit its extension to persons of the age of sixteen, because, as he had said before, the child was a child up to fourteen, but he was a man at sixteen. They all
 517 Laughter. 518
 MR. LAW  anticipated that one useful result that would follow from the adoption of the Amendment limiting the punishment to lads of fourteen, would be, that it would be a guide to Judges and to magistrates at quarter-sessions in limiting the age to which they should in future apportion the punishment of whipping. We had arrived at a time when it was felt that what was a fit punishment for boys, was an irritating, insulting, degrading, and unfit punishment for men.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield had a right to object to a clause, and to draw a distinction between a boy of 14 and a boy of 16, and say the one was a boy and the other a man; but he had no right to say that this Bill had for its object the degradation of the poor. It was not the poor, it was the criminal. Those who supported this Bill considered that it was likely to diminish crime; and he agreed with the hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich that in many instances it would be a mercy to the criminal himself. Though the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Sheffield said it was a degrading punishment, it might not be more so than incarceration for many months. And this he must say, that the son of a rich man would be subject to the same punishment. ["No, no!"] There was nothing in the Bill to make a distinction, and he did not believe that those who administered it would make a distinction; and he believed that in the case of the son of a rich man, it would be a mercy to flog him rather than send him to gaol.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  could not help expressing his cordial concurrence with the views of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down; and, although it might be unpopular after the eloquent denunciation of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, yet he should not discharge his duty if, thinking that this was the cause of humanity, he shrunk from saying so on the present occasion. It appeared to him that they should not be led away by sentimentality, which might do very well in a popular assembly, but in that House they must look to the real and practical interests of society. They had to deal with a class in
 519
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he agreed with all that the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield had said on the subject of whipping.
 520
 MR. ROEBUCK  was at no loss to meet the argument of the hon. and learned Gen-
 521 522
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, one of the worst things about the Bill was, that there was no intention whatever of applying it to the children of the gentry. It was a Bill intended solely for application to the children of the working classes. Eton boys stole geese. He knew they did; for he had heard men holding His Majesty's commission declare they had done it, and add, moreover, that they did it in submission to the rules by which the sons of the gentry at public schools were forced to steal at the command of their superiors. But there was no intention that the son of a gentleman should be whipped for stealing, either in a prison or in the market place. All this only showed the low moral state of the upper classes, and one which the middle and working classes were ashamed of. He saw serious dangers in the plan. The people of this country had always been a thoughtful people, but sometimes a wild-blooded one. What might be the consequences if some man of a hot temperament saw the child of his affections sent home to him lacerated by the public executioner for having eaten a turnip? [ A laugh
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, the hon. and learned Member for Bath—[ Cries of 523 per se
 MR. PACKE  said, that whipping was the law at present for boys of 16, when tried at the sessions. The question now was as to changing the tribunal; but the arguments had been directed against the punishment altogether. When whipping was inflicted at the sessions, it should be remembered that the jury had nothing whatever to do with the sentence; after they had found their verdict, it was for the bench to direct what the punishment should be. The object of the clause was merely to transfer this jurisdiction from the quarter to the petty sessions.
 MR. HUME  had been surprised to hear the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth advocate flogging for grown-up men. This was a Bill for regulating the punishment of juvenile offenders. What would the public say when they found the House so
 524
 MR. PLUMPTRE  would prefer to see corporal punishment confined to those under fourteen.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, that two arguments had been brought against the proposal—first, that it ought not to be extended to culprits above fourteen; secondly, that the tribunal was not a proper one. He differed from both those arguments. If a magistrate could be trusted with the infliction of this punishment on boys of fourteen, why not on those of sixteen? The evil of the punishment had been enlarged on, but no reference had been made to the greater evils of other punishments. Suppose the other course pursued, there would be the solemnity of a trial at the assizes, and consequent imprisonment, a
 525
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he should have been disposed to support the proposition before the House, to prevent the contamination of boys in prison; but feeling the other objections so strongly, he had not been able to screw up his courage to that point, and had therefore voted against the Bill all the while. Many magistrates, with the best intentions in the world, had no knowledge whatever of law, and almost as little of justice. It often happened, too, that the clerk to the magistrates was the magistrate himself; and that was a very great evil. It had been asked, why should not the same punishment be applied at sixteen as at fourteen? Because, at fourteen they were boys; but he remembered that when he was sixteen, he felt very much like a man. He was, fortunately, one of those who had escaped that punishment; he had never suffered the infliction of a stripe in his life; and, when he was sixteen, that man would have been a very clever fellow who would have laid a stripe upon him. Then there was the possibility of an innocent party being found guilty; and when summary punishment was inflicted, it was without redress, without appeal, the man was degraded for life, no reparation could be made him. He regarded trial by jury as one of the greatest bulwarks of our liberties, and he should ever oppose any attempt to narrow its application.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the question before the Committee was, whether corporal punishment should be extended, by a court of petty session, to persons between the age of fourteen and sixteen. The question as to the propriety of flogging, as a punishment, was not before them; and, therefore, he would not enter into that question. With regard to the extension of the punishment, he would vote against it; and for this reason, that persons of the age of fourteen being considered as boys were flogged with a rod, but, in all probability, that would be considered too light a mode of inflicting the punishment on a person of sixteen, and the cat would be used. Now, a person flogged with the cat would be marked for life, and he would net afterwards be taken into the Army.
 MR. SLANEY  said, he should vote against the extension of flogging to persons of sixteen years of age, although he admitted that his hon. Friend the Member for Droitwich was actuated by the best intentions in what he proposed.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he wished to state, in a few sentences, the grounds on which he should give his vote. At present he found that the law established a distinction between boys who did not exceed the age of fourteen, and boys who were above that age. In the case of the boy who did not exceed fourteen, the law treated him as a. boy, and made him subject to corporal punishment, under the summary jurisdiction of two magistrates. In the case of the boy who exceeded the age of fourteen, true it was that he was not exempted from corporal punishment; but they threw around him this sanction, that they required that the conviction should take place before the ordinary tribunals of the country. It was now proposed to confound this distinction, and to permit the boy, between fourteen and sixteen years of age; to be subjected to corporal punishment the discretion of two magistrates. He apprehended that, before any such alteration of the law was made, which would, apparently at least, be at variance with the principle which of late years dictated a milder policy in their criminal code, a case of necessity should be made out. He had heard none such. He thought it much better that the distinction recognised by the existing law should be maintained, than that they should confound that distinction without any allegation for the necessity of so doing. He apprehended that there was a growing conviction that corporal punishment ought not to be inflicted except in cases of grave necessity; and although adults were subject to corporal punishment, yet, upon their conviction, the Judges generally acted on the principle of selecting some other punishment than that degrading one. But he must say, that if Parliament, without any allegation of necessity, widened the discretion with regard to corporal punishment, it would be giving a tacit encouragement to the substitution of that form of punishment for the milder practice which of late years had made such progress in this country. He held that the practice in public schools had no analogy to the case of corporal punishments inflicted on offenders as a degradation. In his opinion, this would be no improvement of the law. It might make no practical
 527
 MR. ROEBUCK  hoped the hon. Baronet, after such a decision, would withdraw the Bill altogether. He could not see what use there would be in proceeding with it further, after the power of whipping offenders between 14 and 16 years of age had been cut out of the measure.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  regretted the decision that the House had just come to, which he did not think a merciful decision; but the Bill as it stood would still leave the magistrates the power, if they saw fit, of discharging an offender altogether who was brought up for the first time on a trifling charge; and as it would enable the juvenile offender to be saved from the contamination of the period passed in the gaol before trial, he thought it worth while to go on with the measure.
 MR. ROEBUCK  would like to know how much use a Bill would be that could only save the offender from the contamination of the gaol, by allowing him to go altogether unpunished?
 MR. AGLIONBY  concurred with the hon. Baronet in thinking the decision of the Committee an unfortunate one for the criminal himself. But the manner in which they had discussed the Bill was not calculated to raise the credit of their proceedings. They had several divisions upon it earlier in the evening, and at every subsequent hour a set of fresh Members came in, and not having heard the previous speeches they repeated other people's arguments over and over again. And then came, as the climax of all, the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Tamworth—"Presto, change!" and all that they had already decided, substantially, was all overturned. Still the Bill would prevent contamination in gaol. [Mr. ROEBUCK: No, no!] The hon. and learned Gentleman should show a little patience to others, when they had often to show so much to him. The Bill would now enable the magistrates to inflict on these men—for boys he was not allowed to call them—between 14 and 16 years of age, a short period of imprisonment—a week, or a few days, for example—in minor offences; whereas, if they destroyed the Bill altogether, they would have to
 530
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he could not conceive a stronger proof than that given by the hon. and learned Member for Cocker-mouth, that the sense of the House was decidedly against the Bill. The hon. and learned Member said, "Here have been Members dropping in who have not been subjected to the contamination and confinement of the House; and one after another they have expressed an opinion adverse to the proposed jurisdiction." This was no party question: if it were a party question, he apprehended that his (Sir R. Peel's) authority would not be very great. He did not speak until after two of the highest authorities—the hon. Member for East Kent and the hon. Member for Oxfordshire—both of whom had had great experience in such matters, had expressed a decided opinion on the subject. He had no wish, however, to disclaim his own responsibility, but he heartily rejoiced in the decision to which the House had come, and he repeated that the hon. and learned Member had given a most decided proof of the sense of the House in stating that independent Members entering the House at different periods of the debate, had arrived at the same conclusion. This was no very recondite question; it was simply whether the jurisdiction of flogging should be extended to boys between 14 and 16.
 MR. HUME  reminded the hon. and learned Member for Cockermouth that in two divisions the majority was six and nine; and if the Cabinet had been taken out, the Amendment would in each case have been carried.
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH : The hon. Member for Droitwich had, since the last division, frankly admitted that the great object of the Bill was to secure the power of the lash over those who came under the jurisdiction. If the hon. Baronet were determined to proceed, he was disposed to divide the House against that course.
 SIR G. GREY  said, the House had already affirmed the principle of the Bill, which was to extend the summary jurisdiction from offenders of 14 to those of 16 years of age. He, therefore, trusted, although they had rejected a particular species of punishment for the elder class of offenders, they would not now destroy the principle by rejecting the clause altogether; and he thought they had already had divisions enough on the Bill.
 MR. BRIGHT  would recommend the hon. Member for Droitwich not to go to a division on the question then. On the question that the Chairman report progress, the Bill had been kept alive only by a majority of 6; on another question the majority was only 9. He thought it would be unwise to proceed with legislation of that nature with such a division of feeling in the House. He would suggest, that under the circumstances it would be best to withdraw the Bill for the present; and two or three years hence, if a case of necessity or desirableness had been made out, the House might return to the consideration of the question, and perhaps decide by a majority which would give weight to the measure proposed.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  was not prepared to admit that the House was so equally divided as the hon. Member for Manchester appeared to suppose. On the question whether the House should or should not go into Committee on the Bill, a full House had divided, and so far he had a right to infer that there was a majority of 60 or 70 Members in favour of that part of the Bill which was retained. If the hon. and learned Member for Dundalk persevered, he should take the sense of the House on the Bill as it stood.
 LORD NAAS  thought the Bill was more required in Ireland than in any other part of the united kingdom, seeing that so much contamination had arisen there from the overcrowded state of the gaols.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  said, that when he introduced the Juvenile Offenders Bill in 1847, he was strongly appealed to by Irish Members to extend it to Ireland. He declined to do so at the time; but in the following year a Bill for that purpose passed unanimously.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, what the hon. Gentleman the Member for Clonmel complained of was, that there was no uniformity. He said that Ireland differed from England, inasmuch as the accused had not the power of appeal.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  did not know what the hon. Gentleman meant by a power of appeal. He was not aware of the existence of any such power. What the hon. Gentleman called the power of
 532
 SIR F. THESIGER  hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would not attempt to force on the Bill at this late hour (a quarter to 12 o'clock). He had been expecting the Bill to come on at an early period of the night.
 MR. S. WORTLBY  said, that the present regulations of the House were such, that it was almost impossible for a private Member to proceed with a Bill. He believed it was for the convenience of the House to proceed. He believed that a large portion of the House had attended with a view to this question. The Amendments were not a new subject, but those on which most men had made up their minds, and it was very easy for the House to come to a vote.
 SIR F. THESIGER  begged leave to move that this debate be now adjourned.
 MR. HUME  said, that really the House ought to be prepared to decide one way or the other.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  thought it was not doing justice to the motives which actuated those on the other side, in wishing for an adjournment, as if no question was to be discussed which had not been discussed already. The contrary was the fact. Several important principles arose in Committee which would require full consideration on the part of those who had given notice of Amendment. He had given a notice that went to the exemption of the Established Churches of England and Scotland from the operation of this measure, and it would be his duty in pressing that Motion to occupy the House a considerable time.
 MR. F. MAULE  said, that he had a Motion that Scotland be excluded from the operation of the Bill. This question which he had undertaken to move, was the only question upon which he could really say that he believed Scotland was almost unanimous. He believed there did not exist a difference of opinion to any extent on
 533
 MR. FORBES  hoped the Bill would not be pressed forward at that late hour. He, too, had an Amendment, similar to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  said, that he also had an Amendment to propose, for the exclusion of Ireland from the Bill; and believing that the people of Ireland were unanimous for exemption from the operation of the measure, he should support the Amendment.
 SIR B. HALL  hoped that the right hon. and learned Gentleman would withdraw his Bill for the present. This measure was said to have been brought forward for the advantage of the poorer and humbler classes. He denied that allegation. Looking at the former Act, which was precedent to the present Bill, to the great outlay and expenditure that had been incurred to carry out the object of this Bill, he believed that the Bill had not been brought forward for the benefit of the poorer and humbler classes, but to put certain persons of a higher grade in a better position than that they now occupied. It was impossible that all the expenditure could have been defrayed by poor people. He could not mention names, but he knew who had paid the cost.
 MR. COCKBURN  said, it appeared to him that the House was in a state of quite sufficient attention and vigilance to enable them to go on with the Bill. They were not called upon to conclude the debate the same night. If hon. Gentlemen on the other side were satisfied that their numbers were full, they would have no anxiety as to the result of ft division. Every hour saved was an hour gained in the progress of the Bill, and he thought his right hon. and learned Friend justified in pressing on the Committee at that comparatively early period of the evening.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that he would join issue with the hon. and learned Member who had spoken. He did not think that any advantage would be gained by their going into Committee at that late hour. He held, with the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon, that they should not go into Committee.
 MR. BOUVERIE  agreed that no advantage would be gained by their going into Committee at that hour.
 MR. S. WORTLEY  said, he was in ex-
 534
 SIR G. GREY  suggested that the House might go into Committee, but without taking the discussion, which might be postponed.
 SIR F. THESIGER  said, his object was to prevent the Bill going on at that late hour. He had no objection to his right hon. and learned Friend taking a stage, or any desire to oppose the Speaker leaving the chair, on the understanding that there was a general feeling in the House not to go on with the discussion at that period of the night.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that if the House went into Committee, the Bill would be rediscussed when it came again before them. He had no objection whatever to go into Committee on the understanding that there should be no discussion.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  objected to any compromise or understanding, and would Support the Amendment.
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO  then moved the adjournment of the House.
 COLONEL RAWDON  protested against the suspension of public business through the course taken by the opponents of the Bill; and he asked whether it was calculated to raise the House in the estimation of the country?
 SIR F. THESIGER  understood that his right hon. and learned Friend only proposed to take one stage, that of the Speaker leaving the chair, and to undertake not to proceed with the measure in Committee. Under these circumstances he thought there was no necessity for pressing the Motion.
 MR. F. MACKENZIE  said, the right hon. and learned Gentleman would gain either something or nothing by the stage. If he were to gain anything by it, he (Mr. Mackenzie) would oppose it; but if he gained nothing, why press on the Bill?
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, nobody was more opposed to the measure than he was; but it was only fair to place the right hon. and learned Gentleman in the position he would have been in had the Bill come on at an earlier stage.
 MR. PLUMPTRE  was not satisfied with any arrangement for a stage being gained by Mr. Speaker leaving the chair. The more the Bill was discussed the more objectionable would it prove to be, and he was unwilling to lose any opportunity of making its objectionable principles apparent.
 MR. WALPOLE  urged the House to consent to this stage, observing that there would be a full opportunity of discussing the principle upon the third reading.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  thought the cause of those who, like himself, opposed the Bill, would hardly he strengthened by the course which was taken in moving adjournments. They must lead to an impression that their object was obstruction rather than discussion.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  remarked that the concessions of his two hon. and learned Friends would not have been made at eight o'clock, and they had been addressed to the House solely from a conviction that the hour was too advanced to proceed with the discussion. Had his right hon. and learned Friend gained or advanced a single step? He had not; nor would he after the division. Under these circumstances it would be better for him to withdraw the proposition for going into Committee.
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO  said, he was determined to oppose the Bill at every stage and by all means in his power, for a more objectionable measure he had never known introduced into that House. Upon his honour he had a stronger feeling against this Bill, and greater pleasure in voting against it, than against any other ever brought before Parliament. With these feelings he should oppose it at every point which the forms of the House would allow.
 MR. S. WORTLEY  appealed to the House to allow the Bill to be committed  pro formâ
 SIR G. GREY  deprecated the opposition with which the right hon. and learned Member had been encountered, but thought that it would be futile to persevere further with the Bill that evening.
 MR. SPEAKER  called the hon. and learned Member to order, whereupon Mr. O'Connor resumed his seat.
 MR. SPEAKER  suggested that the hon. Member should take some other opportunity. The first Order of the Day related to the Larceny Summary Jurisdiction Bill, and the question before the House was, that the Speaker do now leave the chair. The hon. Member must, therefore, speak to that point.
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  said, that the hon. Member was quite right in stating that he (Mr. O'Connor) had declared his intention of introducing a Bill upon the subject alluded to. The truth was, he had not been able to be in the House until the night before last, having been ill since some time before Easter. He could tell the hon. Member, however, that he had made an appointment, which that hon. Gentleman was at liberty to attend if he chose—for a consultation to-morrow morning with Mr. Walmsley, of Parliament-street, upon the best mode of accomplishing the object. But he (Mr. O'Connor) had also a question to put to the hon. Baronet—whether it was true that the hon. Baronet had once been the trustee of funds belonging to some poor persons in his neighbourhood?
 SIR B. HALL  begged to say one word on what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Nottingham.
 SIR B. HALL  observed, that he should move the adjournment of the debate. But there would be an opportunity to-morrow of adverting to the matter on which he wished to address the House, when the Secretary for the Treasury moved the adjournment of the House; and he challenged the hon. and learned Member for Nottingham to be then in his place.
 SIR B. HALL  said, seeing the hon. and learned Member for Nottingham in his place, he begged to put a question to him in reference to a Bill which before Easter he stated he would introduce as early as possible after the recess, namely, a Bill for the purpose of winding up the affairs of the National Land Company. He begged to ask him whether he now
 496
 MR. F. SCOTT  was understood to say that there was not a governor in the whole Australian group who was not in favour of a double chamber. The hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies had misquoted the only document to which he referred, when he led them to believe that the legislative council were not of the same opinion. The colonists were all desirous of having a constitution as near as possible to that of this country. He (Mr. Scott) asserted that the great preponderance of opinion in the colonies, as expressed by their governors, as well as by the petitions laid on the table of that House, was decidedly in favour of a double as compared with a single chamber. The despatches which had lately been received from South Australia and Van Diemen's Land decidedly expressed the opinions of the governors of the colonies; and though the noble Lord opposite had asserted that the opinions of the colonists were opposed to those entertained by the governors, yet he wished to know how he could prove that to be the case? By accounts which had been received from Port Phillip, it appeared that two public meetings had been held there without coming to any resolution whatever in the matter.
 LORD J. MANNERS  said, the noble Lord at the head of the Government had told the House that so great was the ignorance of the Government and this House with regard to the feelings, wishes, and position of the colonists for whom they
 596 597 —"on every ground and consideration it was indispensably necessary that an aristocracy should constitute a branch of the constitution for Canada. It was equally important with the monarchical and popular elements of the constitution." 598
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that neither the question of emigration nor the question of the waste lands had been referred to that Committee.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, I should not think of troubling the House at this late hour—12 o'clock—but that I am anxious to recall the attention of hon. Gentlemen to what the question is on which we are going to divide. The hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark has proposed, as an Amendment, that we should omit in the Bill certain words affecting the composition of the legislative council, and that we should substitute other words in their place. But the hon. Baronet, in taking a view of the two chambers—one to be elected by the people, and the other to be elected by the same electors, but having a double qualification—does not state in his Amendment that the second chamber is to be elected. He has carefully avoided that point, as
 617 618
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, if his hon. Friend had given a calmer attention to the circumstances to which he had referred, he would hardly have made the appeal which he had addressed to himself. His hon. Friend made it upon the ground that the people of South Australia had come to a resolution that there ought to be two chambers of Government, and were favourable to the proposal of the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark. Now, what had happened was this. With the exception of New South Wales, there was not in these colonies any representative assembly whatever, and those legislative councils which now existed, were councils named by the Governor; they were, in the phraseology of the hon. Baronet, the nominees of the Colonial Office. However improper that phrase might be, they derived their authority from the nomination of the Governor, approved of by Her Majesty. It appeared that the Legislative Council of South Australia had come to a resolution that the legislature should consist of a governor and two chambers. That, so far as these persons nominated by the governor were concerned, seemed to be the opinion of the legislature of South Australia; but if he went on, he
 —"found that the second chamber should be composed of members elected by the people, with the exception of certain officers of Government, which shall be  ex-officio ex-officio 572
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Mr. Speaker, I did not intend to address the House at this time; but the manner in which the hon. Gentleman who has just resumed his seat has spoken on this question obliges me to offer a few remarks. The hon. Gentleman has been expressing an anxiety for favourable breezes. Now there has been a continuation of favourable breezes, which have brought us intelligence from that part of the world—not, be it remembered, through the contaminated channel of the Colonial Office, but through a source much higher in the estimation of the hon. Gentleman—the Jerusalem Coffee-house. Those who had read Sir H. Young's despatch would have read the announcement that—
 "A public meeting of the colonists in Adelaide has been convened for Friday next, the 21st instant, the proceedings of which shall be duly communicated to your Lordship." 581 "Resolved—That the Bill lately laid before the Imperial Parliament for the better government of the Australian colonies, as far as regards South Australia, meets the wishes and wants of the colony; that in its essential provisions and its concession of a representative body with such extensive powers, we regard it as a most liberal and comprehensive measure; and the thanks of this colony are hereby given to Earl Grey and to Mr. Hawes, to Lord J. Russell, and Mr. Labouchere, Members of the House of Commons, who prepared and brought in the Bill." 582 583 584
 MR. DISRAELI : I have here the report before me, which mentions the subjects on which they advised, and it appears that Lord Campbell, Sir Edward Ryan, and the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, gave advice to the Government, or rather counselled their Sovereign first, respecting a division of the colony of New South Wales. Now, conceive a Secretary of State not competent, according to his own view, to recommend to his colleagues and his Sovereign the division of a colony, without requesting a Committee of Privy Council to do it. The next point is the establishment of municipal councils. This is a subject on which I humbly think a Secretary of State should be competent to form an opinion without calling in this unconstitutional aid. The next subject is the levy of rates in those districts. The Secretary of State could not form an opinion upon it without the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, another Cabinet Minister, and
 607 608 609 610
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I understand that we are now in Committee upon the sixth clause of the Bill; there is an Amendment proposed to the sixth clause; the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Athlone calls our attention to considerations which do not affect the question at present before us. That question is whether the colonies are to have one or two chambers. His considerations are apart from this clause, and it would be well enough that the real question should be divested from them; for it is surely of itself sufficiently grave. Indeed, I hardly know one more difficult to decide, or one on which the responsibility of a vote would be felt more sensibly by any Member of Parliament. This question, however, is not new to the House. It is not four years ago a Government was founded, one of the meritorious characteristics of which was to be that of colonial reform; and in questions so extremely complicated as the construction of political constitutions, we naturally look with great expectation to the existing Government to be our guides, philosophers, and friends. That Government, on the instant of its formation almost, without entering the House, without any intimation of the policy they thought ought to be pursued with respect to the very question now under consideration—presented a constitution for a distant colony, contiguous to those we are now discussing. We had, therefore, then the opportunity of obtaining the opinion of the Government, and especially those members of it who were known to be colonial reformers; and it appears by their first project of a constitution for one of these distant colo-
 603 604 605 "We think it desirable that the political institutions of the British colonies should thus he brought into the nearest possible analogy to the constitution of the United Kingdom. We also think it wise to adhere as closely as possible to our ancient maxims of government on this subject, and to the precedents in which those maxims have been embodied. The experience of centuries has ascertained the value and the practical efficiency of that system of colonial polity to which those maxims and precedents afford their sanction. In the absence of some very clear and urgent reason for breaking up the ancient uniformity of design in the government of the colonial dependencies of the Crown, it would seem unwise to depart from that uniformity." 606
 MR. DISRAELI : The hon. Gentleman stated that I had omitted to name Sir James Stephen; but, although a member of the Committee, he did not sign the report, and I only alluded to those who had
 615
 MR. HAWES  said, that there was no provision in the Bill for the government of the convicts in Van Diemen's Land, the Bill having nothing to do with transportation.
 MR. HAWES  hoped the House would consider that it was only a sense of duty which induced him to rise at this late hour and after a long debate; but there were some portions of the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, which rendered it absolutely incumbent upon him to put the House right with reference to the state of the subject. The hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, in opening his speech, stated that the question which the House had to decide, was this, whether they would confer the constitution of two chambers upon all the Australian colonies. The hon. Member for Buckinghamshire had altogether forgotten the debate which took place the other evening on this subject, where, with reference to New South Wales and the colony of Van Diemen's Land, the House decided against granting the constitution. The Committee of Council had been constituted to consider various colonial subjects, and the Secretary of State, in constituting the Committee of Privy Council, had delegated his duties, and had altogether abandoned his responsibility. If there was one thing which the hon. Gentleman had complained of more than another, it was that on great colonial questions the Secretary of State for the Colonies hitherto had decided upon them in secret, without due deliberation and advice, without asking for information; and now, when he gathered round him men of knowledge to advise, and was adopting the report they might make, the complaint was that the Secretary of State had delegated his authority and abandoned his responsibility. Who constituted the Committee? The hon. Member asked who Sir "Somebody" Ryan was, as if he did not know that Sir E. Ryan had been Chief Justice at Bengal. The hon. Member omitted to state that Sir J. Steven, whose knowledge of colonial affairs was universally acknowledged, was also a Member of the Committee of Privy Council. The hon. Member bore testimony to the ability of Lord Campbell and his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade. The Committee of Council left it to the Colonial Secretary to adopt or reject the report. The noble
 611 612 613 614
 MR. HAWES  said, that in Van Die-men's Land and South Australia the number of the legislative council was limited to twenty-four, but in New South Wales and Western Australia a discretion was left with the legislative authorities.
 MR. HAWES : It was long before the despatch was received.
 MR. HAWES : No, no!
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, the noble Lord must allow that the question now before the House was between a single and double chamber. It was evident, therefore, that the noble Lord was dealing with things on their superficial aspect, and not according to their principles, when he thought there was any difference between the proposition of the Legislative Council of South Australia and that of the independent portion of the House at this moment. The proposition of the latter was, that there should be two chambers as independent estates; that of the Government was, that Crown influence should run through the whole frame of the legislature. They proposed separate independent estates; the Government amalgamated and controlled estates. It mattered less what the nature of the upper chamber might be; the noble Lord was evi-
 573 574 575 Sydney Herald 576 ipse dixit 577 578 dilettante 579 corpus vile 580
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he was not aware that the hon. Baronet had put any questions to the hon. and learned Member which were not strictly in accordance with the rules of the House. The question the hon. Baronet had asked related to the decision of a Committee in regard to a Bill to be brought before the House; while the question put by the hon. and learned Member did not relate to a matter in the cognisance of the House.
 MR. SPEAKER  intimated, that he had thought it right to interfere on the last occasion, when he heard that the question
 553
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  said, the only explanation he could give was, that what he had said had arisen from a letter he had received, and which he now had with him, and the purport of which he would communicate to the hon. Baronet, if he chose to have it. It appeared that the hon. Baronet was allowed to put questions to him (Mr. O'Connor), but that he was not permitted to ask any in return. However, he bowed to the decision of the Chair.
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  said, that if the hon. Baronet chose he would answer the
 554 Gazette
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  rose, but—
 MR. MOWATT  said, the spirit in which this Bill was framed was so admirable, and the whole scope of its intention so liberal, that he was very unwilling to pronounce any judgment upon it; but the hon. and learned Member for Athlone and some other hon. Members had attributed to it so many qualities that it did not possess that he could not help making a few observations upon this measure. It was a most remarkable proposition, such, indeed, as had no precedent in the history of legislation; but he thought that the great defect of the Bill was this, that whilst the Government frankly confessed their ignorance of the real wants, and desires, and condition of the colonies, they attempted to legislate for those colonies on a permanent basis, and would not leave the colonies free practically—although the Bill itself in theory professed otherwise—to choose for themselves their system of government. No one who had read the despatch of Sir W. Denison could doubt for a moment what
 616
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down had spoken as if he were an agent for some of the colonies. He did not know whether the hon. and learned Gentleman was or was not; but, for his own part, he would be very glad to have some information upon the subject from Gentlemen who were intimately acquainted with the state of the colonies; for the chief difficulty with which the House had to contend was the ignorance of the Members upon the actual condition and feelings of the colonists. For his own part, he should have no objection whatever that it should be announced, that in the opinion of Parliament a second chamber was desirable for the constitution of the colonies; but, in his own total ignorance of their wants, he would have it left to themselves to adopt it or not as they should think fit. If Parliament were to fix the principle of the two chambers for the colonies, they did not know whether they would give effect to such a constitution or not. He would not debate the relative merits of the modes in which it had been proposed to frame the constitution of the upper chamber. He was merely addressing himself to the question of whether a second chamber were desirable or not, and he still retained the opinion which he had before expressed, that there ought to be an upper chamber if it were possible. Sir C. Fitzroy, in a letter dated January 26, 1848, gave his opinion in favour of an up per chamber for New South Wales. But on looking over the papers that had been laid upon the table, he found that a meeting had been subsequently held in the colonies, at which colonists of great weight and experience had ventured to throw grave doubts upon the subject; and there was no further information relating to that colony before the House. Amongst the papers recently presented, there was a letter from Sir W. Denison, dated December 28, 1849, in which he said he thought a second chamber should be constituted at once by Parliament for the colony of Van Diemen's Land; and he (Mr. Aglionby) presumed that the Governor would not have given that opinion unless he thought that the colonists were in favour of it. And in a letter from Adelaide, dated December 17, 1849, the Governor, Sir H. Young, en closed a resolution adopted by the Legislative Council in favour of an upper chamber. By way of answer to these, the noble Lord
 588 ad valorem
 MR. J. E. DENISON  said, that he had a short time before been anxious for the success of this Bill in the shape in which it had been presented, even though the House seemed to be in favour of two chambers. Since that, however, he had had sufficient reasons from the new information which had arrived for changing his opinion. As regarded New South Wales, it was said that the inhabitants of New South Wales were generally satisfied with the institutions they possessed—that it would be unwise and unreasonable to interfere with those institutions with which the colony itself was satisfied—that even if a change was desirable at that time they did not possess sufficient information to guide them in making such change. These reasons did appear to him to be sufficient to justify him in supporting the proposition as originally presented. In the course, however, of the discussion, the integrity of the measure gave way, one of its most important features fell to the ground, namely, the federation principle. They had several Motions before them objecting to that principle, and a despatch from Earl Grey, in which he said himself that the federative principle would be inoperative; and that although at some future period it might be useful, yet for the present it must be put out of consideration. Did the noble Lord at the head of the Government recollect that by the failure of the federative union, the plan for the management of waste
 569 570 571
 MR. ROEBUCK  did not differ very much from either the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark, or the noble Lord at the head of the Government. The noble Lord thought two chambers better than one; and the hon. Baronet thought an elected upper chamber better than a nominee one. Well, then, they were all agreed that there ought to be two chambers; and the only question was, when these two chambers should be permitted to come into existence in the colonies. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had admitted that he did not know enough of the people of Australia to say how he was to form the second chamber. It was acknowledged that a nominee upper chamber was an exceedingly mischievous thing; and there was no doubt that an upper chamber, nominated by the Crown, was the most mischievous thing that could possibly be. If the noble Earl at the head of the Colonial Office was ignorant of the state of
 589 590 Federalist 591 592 fainéant
 MR. ROEBUCK , in explanation, referred to Mr. Bancroft's work, to show that after a few years the Virginians adopted the principle of a double chamber. But all he asked was that the colonists should not be asked to go through so many stages of admitted imperfection. The hon. Gentleman who spoke last wished the colonists to end well, but he (Mr. Roebuck) wished them to begin well and end well too.
 MR. ANSTEY  then moved that the words of the clause which empowered the Crown to nominate a certain number of the members of the two legislative councils to sit with the elective members should be omitted.
 MR. ANSTEY  said, the noble Lord had so completely removed the difficulties raised by the hon. Members for Southwark and North Staffordshire, that he doubted whether he should attempt to add anything to the discussion; but as the question now before them affected not the colonies at large, but the colonies of Van Diemen's Land and South Australia, in particular the former, with which he was more immediately connected, he thought he could show that the Amendment of the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark was totally inapplicable to the circumstances of that colony. It was a mistake
 585 586 587
 MR. KEOGH  said, they heard from the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark that it was the right of Englishmen to be be governed by laws made by the majority of their representatives, and in that sentiment he concurred. He hoard similar sentiments from the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, and he apprehended there would be no difference of opinion on either side of the House on that subject; but when he looked at the Amendment, he was indeed at a loss to reconcile it with that sentiment coming from the hon. Baronet. He asked the hon. Baronet with what consistency did he say that Englishmen ought to have laws made by a majority of their representatives, when in this Amendment he proposed that no alteration should be made in the constitution either of Van Diemen's Land or South Australia unless two-thirds of the members of each house
 599 600 601 Adelaide Times 602
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  had listened with great attention to everything that had fallen from the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down, but he was yet unaware whether he intended to vote for the Amendment or not. Before the hon. Baronet and his Friends could hope to induce the House to affirm the principle which they contended for, they must either prove that "Van Diemen's Land was specifically better fitted for two chambers than New South Wales, or that the resolution to which it recently came, with respect to that colony, was erroneous, and ought to be reversed. The hon. Baronet quoted, in favour of his views, statistics from a despatch of Sir W. Denison; but that despatch, while it stated that 32,000 persons were capable of claiming political rights, also informed us that a still greater number of persons in that colony were undergoing the penalty of crime, or had been criminals. The House, after full discussion, had decided that, under the present circumstances, New South Wales did not require a second chamber for its good government; and the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield should show some new information or some new reasons why the alleged defects of its constitution had escaped his acute powers when the Bill for establishing it was before the House of Commons. He regretted very much the absence of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford, to whose historical arguments he should not allude, were it not that the hon. Baronet had reopened the question. The hon. Baronet, and also the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, had referred to the early plantations in America as proofs that a double chamber was preferable to a single chamber. In a work published in 1705 by Mr. Beverley, a resident in Virginia, and who had access to all the public documents, we were informed that—
 "In 1620, an assembly of burgesses was first called, who sat in consultation with the Governor
 593 594 "That, for facilitating the despatch of business, and for other reasons, the gentlemen and the freeholders should sit and hold their meetings in two distinct houses.—Answer. We willingly approve the motion; only as yet it is not so practised amongst us; but, in time, the variety and discrepancy of sundry occurrences will put them upon a necessity of sitting apart." 595 Federalist
 SIR B. HALL : I am very glad to hear it.
 SIR B. HALL  said, he should certainly bow to what he believed to be the feeling of the House, and not be influenced by anything which had taken place previously, and if he had shown any pugnacity on the previous day, it would, he hoped, be considered excusable. He thanked Mr. Speaker for stating, that he had never put a question to the hon. and learned Member except on matters of a public nature; and he assured the House that he never would make that place, in which they were assembled for public purposes and objects, the scene of any personal discussion. Proceeding in the exercise of duty which he had chalked out for himself, he begged to give notice—bearing in mind the statement of the hon. and learned Gentleman on the previous evening, that he had consulted a professional person as to the course which he should take in reference to the introduction of the Bill which had been so often alluded to—that he should ask the hon. and learned Gentleman when he intended to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the purpose of winding up the affairs of the National Land Company, and whether he intended the Bill to be a public or a private one; but he would not put this question until Tuesday, the 30th of April.
 SIR B. HALL  rose, pursuant to the notice he had given on the preceding evening, to call upon the hon. and learned Member for Nottingham for an explanation of the allusion he had then made to him (Sir B. Hall).
 MR. F. PEEL  observed that a limitation was placed upon the discretion to be vested in the legislative authorities of Van Diemen's Land and South Australia as to the number of persons to constitute the legislative council; but the same limitation was not extended to the legislatures of New South Wales and Western Australia.
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH : I beg the hon. Gentleman's pardon, he will find it really is so, if he will look at the dates.
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  said, he had only one word to say with regard to this clause. In this clause and in Clause II it was proposed to continue the Act of the 5th & 6th Victoria, which contained a number of provisions, and amongst them one which empowered Parliament to interfere in the affairs of the colony. It would be inconvenient to enter into a discussion at the present moment, and he would not prevent the Committee going into the next clause.
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH : * "'And be it enacted that,' be omitted, for the
 555 556 "I have been made aware that Her Majesty's Government intend to bring this Bill forward again early in the next Session of Parliament. I think it, therefore, my duty to point out to your Lordship such of the provisions of the Bill as would work unsatisfactorily. I have no very accurate means of arriving at the opinion of the body of the community; indeed, I might almost say, that the satisfaction with which almost any measure conferring a representative system of government would be welcomed would go far to prevent any deliberate discussion of its provisions. As regards my own views, I observe that the Committee of the Privy Council gave their sanction to the principle of a second chamber, but have recommended that, in the Australian colonies, the system of New South Wales, where legislation is entrusted to a single body, partly nominated, should be generally adopted. It would be undesirable to press a reform upon an unwilling or even indifferent people; but I doubt very much whether the evidence in the possession of the Government is sufficient to prove that the people of New South Wales are unwilling to adopt such a change in the form of the existing government. Indifferent they may perhaps be, but in that case I would submit that the welfare of the three colonies, now about to be called into political existence, might be allowed to outweigh the mere indifference of the people of New South Wales." "I am afraid that the remedy proposed by the Committee of the Privy Council, namely, that of vesting a power in the legislatures of the different colonies, of amending their constitutions, by re-
 557 "I would submit also that, if each colony be empowered to alter its constitution, the reasons which have induced the Committee of Council to recommend that all should have governments constituted upon the same model, would seem to have but little weight, as a change on the part of any of the four would at once destroy the uniformity." "My opinion remains unchanged by anything that I have beard or read since I last addressed your Lordship on this subject. Every additional day that I remain in this colony serves to add to the strength of my conviction that it would be most desirable, when the change in the form of the government of this colony does take place, that a Second Chamber should be constituted at once by the authority of Parliament. Such a chamber, however, should differ from those which did exist in the North American colonies, inasmuch as a large proportion of the members should be elected, or otherwise rendered independent of the Government, and they should hold their position for a long period, if not for life." "An intelligent, highly respectable, and influential member of the local legislature, having given notice of a resolution on the subject of the new constitution to be established in the Australian colonies, it appears expedient that I should at once forward it to your Lordship, especially as the general question is likely to engage the attention of the Imperial Parliament early in the Session of 1850." "Succinctly they may be described as a proposed transference to South Australia of those political and social institutions of Great Britain, by which the useful grandeur and glory of the empire have been gradually and progressively enlarged and strengthened, and preserved." 558 Gazette
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH : Long before the despatch was received! Why, this despatch from the Governor was received at the Colonial Office on the 26th of March, and my question was put to the hon. Gentleman last Tuesday week. However, it is quite clear the resolution was not published by inadvertence, because the Governor directed it to be published in the Government  Gazette 559 "It does not appear to me that the practical working of the last system—that of New South Wales—would by any means justify the conclusion that it is an improvement upon that of two houses, which it was formerly the practice to adopt. On the contrary, I see many reasons for belief, that the more ancient system by which every new law was submitted to the separate consideration of two distinct houses, and required
 560 s 561 s s s s s 562 563 564 565 Federalist "against the propensity of all single and numerous assemblies to yield to the impulse of sudden and violent passions, and to be seduced by factious leaders into intemperate and pernicious resolutions;" to supply the "want of due acquaintance with the objects and principles of legislation; and to prevent mutability in public councils." 566 567 568
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH , in reply, said the noble Lord had not quite correctly represented the nature of his Amendment. He proposed to make four distinct alterations in the clause then under discussion, and when altered it would road thus:—
 "And be it enacted, that there shall he established in the colonies of Van Diemen's Land and South Australia respectively, a legislative council and a house of assembly, and that the members of such council and assembly shall be elected by the inhabitants of the colony in which such council shall be established."
 MR. V. SMITH  said, that it appeared to him that they were proceeding with too much haste in carrying this Bill. The last clause, the latter part of which contained maay inconsistencies, had been agreed to with very little deliberation. As regarded New South Wales, its history could not be too frequently told, as it did not appear to be well understood. The New South Wales Bill, which some Members talked of as being a model of a Bill, was more a make-shift than a piece of legislation. From 1788 to 1823 they treated New South Wales more as a prison than any thing else; and so badly did the House treat that colony, that in the year 1823 the Government was compelled to bring in an Act of Indemnity, and from that time up to 1839 they were engaged discussing how they should deal with it. In 1840 the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government brought in the Bill under which the government of the colony was at present conducted; but he stated at that time that it was only to continue for ten years, as he thought that the colonies might in the course of that time wish for the same institutions which their North American colonies possessed. The House, however, had decided otherwise. They now proposed to leave the colonies to shift for themselves; but when he looked at the vast amount of emigration which had taken place, he thought that it was too bad to deprive them of the advice of their mother country. Their representation in the Assembly was at present inefficient. The rate of qualification was too high, as by it they excluded from the Assembly a large interest which was composed of an influential and intelligent body, he meant the "squatting" interest.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  wished to take the Chairman's opinion upon a point of order. The Committee were now upon the 7th clause, but the right hon. Gentleman was discussing a subject which related only to the 6th clause.
 The CHAIRMAN  was sure the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Northampton had too much knowledge and respect for the House to do that which was irregular. The fact was, the subjects were so intermixed that it was difficult to separate them.
 MR. V. SMITH  contended that he was
 629
 MR. HAWES  said, that the principle upon which the Bill proceeded was to leave the existing constitution of New South Wales as nearly as possible in the state in which it now stood. It might be very possible to suggest various improvements; but the object, as he had said, was not to vary or alter the New South Wales Act in any material point. The right hon. Gentleman had said that when the Bill of 1842 was introduced, something like a promise was held out that within a period of ten years the colonists would receive a representative constitution, framed upon the model of that of the mother country. Well, within that period of time this Bill had been introduced, which gave the existing legislature of that colony the power to frame such institutions as might be thought most suitable to the wants and condition of the colony. So far the promise had been fulfilled in a generous spirit towards the colonists. But the right hon. Gentleman said that there was a very important body—the leaseholders, or the
 630
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that the answer of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies was no answer whatever to the right hon. Member for Northampton. That right hon. Gentleman had stated that there was a large interest in New South Wales called the squatting interest, which had not at present the franchise, and was not represented in any way. Therefore, said he, if you allow the council to frame the future constitution for the colony, the most important body in the country will be entirely unconsulted in the arrangement. In reply, the hon. Under Secretary stated that which was applicable to quite another point, that he considered that what he thought the popular part of the council would carry it over the nominee part of the council. It was clear that the Government had only two courses to pursue, cither to make a good constitution well, or prepare the constituent assembly to reform their own constitution. They had broadly laid down, however, that they did not undertake to frame the best constitution themselves, and, as the hon. Under Secretary had stated, had given a constitution which would not represent the feelings of the community, and in which the largest and wealthiest class would not be in any way represented.
 MR. WYLD  wished to call the attention of Government to the peculiar position of Van Diemen's Land. Did the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies think the existence of a free legislative assembly in that island, having full power over the taxes and the Government, com patible with the presence of a transport
 631
 MR. MOWATT  agreed with the hon. Under Secretary that they were hardly in a position to set the question upon a satisfactory footing; but it would well become the Government to state what was their opinion of the matter more distinctly, and probably give the House some sort of assurance that they would bring it under the attention of the governors of the respective colonies.
 SIR W. MOLES WORTH  said, that in Van Diemen's Land and South Australia the legislatures now by law established were to possess under the Bill the power of establishing universal suffrage, and no property qualification for the elected. He wished to know why the same power was not to be given in the case of the legislatures of New South Wales and Victoria?
 LORD J. RUSSELL  did not think that they could arrive at satisfactory conclusions on points of detail, and thought that such questions as the right of voting and the like would much better be settled by the local legislatures.
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  said, that the noble Lord had not answered the question he had put. The 6th clause enacted that "such legislatures"—those of Van Diemen's Land and South Australia—"respectively, by such laws or ordinances as aforesaid, may, if they so think fit, reduce the minimum value of lands and tenements, and the minimum yearly value of a dwelling-house required to confer the right of Toting at such elections."
 MR. HAWES  said, that by the 11th clause the provisions of former Acts on this subject were to remain in force. The new councils would have no such power as the hon. Baronet mentioned; but that any
 632
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH : Then it followed that no constitution could be established in the colonies until this Bill had been sent out, and they had agreed to a constitution, transmitted it to the Colonial Office, and it was sent back to them again. Thus they would not be able to have a new constitution in a shorter period than two years. He suggested, therefore, that they should not now pass this portion of the Bill, but wait for further information from the colonies.
 MR. HUME  was inclined to accept the Bill without throwing any difficulties in the way of the Government. They were making immense strides towards the establishment of free institutions in the colonies, and, therefore, he was unwilling to look too narrowly into the details of their measure. He was not afraid that, even if the four colonies sent home four different constitutions, the Government of the day would offer any opposition to the wishes of the people.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, the colonies with which he was acquainted would infinitely rather that this Bill should be passed in its integrity than that there should even be a month's delay in its progress. He thought the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark had not adopted a fair course towards the House and the Government in regard to the Bill.
 MR. MACGREGOR  said, that no Bill would give more satisfaction to the colonies than this would; and he could assure Gentlemen who opposed it that they would get little credit in Van Diemen's Land for their opposition.
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH : Was it not the fact, that two years must elapse before a new legislature could be established in the colonies?
 MR. HAWES  did not think it would occupy that space of time. Undoubtedly they could not proceed to legislate until the Bill was passed. It would have been passed last year but for the multitudinous Amendments which were brought forward.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, it was clear that the plan of the Government would create far more delay than any other plan which had yet been suggested. Who was the origin of the delay which had taken place but Ministers themselves? They had been urged to proceed with the measure before Easter, but they delayed the debate a month or six weeks, in order to reproduce old despatches, from which they could draw no information whatever.
 MR. WYLD  said, he would not press the Amendment of which he had given notice.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the enactment in the New South Wales Act of 1842 was, that one-third of the members of the legislative council should be appointed by the Crown, and that of the non-elected members not more than one-half should hold any office or emolument under the Crown, so that no more than one-sixth of the whole number could be officially connected with the Government. The hon. and learned Gentleman now proposed that that provision should not be carried into effect should there be any increase in the whole number of members. Such an alteration, it appeared to him, would lead to inconvenience, by giving occasion for a struggle, with the view of increasing the number of elected members, not in accordance with the requirements of the colony, but in order to disturb the proportion of the nominated to the elected members.
 MR. MOWATT  concurred in the views of the hon. and learned Member for Youghal; but, as this question had been previously raised, he thought it would be inexpedient now to give the Committee the trouble of dividing upon it. He (Mr. Mowatt) had, however, given notice that on bringing up the report he would move an Amendment to reduce the proportion of nominees of the Crown to one-fourth of the number constituting the legislative councils.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, the hon. Member who had just sat down was quite consistent in the course he had pursued; but the consistency of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had moved this Amendment was not equally apparent, as he had before voted against a second chamber, to be free from the nominees of the Crown. He (Mr. Adderley) could not see why the colonists should exclude men of education and friends of order, such as the Crown proposed to nominate. The hon. and learned Gentleman appeared to have no objection that the Crown should nominate eight out of a chamber of 24, but he had a strong objection that they should nominate 12 out of 36.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  would leave it to the Committee if it was fair to charge him with being favourable to give the Crown a right to nominate any portion of the chambers, seeing that he had divided the Committee
 635
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he understood his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies to describe this Bill as a mere beginning, as a sort of make-shift, which he hoped would ultimately result in two chambers. If that were so, why did not the Government leave it to the colonies to decide on the relation between those who were elected and those who were nominated by the Government?
 MR. HAWE S  said, he had before distinctly stated that the Government professed to stand on the Act for New South Wales, which had worked well, and against which no complaint had been made.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that in order to alter the constitution, it was necessary to have a large preponderance—he believed two-thirds—of the whole Assembly. He could not understand, therefore, why the Government should press for this number of nominees, if they intended the constitution ever to be altered, and if they had the confidence which they professed to have in the colonists.
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  said, the clause only applied to the four colonies of Victoria, Van Diemen's Land, South Australia, and Western Australia. He should wish to hear some reason assigned for omitting New South Wales from the list.
 MR. HAWES  said, he could not give an answer at that moment, but he rather thought that the object was to make no alteration in the system that already prevailed in New South Wales.
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  thought the salary ought not to be altered during the period that a judge retained his office. To effect such alteration in New South Wales, the previous consent of the Colonial Office was necessary, and he should like to know why a different rule was to be applied to the other colonies?
 MR. HAWES  said, he was very much disposed to agree with what had fallen from the hon. Baronet, but he was not at that moment prepared to explain the meaning of the clause. He hoped, therefore, that the Committee would allow the clause to stand over until he could inquire into the matter.
 MR. ROEBUCK  objected to the power of altering judges' salaries being given, at least without reserving to the Government a right of considering the matter afterwards. As his hon. Friend did not understand the clause, he was sure no other occupant of the Ministerial bench knew anything about it.
 MR. V. SMITH  said, what the Committee wanted to know was, what the intentions of the Government were with regard to this most important point.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, his right hon. Friend knew very well that the power of the colonies to deal with certain subjects depended very much on the instructions sent out by Her Majesty's Government to the Governor of the colony. The Governor was instructed to reserve certain subjects of legislation for consideration by the Home Government, and not to assent to them until he received the advice of the Colonial Office. But there were also certain alterations which the Governor was absolutely prohibited by Act of Parliament from acceding to; and among these was the question of the judges' salaries in New South Wales. The present clause merely went to remove that prohibition in the case of the other colonies; but the Governors would, of course, still act under the instructions which they received through the Colonial Office.
 MR. ROEBUCK  wished to know whether the Government admitted the principle that the salaries of existing judges should not be interfered with?
 LORD J. RUSSELL  quite agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman, that the salaries of existing judges ought not to be interfered with; and he was quite ready to agree to a proviso, if the hon. and learned Gentleman thought fit to insert one, that the salaries of judges should not be interfered with, so long as they held office.
 MR. J. E. DENISON  wished to call attention to the subject of the disposal of the waste lands of the Crown, which by the Bill was vested in the Federal Assembly—a tribunal which, he believed, would never meet, for if—as had been stated, it would be difficult to find men of leisure and independence to form a second chamber, it must be much more difficult to find such men willing to take a long voyage to meet in general assembly, where they would have nothing of importance but this question to discuss. Earl Grey "antici-
 637 s s s l 638 l l l l
 LORD J. RUSSELL  hoped his hon. Friend would hear the course It was proposed to take on this question before he pressed his Amendment. The hon. Gentleman had alluded to two evils complained of in New South Wales as growing from the prices placed on the waste land; but
 639 s s l 640 s 641
 MR. DIVETT  was delighted to hear what had fallen from the noble Lord, as it was perfectly in accordance with his own convictions. With regard to the Federal Assembly, he agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Malton, that the Federal Assembly would be perfectly inoperative. There was a strong disposition among what might be called the outer colonies, not to let the powerful legislature of Sydney override them, and they were more disposed to draw their connection closer with the mother country than with each other. The noble Lord, in the statement he had just made, had met an amendment which he was about to propose, that the question of waste lands should be kept as it was settled by Lord Stanley's Bill in 1842. He had given great attention to the working of that Act, and he was satisfied that it was well fitted to assist in removing large masses of our population from this country to Australia. Of the 300,000 who left our shores last year, 30,000 went to Australia, and 270,000 to the United States; and though he did not suppose that these numbers would ever be reversed, or even that the figures could be kept up in succeeding years, still he believed that if this measure were let alone, an increasing number would be found every year to go to the Australian colonies. After having given much attention to the subject, he was convinced the system of selling land at the minimum price of 20 s South Australian Gazette and Mining Journal 642 l s s 643
 MR. ROEBUCK  rose for the purpose of making one or two suggestions. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had stated that he was not aware of the course which the Congress of the United States took with regard to their waste lands. Now, whatever that course might be, there was one matter respecting them in which the American Congress pursued what appeared to him a very wise course—they defined the limits of all places under their authority, and thus prevented disputes respecting those waste lands that ought to be at the disposal of the general government of the country. In his opinion, definite and not very wide limits should be assigned to our existing colonies in Australia, so that the tracts of land intervening between each of those colonies might be at the disposal of the Imperial Government. So long as there was a possibility that any individual colony could lay claim to a large extent of waste lands, so long would there be grounds for quarrels and disputes respecting the tracts which might be outside the proper but yet undefined limits of a colony. When the noble Lord said that he saw no near prospect of the meeting of a general assembly in Australia, he (Mr. Roebuck) did not agree with him. No one would have thought in 1670 or 1680 that there would have ever been a congress assembled in America, yet fifty years afterwards there was assembled a meeting which was the germ of the United States; and it should be remembered that that was in an age when there were no railroads. It was scarcely safe to hazard any prediction when we remembered how men were now enabled to coerce nature. Let them look at what might be done by means of railways. [ Laughter 644
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, as the noble Lord did not intend to make any alteration in the disposal of the waste lands, he should not have troubled the House with any remarks, had it not been for the hon. and learned Gentleman's speech. Much of that hon. and learned Member's argument he agreed with, but there was a fallacy in some parts of it, which he wished to point out. He considered the suggestion for defining colonial limits as an admirable and valuable suggestion, and worthy of adoption. The next point of the hon. and learned Member had reference to the disposal of the waste lands. The hon. and learned Gentleman wished the outside lands should belong to this country, and the lands inside the boundary to the local legislature. He did not see this was a necessary conclusion to the premises of the hon. and learned Member. He did not see why the lands inside the limits of
 645
 MR. J. B. SMITH  was very glad that the noble Lord had consented to withdraw that part of the clause which related to the sale of the Crown lands. He would be disposed to give to the colonists full control over all the revenues of the colonies, if they would undertake to bear their own expenses. They had made a great mistake when dealing with Canada, in not having made such a bargain with the inhabitants. The consequence was that the colony was an enormous expense to this country. The present was the proper time for a revision of our colonial history. Adam Smith had said that our colonies were a source of constant loss to us. What were they now? From the last returns of exports made up in 1848, he found that the total value of goods exported to those colonies that did not pay their own expenses, amounted to only 7,150,000 l l l l l l
 MR. DISRAELI  rose to order. The Committee were now discussing the 13th clause of the Australian Colonies Bill, and he wished to know whether the Chairman thought the hon. Member had a right to discuss the question of the sugar trade thereupon? He believed that Australia was not a sugar-producing colony. He wished the Committee to proceed with the Bill before them, not in a hurry, but at least in a business-like manner.
 The CHAIRMAN  understood that the
 646
 MR. J. B. SMITH  wanted to show that our policy hitherto in giving away the Crown lands had been wrong. It was just the reverse of that which was pursued by America with regard to her colonies. In America the revenue derived from the sale of land, and the revenue derived from imports, wont to the support of the Government, and each of the States maintained itself by direct taxation. Our colonial policy, he maintained, had been injurious, inasmuch as we had given up to the colonies the Crown lands and revenues. He should be glad to know from the noble Lord whether this was not a favourable opportunity to propose to the colonies to pay their own expenses on condition of having their own Crown lands and revenues.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  was not aware that any such negotiations were upon the tapis. They were negotiations, indeed, the difficulty of entering on which was obvious. But he might say in reference to the subject, that although he would be ready to concur in all feasible means for reducing colonial expenditure, yet that he would never consent to give up, on the part of the central Government of the British empire, the right and the duty of defending our possessions in any quarter of the globe.
 MR. ROEBUCK  wished to know whether Government intended to press the clause as it stood in reference to the management of the waste lands; or whether they intended to postpone it for the present? The question was whether the waste lands were to be confined to the Imperial Government, or to be left to colonial administration?
 MR. HAWES  explained that the clause, as it now stood, maintained in the hands of the Imperial Government the management of the waste lands. It was proposed not to interfere with the Appropriation and Land Sales Act, but to leave it in all its integrity.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that there was an important point as to the settlement of the boundaries of different colonies which ought to be taken up by Government.
 MR. HAWES  replied, that the House must not understand that no boundaries
 647
 MR. DISRAELI  observed, that the question was not merely of drawing limits between colonies, but between the colonies and the waste lands.
 MR. ROEBUCK  advised the Government to settle the limits of the different colonies in the strict topographical manner adopted by the United States, and above all things to make these limits as narrow and as circumscribed as possible.
 MR. ADDERLEY  admitted that this was a question beset with much difficulty. He was satisfied that the arrangement proposed in the Bill for the disposal of waste lands could not possibly be carried out, and he was glad that the Ministry had gone so far as to concede the point that it would be injurious to leave the disposal of those lands with the general assembly. As to the general assembly, the proposal to make it compulsory would be the most direct mode of defeating it, for he believed that the surest way to prevent its taking place would be to dictate it. But whether the general assembly took place or not, a body so constituted was the very worst to which could be committed the charge of the waste lands; and he need hardly point out the impropriety of placing the sale of waste lands—an everyday matter of arrangement—in the hands of a body that would not be in existence for years to come, if it ever existed at all. The question before the House, then, was whether, as proposed by the hon. Member for Malton, the power of disposing of waste lands should be given to the local colonial legislatures, or left with the Board of Commissioners on Land and Emigration? Now, as regarded the operations of this latter body, he would call the attention of the economical school in the House to one or two facts. The Land and Emigration Commission spent 14,000 l l l l 648 l
 SIR W. MOLES WORTH  was glad to hear the announcement which had been made by the noble Lord at the head of the Government; but if the hon. Member for Malton had moved his Amendment, he should certainly have seen it his duty to support him. He agreed with what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, that they should without delay proceed to place these waste lands within the narrowest bounds.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  agreed with the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Stafford shire, that this was a most difficult part of the subject, but at the same time it was a most important one to the people of this country. He understood the hon. Member for Malton did not mean to press his Amendment, but that he meant rather to reserve his proposition till the bringing up of the report. Perhaps, however, he (Sir J. Graham) would be allowed, with a sincere desire not to increase the difficulty, very shortly to state what course he would be prepared to take. He thought the noble Lord at the head of the Government had come to a wise determination in agreeing to withdraw the decision with respect to the waste lands from the general assembly that was to be created. He would venture to express a strong opinion that the suggestion offered by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield was a most important one. It was an Amendment of the Act of 1842, and he thought it was
 649
 MR. J. E. DENISON  said, the noble Lord at the head of the Government had in a thin House made a very important alteration in this Bill. The management of the waste lands, which by the Bill was to have been given to the general assembly, was now withdrawn altogether from colonial authority. The House had now to consider the position in which this matter stood. When the Bill was introduced last year, it contained no provisions as to waste lands at all. The noble Lord was asked whether he intended to withhold the administration of waste lands from the colonies. After considering the matter for a few days, the noble Lord came down to the House, and said it was the intention of Government to concede the management of waste lands to the colonies. Now this had gone forth to the colonies, and when they received intimation from all the colonies of the great gratification with which the Bill had been received, he did not know how much of that gratification was not to be attributed to their supposing that they were to have the management of the waste lands. He admitted the question was one of serious difficulty; but whether they should withdraw from the colonies the management of the waste lands, was a matter to him of serious doubt. He did not know whether he exactly understood the right hon. Gentleman who last spoke, and who proposed that the limits of the various colonies should be distinctly marked out, and that all the land beyond those limits should be reserved for the appropriation of the Home Government, and that all within those limits should be conceded
 650
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, in spite of what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, he again protested against the British people being deprived of what he conceived to be their rights. He would ask the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon whether he had considered the question in detail, or merely affirmed the general principle? He thought there would be great difficulty in defining the limits of a colony. He could see no distinction whatever between waste lands within the limits, and waste land without the limits.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, a great many suggestions had been offered to the noble Lord at the head of the Government as to what he ought and what he ought not to do. He would suggest to him one thing—that he ought not to permit that pseudonyme attached to a company which went and obtained from the wild inhabitants, for a factitious price, a supposed power over large tracts of territory, to interfere with his arrangements. It was very desirable that the limits of each colony should be made plain and simple, dependent in some measure on its geographical formation, before grafting on it a power of disposing of lands. By the mere fact of its being defined to be a certain colony, they gave to it a certain body of laws. After that was done, the people might be allowed to dispose of their own land; for their interest was so hound up in the small areas to which they belonged that they were beyond the power of jobbing. All without the limits would be available for purposes of imperial concern.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  trusted, that the limits of each colony would be narrowed and defined with respect to the waste lands. Certain clauses in this Bill specified the boundaries of Now South Wales on the southward; on the northward, he understood, no limit whatever was assigned.
 651
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the subject would of course receive every consideration; but he thought it well to mention that there was now a power, by the Act of 1842, to issue letters patent under the Great Seal, by which the limits of the colony of New South Wales might be defined. He thought it important also to mention that though there existed those powers for assigning limits to that colony, and making provision for the government of places beyond those limits or elsewhere, the question was a very different one from any of a similar kind that might occur in North America; because where there were great districts of pastoral country, with few inhabitants, they must be ruled by an authority from a distance, not having the means of government within the district. This was a practical difficulty, and one which must be considered amongst other matters.
 MR. J. STUART  thought that the doctrine propounded by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, and countenanced by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon, required serious consideration. As he understood the proposal, it was this, that in this Bill relating to a constitution for New South Wales, the limits of the colony should be accurately defined within which the constitution was to exist, and that all the territory beyond the limits of the colony should be reserved to the Crown, with a right to the Crown to make grants of the lands so reserved and excluded from the scope of the constitution. Supposing the limits of the colony accurately defined, and a grant made beyond them, under what law or what constitution would the person receiving such a grant hold his property?
 MR. WALPOLE  admitted that the difficulties of the question were so great that the Committee could not at present come to a decision upon it. As the matter at present stood, the noble Lord had consented to withdraw the power conferred on the colonial legislature, by the 32nd clause, of granting waste lands. They were, therefore, driven back to the 13th clause,
 652
 MR. M'GREGOR  believed the system they had hitherto pursued in the Australian colonies with regard to the sale of land had not been judicious or successful. Instead of setting it up at high prices, they should have sold the land land at low prices; and, instead of having an establishment in this country for promoting emigration, the utmost they should have done was to make due preparation for the emigrants on their arrival in the colonies. He concurred with the opinions which had been expressed by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon, and approved of the suggestion which had been made by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield. The matter required consideration; and he would advise the noble Lord to leave the question concerning waste lands altogether out of this Bill, and reserve to the Government the power of adopting such measures with respect to the waste lands as more accurate information on the subject might suggest.
 MR. ADDERLBY  wished to know, before agreeing to the clause, if there would be another opportunity during the progress of the Bill of considering the question of waste lands?
 LORD J. RUSSELL  replied that there would be another opportunity on the bringing up of the report.
 MR. ROEBUCK  took occasion to suggest to the noble Lord at the head of the Government whether he should not introduce some provision into this Bill for the creation of a supreme judicature, having the power to adjudicate on questions of dispute arising between the different Australian colonies.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  would take the hon. and learned Gentleman's suggestion into consideration.
* MR. LUSHINGTON : Sir, though it is of course my intention to confine my observations to the special points of this Bill, on which I am to move an Amendment, yet I may, perhaps, he permitted in the first place to state that I listened to the able, instructive, and enlightened speech which the noble Lord at the head of the Treasury delivered on his introduction of the Bill, with great pleasure and satisfaction; because I discovered in it a desire to conciliate the colonies to which he referred, and a disposition to restore that cordiality and confidence in the Home Government on their part, which past transactions have unhappily contributed to impair; and I would say this with the greater force and earnestness, because I should deeply regret that anything which I may say in this House, or may have done out of it, should be deemed to be inconsistent with sincere respect for the noble Lord's public services, or my general attachment to his Administration. 654 l l l l l 655 Further Correspondence on the subject of Convict Discipline and Transportation l l l l l "Let the grant be rejected, and an appeal made to the whole Christian community; and if it is not responded to by a contribution more munificent than the sum voted by the Council, then let voluntaryism be pronounced a failure." 656 "Yield then to us in a spirit of Christian courtesy, what we think and claim to be our right; deprive us of the possibility of a future victory by defeating us now by kindness; and you at once call upon our gratitude to concentrate the energy we are prepared to put forth in a long and sustained contest, into an effort for your assistance, so far as you may require or accept it." South Australian Gazette I believe that any man acquainted with the
 657 "I have stated enough to show, that both in the North American colonies and in the Australian, it is our disposition to introduce representative institutions, give full scope to the will of the people of those colonies, and thereby enable them to work their way to their own prosperity, far better than if they were controlled and regulated by any ordinances that went from this country." "I think the general rule should be, that you should send to the different parts of the world, and maintain in your colonies, men of the British race, and capable of governing themselves; and that while you are their representative with respect to all foreign concerns, you wish to interfere no further in their domestic concerns, than may be clearly and decidedly necessary to prevent a conflict in the colony itself." "The great principle of colonial government is, that all affairs of merely local concern should be left to the regulation of the local authorities; to that principle I know of no general exceptions, unless in cases where local interests may clash with the interests of the empire at large, or in cases where some one predominant class of a society might be disposed to exert such powers, so as unjustly to depress some feebler and defenceless class." 658 "The system of giving to the clergy an allowance from the Government for their support, is the fertile cause of dissension in the community. Many hard thoughts and harsh expressions are occasionally felt and uttered by one sect against the others, in the contest for the stipend distributed among the several denominations."
 MR. LABOUCHERE  begged to remind the Committee of the real state of affairs in the colony of New South Wales. By the present system a very moderate sum of money was apportioned to, and divided amongst the four principal churches in that colony; and the clause referred to in the present Bill maintained these churches and their grants substantially; and provided that there should be no alteration without the consent and approbation of the Crown. The introduction of that system had afforded great satisfaction to the colonists; whereas the previous system of giving exclusive privileges to one church (the Church of England) gave great offence and annoyance, which were only removed and quieted by the introduction of the present system. Whilst he (Mr. Labouchere) would strenuously resist any attempt at domination by any church over a different portion of the community—believing such to be opposed
 659
 MR. ROEBUCK  was somewhat surprised at the blowing hot and cold which distinguished the policy of the Government with respect to the colonies. One moment the Government were for giving them all sorts of powers, including that of making constitutions. That was the way the Government began; but at the end of the Bill there were schedules, and schedules always excited his suspicion. On turning to the 17th clause, the first thing which he found mentioned was the salary of the Governor. The colonists might make a constitution—they might split one house into two, they might get rid of nominees, they might have a thoroughgoing democracy, but they were not to get rid of the Governor's salary without a Bill which had received the approbation of Her Majesty. Now, he maintained that that was blowing hot and cold. Why did the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade wish to interfere in this matter? He would tell him. All the colonies had attempted to obtain a settlement of what they called the civil list, and there was none which had not had a quarrel with the mother country on that question. The Americans began by quarrelling about the Governor's salary and his perpetual power. The rebellion in Canada was raised for the very purpose of putting down something similar to what was then proposed. In Canada they had spent three or four millions of money, and had rendered annexa-
 660 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 661
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that with regard to the question introduced by the hon. Member for Westminster, he felt that the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had blown hot and cold throughout his observations. He said he was entirely against having one dominant church in the colony, as that would be sure to lead to great discord. He therefore wished to have four, because discord would thus be prevented, the minority being overpowered by the majority. There could, however, be no permanent advantage in the remedy for discord which the right hon. Gentleman proposed, because, as the population of the colony increased, the relative proportions of the sects might change so as to make the discord even greater than it would be Under one established church. He would ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government where was the wisdom of attempting to fix the sums of money which should be paid for the support of certain religious persuasions—not merely for the support generally of a church which was believed to be true, but for the support of three or four kinds of churches? He asked him how could they, at a distance of so many thousands of miles from the colony, undertake wisely, fairly, judiciously, usefully for the colonists, to decide such a question? If there were one question which more than another people could alone decide for themselves, it was the question of religious establishments, and of giving support out of the public funds to any religious faith. Was the noble Lord aware that at that moment there was a question growing up in Canada which probably in the very next Session of Parliament would have to be met in that House? He referred to the question of the clergy reserves, which had already borne the bitterest fruit in Canada, and which was now more prolific of such fruit than at any former period. As the law stood, the clergy reserves in Canada were regulated by the provisions of an Act of the Imperial Parliament, and the Canadian parliament did not even possess the power which this Bill would give the Australian parliament, of making a new arrangement without coming to this country. Probably in the next Session the Canadians would ask the Imperial Parliament to relinquish its power in that respect, and to hand it over to themselves. How much
 662
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, it was not true that the arrangements as to the Canada reserves could not be altered without an Act of Parliament. On the contrary, they could be altered by the Act of the Legislature; all that was required was, that the Act should come to this country and receive the sanction of the Crown. At present the state of things now existing in
 663
 MR. BRIGHT  explained, that his argument was, that unless they meant to exercise the power, they should not retain it. He believed that retaining the power was the way to make the colonist examine the power and resist. He believed it was more likely to be so resisted than if they had it in their own hands.
 MR. K. SEYMER  entertained no great partiality for a system which endowed four churches. He thought the colonists were entitled to have the entire control of their own affairs, and was of opinion that they would act wisely in providing an endowment for religion, because it would show the emigrants that they would possess those religious advantages which they had enjoyed in this country. He believed that great jealousy would be excited among religious bodies by the present plan, and that it would perpetuate a system of religious discord in the colony.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, it was true that with the exception of the Church of England, attempts were making by the privileged classes in New South Wales, who happened to obtain more power, to destroy the principle, not of endowment, but of all religious equality, by cutting off the endowment. The other societies should be prevented from disturbing the religious peace which the Church had so happily preserved. If the popular franchise were adopted in these colonies, the universal cry of the people would be for the Church, for the maintenance of the clergy, and the integrity of religious equality which now prevailed.
 MR. ADDERLEY  could not understood how the principle of endowing four churches could be defended. The attempt would
 664
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, this question had been argued as if there were a desire on the part of the Government to impose four church systems on Australia, and as if they recommended that as a good scheme; but that was not the question; it was this: In 1835 the Secretary of State for the Colonies, finding that there were great complaints that one church only was to be established in New South Wales, made it a provision that the four principal bodies in the colony should each have a certain sum allotted to them; and it was made a part of the condition on which certain sums for the erection of churches were to be given, that there should be equal contributions by the inhabitants of the district. Then they found that those sums had been paid for a considerable number of years, that the buildings had been erected, livings provided, and that individuals had subscribed. That being so, they proposed to continue an establishment which they found there existing; and they further proposed that any alteration that should be made with reference to those institutions should be sent over for the confirmation of Her Majesty, by the advice, of course, of the Government of the day. It would be, in his opinion, extremely unjust to say that the whole establishment should at once be put an end to, and that every clergyman who had gone out there should be deprived of his living, and those who had subscribed of the benefit of the contributions which they had advanced on the faith of the Government. There had been no perceptible degree of complaint hitherto. At the same time, if it should appear hereafter that this system was to be no longer agreeable to the colonists, then he thought it would be advisable that the Crown should have the matter before them. So also, if they were
 665
 MR. LUSHINGTON  assured the noble Lord that he never intended to propose that the present grant should be cancelled. All he wished was, that it should be left to the general feeling of the colonists, being perfectly satisfied that they would not disturb vested interests.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, that the noble Lord had made a statement which the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies could not have made, namely, that there was no dissatisfaction amongst the colonists on this subject. Now, the fact was, that there was no single point on which the colonists in New South Wales had felt, and would continue to feel, so much dissatisfaction as on that with regard to the schedules of appropriation. That was indeed the great grievance of Lord Stanley's Act—not that there was any want of generosity or justice among the colonists; but what they objected to was, that the Government of this country should control and regulate the amount of payment which they were to make for the support of their religion. The very last Bill which the legislature of New South Wales had passed, was a Bill for the establishment of a university in Sydney. He mentioned this as an indication of the generous and liberal feeling which existed in a colony which the Government considered sufficiently advanced to govern itself, but to which they denied the right of controlling its own expenditure.
 MR. HAWES  begged to say that he had never heard of any dissatisfaction on this subject. The hon. Gentleman had talked of dissatisfaction on the schedules of appropriation, but that was a totally different thing. The question before the House was whether the grant of public worship, as now distributed, had given rise to general dissatisfaction. He could only say that if it had, he had never heard of it, and that he believed that on the whole the existing arrangement had been satisfactory.
 666
 LORD D. STUART  thought the right hon. Gentleman was pressing the measure in rather too rapid a manner; and although it had been printed and circulated, hardly sufficient time had been given, either to the House or to those out of doors who were interested in the question, to consider the provisions. He did not wish to oppose the principle; on the contrary he was anxious to see a Bill pass to prevent the continuance of that most injurious practice of interment in large towns. But this measure contained the power of rating to a
 667
 MR. FORBES  felt that a Bill which placed all the interments of the metropolis in the hands of the Government, should have been brought forward at an early hour of the evening.
 MR. LACY  approved of the general principle of the measure, but there were many most objectionable details in it. He was, however, willing to reserve his arguments againat these until a future occasion.
 SIR G. GREY  said, he should propose to take the Committee on Friday week, which would give nearly a fortnight for the consideration of the Bill.
 MR. BRIGHT  thought this an inadequate time for the consideration of so important a measure.
 MR. WYLD  said, the Bill contained some peculiar provisions, which he thought could not be conveniently discussed in a Committee of the whole House. New principles were introduced into it. The Government were intending to become undertakers, and then all the funerals in the metropolis were to be performed under the direction of the Board of Health. He hoped the Bill would be referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. MACKINNON  said, that since the penny postage system, no measure of greater public importance had been introduced than that now under consideration. It might be opposed from factious motives, but he was sure it could be opposed on no other. The noble Lord the Member for Marylebone had twitted the Government for not bringing in the Bill sooner; yet in the same breath he blamed them for not postponing it to some indefinite period.
 668
 LORD J. RUSSELL  then moved that the following Members constitute the Select Committee on Official Salaries:—Lord J. Russell, Mr. W. Patten, Mr. Bright, Sir J. Y. Buller, Mr. Cobden, Mr. Beckett, Mr. Napier, Mr. Home Drummond, Mr. W. Evans, Sir W. Molesworth, Mr. Henley, Mr. Ellice, Mr. Bicardo, Mr. Walter, and Mr. Deedes.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that instead of appointing this Select Committee, which was, indeed, a select, very select. Committee—for he believed that its labours, when they should be completed, would only show that there had been "much cry and little wool"—the noble Lord at the head of the Government had better have said candidly, "I mean to take care of myself and of my own salary." "I shall look after my friends, and I will stand by them as long as they stand by me;  ubi mel, ibi apes ruse de guerre 669 clausis foribus
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he wished to give notice, that, on that day week, he proposed to move for leave to bring in a Bill, which, although on a subject of great interest, he had not been able to do up to the present time—namely, a Bill for the future regulation of savings banks. He would here observe, that he thought it better that no discussion should take place on the introduction of the Bill, and he, therefore, hoped the House would allow him simply to make an explanatory statement on that occasion. He asked this because it was very desirable that no misunderstanding should exist upon a matter of so much importance; and as the Bill would interfere with former Acts, he doubted whether it would be properly intelligible to the public without such explanation. He would, therefore, propose to make his Motion on this Bill before the Orders of the Day. He would now also notice, as had been promised for him by his noble Friend at the head of the Government, the course proposed to be taken by the Government, in respect to the Stamp Duties Bill. The House was aware that they had gone through the clauses of the Bill, and however imperfect they had
 625 l s l l d 626 s l d l l l l l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had already stated that upon transactions of 100,000 l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I propose to give that up. I also propose to have the new scale printed. From 200?. the duty is a quarter per cent up to 100,000?., and there it stops.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Not beyond that stated in the schedule
 MR. G. SANDARS : Then I give notice that I shall move it be reduced to 1 s
 MR. G. SANDARS  inquired from the right hon. Gentleman whether he intended to make any alteration in the stamp duty upon memorials?
 MR. GOULBURN  inquired whether it was proposed to continue or abandon the duty with regard to contingent annuities?
 MR. HUME  suggested that the subject would be simplified if there were printed in opposite columns the amount of the duties realised by each class under the existing law, and the amount expected to be realised under the new law. He understood
 627 l
 MR. MULLINGS  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether, upon the scale he proposed, the highest stamp duty of 250 l l
 MR. CHRISTY  asked the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether his attention had been directed to a paragraph in the public papers in reference to the complaints made to Her Majesty's Government by the Government of the United States, against the Hudson's Bay Company, for supplying a large quantity of spirits to the native Indian population? Whether such remonstrances had been made to Her Majesty's Government; and whether the noble Lord would consent to a Motion that the correspondence should be laid upon the table?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Her Majesty's Government, some time ago, received a representation from the United States complaining of the agents of the Hudson's Bay Company having supplied the Indians with spirits as an article of commerce. I referred that representation to the Hudson's Bay Company, and their reply was that the agents of the company did not supply spirits to the Indians in any way as an article of commerce, and that the only, quantity supplied was of small amount, it being only that portion which might be given to the hunters when they came to the settlement of the Hudson's Bay Company, and which I may say was "drank on the premises." They say they have not bartered spirits for goods; but they have reason to think that the persons on the American side of the line have, by contraband, supplied the Indians with spirits. I am not aware that there will be any objection to the production of the correspondence if the hon. Gentleman will move for it.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  was bound to thank the hon. Member for the University of Oxford for bringing up before his eyes those Dissenters of Yorkshire whose name he had introduced into this debate; because it removed some difficulty which he should have otherwise experienced in determining what vote to give on this occasion. He should have felt a difficulty in supporting the Motion if he thought he should have been judged as giving a harsh vote against the University with which it was his boast and happiness to be connected, and of which he could never speak without the most friendly sentiments. But there were flaws in that University, and one was the exclusion of Dissenters from participation in the advantages it gave to the public. He did believe that this was a point on which, without the smallest unfriendliness, he was justified in saying the Universities must in the end give way, simply because it was not just and in accordance with the events that were taking place in the world. To the Dissenters, if they would take the opinion of an old member of the University, he would say, that if they were desirous of obtaining the advantages of a collegiate education, the most likely way to advance their object would be to take measures for endowing and establishing a college of their own within the University of Cambridge. In no other way would they be so likely to get over the obstacles which would be opposed to their taking degrees. He could not allow one  dictum 747 dictum Tekel, Upharsin
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  would not have desired to trouble the House with any observations, had it not been for the doubt thrown out by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Plymouth, and which seemed to be participated in by the hon. and learned Recorder. He (the Attorney General) begged the House to understand that it was from no doubt entertained by his noble Friend, or by those with whose concurrence he acted with regard to the legality of the proposed commission, that he had assented to the adjournment of the debate. He believed that it proceeded from a simple misconception of the nature and character of the proposed commission, that doubt was entertained of its legality by any one. If it had been an executive commission to enforce an inquiry, to insist upon the pro-
 763
 SIR J. C. HOBHOUSE  thought it impossible for the House of Commons to refuse the inquiry now sought for. A similar unfortunate case had occurred in the year 1828; and in 1830, the
 766
 SIR J. W. HOGG  said, he entirely acquiesced in all the observations of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had moved for the Committee. It was a fit and proper subject for a Committee, and there could be but one opinion on the merits of the case.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he had been in communication with the hon. Member himself, and had also taken every means of obtaining information on the mode suggested by the hon. Member, and the result of his inquiries had been to convince him that it was perfectly impossible to obtain any adequate security against fraud, in allowing a system of drawbacks with respect to wood required for shipbuilding purposes. He fully admitted that the timber duties were at present in an unsatisfactory state, and that strong reasons existed in favour of an alteration. There were insuperable difficulties, however, in the way of drawbacks, and he should therefore feel it his duty to oppose the Bill whenever it might be brought forward.
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  expressed himself desirous of seeing the subject finally disposed of, as in the present unsettled state
 767
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he was not aware of having, on any occasion, answered the noble Lord with any want of courtesy. What he had stated in reply to the question was, that the more convenient time for putting his question would be when the present Bill was brought before the House.
 SIR G. R. PECHELL  expressed his great regret at the decision to which the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had come.
 MR. HUDSON  was also concerned to hear the decision of the right hon. Gentleman, as he was sure it would be heard with concern by his constituents. He hoped, however, that the question would be settled at once, as many persons were prevented from entering into engagements so long as the question remained in suspense.
 MR. MITCHELL  said, he proposed to postpone the Committee for a fortnight, in order that he might have time to produce further evidence, that he might, if possible, change the right hon. Gentleman's decision, which he, in common with other Gentlemen, deeply regretted.
 MR. LAW  thought the noble Lord was confounding two things—the issuing of a Commission to inquire into the state of the University as such, and an inquiry with the view to interfere with the foundation of these institutions, and the specific purposes for which they were established.
 762
 LORD J. RUSSELL  expressed a hope that, as the hon. and learned Gentleman wished for an adjournment, the House would not object. He admitted that until he rose in the debate, the House had no intimation of his intention to propose the appointment of a Commission of Inquiry in regard to the Universities, and therefore he thought the suggestion of an adjournment reasonable; but he believed the hon. and learned Gentleman was mistaken in supposing that it was not competent to the Crown to issue a Commission, not to alter the constitution or regulation of these Universities, but simply to take evidence voluntarily from those who might be willing to give it as to the nature of the education given, and whether the usefulness of these institutions might not be extended, though there might be some difficulty in forcing parties to give evidence whether they were willing or not; but that was not what he proposed.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Mr. Speaker, I feel very sensibly that I am at a great disadvantage in rising to offer a few remarks to the House on the subject now before us, in having had no personal knowledge of the merits as regards those two great Universities which are mainly the subjects of this Motion. It is, however, a subject upon which it is proper, when brought before the House as it now is, some Member of the Government should state the views the Government are disposed to take, and it is with that purpose I now address the House. Let me say, in the first place, that I do not think it would be possible for me to agree to the Motion as it is now placed before the House, combining, as it does, a great number of questions, and placing them in a form which has induced my hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford to say that the hon. Mover had framed a bill of indictment against the Universities. In whatever way I view this subject, I should say at the outset that I can see no case made out for
 748 749 "I have stated, that our studies were almost exclusively dialectical. How limited the range of reading has been of late is seen when we reflect that mathematics, though encouraged by the offer of high honours, are but little cultivated among us; that an acquaintance with the elements of natural science is rare; that law, though we give degrees in that faculty, has long been neglected; that modern history has never formed part of our system; that political economy is looked upon with fear and aversion—nay, that the knowledge of ancient history exhibited by the ablest students seldom goes beyond the contents of Herodotus and Thucydides, and the first decade of Livy, with the addition of a small portion of Tacitus. It is confessed by all that the art of writing Latin well is possessed by few, and Greek was never well written here. But what will perhaps surprise your Lordship, neither Homer, nor Cicero, nor Demosthenes, nor Plautus, nor Quintilian, nor Terence, nor the minor Greek orators, nor Lucretius, are read by any large portion of even the most diligent young men; and that it is seldom indeed that they are presented at the public examinations." 750 751 752 753 "One objection, which was very strongly urged, was, that the union of the two independent universities necessarily involved a violation of foundation charters and deeds of endowment, as well as an infringement on the vested rights of individuals. Considering that the foundation charters of both universities proceed on the narrative of its having been the object of their founders to promote religion and sound learning in the north of Scotland, we were not disposed to attach much importance to this objection as directed against a plan which was clearly calculated to further those ends. We were, moreover, disposed to think that where the rights of present incumbents are preserved entire, such an argument against legislative interference for the public good, with trusts constituted for the public benefit, was not entitled to any weight." 754 755
 LORD J. RUSSELL  was understood to say, that he doubted whether it would be convenient to include that University.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that he had applied to the Board of Trade on this subject without being able to obtain any satisfactory information. Everything connected with the trade and navigation of the country should be printed. According to the Trade and Navigation Account, No. 50, ordered to be printed on the 15th of February, 1850, there appears, as entered for home consumption during the twelve months of the year 1849—
 
 
 Wheat … … 4,509,626 qrs. 
 Wheat flour … … 1,123,491 qrs. 
 Total … … 5,633,117 qrs. s l 690 s l l l l l s s l l
 MR. NEWDEGATE  must apologise to the right hon. Gentleman for not having given him longer notice of his questions; but his great object was to prevent a discussion, if he could, upon a subject connected with those returns, which discussion would be premature and incomplete in the absence of that information which he required.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of trade the following questions:—From what documents, authorities, or sources of information the prices of wheat given in the Return No. 206 of this Session are derived; and whether the average—not the mean—prices of wheat per quarter for the years and at the places stated in the above return, are in the possession of the Government, and can be furnished to the House?
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  tendered his most cordial thanks to the hon. and learned Member for Kidderminster for the manly course which he had stood forward to take in that House on this the first occasion when he had had the pleasure of hearing the hon. and learned Member. As often as the hon. and learned Member protested against the arbitrary acts of corrupt Ministers, so often, he hoped, it would be his good fortune to accompany the hon. and learned Member. The noble Lord had adopted, on the present occasion, as usual, an evasive mode of proceeding. He was now going to issue a commission, paid or not, he (Colonel Sibthorp) did not care; but he knew that it was a commission which boded evil, and could by no possibility be productive of good to those universities in which the noble Lord professed to take so deep an interest. It was, as he had said on a former occasion, a shuffle—another base Ministerial trick. He hoped the House would divide, and compel the abandonment of the transparent dodge. If
 765
 MR. C. S. FORTESCUE  was a member of Oxford University, and had its interest as much at heart as any other Gentleman in that House, but he should nevertheless support the Motion of the hon. Member for North Lancashire, for he believed that that Motion was not conceived in a hostile spirit to the universities, nor did he think that it need be supported in any such spirit. It was not necessary, in order to the justification of the vote he was about to give, that he should enter into a detail of cases of abuse or corruption. He did not believe that the inquiry which it was the object of the present Motion to occasion, would have the effect of degrading the two great educational institutions of this country from the exalted position which they now occupied, nor that it would cause the funds now devoted to their maintenance to be diverted into other channels. If he could believe this Motion would have any such effect, he would be the last man in that House to support it. He believed that such an inquiry as that proposed to be instituted, would disclose very little of which individuals need be ashamed. It would only exhibit some of the ordinary indolence and selfishness of persons in pos session—some effects of long habit, and some terror and alarm of change. It could not he questioned that in bygone and now remote ages the Crown had too frequently and too violently interfered in the management of the universities, for it was on record that that interference had in some instances extended to the course of studies, and even to the selection of the precise books that were to be read. It would have
 731 laissez-faire l 732 733
 MR. SCULLY  inquired whether the commission was to extend to Trinity College, Dublin?
 MR. SCULLY  regretted that the noble Lord at the head of the Government had not said one word about Trinity College, Dublin. If the noble Lord had listened to the speeches made by the hon. Members for Cork and Carlow, or if he had borne in mind his own speech in 1846, he (Mr. Scully) thought that he could not have come to the conclusion of leaving Trinity College, Dublin, out of the Commission. The Roman Catholics of Ireland were a majority of the people of that country, and they ought to have a share of that which was intended for the benefit of the people. He would therefore request the hon. Member for North Lancashire not to withdraw that part of his Motion which related to Ireland. If he did withdraw it, he (Mr. Scully) would move that the inquiries of the Commission should extend to Trinity College, Dublin.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  was unwilling that this discussion should assume the character of an Irish debate. But it was his intention to advert only to one point which had been particularly alluded to by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He meant the management of the college estates. A short time ago, when the right
 746
 MR. GOULBURN  said, although he cordially concurred in the commencement and some other parts of the speech of the noble Lord who had just resumed his seat, yet the satisfaction he had experienced had been more than diminished by the concluding announcement which he had made to the House of his intention to advise the Crown to issue a commission to inquire into the revenues and the system of education pursued at the universities. He agreed with the noble Lord, that with regard to the present Motion, it would have been impossible for any man who regarded the honour or interest of the universities to give it his support. He agreed with the noble Lord, that, if the question were one respecting the admission of Dissenters to the universities, it ought to be decided by Parliament, and not by a Commission issued by the Crown. He did not, however, agree in the propriety of the issue of such a Com mission—he was not prepared to enter into a discussion of the legal rights of such a Commission, because, if the object in view was the benefit of the universities, he was quite certain that, independent of any
 756 757 758 759 760
 MR. LABOUCHERE  thought it would be a great public convenience if hon. Gentlemen who intended to question the accuracy of any return laid upon the table of the House, would give some notice of the intention to the head of that department from which the return proceeded, so as to enable him to offer some explanation on the subject. The hon. Gentleman had made a very elaborate statement, questioning the accuracy of the returns made to the House; but until he (Mr. Labouchere) came to the House that evening, he had not the smallest notion that the hon. Member intended to bring the subject before them.
 691
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the returns to which the hon. Member referred gave the highest and lowest prices of wheat for a series of years in various parts of the Continent. They also gave the mean prices. This document was derived from various returns that had been made by the British consuls abroad, and were transmitted to the Board of Trade from the Foreign Office. The hon. Gentleman asked whether it gave the average as well as the mean prices? They did not give the average prices; for it was impossible for the Government to ascertain the quantity of wheat sold, so as to enable them to arrive at a satisfactory result upon this point.
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, that as the proposal of the noble Lord was an important step in advance, he was quite willing on his part to withdraw his Motion. He agreed with the hon. Member for Tipperary that it was important that the Commission should be extended to Dublin, and he should be happy to support a Motion to that effect.
 MR. HEYWOOD  rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice, for an Address to Her Majesty for a Royal Commission of Inquiry into the Universities of Oxford, Cambridge, and Dublin. He said that the exertions of his predecessors in the cause of university reform had been attended with beneficial results, and he referred to the debates in the House of Commons, in 1772, to the petition of the sixty-three members of the senate of the University of Cambridge, in 1834, which was followed by Mr. Wood's Bill for the removal of religious tests. The Earl of Radnor had subsequently distinguished himself in the promotion of academical reform, as well as the right hon. Gentleman the Master of the Mint, the hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex, Mr. Christie, and others. If a stranger were now to visit Oxford and Cambridge, he would be surprised to notice that none of the tutors of colleges were married. Instances might be cited in which some of the ablest tutors in those seats of learning had preferred burying themselves in an obscure living in the country, rather than remain an ornament to their educational profession under a law of celibacy. Most of the conditions under which the property of the several colleges had been left, had to a great extent died out; and it seemed to him that at the present day very little of the intentions of the founders were observed. It was desirable, therefore, that inquiries should be made, not only into this property, but into the conditions upon which it was
 692 l l l 693 l l 694 l l 695 696 l 697
 MR. BEST  said, he had ever considered the universities as the primary schools of the Church of England; and in spite of hon. Gentlemen who sat on the opposite side, and who belonged to all sects, creeds, and denominations, would support those universities through thick and thin on which depended the essential principles of the Church of England. He hoped that no Member on his side would ever sanction anything which would do away with that right which had so long existed, that the universities should have free rule and regulation within their proper precincts. He
 764
 MR. SADLEIR  said, he had been disappointed by the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down. He had recently perused a remarkable address from that Gentleman, in which he very pompously declared that Christianity was his creed, and his country was his party. He had hoped from that declaration the hon. and learned Gentleman had recanted the opinions for which he had been before somewhat notorious, and that he had forgotten the political tendencies which marked him out as the secretary of a Brunswick Club, created, in 1829, to oppose the will of both Houses of Parliament, and to resist the inclinations and predilections of the Sovereign. He at one time thought that the hon. and learned Gentleman was about to demonstrate that Trinity College was a seat of great liberality, and open to every class of
 742 l s l l l 743 744 745
 MR. HENLEY  thought that the news of this commission being issued would not be very consolatory to those on whose behalf it was said to be about to be issued. It would be a perfectly voluntary act to give any information, as it was not to be an executive commission; but they were told immediately afterwards, that it was to be like the commission which sat on the municipal corporations and the deans and chapters. Was it meant to follow up this commission in the same way? because if it were, he should think those learned bodies would be very careful as to what information they might give. With many bland and civil words. Ministers, as in the former cases, would try to send their victims to the right about, after they had got all the information they could from them. The hon. and learned Attorney General had most distinctly alluded to the course taken in those two instances; therefore he (Mr. Henley) thought it would be well that all parties should know the object and intention of this commission so announced. It was very well in the noble Lord to say that he would separate from this question that of admitting Dissenters into, the universities; but he believed this would not help him in the accomplishment of his object. With the small end of the wedge once inserted, it was easy to predict what would be the next move.
 MR. HUME  said, that those returns would not affect the object which he had in view in bringing forward the question of which he had given notice. That object was to raise the question in that House as to how far we should be allowed to carry out the principles of free trade. It was his intention, therefore, to ask the Government to afford him an opportunity for bringing this question on.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he really was not surprised, when he heard the mass of misstatements that were put forward in that House, as to the institutions of Ireland, especially as to the Church and the University, at the opinions many persons entertained with regard to those institutions. He believed the best answer that could be given to many of the arguments urged by Gentlemen on the other side of the House was simply to state the true facts. Let him, in the first place, state that the land revenues of Trinity College were less than the sum that was annually voted to Maynooth College. And the revenues of Trinity College arose partly from private endowments, because they were composed as well of grants made by private individuals from time to time, as from the bounty of Sovereigns. And then the Roman Catholics retained the exclusive use of their own college for training ecclesiastics in their own religion, while their laity made use of Trinity College, and now they (the Protestants) were accused of illiberality, and they were called upon to address Her Majesty to ask Her to make a great and fundamental change in the constitution of Trinity College. He would say that the peculiarity of Trinity College in allowing Roman Catholics to participate in the education given there, was of great advantage. It was not true that they could not participate in the honours and emoluments. They participated in every honour and emolument, save those connected with the foundation—namely, the fellowships and scholarships, and one professorship, which the will of the founder, Erasmus Smith, required should be given to a Protestant, and a medical professorship, which, by an Act of Parliament, was also SO confined. But all the other honours
 736 737 l l 738 739 Morosa morum retentio res turbulenta est œquè ac novitas 740 l l l l 741
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, the course which had been taken rendered it
 761
 MR. W. FAGAN  said, the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, in the course of his address, stated, that in his opinion Roman Catholics in this country had no right whatever to receive education at the universities of this country. Now, he might remind the hon. Baronet that the university that he himself represented was a university, every one of the colleges of which, or nearly all the colleges of which, had been founded by Roman Catholics. And let him further remind the hon. Baronet, that if the conditions attached to the foundations of some of these colleges were carried out, he could almost venture to say that at the present moment none but Roman Catholics ought to be educated there. But he felt that he was not the individual to treat on the universities of this country. He would leave them, and go to one of which he was in some degree competent to speak. He should confine his observations to the subject of Trinity College, Dublin, planted in the midst of a population, seven-eighths of which professed the Roman Catholic persuasion, placed there with an income of some 70,000 l l 734 735 l
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said:  * 698 A Letter to Lord John Russell on the Constitutional Defects of the University and Colleges of Oxford; with suggestions for a Royal Commission of Inquiry into the Universities; by a Member of the Oxford Convocation 699 "That in the ancient English and Irish universities, and in the colleges connected with them, the interests of religious and useful learning have not advanced to an extent commensurate with the great resources and high position of those bodies." primâ facie 700 701 702 l l l 703 l s l s l "That collegiate statutes of the fifteenth century occasionally prohibit the local authorities from introducing any alterations into voluminous codes, of which a large portion are now obsolete." 704 "All founders enjoin that the Bible should be read during dinner-time, a practice which is utterly disregarded. They no less strictly enjoin that no language but Latin should be spoken in the college." 705 706 "In the college to which I have the honour to belong (Balliol), it has been for a long time past the practice to examine the candidates for entrance in the history of the Bible and in the leading doctrines of the Church of England as contained in the Catechism. To these subjects of examination we have within the last few months added another in the Thirty-nine Articles, with a view to the subscription to be made at matriculation. We hare found that, even without previous knowledge of any such intention on our parts, the candidates had, almost without exception, read and considered the Articles, and were able to give a satisfactory account of the loading doctrines contained in them." 707 708 709 710 Life of Arnold 711 l 712 713 714 715 716 717 "The number of pupils that used to attend (my lectures) were for some years from seventy to ninety; but when the examination called the 'little go' was instituted, I lost a considerable part of my audience, one-fourth at least. My audience afterwards dwindled down to about eighteen or twenty, in consequence of the multiplicity and intensity of the college and public examinations, of the universal system of private tuition that of late years had been introduced into the University, and the strict impartiality with which the honours and emoluments of the place are conferred on the merit that is so accurately tested by these examinations." "Moreover, this realm of England hath two Universities, Cambridge and Oxford; and the maner is not to live in these as within houses that be inns, or a receipt for common guests, as is the custom of some Universities; but they live in colleges under most grave and severe disciplin& Every one of the colleges have their professors of the tongues and of the liberal sciences, as they cal them, which do trade up youth privately within their halls, to th' end they may afterward be
 718 719 720 721 cœteris paribus 722 l l l l s d l l s d 723 l s d l s d l s l s d l s d l s d l s d 724 l l l l l "When I was at college, we were in the midst of the war, and at that time, as you know, money was far less effective than now—that is, whatever one bought was at a much higher nominal price. The mere college charges were, I think, the same as at present. My expenditure for every thing, including not merely tuition, rooms, commons, and other college expenses, but with them every kind of personal expenditure, such as dress, journeys, and the like, was exactly 140 l l 725 pauperes et indigentes: pauperes et indigentes pauperes et indigentes scholares 726 impar congresssus 727 talus cum sis 728 l 729 viva voce Debates; Debates Debates 730
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, he held in his hand the report of the Special Committee appointed by the National Assembly of France, which had been alluded to by the hon. and learned Member for New-castle-on-Tyne, whose name was on the back of the Bill, and which had been put into his hands since he came to the House. He had read that report with as much attention as the time admitted, and particularly the extracts from the  Code Napoleon 783 novelettes
 MR. HEADLAM  thanked the hon. Member for the Isle of Wight for the moral courage he had shown in supporting the Bill, notwithstanding the decided expression of opposition on the part of the House at large. For himself, though he was not pledged to all its details, yet to the principle of the Bill he gave a hearty support. He thought his hon. Friend the Member for Pontefract had not been fairly
 782
 MR. COCKBURN  fully concurred with his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the city of Oxford as to the importance of the subject, and the great influence which an oath had in the administration of justice. It was a safeguard of the highest value, but yet he thought it desirable that some such measure as the present Bill should be introduced; for the necessity imposed upon witnesses of taking oaths rendered it often extremely difficult to obtain evidence. If it were possible in all cases to know who the proper witnessess were, to bring them all into court to compel them to swear to the truth of their statements, then the ends of justice would be greatly advanced. But now some of the best and most trustworthy witnesses who came before courts of justice were persons whom nothing would induce to take an oath. The law at present accepted the affirmation of a Quaker, a Moravian, or a Separatist, but an Independent must be sworn. Now there were some Independents, and there were many other classes of our fellow-subjects who objected to taking an oath, and from the benefit of their testimony the community of this country was excluded. He wished to discover any intelligible principle upon which any class of religionists should be excluded from advantages which the Quakers, the Moravians, and the Separatists enjoyed. Was the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the university of Cambridge prepared to repeal the exemption from taking oaths at present enjoyed by certain privileged sects? He believed that the Legislature would never sanction such a proposal—shutting out, as it would, a large mass of testimony, without which the proceedings of courts of justice could not be carried on. It might be very well to talk of the duties that men owed to society; but if a witness believed
 790
 MR. NEWDEGATE  observed, that the effect of the measure would be to introduce two kinds of evidence—one upon oath and one upon affirmation—the effect of which would be most inconvenient. If men dissented from the doctrines of the Church, lot their opinions be known. If they resisted the law, let it not on that account be presumed that the law was in the wrong. He objected to the Bill on many grounds, and upon this amongst others, that it proceeded upon an assumption that men might be exempted from taking oaths without their coming under the head of any particular religious denomination, and be able to evade the law by merely stating that they objected to taking an oath. He never had heard a weaker case than that made on behalf of the Bill; and, as there were strong doubts with respect to the expedi-
 791
 MR. E. B. DENISON  thought this too great an allowance. The House had consented to increase the allowance in the first part of the clause from one-tenth to one-fourth, and now it was proposed to increase the allowance in the cases provided in the latter part of the clause from one-third to one-half. The rates would be frittered away to nothing if the House agreed to these Amendments.
 MR. E. B. DENISON  had no objection to the clause, if both parties were left to agree upon the terms.
 MR. GOULBURN  had heard nothing to induce him to alter his opinion upon this matter. If it was so absurd, as had been stated, to have allotted to such an insignificant sect as the Separatists, or those who had been Moravians, the privilege of being heard in courts of justice without an oath, that law might be reformed, but it was a bad argument to say that it was necessarily to be extended. The hon. and learned Gentleman acted upon the notion that truth was to be insured by the fear of a penalty for false evidence rather than by the consciousness of an appeal to the Supreme Being. Now, this was both theoretically and practically false. All men had an instinctive dread of offending God, though they might brave the punishment of man. But, allowance to conscientious objection might go much further. A man might say, as some do say, that
 787 788 789
 MR. SIMEON  considered that the House and the country were under great obligation to the hon. Member for Pontefract for having applied his attention to this important subject. The hon. Baronet the Member for Preston had said that this measure would be administered in the back parlours or servants' halls of magistrates; but, whatever might be the case in Yorkshire, he could assure the hon. Baronet that in no part of the country with which he was acquainted, did magistrates hold their sittings in such places. The principle of this Bill must meet the approbation of every man who had given close and deliberate attention to the subject. The hon. Member for Pontefract had satisfactorily proved that the treatment of juvenile offenders
 781 "Their infant years owe nothing to our care—Their minds neglected, and their bodies bare."
 MR. TRELAWNY  supported the principle, but not the details, of the Bill.
 MR. W. PATTEN  had some doubts whether the allowance now proposed to be given was not too much, and thought it ought to be left optional with the overseers and owners to agree upon the terms. If the House made the allowance of one-half compulsory, he doubted whether an undue advantage would not be gained by the owners of this description of property.
 MR. W. PATTEN  said, that a clause now proposed to be added to the Bill only allowed the owners of these small tenements a reduction of one-tenth on the rates, and, considering the losses to which they were liable, he thought that a larger allowance ought to be made than one-tenth. It was right that the owners of small tenements under 6 l
 MR. BAINES  had consulted fifteen or sixteen of the local Acts passed upon this subject, and found that they varied considerably as to the amount of reduction in the rate. The best rule was that given in Mr. Sturges Bourne's Act, the principle of which the present Bill extended and carried out. Mr. Sturges Bourne's Act allowed owners of property to be rated where the value of the tenement was between 20 l l l l
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, that the latter part of the clause gave the owner of small tenements the power of compounding with the overseers for all his tenements during the space of one year, whether they were occupied or not, and gave him an allowance of one-third. He moved, that the allowance be one-half instead of one-third.
 MR. M. MILNES  said, it was his intention to withdraw the Bill.
 MR. M. MILNES  explained, that he was desirous to adapt this measure to the Summary Jurisdiction Bill, in conformity with such decisions as the House might come to upon that measure.
 MR. M. MILNES , in rising to move the second reading of the Juvenile Offenders' Bill, begged to apologise to the
 768 "That such a judicious plan of reform for juvenile offenders would be the most economical
 769 770 Morning Chronicle Morning Chronicle 771 772 773 s l 774 775 l l 776 "Perditis adolescentibus corrigendis Instituendisque, Ut qui inertes oberant Instructi Reipublicæ serviant."
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  said, there were great objections on the part of owners of cottage property to the present Bill. If the owner of 50 or 100 cottages agreed to compound with the overseers under the latter part of this clause, he would have
 794
 MR. HALSEY  thought it would be better to take off one-half from the rate in these cases, as the House had agreed to a reduction of one-fourth in the other cases.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. W. P. WOOD  said, that, in moving that the Speaker should leave the chair, in order that the House might go into Committee on the Bill, he should act upon the understanding to which the House had come upon the second reading, namely, that the discussion was to be taken upon the question of going into Committee. He should therefore state, as briefly as possible, the grounds upon which the measure was founded. As the law stood at present,
 784 785 786 l l l
 SIR E. BUXTON  said, that as the exemption extended to Quakers, Moravians, and Separatists, it would be unjust not to give the benefit of that exemption to the Independents.
 SIR G. GREY  said, he could assure his hon. Friend that he was not at all disposed to disregard the subject that his hon. Friend brought before the House. He was sure also that the House was not indisposed to take into consideration any practical measure that would be brought forward on the subject; but the question to be considered was, whether this Bill was of a practical character. His hon. Friend had appealed to him as if he apprehended that the Government might think the Bill wholly impracticable, and he would endeavour to explain to the House whether it was so or not. The Bill consisted of four very distinct parts. The first part gave a very wide extension of the summary jurisdiction now possessed by magistrates with regard to juvenile offenders under the age of sixteen years. It also gave the power to a single magistrate, but he understood his hon. Friend to have stated that he was willing in Committee to limit this summary power to two magistrates, and to cases of offenders under fourteen years of age. The second part of the Bill related to the criminal responsibility of parents, that responsibility to be enforced by one magistrate, though he supposed that here also his hon. Friend would limit the power to two magistrates sitting together. There was also a provision which was not a new one, except in rendering it the subject of summary jurisdiction, namely, the criminal responsibility of all adults, including parents who directly incite children to crime. The other parts of the Bill related to the treatment of juvenile offenders committed for the first time, and to the establishment of industrial schools, and the treatment of more confirmed offenders. With regard to the first part of the Bill, it superseded the Act of the hon. Member for Droitwich, while this Bill altogether omitted the details which the other Act contained. There was no provision for compelling the attendance of the parties charged, or of witnesses, and no form of conviction, or provision for the costs of the proceedings. His hon. Friend seemed to attach great importance to the provision which enabled magis-
 777 s l 778 779 l l
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  said, after the speech which they had just heard from the right hon. Baronet, it was unnecessary for him to occupy the House at any length. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Pontefract had presented a frightful picture of juvenile depravity, but this Bill would not remedy that state. One of the objects which the hon. Gentleman professed to have in view, was, to do away with the expense of imprisonment; and yet the Bill proposed to give the magistrates the power of imprisoning summarily for seven years. The hon. Member was said to be a great poet, and certainly this Bill contained a great of imagination, but it had neither rhyme nor reason. He was surprised to see the name of an hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Newcastle-on-Tyne at the back of a Bill which proposed to abolish trial by jury in two-thirds of all the cases of larceny that were tried in the country. Had the hon. and learned Gentleman read any of the great law writers of the country, who one and all maintained that trial by jury was one of the dearest rights of Englishmen? Had he studied
 780
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  thought it right to state, as the Juvenile Offenders' Act of 1847 had been frequently referred to in the course of the discussion, that he was no party to this Bill, and that as the measure now stood he could not give it his support. The object of the hon. Member for Pontefract was most benevolent and praiseworthy; but he (Sir J. Fakington) could not agree in the mode in which the hon. Gentleman proposed to carry it out. If industrial schools of reform were established in every county of England, he feared there was great danger that they might prove to be a premium upon vice; and he thought such a task ought to be undertaken—if at all—with the greatest caution, and with all the weight, authority, and investigation the Government could bring to hear upon the subject.
 MR. W. MILES  thought the House ought to make a greater reduction in cases where the owner compounded and agreed to pay the rates, whether the tenements were occupied or not, than in the former class of cases, where the overseers ran the risk of the houses being unoccupied, and of receiving no rates from them. A great amount of poor-rate was not received at present in respect of these small tenements, and the ratepayers would be gainers by allowing even one-half to owners who were willing to compound.
 MR. GREENE  replied that it had been discovered that the arrangement of the seats in six rows, on either side of the House, as originally intended, would not afford the necessary degree of accommodation to hon. Members. It had been thought necessary under these circumstances to reduce the number of benches on either side of the House to five; but, as the number of Members thereby accommodated would necessarily be reduced in the same proportion, it was determined that the large gallery at the end of the House should be appropriated to hon. Members, by which means a greater number would be accommodated than in the present House. An order had been given to that effect, and it was deemed desirable that temporary fittings-up should be arranged, rather than that the House should at once be placed upon a permanent footing, with permanent fittings, which, in case of their not being approved of, it would be a matter of great difficulty and expense to remove. The Commissioners had, therefore, directed the preparation of the temporary fittings, with the view of enabling hon. Members to occupy the New House for some few days during the present Session, and to judge of its convenience and fitness. The House would thus have an opportunity of deciding whether the chamber was suitable or not. If it came to the former decision, the temporary fittings could easily be made permanent; if it came to the latter, they could be speedily and cheaply removed.
 SIR W. MOLES WORTH  said, he should oppose the clause, and would take the sense of the Committee on the question.
 MR. GREENE : The estimate for the temporary fittings-up—an estimate within which the architect was bound to keep—did not exceed 500 l
 SIR W. MOLES WORTH  supported the Amendment. He did not think 5,000 l
 MR. V. SMITH  said, that this and the following clauses introduced the novel principle of a federal assembly, which it had been found impossible to effect in other colonies, and which would fail in this instance from the distance at which the settlements were from each other, if from no other cause. Every governor had expressed an opinion adverse to a federal assembly, which had also been condemned as unconstitutional by the meeting on which the noble Lord at the head of the Government had laid so much stress the other night. It might be said that the legislative council need not adopt it unless they pleased; but how did that argument tally with the arguments of the Government upon other parts of the Bill? It was said, for instance, that the colonies were perfectly satisfied with their present constitution of a single chamber, and that therefore it was inexpedient to thrust a double chamber upon them. But could it be said that the colonists were in favour of the federative assembly? On the contrary, did it not appear from all the information before the House that they held it in perfect contempt? The noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Colonies had also given it as his opinion that for a long time such an assembly would be wholly inoperative. Why, then, encumber the Bill with such a clause? Upon the subject of the admission of leaseholders to the franchise—those who came under the denomination of squatters, it appeared by a despatch received that day, that there was an opinion in the colony that they should be represented by four members; and the Governor of the colony stated that, in his opinion, there would not be a fair representation, unless these parties were represented. Under these circumstances, he wished to know what course the Government had decided upon on this subject?
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he had not been a little struck with an inconsistency running through a large portion of the arguments which had been urged against this measure. A considerable portion of the speeches of hon. Gentlemen who had addressed themselves to this Bill, had been directed to pointing out what they conceived to be its defects; and yet those hon. Gentlemen contended that the measure should have still wider powers, and should be extended to other portions of the united kingdom, besides Ireland. The noble Lord the Member for Kildare, and the hon. Member for Roscommon, had declared their intention to move the rejection of the Bill, unless the Government were prepared to give it still wider operation. Now, without following the hon. Member for Roscommon into all the various cases
 830 831 l l l l l l l l l l l s d l l l l 832 l
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  believed it was encumbered for more than its value; but it was sold free from encumbrances.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  suggested that the hon. and learned Gentleman should reserve his observations until the period when he himself addressed the House. The Incumbered Estates Act was intended to give facilities to the transfer of land, by giving a clear and indefeasible title, and as much as possible to give a fair value to the land. The hon. Member for Roscommon had contended that land to the amount of 20,000,000 l 833 834
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  begged to say that he had been recently in Ireland,
 838
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  explained, that the observations he had made did not apply to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Carlow, but that he had merely spoken of the general approbation of the measure which he had remarked during his last visit to Ireland.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  said, he thought that the Government ought to take the distribution of prize-money into their own hands. The distribution was now left to agents, and in case of their bankruptcy the sailor lost the whole of his prize-money. There was at present great difficulty in obtaining prize-money, but he believed that this Bill would render its recovery still more complicated and difficult.
 SIR F. T. BARING  observed, that in consequence of the House having pressed strongly upon the Government a new mode of making the estimates, it had been necessary to bring forward a Bill to alter the original mode of distribution. He considered that this Bill, instead of increasing the difficulty of recovering prize-money, would afford greater security to seamen.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  said, he felt it his duty to oppose the measure.
 MR. S. WORTLEY  said, that if this were a mere Irish question, it might be deemed presumptuous in him to offer any observations upon it; but as he apprehended it had a wider scope, and was of higher importance than an ordinary Irish question, he trusted the House would excuse him, especially as, although he had no personal connexion with Ireland, he had paid considerable attention to the working of the Incumbered Estates Act, if he ventured to express to the House the opinion he had deliberately and strongly formed respecting it. He confessed that he felt, as a Member of the House—and if he had been an Irishman he should have felt still more strongly—that they were all deeply indebted, he would say, to the Government, because they were entitled to the credit of it, but more especially to the hon. and learned Solicitor General, for having introduced the Incumbered Estates of last year. He (Mr. Wortley) had always considered that measure as one of very great importance, of very great difficulty, and as surrounded with very great doubts. He regarded it as applying an extraordinary remedy to an exceptional and overwhelming class of evils. His opinion was, that the measure had been successful to an extent which its authors had hardly contemplated. [ A laugh. 841 "None better; but this land happens to be in Ireland. If the interest of the mortgage should not be paid, we are at liberty to take possession of the land; but then we must proceed by ejectment, and we shall have to deal with an Irish debtor and an Irish jury, which is an ordeal we should not quite like to go through." l l l l 842
 LORD H. VANE  wished to know whether there had been an estimate framed of the expenses to be thus incurred, and if so, whether the architect would be bound by it?
 LORD H. VANE  begged to ask the hon. Member for Lancaster, whether it Was true that any extensive alterations were to be made in the structure and arrangement of the New House of Commons? He understood that it had lately been discovered that there would not be sufficient accommodation for the Members of the House, and
 796
 LORD J. MANNERS  observed, that if two of the colonies established a general
 805
 LORD J RUSSELL  said, that his hon. Friend was quite correct in stating that the boundaries of New South Wales to the north were, at present, undefined; and also that Earl Grey had informed the Governor of New South Wales that, if the legislature should object to convicts being sent to the colony, they should not, in future, be sent. But in this Bill power was expressly taken to detach certain territories from New South Wales, and erect them into a separate colony or colonies, to a greater extent than could be done by the former Act, viz.—from the 26th to the 30th degree of south latitude. The Crown would thus have power, if necessary, to detach Moreton Bay, and erect it into a separate colony, if they thought proper, and Moreton Bay would thus be ready to receive convicts, although the Legislature of New South Wales should be averse to receive them. No determination, however, had yet been come to to advise Her Majesty to pass such an Order in Council; but the Bill gave the Government
 799
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, it was very true, as the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Sheffield had remarked, that the United States had got over the difficulty which they had to meet by adopting the principle of equality in the Senate, and of representation according to population in the House of Assembly. In the clause before the Committee, they adopted the principle of equality, by giving each colony a right to send two members to the General Assembly, while they consulted the right of representation according to population, by giving one additional member to each colony for every 15,000 inhabitants possessed by it. It should be recollected that the General Assembly could not include any particular colony without the consent of the colony itself, and therefore much of the objection urged could not apply. He certainly should wish to see the clauses passed as they stood; but, at the same time, the Government would take the objection that had been urged into consideration before bringing
 802
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that with regard to the first point, the general assembly as proposed by the Bill, though it was true there had been an expression of opinion against it in the colony, those who objected had not taken into account the facts that no colony could be included in the federal assembly unless by their own choice, nor unless two of the colonies proposed
 800 s d
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the Bill had been framed in accordance with the report of the Privy Council, which laid it down that salaries of colonial governors or judges should not be made the subject of an annual vote in the colonial legislature. This was in accordance with the practice of this country, where the salaries of Judges were placed beyond the control of the House of Commons. The possibility of differences of opinion between the governors and their parliaments rendered it inexpedient that their salaries should be made subjects of annual discussion. With respect to the amount, he did not think 5,000 l
 LORD J. RUSSELL  saw some reason in the hon. and learned Member's proposition. He was willing that the words should be struck out, reserving to himself the right of reinserting them in the report, if he felt called upon on further consideration to do so.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  thought the difficulty raised by the hon. Member for North Staffbrdshire could be easily solved. The application for a general assembly must be made to Her Majesty in Council, and if two of the colonies had united in forming a general assembly, and any of the other colonies desired a general assembly, the answer to their request would be—" If you wish to meet in general assembly you must join the assembly that at present exists." He must say, that he thought it would be very unwise to give up these clauses as they at present stood, for, by so doing, the Government would abandon the principle of a general assembly. The establishment of such an assembly seemed to have been assented to, if not by a majority of the House, at least by a majority of those hon. Members who had spoken on the subject. The proposition had been supported by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, and approved by the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire. He (Lord J. Russell) thought the only question for consideration was, whether the proposed proportion of two members for each colony, and one additional member for every 15,000 inhabitants of such colony, might or might not deter any colony from joining the general assembly, and whether it might not be advisable to have a greater latitude than was given by the clause. It might be very useful in certain cases, with respect especially to duties and customs, that the representatives of two neighbouring colonies should meet and agree that their duties and customs should be alike, and he considered it advisable that authority should be given them by Parliament
 806
 LORD NAAS  said, that this could not be called a party question, and he expressed his regret that he had to oppose a measure promoted by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General, to whom Irish Members were indebted for much consideration and readiness to attend to their opinions, and whose courtesy had enabled him to conduct so many important measures to a satisfactory conclusion. But this Bill was a step in a wrong direction. It professed to be to permit purchasers, under the Incumbered Estates Act of last year, to borrow to the extent of half the purchase money, securing the borrowed money by a certificate of charge on the lands. He had to object to the Bill, first, because it was a direct infringement on, and contradiction to, the principle the House was asked to support last year; secondly, because the Bill was not likely to effect the ends it was said that it would accomplish; and, thirdly, because it was unjust to the present proprietors of Ireland. As to the first point, the Act of last year was proposed for the purpose of freeing Irish property from encumbrances; and, if it had been thought there was any other intention, he, and many other Members,
 807 l l l l l l l l l 808 809 l Times l 810 Reflections upon the French Revolution "In the course of all these operations at length comes out the grand arcanum—that in reality, and in a fair sense, the lands of the Church are not to be sold at all. By the late resolutions of the National Assembly, they are indeed to be delivered to the highest bidder; but it is to be observed that a certain portion only of the purchase-money is to be laid down. A period of twelve years is to be given for the payment of the rest. The philosophic purchasers are, therefore, on payment of a sort of fine, to be put instantly into possession of the estate. It becomes, in some respect, a sort of gift to them, to be held on the feudal tenure of zeal to the new establishment. This project is evidently to let in a body of purchasers without money. The consequence will be that those purchasers, or rather guarantees, will pay, not only from the rents as they accrue (which might as well be received by the State), but from the spoil of the material of buildings, from waste in woods, and from whatever money, by hands habituated to the gripings of usury, they can wring from the unhappy peasant."
 MAJOR BLACKALL  said, it appeared from the statements of the hon. and learned Solicitor General, that owners being encumbered, their creditors not bringing them within the operation, might come in by their own desire. Now, if there were proprietors in that state, it would be hard upon them, with a view to prevent them from encumbering their estates, to refuse to pass a Bill which would be of such immense importance to the greater number of the proprietors of Ireland. A great deal had been said about forcing individuals into the operation of the Encumbered Estates Bill; but it appeared from the cases cited by the hon. and learned Solicitor General, and which had been confirmed by the hon. Member for the Dublin University, that so far from parties having been forced into the Encumbered Estates Court, they had come under their jurisdiction of their own free will, and sold for their own benefit. If the land was brought into the Encumbered Estates Court, various advantages would arise in the purchase of land which could not be secured in any other way; and, in his opinion, the value of land would be raised instead of being depressed. For these reasons he should give his cordial support to this Bill. He agreed that greater advantages would be derived from the extension of the Bill to other parties, and he should be happy to give the hon. and learned Solicitor General any assistance in his power in the Committee.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he was not one of those who sneered at the future prospects of these colonies. On the contrary, he had stated the other night that if there was any question on which they might anticipate the future, it was in legislating for the colonies. It was clear that in a federative assembly in these colonies they should proceed on the same principle of economy which was acted upon in diplomatic intercourse between independent States, at least in former times, when their power was never measured according to population or revenue. Wishing to support the Government in the object which they professed to have in view, of treating the colonies with equality, he felt bound to oppose the clauses as they were now drawn, as he believed they were calculated to defeat the object which the noble Lord at the head of the Government professed to have in view. He believed the noble Lord would never see federation existing in the colonies, if inequality, and not equality, were to be the basis of their legislation.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the noble Lord had admitted that there was no great necessity for this general assembly at present, though the necessity might arise hereafter; while the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down seemed to think that it was a very delicate and difficult matter. AS the Government evidently had not their minds made up on the question, he
 803
 MR. ADDERLEY  would put this question—Suppose that two colonies were to unite, and form a general assembly, and that afterwards the three remaining colonies were to resolve to unite among themselves and form another general assembly, who on earth was there to prevent them from doing so, under the clause of this Bill?
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield at one moment advocated the necessity of independent colonial legislation, and at the next of imperial legislation, to be extended even to such matters as colonial railways. The hon. and learned Gentleman always argued the case of the Australian colonies on the analogy of America; but he should like to hear from the hon. and learned Gentleman whether he knew of any analogy in the history of the United States to such a measure as that now before the House? What would have been said if, in the reign of William III. for instance, when all the colonies were independent of each other, a Bill were introduced into Parliament authorising any two of them to form a congress, which the whole of the other colonies should acquiesce in? [Mr. LABOUCHERE said, the Bill empowered only the colonies acquiescing to elect the general assembly.] He believed the first suggestion of a congress was made to the American colonies from this country, to provide against the attacks of the Indians; and the reply sent over was, that the independent and spirited inhabitants of these colonies were not likely to accept any suggestion of the kind sent them from the mother country. Therefore, the only analogy to be drawn from the history of the United States was directly against this Bill. He believed the Government could induce a majority of the House to vote that black was white if they wished, and he had therefore not much hope of the decision of the Government being modified in the present low state of feeling with regard to colonial matters. It was, however, he was happy to think, not the lowest state of feeling which had been known on this subject. The hon. Member the Under Secretary for the Colonies had truly stated the other night that the Bill of 1842 had passed through Parliament without any expression of disapprobation; but he might with equal truth have also stated that it passed without any expression of approbation. He was proud to think, however, that during the last eight
 804
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that as he understood the clause, the power was not merely permissive, but would be practically compulsory.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the sum voted had hitherto not been exceeded.
 MR. F. FRENCH : The statement of my noble Friend who has just sat down is so fully borne out by facts, that there cannot he any grounds whatever for treating this as a party question. It is a question of vast importance to Ireland, and in its discussion I cannot but express my regret to observe how empty the benches are. But, Sir, this is almost universally the ease whenever any subject connected with Ireland, not of a party character, is brought under the attention of the House. In seconding the Motion of my noble Friend, that this Bill be read a second time this day six months, I shall not merely confine myself to the reasons which led me to feel so strongly the inexpediency of the measure; but I shall venture to lay before the House one or two plans well deserving the serious consideration of the Government, if they are really desirous that Ireland, now in a prostrate condition, should be upon an equality with this prosperous section of the kingdom. I am perfectly ready to give every credit not only to my right hon. Friend the Solicitor General for England, but to Her Majesty's Government generally for a most anxious and ardent desire to promote the welfare of Ireland. I regret exceedingly, however, that hitherto their measures have not proved equal to their intentions. But, on the other hand, I claim for us who oppose the present Bill the same indulgent opinion as to our views, and at least an equally sincere desire to promote the prosperity and welfare of Ireland. We cannot but be anxious for the prosperity of Ireland. We are as deeply interested for its happiness as any persons in this House possibly can be; and, I am sure, there has not been a single measure which we conscientiously believed would advance the one or promote the other, that has not, and would not again find us ranked among its most firm supporters. But will the Bill now before the House effect either the one or the other? This is a question that should be dispassionately considered; and I ask, will the Bill now upon the table, either carry out the objects for which the Incumbered Estates Act was passed, or in any way advance the prosperity of the country? My opinion, Sir, is, that it will not; and, in
 812 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 813 l l 814 bonâ fide and a laugh. "The Bill of the Solicitor General, only dealing with estates which come under the incumbered estates commission, plainly shows that it is intended exclusively to facilitate the operations of the English speculator, and I trust, unless all the advantages proposed under it are extended to those proprietors who are incumbered in a lesser degree, it will not be suffered to proceed." "A statement apparently authorised appears in the  Observer 815 l l l l l l l l l "Sir J. Romilly's Bill is of serious import to those proprietors whose estates are incumbered to one-fourth or one-fifth of their value, the interest paid on which is 4½ or 6 per cent, and who may fairly he considered in independent circumstances, paying their Interest regularly, and leaving an overplus of two-thirds of their income to spend. The result of this measure will be fatal to those estates. As a matter of course all persons having mortgages or judgments on them will call in their money for the purpose of obtaining the learned Gentleman's advanced interest of 6 per cent. It will not be possible, as Ireland now is situated, to get money on any terms, and consequently these properties will have to be sold at a time when land is a complete drug in the market." "From the frying-pan, with a vengeance, the right hon. Gentleman pitches Ireland into the fire. Under a pretence to raise the value of those estates which would be sold under the Bill, and which, at the ordinary rate of purchase, may amount to 20,000,000 l "As I observe you have taken a part in securing an opportunity for discussion of the Reincumbrancing Bill now before the House of Commons, I take the liberty of troubling you with a few remarks, such as unfortunately a practical experience in incumbrances enables me to make upon that measure. I need scarcely tell you, or any one else acquainted with Ireland, but it would be very well that you should tell the English Ministry and the English House of Commons, that a
 816 817 l 818 Mr. French was speaking from the Opposition benches 819 "In Ireland, certainly, our experience would make us look on so wise and liberal a measure with surprise; but in England, where they are not so enduring, where the people do not submit without a struggle, the Government have not only pledged the public credit, but have actually, in the space of twenty years, during the last half century, raised money to the extent of eleven millions, and lent it to traders, cotton manufacturers, and others, on perishable security, to help them over a crisis which, for intensity and duration, will bear no comparison with that through which Ireland is now passing." "The commissioners shall have the power to issue stock, called 'Incumbrances Redemption Stock,' the interest, 3½ per cent, to be guaranteed by Government, to clear off the incumbrances on estates that do not owe to the amount of one-half their value. Any estate not paying its interest to be sold, and the proceeds applied to the extinction of stock. After Ave years, a sinking fund of 2 per cent to be established for the repayment of the principal. The stock to be general, secured on the entire of the properties, not on each particular estate." "This would render the stock as negotiable as consols. The security to the Government would be most ample—twice the value at least of the stock in land, with the power of selling by summary process if in arrear. The Government responsibility would be merely nominal, though of immense value in the eyes of capitalists." 820 l l l l l l l 821 l 822 823 824
 COLONEL DUNNE  could not agree in the compliment paid to the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General, because all his Irish Acts had, in his (Colonel Dunne's) opinion, failed. He thought the course of legislation pursued towards Ire-laud of late years was exceedingly defective. The Labour Rate Act, the Poor Law Act, and the Encumbered Estates Act, had all failed. It appeared to him that the Government had entered into a contract with somebody to make bad laws for the sister country', and that that somebody was fulfilling his part of the bargain to admiration. The Bill of last year had caused the perpetration of the greatest injustice, inasmuch as most of the estates had been sold far under their value. He had no doubt that the present measure would not raise the price of land, that it would overglut the market, and cause parties to purchase who would never afterwards he able to repay the purchase-money. This measure would not raise the price of property, or benefit Ireland in any way. He had seen it stated in a journal of that evening that some properties had been put up for sale which had brought five years' purchase in some instances, and only three years in others. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General did not seem to know much as to the effect of these measures; but an Irish Judge, of the Whig party too, had stated that they would sweep away the property of the country.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  was afraid that the vivid description given by the hon. and learned Solicitor General of the sale of an Irish estate under the Encumbered Estates Bill, was not calculated to induce English capitalists to invest their money in landed property in Ireland, as his description clearly showed the lamentable results that must necessarily flow from the system of forcing estates, under disadvantageous circumstances, into the market; and he (Mr. Hamilton) was informed that with reference to the very estate mentioned by the hon. and learned Gentleman, a considerable number of the puisne creditors would be completely ruined through the sale. But, he would ask, was it right to argue that any prudent or frugal man would avail himself of the powers given by this Bill to purchase an estate with borrowed money? If he did so, he was
 835
 MR. BAILLIE  said, the hon. and learned Member for Newark, on a former occasion, expressed his surprise that this Bill had not been introduced to the House by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General for Ireland; but he thought he had more reason to express surprise that a Bill of such great financial importance should not have been introduced by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer—whose duty it usually was to bring in measures of finance—rather than by the hon. and learned Solicitor General, who had carefully abstained from giving any opinion as to what would be the probable result of the Bill as a financial measure. Let the House consider what this Bill really was. It was a Bill to convert a certain portion of the land of Ireland into a circulating medium of exchange; or, in other words, to give to certain proprietors of land in Ireland the power of issuing Exchequer-bills on the security of their property. This might possibly be a very advantageous thing for certain proprietors of land in Ireland; but it must be admitted to be at least a novel experiment, and one involving a principle of great importance, and therefore it was a measure to which the House should not give its assent till it had received from the Chancellor of the Exchequer a full explanation of what its financial operation was likely to be. He should be glad to know the amount of this exchangeable paper which the Chancellor
 828 l l 829 l ? l l l l
 MR. GOULBURN  expressed a hope that when hon. Gentlemen asked questions upon this subject, they would not use terms the employment of which was not justified by the facts.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  bore his testimony to the pains which had been taken by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General with regard to Irish questions; but though he hitherto agreed with him, he could not support this measure of the hon. and learned Gentleman, unless he gave them a stronger assurance than he had given with reference to the opinion that the principle of this Bill should be extended to unincumbered estates as well as to encumbered estates. There was one circumstance which had not been touched upon, namely, the change which recent legislation had produced upon landed property in Ireland. They were told that they should meet that change by increased energy on their part, and by the introduction of a new system of farming, but, at the same time, the power of raising money for that purpose was taken from them. The hands of the proprietor were tied; they were shut out from the market, and prevented from borrowing money upon reasonable terms, without selling their land. Upon these grounds he should reluctantly support the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for Kildare, unless some assurance were given by the Government
 839
 MR. LABOUCHERE  entirely differed from the hon. Baronet who had just sat down, as he was of opinion that so far from leading to a separation from the mother country, the establishment of a general assembly would have the very opposite effect. If the colonies saw that they had an interest in meeting together for particular purposes, they ought to be invited to do so legally, instead of being left to illegal means to effect that object. The power was to be only permissive after all, and he believed that by adopting the clause they would be strengthening and not weakening the connexion with this country.
 MR. J. E. DENISON  said, that the boundary question had a very important bearing on the question of transportation. The noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Department had told the people of New South Wales that if their legislature should be indisposed to receive any more convicts, no more should be sent. Now, at present, the boundaries of New South Wales to the north were entirely undefined and unlimited; and, unless some limits were assigned, the legislature might at some future time object to allow any district to the north to be set apart for the reception of convicts. He was aware that powers were given to the Crown by this Bill to alter the boundaries by means of an Order in Council; but the people might say that they understood the promise of the noble Lord to be that no convicts were to be sent to any place within their present boundaries. He thought it therefore important that the bouudaries of New South Wales should be settled before such an extensive power was delegated to the legislature.
 MR. J. E. DENISON  said, suppose under the provisions of the Bill, New South Wales and Victoria were to form a federative assembly, the former colony sending twelve members and the latter four, why, New South Wales would be in a position to appropriate all the duties collected in the ports of Victoria to its own purposes. It was not likely that under such a liability a smaller State would ever voluntarily enter into a federative union with a larger.
 MR. PARKER  explained, at the request of Captain Harris, that the object of the Bill was to enable the Admiralty to hand over prize money unclaimed, and in their hands, to the Consolidated Fund. Without such a measure it could not be appropriated in aid of the estimates.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, the principle of the proposed assembly was not similar to that existing in the United States of America, where every State, no matter what population it might have, had an equal number of representatives in the senate. In this Bill, on the contrary, the larger States would over-ride the smaller ones. They had to legislate for the future, and he wished them to repudiate altogether the sneering that was so often heard at the
 801
 MR. ROEBUCK  thought the Governor's salary should be paid by England.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he objected to the clause altogether; but if he could not succeed in expunging it, he should endeavour to improve it as much as possible. The Act contemplated the saving of expense; but the proviso to this clause declared that if as aving were effected, it should not be at the disposal of the colony, but should be applied to such purposes as to Her Majesty might seem fit. He moved the omission of this part of the proviso.
 MR. ROEBUCK  objected next to the schedule of salaries attached to the Bill, The salary of the Governor of Van Die-men's Land, 5,000 l l
 MR. ROEBUCK  hoped the noble Lord would not take any such course. He would take, for instance, the case of an intended railway from the colony of Victoria to Sydney; and without a general assembly, where would be the means of carrying such a project into effect?
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that the ground of opposition to the second chamber, was the difficulty of finding suitable materials; but by providing that each colony should send two members to the General Assembly, that difficulty seemed to be overcome.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, the hon. Gentleman fancied he had discovered a great blunder, but the blunder was on his own part. The hon. Gentleman supposed that two general assemblies might be formed under this clause; but, if he referred to the clause, he would find that the words "such general assembly," frequently recurring, meant the one general assembly to be established; and each separate legislature desiring to join that one assembly was to be permitted to do so.
 MR. SADLEIR  would like to ask the hon. Gentleman who spoke last, what was the condition of Ireland anterior to the passing of the Encumbered Estates Act? Nothing could be more unjust than to ascribe the alleged ruinously low sales effected in Ireland to the operation of that Act; because the great calamities that had previously befallen the country had, in point of fact, contributed to the general depreciation of landed property; and it ought to be recollected that every sale yet effected tinder that Act was only the carrying out of a decree pronounced by the Court of Chancery
 836 l l 837
 MR. J. STUART : What was the position of the encumbrances now?
 MR. J. STUART : What were the encumbrances upon it? It must have been encumbered for more than half its value.
 MR. HUME  hoped that no more money would be paid until all previous blunders had been corrected.
 MR. HUME : Were Government prepared to charge a percentage upon the architect for all his blunders?
 MR. W. FAGAN  had not the advantage of hearing the statement of the noble Lord the Member for Kildare in introducing his Amendment. The debate had come on unexpectedly. In the early part of the evening he had understood that the Australian Colonies' Bill would have occupied the whole night; and besides it was the understanding that a day would have been especially appointed for the discussion of this most important measure. He was therefore absent when the noble Lord addressed the House. He was quite sure the noble Lord put forth the best case it was possible to make for his Amendment. But he (Mr. Fagan) was at a loss to understand how or on what grounds the Bill now before the House could be reasonably be objected to by Irish Members. He had listened with attention to the speech of the hon. Member for Roscommon, who seconded the Amendment, and he had failed to detect any good reason for this opposition. He considered, amongst the many excellent measures introduced by the hon. and learned Solicitor General for England, the present Bill was one of the very best. He did not speak his own sentiments alone. He had been lately in Ireland. He was there when the hon. and learned Solicitor General first propounded his measure; and he could assure the House that to all reasonable men who understood
 825 826 827 l l
 MR. GROGAN  said, he did all he could to prevent the passing of the Encumbered Estates Bill of last year; but that measure having passed, in spite of his opposition, he felt compelled now to support the present Bill, with a view of preventing the former from being productive of the bad effects which he had anticipated from it. He had a choice of difficulties before him; because when he knew that the Encumbered Estates Commission would sell the estates which were entrusted to their care for whatever price they could get, if it was at all within reason, he was forced to decide between the alternative of opposing the present
 840
 SIR. W. MOLESWORTH  said, if they wished to lay the foundation of a great federal republic in Australia, to be independent of this country, as were the United States of America, then the plan recommended by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Sheffield ought to be adopted. He did not see how a federative assembly could be admitted at all, unless the intention was to separate these colonies from the mother country. It appeared to him that the monarchy of Great Britain was the true federative assembly that should be contemplated, at all events, for a long time to come, by these colonies. All the questions that were proposed to be referred to the General Assembly could be settled by mutual arrangement between the colonies, without any such authority; whereas if they appointed a general assembly, and gave them only a few matters to devote their attention to, they would be sure to begin encroaching on the Imperial power; and as to the questions proposed to be settled by a federative assembly, they could just as well be settled without one. On these grounds he should oppose the adoption of the clause.
 MR. STAEFORD  again complained of the unlimited discretion with which this clause invested the Treasury, both in making the advances and in arranging the time of repayment, and under which the grossest partiality might—he did not say would—be practised. This was a power greater than any Government had ever asked before.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it would be inconvenient to enter into a general statement of the grounds of his decision, especially as an indictment was now pending against the trustees for the repair
 868
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he had not complained of what the hon. Baronet had done, nor had he at all misrepresented him. He found a notice on the paper, on the Monday after the holidays, that the hon. Baronet would put this question, which had been stated to him verbally that day and the day before. What he had stated, and would again repeat was, that it might possibly be inconvenient to those who wished to say something on this question, that the notice had not appeared on the Votes; but that might not be the fault of the hon. Baronet. He was very glad to find that his hon. Friend disclaimed any participation in the "statement" which had been drawn up and circulated amongst all the inhabitants; and that there might be no mistake, two copies had been sent to himself. Anybody who knew his connexion with the city of Chester, knew that he was not assailable on that charge at least; and those who made the statement, or believed it, without taking the trouble to ascertain the facts, were utterly beneath his contempt; and, therefore, he would say no more about it. He quite agreed with his hon. Friend that the ratepayers had a very great grievance to complain of. He was a ratepayer in the district, and was open to the same grievance; living two or three doors from his hon. Friend, he thought he had a very great grievance to complain
 869 870
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that he had had the misfortune to get into some difficulty, by giving a professional opinion. He must, therefore, decline to give an unprofessional one now.
 MR. M'GREGOR  expressed his objection to stamps on marine assurances, and other matters connected with shipping.
 ALDERMAN THOMPSON  would have preferred that his hon. Friend the Member for Glasgow had not brought forward his Motion until after the Chancellor of the Exchequer had fully declared his intentions, which, he believed, would be in the course of the ensuing week. However, he should observe, that marine insurance societies with large capital, and conducted on the most honourable principles, were established in every port town of the United States, where no duty prevailed, and a like system was in operation at Hamburg. It was the manifest interest, not only of shipowners, but also of shippers of goods, to effect insurances in these countries; and, to his own knowledge, they did so to a great extent. For his own part, he was prepared to remove that incubus on the trade and navigation of this country; and in so doing he thought he would be supported by every practical man in the House. The existing policy of insurance was very heavy, and militated much against the shipping interest; and therefore, if the House divided, he would feel himself bound to support the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Glasgow.
 MR. DUNCAN  should say, that the impression on his mind was, that the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had promised to remove all restrictions connected with shipping as soon as possible; and under that impression his vote was given. He, therefore, hoped his hon. Friend the Member for Glasgow would divide the House on the question.
 MR. CLEMENTS  thanked the Government for the measure then before the House, for he believed it would do much to raise the country from its present state of prostration, and make the poor-law work better than ever. Under the Labour Rate Act, twenty years was the time allowed for the repayment of advances; but since that period, the Treasury had arranged that the greatest limit of time should be given to the unions which were in the most distressed condition. He believed that if only forty years were given to unions such as Clare and Limerick, other unions would be grievously disappointed, and that the Bill would not be considered in the light of a boon.
 MR. CLEMENTS  said, that he agreed so entirely with a suggestion made by the noble Lord the Member for Bandon, that he should move an Amendment in order to prevent the Commissioners of the Treasury from having the power of shortening the duration of the debt at their own mere will and discretion, and to give power to the guardians to elect a shorter time than forty years for repayment, should they find themselves in a position to discharge the debt sooner.
 MR. GRENVILLE BERKELEY  wished to know from the hon. and learned Gentleman, as one of the trustees, how they could now get out of the scrape?
 LORD C. HAMILTON  regretted the view taken by the hon. and learned Member for Pontefract. It was on the ground of such eminent men as the hon. and learned Member and others holding different opinions on the subject, that he and many other inhabitants of that neighbourhood were anxious to appeal to that which he had always conceived to be the right of a British subject—the power of trying a great question in the public courts. Mr. Rolt had given his opinion against the noble Marquess; the Attorney General for him. Why not, then, allow the matter to go before a tribunal which no influence, authority, or bribery could warp? He must say that he considered the conduct of the Attorney General in this case as harsh and arbitrary, and a great grievance, of which the public had a right to complain. It was worthy of remark, that, since the opinions of Lord Campbell and Chief Baron Pollock had been given, the one seventeen
 873
 LORD J. MANNERS  was at a loss to know on what grounds the House would be justified in negativing this Motion; for the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not adduced a single argument in favour of this most objectionable tax—a tax not
 874
 LORD J. MANNERS  seconded the Motion.
 LORD J. MANNERS  said, that the noble Lord should have thought the information of his hon. Friend the Member for Buckinghamshire superfluous, he could readily understand, for it must be unpleasant for the noble Lord to be reminded in that assembly, pledged, as it was, to the principle of free imports, that a great and important interest in this country was still suffering. The noble Lord, far from endeavouring to explain the financial position of the country, had most ingeniously diverged from the real question at issue, and
 886 l 887
 LORD J. RUSSELL  replied, that the
 888
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the hon. Member laboured under an entire mistake when
 875
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Mr. Speaker, I think it was hardly worth while for the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire to have
 881 l 882 883 Loud cheers from the Protectionist side of the House 884 885 Cries of from the Protectionists
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that when he proposed the Bill, he never thought it would have been treated in such a manner. It was intended as a means of giving relief to Ireland, and it was treated as if the Government wanted to gain an advantage by it. The power given in the third clause to the Government, to extend the period for repayment of the advances to forty years, if necessary, was considered by them to be a very great relief. Yet the whole Bill seemed to be considered rather as an injury than a benefit. He did not think that that was the spirit in which the Bill should have been met by Irish Members.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  wished to bring under the notice of the House a matter to which his attention had been called by Sir James Stephen; who had read in the newspapers a statement as to what had fallen from him (Lord J. Russell) as to the number of lectures delivered on modern history at Cambridge. Having had to recommend to the Crown the appointment of professors of modern history both at Oxford and Cambridge, he had naturally felt anxious to know in what manner those professors were received at those universities, and how they were enabled to discharge the important duties which belonged to professors of modern history. In the course of the last autumn he had had a conversation with Sir J. Stephen, and had put a question to him with respect to the time which he could devote to the delivery of lectures at Cambridge. The House would recollect that he had stated in the course of the debate that he had understood from Sir J. Stephen that he could only give one lecture in the course of a week, and that that would be of an hour or an hour and a half, or two hours' duration. Sir James Stephen had since stated to him that he did not remember any conversation that had taken place, but he said he presumed, though he was only speaking from conjecture, that he (Lord J. Russell) must have understood him to mean that he could deliver only as many lectures as there were weeks in the academic year. Such a statement would, he presumed, have been perfectly accurate, an academic year embracing about 25 weeks. Sir James Stephen added that it was provided by the university regulations that the number of attendances on any course of lectures required from a student as the condition of certificate should not be less than 20, nor
 845
 LORD NAAS  urged the Government to consent to give the full period of forty years for repayment of advances, unless the guardians themselves should wish for a shorter time.
 LORD NAAS  said, that the power given to the Treasury was the matter now before them, and the question was not one of payment, but of liability.
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  said, that he doubted whether, after what had passed, it was necessary for him to say anything upon the subject now before the House. As, however, the name of his noble relative had been so much in question, he thought he might be permitted to give the House the opinions of three very eminent lawyers upon the case, in order to show that the Marquess of Westminster had not acted upon light grounds in the decision to which he had come. The noble Lord then read the following opinions of Sir F. Pollock, Lord Campbell, and Mr. Crompton:—
 "I am of opinion that the Marquess of Westminster cannot be deemed liable to repair the road, either at the suit of the Crown or any other party. I think there is no pretence for considering the Marquess liable as between him and the public; the only ground upon which any liability rested was the covenant to repair given to the Crown and the commissioners; and this, I consider was abandoned when the Crown gave up the road to the public. In my opinion no indictment would lie, and a court of equity would restrain any action on the covenant. The road ought to
 872 "Temple." "I am of opinion that the trustees are compellable to repair the road in question. The liability cast upon them by the Act passed in 1826 is not affected by the Marquess of Westminster's covenant contained in the deed of 1820. There is no pretence for calling upon him to keep it in repair for all the heavy waggons which may travel upon it in consequence of the Woods and Forests, with the concurrence of the Treasury, having entirely surrendered the King's Road to the public. "Temple." "J. CAMPBELL. "I concur in the opinions that have been given as to the Marquess of Westminster being under no liability to repair the road in question. "Temple." "C. CROMPTON.
 MAJOR BLACKALL  opposed the Amendment. It appeared to him that if it were carried, the Treasury would be placed in the position of being obliged either to make the advance, or, if the case appeared at all doubtful, to refuse it altogether. Now he thought it would not be well to have a union refused altogether.
 MAJOR BLACKALL  was also in favour of a uniform rate of 6 d
 MR. STAFFORD  assured the noble Lord that he was quite mistaken in supposing that the Bill had been received in any other manner, or viewed in any other light, than as a relief. But there were two evils which they had to contend with. They had, in the first place, a poor-law which had completely broken down in thirty unions, and they wanted to avoid giving to the central board of the poor-law more power than was necessary. They had suggested, with that object, two Amendments. One, proposed by the hon. Member for the University of Dublin, to settle the proportionate amount to be levied upon each townland; and the other, which was under discussion, by the hon. Member for Leitrim, to fix the time for repayment of advances. There was nothing inimical in those propositions.
 MR. STAFFORD , before that question was answered, desired to put the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer in mind of the strong remonstrances which had been forwarded to the Government by the Limerick union, against any alteration of their ancient boundaries. In return for the generous way in which that union had relieved the necessities of the poor during a period of great distress, he hoped that the Government would accede to their earnest supplications for the preservation of their ancient limits.
 MR. STAFFORD  complained that the expenses incurred by many of these unions had been increased by the delay in passing this Bill, because they might have been able to purchase food cheaper elsewhere if they could have discharged their liabilities with the present contractors. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had talked of poor-law guardians and poor-law commissioners but, in fact, these were mere cyphers, who had no other business than to execute the orders of a central authority, and the Bill was nothing more than an attempt to place the whole rateable property of Ireland, where debts had been contracted to the poor-law, under the hands of Sir Charles Trevelyan.
 MR. DISRAELI  begged to remind the hon. Member for Montrose, who had made a very interesting speech, that it was quite beside the question raised on the Opposition side of the House. They had only asked for 300,000 l
 MR. DISRAELI  said: Sir, this is a Motion for going into Committee of Supply, to vote the public money, and it really is a matter of great interest that the House, before they agree to vote any more of the public money, should be in possession of the financial statement of the Government for the year. I maintain we are not at present in possession of the financial statement of the Government for this year. It is true that about two months ago Her Majesty's Ministers favoured the House with their general view of the finances of the country, and what they intended to do with respect to the remission of taxation. It is always held in this House to be a matter of great importance that the financial statement of the year should be made as early in the Session as possible, because before we voted the supply it was always considered of primary importance that our constituents should be able to form an opinion as to whether they could hear the burden of the supply. First of all it was intimated whether it was in the power of the Government to make any remission; and when they knew what the remission of taxes was, probably or possibly, they would be better able, through their representatives, to say if they could meet the exigencies of the occasion. Her Majesty's Government have always considered it to be a matter of self-congratula-
 877 878 879 880 s s
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. and learned Member will not be prevented from bringing forward his Motion after the hon. Baronet has proposed his question.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. and learned Gentleman has been in the House long enough to know that upon the question that the Speaker do leave the chair on going into Committee of Supply, any hon. Member may bring forward a question of what he considers to be a special grievance. While the hon. Baronet was speaking on such a question, it would be very improper for me to interfere.
 MR. SPEAKER : If the hon. Baronet had signified his intention to conclude with a Motion, then no doubt the hon. and learned Gentleman ought to have precedence over him; but the hon. Baronet having stated that he only intended to put a question, I do not think that I ought to interfere.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP , pursuant to notice, rose to move that the House resolve itself into Committee On that day six months. He Strongly disclaimed being actuated in so doing by any unkind feel-
 846 l s d l s d l l l
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  assured the noble Lord at the head of the Government, that however well-intentioned, and however honest in heart and disposition, he was totally mistaken in the course of proceeding he had adopted. He said this even although the noble Lord was backed up by his (Colonel Sibthorp's) right hon. relative (the Chancellor of the Exchequer). That right hon. Gentleman had told the House some time ago that he had a surplus at his disposal. He would tell him to his face that he had no surplus at all; that, indeed, if he put the debtor and creditor account together, he was worse than nothing. With regard to the noble Lord he would only say that there was a time when the house of Russell was the farmer's friend; but he was sorry to say that the present representative of it had entirely lost that feeling. The noble Lord did not seemd to be well pleased with certain votes which had been given on that (the Opposition) side of the House in favour of economy. He, for one, confessed that he was rather of an economical turn, and he must take the liberty of saying that he wished that other hon. Members beside him would use their power and influence a little more than they did to support the measures of economy which he brought under the notice of the House. Dinner was a good thing, and amusement was a good thing; but duty ought to be paramount to either of them. Before sitting down he would ask the noble Lord whether the deanery of Hereford had yet been filled up? and if so, by whom? and what was the salary connected with it?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he must give the same answer to this Motion which, a few nights ago, he gave to the Motion for the reduction of the duty on paper. He had already stated the amount of taxation which he thought it would be advisable to make, and he could not consent to reduce the revenue still lower. But the hon. Member for Glasgow, with a just regard for the public revenue, was not, he believed, prepared to urge any reduction of duties which would affect that surplus which the best interests of the country required to be maintained. With regard to any future reduction of taxation, he thought it would be unwise to pledge themselves as to the taxes to be remitted. He would not say a word on the subject of the tax, any more than he did on the other branches of taxation on which he had been urged to make a reduction; because he conceived it would be unfair that his opinion should be open to any but the best consideration on the subject. Therefore he hoped the House would join with him in negativing the Motion; and he hoped his hon. Friend would see the necessity of not pressing it to a division, but permit the House to proceed with the business of supply.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was with great pleasure he informed the hon. Gentleman that, on the 31st December last, those liabilities were reduced to 392,000 l l l l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  believed it was ascertained, when the Bill was prepared, that no such words were necessary. The debts were due from the unions, though as between the several electoral divisions, particular electoral divisions might be the parties who were to pay. In such a case, when the debt should be discharged out of this 300,000 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that, with regard to the first question which had been put to him as to the building of additional workhouses, he entirely concurred with the hon. Member for the county of Limerick that nothing was so essential, he would not say so desirable, as the erection of workhouse accommodation for all the unions which had recently been formed. He could not give the hon. Gentleman any very recent information as to what had been done in that respect by the Poor Law Commissioners, but he hoped to receive information from the Commissioners in a few days. But this he knew, that up to March 31 the Government had supplied the Commissioners with all the funds that they required for erecting additional workhouses. With regard to the case of alleged hardship mentioned by the hon. Member for Ros-
 860
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  asked the hon. Gentleman to name an instance in which the Treasury had dealt harshly with a union in Tipperary.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that that was no answer to him. It was not a case in point. They were discussing the leaving in the hands of the Commissioners of the Treasury the power of exercising their discretion in cases of advances to distressed unions, as to the time which they would allow for repayment. It had nothing to do with the case mentioned by the hon. Gentleman.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  declined to accede. He thought the request unreasonable, seeing that the Government were giving so much.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought the proposition of the 6 d
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the whole sum amounted to 4,335,000 l l l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  admitted that the powers were anomalous, and he should be very glad if any scheme could be devised to take them out of his hands. He had done his utmost to discover some rule which might be laid down that would be applicable to all eases, but he found it was impossible; and he did not see any other way in which they could deal with the vast variety of cases that existed in Ireland, but to leave it with the Treasury.
 MR. ROCHE  believed that the moral effect of this Bill had been exceedingly good. Many acres of land had been taken into cultivation that but for the introduction of this Bill would have remained un-tilled. He trusted the Government would reconsider the proposition of the hon. Member for Leitrim. It was expected that forty years would be allowed throughout Ireland for repayment under the provisions of the Bill, and the beneficial moral effect would be greatly diminished if it were found that this was not the case. If the present Ministry were to remain in power during the forty years, he might be content to leave it to their discretion to demand the repayment. But the Bill did not extend the time of repayment for a single year, except at the discretion of the Treasury.
 MR. FRENCH : The right hon. Gentleman had no right to assume that the first rate was levied for past expenditure. He did not think it was just to call upon the townlands under such circumstances to pay double rates.
 MR. F. FRENCH  wished to call the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to a hardship in the operation of the poor-law in Ireland, which he was afraid there were no legal means of remedying. At the time that the electoral divisions were altered, there happened to be some townlands which were within a union on which a rate of 3 s s d
 MR. P. FRENCH  said, that the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln did not seem to understand the nature of the Bill before the House. The money which it was proposed to advance was simply money that was required to make good the monstrous waste, the reckless extravagance, of the Government officers who had been intrusted with the execution of the Labour Rate Act. The people of Ireland were ready and willing, now as ever, to repay to the full extent any money that had been  bonâ fide 851 l l l l
 COLONEL DUNNE  was of opinion that this grant was needed in consequence of the maladministration of the poor-law in Ireland. In his opinion the cause of the distress which prevailed in many of those unions was entirely owing to the maladministration of the law by the Government officers. In some instances the effect of their bad management had been to increase the expenditure double and treble. The fault was not with the Irish landlords or the elected guardians, and this was sufficiently proved by the fact, that during the time that thirty-three unions had been under the official guardianship of the nominees of the Government, the taxes for the relief of the poor in Ireland had reached over 2,000,000 l
 COLONEL DUNNE  suggested that after
 854
 COLONEL DUNNE  was also anxious that some scale should be laid down. He had known unions where from 10 s s
 MR. SCULLY  supported the Amendment. Whatever might be the case with the very distressed unions in the west of Ireland, he did not think the Bill, as it stood, was so well fitted for the unions of Tipperary as it would be if the Amendment were carried.
 MR. SCULLY  said, that the Poor Law Commissioners had summarily dismissed a board of guardians, and appointed paid guardians in their stead, merely because they refused to strike a rate for repayment of advances, which they did not think the union was in a condition to pay. And, as a proof that they were right, the paid guardians themselves did not attempt to strike a rate for the purpose.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  thought that the Government had gone a great way in bringing forward this Bill, and that the people of Ireland had a right to be grateful to them for it. Some parts of Ireland, which had not suffered the pressure of distress to so great a degree as others, were ready to repay their advances within a shorter time; but it would be satisfactory to the more distressed districts to know that a further extension of time would be granted to them.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  proposed an Amendment for the purpose of clearly defining the proportion to be borne by each townland in the union or electoral division, which was adopted by the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, what he had stated on a former evening was, that Sir James Stephen was giving, at the time when he addressed the House, three lectures a-week to the students. The restriction as to the number arose from the circumstance that some limit must be imposed, in order to see whether a man had sufficiently complied with the regulations in order to go in for honours in that particular branch; and the university had decided that it was not necessary to attend more than 25 to go in for an examination.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, whenever this question had been approached by the House, there had been assertions hazarded so totally at variance with the facts, that he thought some Irish Member should take the first opportunity of making a few observations upon the subject of Irish loans and grants; more especially when English Members took every occasion of making assertions that were totally unwarranted, and insinuations which personally would be most insulting. The very persons who the oftenest spoke on these subjects, and mode those assertions the most recklessly, were just those who, by every remark they made, showed a total ignorance of the subject on which they spoke. On a former occasion it had been said that an Irish loan was the same as an Irish grant; and upon another occasion it had been asked in contemptuous tones, "What is an Irish loan?" He held in his hand a very comprehensive return, moved for by the hon. Member for Glasgow, which would aid to answer that question. From this it appeared that from the year 1817, when the Exchequers of England and Ireland were consolidated, up to 1845, the total loans to Ireland were 11,326,596 l l l l l 848 l l l l l l l l l l l s d l l l s d l s d "In pursuance of an order of the House of Commons, dated the 3rd of May, 1843, a return was presented, being a general statement of the transactions of the Commissioners of Public Works, from the appointment under the 1st and 2d William IV., chap. 33, showing the working of Exchequer-bill issues, with repayments, and the estimated profit up to January 5, 1843. This statement, made out in strict accordance with the
 849 l l l l s d l s d l s d l s d l s d l s d l s d l l s d l l nil." 850 l l
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  made a similar request on behalf of the unions of Listowel and Tralee.
 MR. HENLEY  regretted hon. Gentlemen did not hold their votes until they got all that had been promised them. Every class and interest had its own grievance to complain of; and if all those grievances in the shape of taxation were removed, the income of the country must suffer materially. However, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had shown no reason for continuing the tax; and as there was a surplus, he thought it could be better applied in the abolition of a tax, than in the way it had been.
 MR. HUME  said, that a novel scene had taken place that evening, which he had witnessed with much attention. There was crimination and recrimination, but he was fortunately in a condition to blame both. The hon. Member for Buckinghamshire called on Her Majesty's Government, very properly, to give relief to the agricultural interest. He (Mr. Hume) had pressed on the Government the propriety of giving relief to all interests, and he had proposed the honest and legitimate mode of reducing expenditure, in order to obtain a surplus. Hon. Gentlemen opposite complained that the Government had not a policy, but he complained that they had, and seemed determined to abide by it—namely, that no farther reduction in expenditure should take place. It was impossible, therefore, that they could have a surplus; but who was to blame for that? Why, hon. Gentlemen opposite. They came to the rescue when the Government was in difficulties. ["No, no!"  from the Opposition benches 889
 MR. HUME  called on the Chancellor of the Exchequer to redeem the promise he had made at the time of the passing of the navigation laws, and on the faith of which promises—to the effect that the shipping interests would be relieved, so as to enable them to enter into competition with other nations—his vote, as well as the votes of many other hon. Gentlemen, had been given in favour of the Government policy. Now, he wished to know why the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer did not apply the surplus of 500,000 l
 MR. P. SCROPE  hoped the House would remember that vice-guardians had only been appointed when the elected guardians had failed to perform their duty, and to give relief even when the lives of the poor had been in danger from the intensity of the famine. So far from wishing this Bill postponed, he regretted that it had been so long delayed; at the same time he must protest against the manner in
 852 Cries of l l l l 853
 MR. P. SCROPE  wished to know how the advance of 300,000 l l
 MR. P. SCROPE  wished to know how much money had been advanced on loan to Ireland since the famine?
 MR. R. M. FOX  rose to complain of a return which had been sent in by the Poor Law Commissioners, with reference to a union with which he was connected. All he had to say of that return was, that it was a complete fiction from beginning to end, the effect of which was to make the union appear as defaulters; and though the guardians remonstrated, the commissioners refused to make the proper alteration. The fact was, that the commissioners were collecting the money as unpaid relief advances, and appropriating it to the ordinary poor-law purposes. He cordially approved of the Bill, which had been conceived in a fair and liberal spirit, and which, while it did no more than justice, he could not say fell short of it. It was important, however, that the House should examine carefully the manner in which the public money was now expended in Ireland. That money was expended now either under the Commissioners of the Board of Works, or the poor-law authorities, in both of which departments he believed there was room for economy.
 MR. ANSTEY : Mr. Speaker, I certainly must rise to order. When I did not interfere between the hon. Member for Glasgow, and the exercise of his discretion as to giving way with respect to his Motion, I certainly did understand that the hon. Baronet would shortly state his question. He is now going into a long statement of circumstances which will entitle the two noble Lords to whom he has alluded, to reply, or at least to make comments on his statement. I, therefore, having a Motion on the paper next to that of the hon. Member for Glasgow, must certainly protest againt the hon. Baronet entering into such a statement as will prevent me from bringing forward my Motion.
 MR. ANSTEY : There will be no time.
 MR. ANSTEY , still speaking on the question of order, wished to ask whether, having given notice of a Motion on the question of the Speaker leaving the chair, and having distinctly stated that although the hon. Member for Glasgow gave way, he (Mr. Anstey) did not, he had not a right to precedence over the hon. Baronet?
 MR. ANSTEY  rose to order. He begged to ask whether the argument they had been hearing for the last half-hour came within the definition of a statement?
 MR. MONSELL  wished to be informed what had been done by the Poor Law Commissioners towards erecting additional workhouse accommodation in Ireland.
 MR. MONSELL  said, the fact was, that in Ireland, honesty had been found to be the worst policy. He knew eases of his own knowledge, where unions had been screwed to the uttermost, and rates to the amount of 14 s 856 s d
 MR. MONSELL  wished to be allowed to make one observation. After the charge which the hon. Gentleman had made against the Limerick union, in consequence of finding the ablebodied paupers in the workhouse all idle and in bed at six o'clock in the evening, the House would perhaps be surprised to hear that the only day on which the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had visited the workhouse in that union was a Sunday; and he thought the House would be able to see whether there was any ground for his strictures on the Limerick guardians, when they found him complaining that they had sent the paupers to bed, instead of employing them in the cultivation of the land, at six o'clock in the evening on a Sunday.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  rose to put the question of which he had given public notice to the hon. and learned Attorney General, with regard to the part which he had taken in the differences which had arisen between the Trustees of the Grosvenor-place district and the Marquess of Westminster, as to the repair of the highway known by the name of the King's-road, Pimlico. The state of that road had become a most intolerable nuisance to that portion of the public who resided in that part of London, and he had to state, on the part of the ratepayers who reside in that district, that in their judgment they had to complain of a very serious grievance. He, therefore, considered that he was taking a perfectly proper and constitutional course in availing himself of that occasion, on the Motion for a Committee of Supply, to address to the hon. and learned Attorney General the question which he intended to propose to him. He wished the hon. and learned Gentleman to understand distinctly that he (Sir J. Pakington) did not then come forward as one of the trustees of the district in question. He had nothing to do with the trustees. He was no party to anything that they had said or done. The position in which he wished to put this question to the hon. and learned Gentleman was as a ratepayer of that district. In that character he had no hesitation in saying—and he believed he spoke the sentiments of his fellow-ratepayers—that he considered himself to be directly aggrieved by the conduct of the
 861
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  hoped that it would be some consolation to the hon. and learned Member to know that he had nearly concluded. In consequence of the advice of Mr. Rolt, an interview took place between that learned Gentleman and the Attorney General; and here he desired to direct the attention of the House to an expression of the hon. and learned Gentleman. He said that in questions of a social character they should take care that in enforcing the letter of the law, they did not inflict hardship on individuals. In his opinion the hon. and learned Gentleman did not sufficiently bear in mind the hardships which were inflicted on the ratepayers. The hon. and learned Gentleman said,
 867 Cries of
 SIR J. PAKINGTON : He was very sorry to be obliged to delay the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman. He was about to say that the origin of this dispute was an agreement that was entered into in the year 1820, between the Marquess of Westminster and the Crown, by which an exchange was made of the then existing King's-road, as it was called, for that large thoroughfare now known by the same name, which passed through Eaton-square. It was a most important advantage to the Marquess of Westminster to have become possessed of the old King's-road. All who were acquainted with the district must be conscious of the very great advantage which the Marquess of Westminster derived from that exchange. He had been thereby enabled to build the north side of Baton-square, which, as the House was well aware, contained one of the handsomest range of residences in this or any other metropolis. The row of mansions on the north side of Eaton-square
 862 l l 863 " Primâ facie "Temple, Oct. 24, 1849. "Sir—With reference to your application on behalf of the trustees of the Grosvenor-place district for liberty to sue the Marquess of Westminster in my name for the purpose of enforcing a covenant entered into by the late Marquess with the Crown for the repair of a part of the King's-road, I have to inform you that, having considered the circumstances mentioned in your memorial, I must decline to allow you to use my name for that purpose. The covenant was evidently intended to relieve the Crown from any liability which might accrue by reason of the alteration of the line of road, and not for the benefit of the public at large. The road being now open to the public without obstruction, should be repaired by the trustees, in the same way as other roads within the limits of their jurisdiction.—Your obedient servant, "JOHN JERVIS. "A. M'Arthur Low, Esq., 65, Chancery-lane." 864 "And the road being now used for the benefit of the public should be repaired by the trustees in the same way as the other roads within the limits of their supervision." "The Committee is mistaken in supposing that there is any inconsistency between the opinion given by myself and the Solicitor General, that the Marquess is liable to the Crown upon the covenant to repair, and my refusal to enforce that covenant." 865 "There is no appeal to any legal tribunal from the decision of the Attorney General refusing his name to sue the Marquess of Westminster on the covenant in question." "Although the legal remedy is thus doubtful, I am of opinion, on the facts before me, that the advisers or officers of the Crown will do an act of injustice to the ratepayers of this district either by attempting to release the Marquess from the operation of the covenant, or by refusing to sue upon it. I cannot understand what is meant by saying that a covenant by a private individual with the Crown, making that individual for ever maintain a road for the use of all the subjects of Crown, was not intended for the benefit of the public at large." "I advise the trustees to lay the matter again before the Attorney General, and to attend him either personally or by counsel. It is probable that the case has not been fully presented to him. If he should still decline to allow his name to be used, then, after the experiment of a suit inequity, the only course for the trustees to take will be to appeal to the Government or the Legislature for their assistance." 866
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman was very grievously misrepresenting him. He had given notice of this question before the holidays; it was upon the books; and he had now put the same question. He had given public notice, on the first night after the holidays, that he intended to renew this question on the next supply day. He had explained the accidental omission, by the clerk at the table, of his notice from the book; it ought to have been there; but he had last night given the hon. and learned Gentleman notice that he should put this question.
 MR. S. MARTIN  said, as one of the ratepayers of this district, he had read a vast number of papers that had been submitted to them, and he should be ashamed of himself if he did not rise and state to the House that, having read those papers, he believed his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General would have been guilty of a most gross dereliction of duty if he had permitted his name to be used for the purpose for which the trustees required it. If the noble Lord would apply himself to what was the real business and duty of the Attorney General, he would see that it would have been a great injustice that the Attorney General should so lend his name as was desired.
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  suggested that it would be of advantage if the term of forty years was adopted decisively by the Act, leaving it to any union to apply for leave to repay the annuity in a shorter period if they pleased. He thought the working of the clause would be much better left in the hands of the Poor Law Commissioners than in the Treasury.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  said, he had applied himself to this question; he did not want the law, but he wanted permission to go to law.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  disclaimed the intention of casting any imputation on the hon. and learned Gentleman; but the conduct of the hon. and learned Gentleman had been severely critised by the board of trustees, and many of the gentlemen of that board were in the habit of calling things by their right names—[ laughter 871
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, these unfortunate depositors had a claim against the country, which was more than against the Government, for the country was mainly to blame. In a country so free as this, the Government was the agent of the country; and the Government having many occupations of its own, the country ought to have looked into this business itself, and not have allowed unhappy starving Irishmen, whom clergy and laity had rushed to urge to save their potato-peelings and lodge them in savings banks, to find themseles defrauded of their painful savings. The country not having done so, he hoped it would not grumble or resist, when called on to find the funds for redressing this great evil. Why should not the country have forced the Government to take precautions? It was done in the case of collectors of taxes; if they ran away with the money, no harm was done, for they left their securities behind them. Why was not that done in savings banks? Why was any opportunity left for the infirmity of mankind to display itself in this most piteous and most painful form? With ordinary pains, the Government might apply itself to this question with success; for the difficulties surrounding it might all be obviated. Why, for instance, should a limit be put on what the frugality of individuals should enable them to lodge in a savings bank? A private banker never attempted to limit the amount of his customers' deposits; for the more they brought to him, the greater his profits. Why should not the same be the case with savings banks? A proverbial expression implied, that some things were cheap, but so squalid that they were not worth having. He apprehended depositors never would demand that species of cheapness, which was accompanied with the uncertainty of ever seeing their money again; they would never grudge a just and proper payment for any fair advantage. He hoped these suggestions might be useful towards devising a remedy for the evils that had arisen, and for preventing their recurrence.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHE-QUER  said, with regard to the question
 937 ex parte 938
 MR. P. WOOD  regretted the tone in which the debate had been carried on, a course into which they had been misled by the character of those observations that they had heard from the right hon. Member
 973
 MR. S. HERBERT  hoped, that the debate would not be adjourned. If there were no other reason why the discussion should not be extended to another night, he could find a reason in the tone in which it had been carried on up to the present time. In that House he never could help looking forward to the discussion of Church questions with a feeling of dread. He had always been an advocate for removing religious
 971 972
 LORD J. RUSSELL  was ready to say that he would place the Committee on the Bill first upon the Orders of the Day when it again came before the House. Perhaps the House would allow him to state that he bad heard with much pain a great portion of the discussion which bad taken place that night. With respect to the hon. Member for Cockermouth, as far as his knowledge of the hon. Gentleman went, first as a Member of the Government, and afterwards as an independent Member, he never had the remotest suspicion with regard to his conduct that the hon. Gentleman was taking any other line than that which his duty prompted. But with regard also to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge, he believed that nothing had justified any imputation upon the integrity of the right hon. Gentleman. He (Lord J. Russell)
 975
 LORD J. RUSSELL  believed there had been no objection made to the second reading of the Bill, and that the objections which had been stated were merely matters for consideration in Committee. His hon. Friend the Member for Malton had said that the Government had mistaken the object which the Select (Committee had in view; but he (Lord J. Russell) owned he could not read the words otherwise than his right hon. Friend who moved the second reading. He could not conceive that the Select Committee meant that this Committee should have an entire and separate authority, when they referred to them as a Committee of the Board, and required that certain of these paid Commissioners should be present at the meeting of the board, thereby implying that the Committee was a part of the board. With respect to the main object, he conceived that the Bill would effectually accomplish it, because, in fact, this being a small Committee, having the questions as to the management of estates continually before them, in 99 cases out of 100 their opinion would sway the board, who would take the report of the Committee as conclusive upon the subject. If there came some great question of principle, then the
 966 framing
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, if the House agreed to the Motion of adjournment, he feared that the further discussion of the measure must be postponed for a considerable time, inasmuch as there were several Bills before them which it was extremely desirable should be sent to the House of Lords with the least possible delay.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  having begged pardon for interrupting the hon. Baronet, wished him to defer the question until to-morrow, as he had only just then written for information, and had not, as yet, received any answer.
 Mr. COCKBURN : Sir, the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs being in his place, I rise for the purpose of putting the question of which I have given notice, which is founded upon a statement recently made at one of the metropolitan police offices, and to which I beg to call the noble Lord's attention. In the course of an inquiry which lately took place at the Thames Police Court, the captain of a British vessel, the barque  Marianne 892
 MR. COCKBURN  said, he understood the noble Lord to mean, that by postponing the second reading they were endangering the Bill for this Session, and in that case he trusted the hon. Baronet would not persist in his Amendment unless his object were to oppose the second reading of the Bill.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : At the present moment I don't intend so to do. All the cases differ very much. Probably we shall be shortly able to make up our minds as to what we shall do with the others.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Yes, only for these sums.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : After the 20th of November next the reduction will take place upon all deposits then in the savings banks.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : By the Commissioners.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  rose, in pursuance of the notice he had given, to move for leave to introduce a Bill to amend the laws relating to savings banks. He was very sorry that any delay had taken place in the introduction of this Bill. He had given notice as early as the first night of the Session of his intention to bring the subject under the consideration of the House; but the indisposition under which he had laboured, and the state of the public business, had hitherto prevented him from bringing it forward.
 895 l 896 897 l l l. 898 ad libitum 899 900 901 902 903 l s d. l s l s 904 905 l l l l. l l "I have had occasion to remark that the chief inducement to deposit money by those for whom savings banks are intended, consists in having a safe place for deposit, and that the amount of interest for the most part forms but a secondary consideration; whereas those persons whose means are greater, and who do not actually require savings banks, use them to suit their convenience when the fund" are high, and take their money out of the savings bank to invest in the funds when low, just at the time that the withdrawal from the savings bank is attended with loss to the country. This cause operated far more extensively in our bank in 1847 and 1848 in reducing our capital than the stagnation of trade did. 20 l 906 l l l l l l s l l s l s d l s d l d l d l s d l 907 l l l s l 908 l l l l l 909
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Yes; it will not be altered.
 MR. HORSMAN : The proposed object of this Bill was to improve the composition of the Ecclesiastical Commission, and the Ecclesiastical Commission was undoubtedly a body that stood in much need of improvement. Considering how it was composed and how administered—how great its powers—how sacred its functions—and the inevitable effect of its good or bad administration in attaching or alienating many from the Church, he thought in the eyes of those who deemed the Church an institution worth preserving, and believed that its being preserved depended on its being efficient; few Bills had come before them this Session involving higher principles or more serious results. And he approached its discussion, bearing in mind the candid admission of the noble Lord made to them some time ago, that in the question of ecclesiastical reform he must propose not what he might wish, but what certain great Powers in another place would permit him to carry. No one could be blind to that truth who had watched the progress of this Bill in that other place. Great concessions were made by the Government in framing it, in hopes of conciliating the forbearance of the Prelates; but in vain. The worst parts of the Bill, as they now saw it, were inserted by the bishops; the best were a compromise on the part of the Government. It was not a Government Bill—the Government were no more responsible for its provisions than a godfather for the features of an ugly child—they charged themselves with its progress to maturity; but the parentage was episcopal, and as such they must regard it. The Ecclesiastical Commission being universally condemned by public opinion, this Bill was the sum of the concessions to that opinion which the bishops would condescend to make. Now what was the purport of this Bill—what defects did it point out? What remedy did it provide? He sought for an answer in the speech of its introducer. The first great and obvious defect, as he showed, of the present Commission, was its immense size. In 1840 the Commission, which had consisted originally of thirteen, was increased to forty-nine, and it then became a cumbersome and unwieldy body. So said the bishops, and nothing could be more true. This Bill was to remove the evils of the existing Commission. The first evil apparent was
 945 946 ex officio 947 l l l l l 948 l l l l 949 l l l l l l l l l "I control every thing: when there is sufficient business to render a board necessary, I tell the Archbishop, and he summons a board; but 'summons' are only sent to the bishops and the town-clerk of London." 950 "I receive all the mortgages, and all the first-fruits and tenths; but as regards every farthing collected in my office, I send one of the clerks in a cab to pay it into Coutts'; so that I never have a shilling in my hands—it was a rule I made when I came in never to have any money in my hands. " l l l l l 951 l ex officio 952 cathedra 953 954 men 955 956 957 958 959
 MR. HORSMAN  rose to induce the hon. Member for Marylebone to withdraw his Motion of adjournment. He trusted that if the House should assent to the second reading on the present occasion, the; noble Lord at the bead of the Government would fix the Committee on the Bill so that it might come on at an early hour in the evening. There was one allusion made by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge, which be could not suffer to pass unnoticed. Considering the right hon. Gentleman's long practice and experience in the House, what fell from him carried more weight with it than its importance probably deserved. He would accordingly put it to the right hon. Gentleman, as a gentleman and a man of honour, to state what office it was for which he (Mr. Horsman) was a candidate, and also to state his authority for the insinuation he had thrown out. A Gentleman who had been in that House so long, who bad held office, and who occupied so high a position, ought not to adopt idle and careless gossip, as it had been called by his hon. and learned Friend, or throw out imputations, without being pretty well assured that they possessed some foundation. He now called upon the right hon. Gentleman to state his authority for making such a statement. He thought it due to himself (Mr. Horsman), and due to the House, that the right hon. Gentleman should give such an explanation, because the same
 974 "Either regulate your future conduct so as to be able to set the most malicious inquiries at defiance, or, if that be a lost hope, at least have prudence enough not to attract the public attention to a character which will only pass without censure when it passes without observation."
 MR. BANKES  thought the hon. Member for Kerry had given good reasons why he had taken the present opportunity of offering his remarks to the House, instead of waiting till the nomination of the Committee, which would probably take place at a period of the night when he might not be able to obtain that attention which the subject deserved. He was aware that the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer wished that the subject should be considered prospectively. But as three months of the Session had elapsed he thought he was entitled to ask the Government whether they intended to give any aid to those who in England and Ireland had suffered so severely from the failure of savings banks—and in some degree, he must say, from the neglect of the Government itself? During three Sessions the attention of the House and of the Government had been called to this particular subject, and it was extraordinary, considering that neglect of duty on the part of persons connected with savings
 935 l l 936
 MR. BANKES : Is that Committee to embrace the case of Rochdale?
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had addressed himself but in a slight degree to the present measure, whilst he had enlarged on other topics in a laboured speech, which had all the marks of great preparation. He trusted, then, that the House would excuse him from following the hon. Gentleman at that hour of the night into all the observations he had made, especially so as the hon. Gentleman had no objection to the second reading of the Bill. The hon. Gentleman upon this, as upon other occasions, had indulged in vituperation upon the characters of those who were absent. In doing so there was as much want of fairness as of justice, and he might have recollected when he was attacking the character of all bishops, that he was speaking in the diocese of one who had laboured long, laboriously, and diligently in enlarging the field of Christian instruction, and in opening churches for the poor. Now, the first misrepresentation of which he complained in the speech of the hon. Gentleman, was upon a matter of fact, well known to most who heard him. The hon. Gentleman said that the bishops cared for nothing but their own emoluments, or those of their order; and he said this while discussing the Ecclesiastical Commission, by which they had voluntarily divested themselves of one-third or one-fourth of the incomes they enjoyed, for the enlargement of the episcopacy where deficient, and for the better instruction of the people. But then the hon. Gentleman said
 960 l l l l l 961 l l 962 l l l l l l 963 l l l l l l l 964 l l
 MR. GOULBURN  was ready to admit that he did allude to a rumour—a very foolish one, as it appeared—in connexion with the hon. Member for Cockermouth. He believed he said that, as Lord of the Treasury, the hon. Member must have had cognisance of many things, and, as rumour said he had looked to a higher appointment in the present Ministry, he had given the hon. Gentleman credit for having deserved such a post by his former conduct in office. If that allusion had given the hon. Gentleman pain, he (Mr. Goulburn) was ready to retract it. He admitted that he spoke under feelings of considerable vexation, owing to the series of attacks which the hon. Member had made on the Church of which he (Mr. Goulburn) was a member. Having been a Member of that House for so many years, and after what had been said by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, he did not consider it necessary that he should defend his character, either in that House or elsewhere.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had commenced his speech by calling on hon. Members not to go into any detail with reference to the past, but to confine their observations to the Bill brought before the House, and then proceeded at considerable length to discuss the responsibility resting upon Government. The right hon. Gentleman assumed that none of those allegations that had been made had any foundation in fact, and stated his conviction that hon. Members
 927 928 Morning Chronicle Times 929 "210. You have stated that there is no power to inspect banks, and that you only visit them when you are called on to do so to settle disputes?—That is all. "211. If no dispute arises, you never visit a bank?—No. "212. And the trustees and actuaries are perfectly uncontrolled in the management?—Just the same as any gentleman is in his own private affairs." l l l s s "3,703. (Mr. Herbert.) Did you not, in the Killarney case, award 20 s s "3,704. And you awarded 3 s "3,705. Of course you made those awards in conformity with what you considered to be the law?—Decidedly. "3,706. Do you think that that state of the law has caused a gross practical injustice to the depositors subsequent to 1844?—There is no doubt that the Act of 1844 caused a great injustice. "3,709. Supposing the Act of 1844 had not passed, would you not have divided the whole sum that remained in the Killarney case equally amongst all the legal depositors?—I should, if the Act of 1844 had not passed. 930 "3,710. If you had been called upon as a private gentleman to award, and you had been told to distribute this money according to the equity of the case, would you have distributed it equally among all the legal depositors?—I think I should have distributed it equally among all the legal depositors, if it were not confined by any Act of Parliament." The Morning Chronicle "1,060. Was not it the duty of the commissioners or the comptroller under that Act to be in possession of the bonds?—Yes. "1,061. As far as they are not in possession, they have not acted as the Act directs?—Strictly speaking, they certainly have not. "1062. Speaking in any way, has the Act been complied with?—The Act has not been complied with, in so far as the bonds were not lodged according to this Act in the hands of the commissioners. "1,063. Is not it the fault of the commissioners that they have not been so lodged; does not the Act direct them to see that they are lodged with them?—It directs the comptroller or assistant comptroller to ascertain if those bonds are lodged with the commissioners. "1,064. Did you in this case ascertain that respecting the bonds of the Tralee bank?—Looking at this document, I should say we did not. "1,065. With respect to the Killarney bank, what is the case?—It appears to be in the same position as the Tralee bank. "1,066. What bonds have you belonging to any Irish savings banks?—I do not know what bonds Mr. Tidd Pratt has in his possession." 931 "670. Have you ever published the name of any bank which has not sent you its accounts regularly?—We have not, because we have never found any bank which has not sent in its accounts regularly; when I say regularly, I do not mean to the day, but within a sufficient time to enable us to make our returns to the Board of Trade, which we do at the beginning of June," l "615 (Mr. Fagan). But here on the face of the accounts, where there are forty-one depositors of 100 l l l "616. If by accident you had made such a discovery, what should you have done with the account?—If it had caught my eye, I should have returned it, of course, being an apparent discrepancy; I should never think of passing an account where I saw the least variation, if it caught my eye." 932 "I am of opinion that under the 46th section of the 9th George IV., cap. 92, the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt had authority, upon being apprised that the trustees of the savings bank had neglected to transmit the account required by the Act, or had neglected or refused to obey any orders or directions given by the Commissioners, to close the account of the trustees, and to discontinue keeping any further account with them, and to hold the funds then in their hands until such account should be reopened. I also think, that, under the section of 3 & 4 William IV. referred to (sec. 30), the Commissioners were required to publish the name of the savings bank guilty of default in not transmitting the account directed by the former Act, and that in omitting so to do, the Commissioners were guilty of a violation of the duty imposed upon them by the Act." 933 "On the 21st of April, Mr. Pratt, in his evidence, stated that he issued a circular notice to the trustees and managers, including the defendant, and sent it to them. He then stated that many of the persons to whom these circulars were addressed attended, and amongst them was the defendant. Mr. Pratt then stated that he would be in attendance next day, and would receive the claims of the depositors; that he attended for three or four days, when the depositors made their claims, the defendant, amongst other trustees, attending; but he had been assured by him (Mr. Pratt) that in doing so he did not thereby increase any liability beyond that to which he would have been subjected if he had not attended at all. Mr. Pratt further said, that he gave no notice in writing at the bank of his intention—that was, that he did not serve the notices required by the Act of Parliament at all. He (the Lord Chief Justice) need not remark, that it was essential to the validity of any award, as it was to that of every judicial proceeding, that the party to be bound by it should have all that notice of it which the law required; and he might extend that remark in a greater sense to those who from their joint liability might have an interest in seeing that others having an equal liability had also full and sufficient notice. Now, let him see, had all or any of the parties the notice to which the Act entitled them. According to the evidence, not one of the plain and simple directions of the Act of Parliament were pursued by the public officer. There was not any notice in writing, of any kind, sent to, or left at, the office of the bank. The circular of the 21st was not so left; or, indeed, if it had, it was not written and delivered before any dispute arose. There seemed, therefore, in all these respects to have been an omission of compliance with the law prescribed as essential to the jurisdiction of Mr. Pratt." 934
 MR. J. E. DENISON  thanked the noble Lord for introducing this Bill, considering that it was founded on the unanimous report of a Committee, of which the hon. Gentleman was a Member, who described
 965
 MR. HUME  said, it was not his intention then to follow the right hon. Gentleman through all the details of this measure, the more proper time for which would be when the Bill was printed and brought before them; but there were one or two points which he wished to bring under the notice of the House. Having directed his attention for the last thirty years to the question of savings banks, and having for the last ten or twelve years called the attention of Government to the faulty system on which they were instituted, by which loss accrued to the Government, and a risk to the individual depositors, he was not at all surprised at what had lately taken place. He had very great doubts whether the right hon. Gentleman would be able to carry out his mixed plan, which he had now proposed. He thought the public had a right to complain of the Government in this matter, because it was always under stood that the Government were pledged to the depositors, and thus the public were deluded. ["Hear, hear!"] He said deliberately, the public were deluded, because they had been led to believe that their money was safe from the moment it was
 910 s l s. l 911 l l l 912
 MR. B. OSBORNE  wished to put a question to the hon. Gentleman the Member for Lancaster, in his capacity as one of the commissioners connected with "the new Palace at Westminster." A Committee of that House sat in the year 1846; and they reported their conviction that so long as the squabbles between Mr. Barry, the architect, and Dr. Reid, the ventilator, were permitted to go on, the New House of Commons would never be finished. He wished to ask the hon. Member, whether he had succeeded in adjusting these squabbles,
 891
 MR. B. OSBORNE : I give notice that I shall draw the attention of the House to this subject, with the view of getting rid of both Mr. Barry and Dr. Reid.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, he did not rise to make any remarks on the efficiency of the plan of the noble Lord, or on the merits of the Bill. He knew well that in the present state of the Church, it must be a
 967 l 968
 MR. SLANEY  said, these questions in reference to the losses of depositors by savings banks were of the deepest interest; but he understood there were Committees appointed for the purpose of considering these questions carefully, and a Committee was again to be appointed to take them into consideration; and therefore it seemed to him that the statements made in that House had better be made before this Committee. He earnestly hoped that in the Committee justice would be done to these humble people; and if the question was doubtful, he trusted they would give the benefit of the doubt to the depositors. With respect to the Bill, he believed no measure would be brought forward during this Session of Parliament which would interest so many persons as the Bill brought in that night by his right hon. Friend. The number of persons interested in that matter were numerous beyond example, and they looked for aid and assistance to that House. He thanked his right hon. Friend most gratefully for the attention he had paid to the subject; and if he (Mr. Slaney) made one or two observations which might appear to be in a hostile spirit, he assured his right hon. Friend that he made them in a friendly spirit. His right hon. Friend assumed that the depositors in savings banks were not in a state of security, and he proposed by this Bill to place them in a state of security. Now, he gave him credit for that; but his right hon. Friend, in doing so, made them pay for it. He (Mr. Slaney) regretted that his right hon. Friend thought it his duty to diminish the amount of interest the depositors were to receive, because the amount was to come from the taxpaying public. Now
 925 l l l l l l l l 926 l l
 MR. T. GREENE : In reply to the inquiry of the hon. Gentleman, I have to say that I am aware there is an action pending between Mr. Barry and Dr. Reid; but happily that subject does not come within the power of the commissioners. Our best endeavours have been applied to reconcile the differences that exist between the architect and the ventilator; but I cannot say those efforts have been successful. At the present moment there is a considerable degree of difference between those two gentlemen; and we are obliged to carry on the work as well as we possibly can, by endeavouring to arrange matters to the best of our power; but certainly it is not a very pleasing task.
 MR. W. FAGAN , independently of having been a member of both Committees on Savings Banks which sat in 1848 and 1849, was from other circumstances familar with the case of the three Irish banks, the failure of which was the principal cause of the Bill which the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had that evening introduced. He (Mr. Fagan) would, therefore, ask the attention of the House while he made a few remarks on the important subject under consideration. The right hon. Gentleman told them that his was a prospective Bill, and he asked them to avoid all allusion to the past. Now he (Mr. Fagan) could not consent to this. He thought very great disappointment would be felt in Ireland that such a Bill should be introduced with reference to the future, without any provision for the unfortunate depositors, whose ruin was caused by the default of the Government. Therefore he felt it his duty to go into the past, notwithstanding the appeal of the Chancellor of the Exchequer; and as he had still hopes that justice would be done these depositors, he thought there would be no more appropriate time than the present to state their case. He would, however, in the first instance refer to the measure submitted to the House by the right hon. Baronet. He differed from his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose in his estimate of the Bill. He believed that consistently with the principle of voluntary association, on which savings banks were founded, there would be the greatest possible amount of security afforded the depositors, provided its provisions were attended to by the public, and vigorously enforced by the Government. But while the depositors might be thus safe, there would be no security for Government so long as the present system of keeping accounts in savings banks was persevered in. Of what use was it appointing auditors, if there was no possible means within a reasonable time of balancing and checking the numerous transactions of the bank? Of what use were auditors if there were no precise system of keeping the interest accounts, or of checking the interest paid
 916 917 Gazette l l l s d l 918 Gazette l "Connected as the savings bank system is with the policy of Government for the reduction of the national debt, and considering the great importance of such institutions to the poor and industrious class of the community, the trustees, who at much personal inconvenience have given their gratuitous services to the promotion of these objects, deem it their duty to submit to the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt the fatality which has occurred, and to solicit their advice and assistance. With this view the trustees beg leave to submit that a Commissioner
 919 "We hope that, under all the circumstances of our case, the Commissioners will receive our account as if we were a now bank, furnishing our account for the first time. In fact, you are aware we commenced  de novo "At a Board held the 19th of March, 1832, read a letter from the Trustees of the Savings Bank, at St. Peter's Parish, Dublin, dated 25th February, 1832, enclosing their general account up to 20th of November, 1831, wherein is exhibited an apparent surplus of 27,772 l s d l s d l s d 920 l l s d "I am directed to state, that the payment of 1,571 l s d l "Nos. 3082 and 3083. You stated that on grounds of public policy, the account of the Cuffestreet Savings' Bank was kept open.—Answer: Yes. And the result of so keeping open the account has been, that the depositors in that Savings' Bank have been losers to a large amount, that loss being caused by the Government acting on grounds of public policy?—Answer: Yes, it appears to be so." 921 l l l l l l l 922 "I am of opinion that, under the 46th section of the 9th George IV., chap.  92, the laches l laches
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  said, he rose to express the great disappointment he felt that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had given no intimation of the course Government intended to take in the case of the unfortunate depositors. He was deeply interested in the question, as the constituency he represented had sustained a loss of 70,000 l s s s s 914 915
 SIR B. HALL  wished to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government a question, respecting a rumour which had caused a great deal of excitement and dissatisfaction in the metropolis. He hoped that the noble Lord would be able to contradict the rumour, as it had caused a very general expression of censure against the highest ecclesiastical authority in the kingdom. His question related to the sinecure office of Registrar of the Prerogative Court of Canterbury.
 SIR B. HALL  then gave notice that the question he should ask to-morrow, would have reference to the fact that there was an office in the Prerogative Court of Canterbury, the registrar of which held a sinecure of the value of 9,000 l
 SIR B. HALL  then moved that the debate be adjourned.
 SIR B. HALL  had listened with great interest to the observations made by the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down; with much interest also to the statement made of the Amendments that he proposed to make; and if he (Sir B. Hall) had been previously anxious for an adjournment of the debate, he was now still more desirous of it; he should therefore persist in his Motion.
 MR. GROGAN  would suggest that a balance sheet ought to be prepared in every bank, to which the depositors could have recourse whenever they pleased. There were some other matters also which might possibly be suggested at a future stage as improvements upon the Bill. But he regretted that the right hon. Gentleman should have altogether omitted to mention who was to compensate the unfortunate individuals who had lost by the savings banks through the fault of the Government. In the case of the Cuffe-street bank, the moment the actuary Dunn was discovered to have left Dublin, the trustees appointed one of their number, Mr. Foote, to go over to London, with full authority to act for them, and to lay the precise condition of their affairs before the Government. He did so, and the Government recommended that course which had been subsequently pursued. The Commissioners admitted that they were aware of the gross irregularities existing in the Cuffe-street bank; yet they took no steps to reform them. They protected Government indeed effectually, but they neglected in the same degree the interests of the public, who trusted to an establishment watched over, as they imagined, by Government officials. If ever there was a case to call for the interference of this House, that of this Dublin bank presented it. What was the result of the extraordinary conduct of the Government? The bank had stopped payment; it was totally bankrupt; and the poor depositors lost their money. The Commissioners, in acting as they had done, violated an Act of Parliament; and when charged with this, their excuse was, that had they acted otherwise—had they shut up the bank, they would have broken another statute. Thus it appeared that if they shrunk from violating one Act of Parliament for the protection of the people, they had no such scruples in regard to
 924
 MR. GROGAN : Will the interest be reduced upon old deposits as well as new?
 MR. GROGAN : Is the treasurer to be paid by the public or the Commissioners?
 MR. GROGAN  said, that the hon. Member for Cork had left him very little to say upon the subject of the Cuffe-street savings bank; but he could not help expressing his regret that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had omitted all allusion to the crying injustice which had been perpetrated upon the unfortunate depositors. He approved highly of the limitation to 100 l l 923
 SIR G. GREY , in moving the Second Reading of the Ecclesiastical Commission Bill, said, that it would be necessary for him to make a short statement to the House of its objects, and the main provisions which it contained. In 1847 a Select Committee was appointed to inquire into the composition and management of the Ecclesiastical Commission for England and Wales. That Committee, which was appointed at a late period of the Session, took some evidence, but did not report their opinion to the House. The Committee was reappointed in the Session of 1848—they took a great deal of additional evidence—and in August of that year they made their report. That report, after briefly adverting to the origin of the Ecclesiastical Commission, namely, in the appointment in 1835 of a commission to inquire into the ecclesiastical revenues in England and Wales, proceeded to state what was the original composition by Act of Parliament of the permanent Ecclesiastical Commission; and, after shortly adverting to the nature of the duties imposed upon it, proceeded to trace the alterations that had taken place in its composition. The report stated that—
 "In 1840 a great change was made in the composition of the Commission; the numbers were increased from thirteen to forty-nine, and the Commission now includes,  ex officio "The Committee having considered the composition of the Commission, and having weighed the evidence as to its actual working, entertain
 939 "The uncertainty of attendance among so largo a body, and the want of obligation on any one person to attend more than another, and the difficulty thus created of preserving the thread of business, throw a larger power into the hands of the officers of the Commission than is fitting should fall to their share. The uncertainty of attendance is an inconvenience; the constant attendance of the whole body, consisting of persons having all of them other important duties to perform, could not be secured without greater sacrifices. On the other hand, the occasional attendance of most of the members in the Commission conduces, in many cases, to the advantageous transaction of business." 940 "To consider all matters in any way relating or incident to the sale, purchase, exchange, letting, or management, by or on behalf of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners for England, of any lands, tithes, or hereditaments, and to devise such measures touching the same as shall appear to such Committee to be most expedient, and to report fully thereupon to the said Ecclesiastical Commissioners in writing under the hands of three Members of such Committee, of whom two or more shall be Church Estate Commissioners." "That the said Ecclesiastical Commissioners at any time and from time to time may refer any other matters to the consideration of the said Estates Committee, or by an instrument under the common seal may authorise the said Committee, or the said Church Estates Commissioners, or any two of such Commissioners, to do and complete any act within the power of the said Ecclesiastical Commissioners, except affixing the said common seal to any instrument, without reporting or receiving further instructions from the said Ecclesiastical Commissioners." 941 l l 942 943 l l l l l
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  was anxious to call the attention of the House to a point which was in fact the main principle by which the new machinery was to be worked. The question he had to put was, who were the parties who were responsible for what had occurred, and for what might occur hereafter? The answer was, the Commissioners of the National Debt, as these were the parties to whom the deposits in savings banks were to be paid. But these Commissioners were all of them high officers of State, and therefore he doubted whether any of them could be responsible for the due carrying out of the Act. The right hon. Gentleman in the chair was one of those Commissioners; the others were the Master of the Rolls, the Chief Baron of the Exchequer, the Accountant General in the Court of Chancery, the Governor and Deputy Governor of the Bank of England, and the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer; the latter, he believed, being of necessity the only working member of the Commission, though, if the House would reflect for a moment, they would see that cases might arise in which the Chancellor of the Exchequer would be the last person to be entrusted with the management of these funds. A return, which was moved for some time since by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the university of Cambridge, gave information of a very important character. It appeared that these Commissioners had power to sell the savings bank stock, and to convert it into Exchequer-bills, and  viceversâ 913 l
 SIR J. JOHNSTONE  wished to remind the House, occupied as it had been with the conduct of the trustees and managers of defaulting savings banks, that with reference to the Scarborough bank, the only omission which could be imputed to the managers and trustees, consisted in their not having sent for the depositors' passbooks, to compare them with the ledger; a precaution which had never, except in very particular cases, been deemed necessary. If in Committee the case of such banks as that of Scarborough were to be considered, as well as those of the Irish banks, he hoped that every exertion would be made to prevent the depositors in the establishment in question from sustaining even the small loss to which at this time they were exposed. At present the trustees and managers did not make good the trifling deficiency, because, as a matter of principle, they did not conceive that it had been occasioned by any mismanagement on their part; but were any imputation thrown upon them of having neglected the least iota of their duty, they would pay up every sixpence of the loss incurred by the depositors. He wished to know from the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer if the treasurer was responsible only for those sums that came into his hands?
 SIR R. H. INGLIS : Sir, the hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex has fulfilled the promise of his opening speech. He declared he could not speak on the merits of the Bill, and that promise at least he has fulfilled, for not one word has fallen from him either as to its principle or as to its details. But the hon. and gallant Member has said that a right hon. Member of this House has used "low language." I appeal to you. Sir, if you have ever heard such language used to any other hon. Member as has been recently addressed to the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge by the hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex, addressed by him to one his equal in everything—his superior in station—in talent—in temper—in eloquence, He would no longer notice anything that had fallen from the hon. and gallant Member, but should proceed to state what appeared to him to be a fundamental error in the views of the hon. Member for Cockermouth on that and on every
 969 970 Cheers
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Mr. Speaker, the subject to which the hon. and learned Gentleman has drawn the attention of the House by the question he has put, is, I am sorry to say, by no means new to Her Majesty's Government; it was brought under the attention of the Government several years ago. It is an undoubted fact, that there exists in the State of Carolina, and I believe also in Louisiana, a law by which all free men of colour, be they of what country they may, whether foreigners or citizens of the other States of the Union, are subjected, on coming into the State of Carolina, to imprisonment, with a view to their removal from the territory of the State. In respect to persons coming on board ship, the law prescribes exactly the course which my hon. and learned Friend has detailed to the House, namely, that the men of colour should be taken out of the vessel coming
 893 894
 MR. P. WOOD : I rise to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, arising out of the report of the Select Committee upon the oaths of Members. That report simply states the different Acts of Parliament relating to the question referred to them, the determinations of this House, and of the courts of law upon that question. It expresses no opinion upon the subject; and no doubt the precise legal effect of those determinations may be matters upon which there
 977
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, that he was surprised that the hon. Gentleman who had last addressed the House should have brought forward the case of the agricultural labourers, without seeming to be aware of one peculiar feature in their case, which was that the effect of the poor-law had been to prescribe the minimum of wages, below which it was impossible for wages to fall; and, moreover, that he did not seem to be aware that the amount of wages formed no criterion at all for the amount of wages which the whole body of labourers were earning, because in many parishes with which he was acquainted, where wages Seemed high, a great number of persons were wholly out of employment, and, consequently, the amount which was paid had to be divided among the whole population, and not solely divided among the labourers actually employed. The speech of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield seemed also an extraordinary one; it certainly would be satisfactory to the House, and certainly to the country, if Her Majesty's Ministers would have the kindness, once for all, to tell them whether the country had gained or lost by their measures; because in the course of the debate they had been clearly told they had not gained a single farthing, whereas at the commencement of the Session they were told that there had been a clear gain of ninety millions. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had shown that they had not gained a single farthing, and had given the House, the instance of a miserable union with which the hon. Member for Montrose was connected, as a sample of the way in which things were going on throughout the whole country. Perhaps the question of loss or gain was still an open question among Her Majesty's Ministers, and they had not yet arrived at any satisfactory conclusion on the subject. He was not, however, anxious to trespass upon the attention of the House, and he would simply give one plain reason
 1036 Cheers, and counter cheers
 SIR C. BURRBLL  said, that as the noble Lord had stated that the wages of agricultural labourers had not been reduced, he begged to inform him that in the south of England they had fallen. It was impossible that the price of corn could have fallen one-third, as compared with what it was before the repeal of the corn laws, without an effect being produced on the wages of labour.
 LORD ASHLEY , in rising to give a notice, wished to say one or two words. It would be in the recollection of the House that he had obtained leave to bring in a clause to be inserted in the Factory Bill. He meant simply to propose an Amendment to the second clause. It was found to be inefficient, and another was substituted, which was also found to be inefficient; and a conference of lawyers having sat upon it, they came to the conclusion that the object in view could not be attained by a single clause, unless new matter respecting mealtimes were to be introduced. He thought it right, therefore, to apprize the House that the Bill, as at present framed, contained some new matter, which proposed an additional limitation upon the working of the Act, so far as the masters and employers were concerned. He made this avowal, in order that it might not be said that be had taken the House by surprise. He therefore gave notice that on Thursday next, upon going into Committee on the Bill, he should move to substitute the amended clause.
 LORD ASHLEY  said, it would be better that the clause, as amended, should appear in the Votes to-morrow, and then hon. Members might say whether, in their opinion, required a postponement of the Committee, in order to give them further time for deliberation. He thought the Committee had better stand for Thursday, as had been proposed.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that at that hour of the night he would endeavour to confine himself closely to the Motion before the House. The hon. Member for Oxfordshire proposed an Address to Her Majesty for a revision of all the salaries in every department of the public service, with a view to reduction. His first objection to the Motion was that it was unjust. When he moved for a Committee in a former Session, he stated that the Government had made a revision of the department of Stamps and Taxes, and that many reductions
 1047 l 1048 1049 1050 A cry of 1051 "Mutemus clypeos, Danaumque insignia nobis Aptemus." l 1052
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Since the hon. Baronet announced this question yesterday, I have obtained information on the subject to which it refers—the office of Registrar in the Prerogative Court of Canterbury. I 'find, as the hon. Baronet stated, that Mr. Robert Moore was appointed by Archbishop Moore, and that the present Lord Canterbury was appointed to hold that office in reversion after the death of Mr. Robert Moore. Mr. Robert Moore now holds the office, and Lord Canterbury has the reversion of it. The hon. Baronet has truly stated that Archbishop Howley, there being one of the appointments in reversion vacant, did not fill it up. But I cannot say whether or not he made any communication to Her Majesty's Government on the subject. I remember perfectly his stating to me in conversation that there was an office to which he could present, but to which he did not mean to make any appointment, but he did not at the time state the nature of the office; it may have been this or another, because I believe there was more than one office to which he had the power of appointing, but did not
 981
 LORD J. RUSSELL : In answer to the question of the hon. and learned Gentleman, I have to say that it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce such a measure during the present Session of Parliament. I hope the state of public business will permit of my doing so at an early opportunity, and I will state the particular nature of the measure before introducing it.
 MR. DISRAELI : There seems. Sir, to be one point upon which both the House and the country are agreed, notwithstanding some faint intimations to the contrary which may have been breathed in a low voice this evening. It seems we are agreed on this, that the pressure of taxation in this country is excessive. We hear from all classes of the community, from all parties in the State, and from every quarter
 1038 l 1039 tu quoque 1040 1041 l l l l l l Murmurs 1042 ad captandum 1043 l 1044 1045 1046
 MR. NEWDEGATE  thought it would be more satisfactory to the House if the right hon. Gentleman would print the detailed statement of which he spoke with the Votes.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the lucid and comprehensive statement made by his hon. Friend the Member for Oxford shire formed a striking contrast to the somewhat captious speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. His hon. Friend had brought forward this Motion for no party purpose, with no purpose of censuring the Ministry. But so determined was the Chancellor of the Exchequer that the House should not venture to express an opinion favor able to the course which he declared the Government was pursuing, that he represented
 1010 employês 1011 "Account showing what increase or diminution hag taken place in the number and amount of salaries, emoluments, and expenses of the Office of Ordnance in the year 1800.  * * * l l l l l s d "The last augmentation to the commissioner's salary was made in 1802, when their Lordships were pleased to raise it to 800 l "It is well known that the value of income has been most materially depreciated since the last augmentation took place, in consequence of the increased and increasing price of every article of necessary consumption." "Adverting to what we have formerly had the honour of addressing to your Lordships in our memorials of the 14th March, 1810, and 18th October, 1812, we should only consider it as trifling
 1012 "A careful examination of the revenue and, charges in the custom and excise departments both in England and Scotland during the last ten years, entitle those commissioners to this commendation of their public labours, and as a mark of their Lordships' high approbation of their past services, under the discouragement of repeated postponements of their applications to increase their salaries, on the  just grounds * * * (Signed) "LIVERPOOL." 1013 l l l 1014 s s 1015 l 1016
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, according to the Trade and Navigation Account No. 59, ordered to be printed on the 15th of February, 1850, there appeared as entered for home consumption during the twelve mouths of the year 1849—
 
 
 Wheat 4,509,626 qrs. 
 Wheat flour, reduced to 1,123,491 qrs. 
 5,633,117 qrs. s l s l l l l l s s l l 978
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  expressed his opinion that the Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire did not amount to a vote of censure on the Government. But what if it did? He (Colonel Sibthorp) did not care a farthing whether the Government considered it in that light or not. It was clear, from the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that there were to be neither reductions nor remissions of salaries. He never expected anything of the sort from the right hon. Gentleman. Neither did he expect anything from the Committee of the noble Lord opposite, then sitting upstairs. The scheme of the Committee and the plan of now moving the previous question, both of which were tantamount to saying there should be no revision and no reduction of salaries, were only two ways of throwing both questions overboard. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had drawn a comparison between the affairs of this great country and those of the Great Western Railway Company. Humbug! There was no analogy between the cases—not the least in
 1007 l Laughter 1008 Laughter 1009 "Gutta cravat lapidem Non vi sed sæpe cadendo."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was at a loss to understand what reasons had induced the hon. Member for Oxfordshire to bring forward this express Motion on the present occasion. There had been one or two Motions urging on the Government, who were themselves most anxious for every possible economy, reductions in the public service, and if he felt that the Government had been negligent in the discharge of that duty, he might have been disposed to accede to the justice of these Motions. If he did not feel he could prove to the House that not only the present Government but their predecessors in office had been year after year exercising a strict revision over the various branches of the public establishments, and that most of the increased expenditure had arisen from further duties imposed on the clerks in existing departments, or from new duties imposed on the Government, rendering it necessary to establish further offices, he should almost have been disposed to acquiesce in the Motion of the hon. Member. But when he told the House what had been the course pursued by the Government, and by their predecessors for some time, and when he reminded the House of what on former occasions the noble Lord at the head of the Government and himself had stated as to the reductions which had taken place, and the extent of which the hon. Member had omitted to mention, he could not see any object the hon. Gentleman could have in bringing forward such a Motion, except to express some censure, which he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) thought the Government did not deserve, or to lead to some conclusion which he had not avowed. The hon. Gentleman went into a number of topics not very easily connected, as far as he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) could perceive, with the subject of his Motion, and when he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had come down to the House prepared to answer a Motion for the reduction of the salaries of public officers, and of the expenditure of Government, he had not expected to hear a long discussion respecting differences in the official and the declared value of different articles. But the hon. Member, in his enumeration, had not adverted to the changes which had taken place in the description of many of these articles, particularly those which came under the name
 996 997 s d s d s d s d s s d s s d 998 999 l l l l l l l l l 1000 l l l l l 1001 
 
 In the year 1847 the charge for collecting the customs was £5 19 6 per cent. 
 In 1849 it was £5 15 9½ per cent. 
 Being a saving of £0 3 8½ 
 In 1847 the cost of collecting the excise was £6 7 11 per cent. 
 In 1849 it was 5 13 6½ per cent. 
 Saving per cent 0 14 4½ 
 In 1847 the cost of collecting stamps was £2 1 5¼ per cent. 
 In 1849 it was 2 0 7¼ per cent. 
 Saving per cent 0 0 10 
 In 1847 the cost of collecting stamps was £3 6 5½ per cent. 
 In 1849 it was 3 5 0 per cent. 
 Saving per cent 0 1 5½ employés 1002 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1003 "It is with much regret the board feels bound by their duty to the proprietors to represent that the short experience of a few months has realised those apprehensions. Since the reduction was notified, the whole establishment has become unsettled—the officers and principal clerks, with few exceptions, have been seeking other employment, some valuable servants having quitted, and others are about to leave the service. Nor has the effect of the reduction been confined exclusively to those whose salaries were reduced, for several others, in despair of improving their position in the present service, have also resigned, to obtain more lucrative employment elsewhere. The directors have thus had practical proof that serious prejudice to the company has arisen, and they apprehend that still more must ensue, unless steps be now taken to give some assurance of an established scale of salary and pay upon which your officers and servants can rely. If length of service, with great experience and proved ability, are essential in managing affairs towards the prosperity and welfare of any important undertaking, success is not likely to be attained by the discouragement of those upon whom so much depends, nor can a reduction of reasonable salaries be expected to counteract pecuniary depression in times of difficulty." 1004 "Mr. Richard Bromley served as chief clerk in the office for stores in the Navy Office from 1763 to 1784, when he only received a salary of 100 l l l l l l l l 1005 1006
 MR. BANKES  observed, that when the Bill was brought in which the Government intended to introduce, it would be competent to the hon. Member for Reading to propose that it be referred to a Committee upstairs. Some time ago a Member of this House mentioned to him the danger that had been incurred by a whole neighbourhood in a certain locality from the careless use of arsenic, by which it became mixed with flour. He trusted that the Bill
 1058
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that if, after reading it privately, the hon. Gentleman was not perfectly satisfied with it, he would then have the statement printed with the Votes.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the hon. Gentleman having given him notice of the question, he had communicated with the Board of Customs on the subject, and he had been furnished with a detailed statement which, he thought, would remove from the mind of the hon. Member his impression that there were discrepancies in the returns to which he referred. The statement was too long to trouble the House with, but he would hand it to the hon. Gentleman. There was one point, however, which he would explain to the House, as that upon which the whole point, he believed, turned, and which would, therefore, operate as a clue to the hon. Gentleman in investigating the supposed inaccuracies. The monthly period for which the account was stated commenced on the 5th of January, and terminated on the 5th of February. The duty was 10 s s l
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he was also anxious, before the House went to a division, to explain the principle upon which he intended to vote. He intended to vote
 1020 1021 l l l l l l 1022 l l l l l l l A cry of " l l l l 1023 A laugh 1024 Cry of from the Treasury bench 1025
 MR. STANFORD  said, that under the circumstances stated to the House, he begged leave to withdraw his Motion.
 MR. STANFORD  rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire if any restrictions should be imposed by Parliament on the sale of poisons. The number of murders which had been perpetrated recently by poison, which could be procured with facility, particularly in the districts where it
 1057
 MR. HENLEY , in reply, said, he thought the noble Lord at the head of the Government had shown his usual ingenuity in endeavouring to gather back into his fold a proportion of the hon. Gentlemen on the other side, who, on some late occasions, had not shown themselves disposed to act as a very disciplined body. The noble Lord had taken great offence because certain Members on that (the Opposition) side of the House had voted, on a late occasion, against certain taxes. But the noble Lord seemed to have forgotten what happened two Sessions ago, when he proposed to put on an additional property tax. There was a sort of growl all round the House. [ A laugh 1053 l
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the subject he was about to bring under the notice of the House had been at various times, although not fully, the subject of revision since the year 1821, when that House had voted an address on the circumstances of the country, and praying for a revision of all salaries paid to civil members of the Government. That Motion was afterwards referred by Treasury minute to the heads of the various departments, and some alterations and reductions took place—considerable reductions, he believed, with reference to superannuations. That measure was followed up by a Committee of the House in 1831, to which were referred the salaries of Gentlemen who had seats in either House of Parliament, and which was somewhat analogous to the Committee appointed by the noble Lord at the head of the Government some short time back. Another Committee, during the same year, took
 982 "Your Committee have not recommended any reduction of public salaries in these estimates, as, after some consideration, discussion, and division of opinion, they thought that such reduction should form part of a general revision of all salaries suitable to the altered circumstances of expense, and condition of the country. Since they were originally fixed, in the course of such an examination it would be found advisable also to establish a more uniform rate of payment for similar services in different departments." 983 984 l l l l l l l l l l l l 985 l l l l l "That since the year 1833 no loss than 2,170 persons who had been employed in the stamps and excise departments had been reduced, and a saving thereby effected to the country of 259,000." "It may be said that offices might be abolished, and emoluments might be reduced. I admit that no office ought to be retained which is not necessary for the public service. I admit that no emolument attached to any office ought to be retained which is not necessary to secure the faithful and efficient performance of the duties necessary for the public service. I vindicate no sinecures, and when an office becomes vacant we go through that process which has been so frequently recommended of considering if the retention of it
 986 "It is our duty to reduce those establishments as far as is consistent with the public convenience. I do not vindicate the retention of one single useless officer, but the public is interested in giving to the despatch of public business every facility that can be given consistently with a due regard to economy; and therefore, as far as the principle is concerned that the revenue ought to be collected at the least possible expense, and that you ought to make every reduction you can, upon that point I apprehend there can be no difference of opinion. But still, after that admission, you will find that the subject has constantly occupied the attention of the Government, and that great reductions from time to time have been made. But it would be a delusion and a fallacy to expect that you can materially reduce the public burdens by any diminution of the salaries of the persons employed." l "The House will observe that I take no credit for the ultimate saving there will be in the reduction of the public establishments. This diminution of clerks will afford a material saving." l l 987 l l l s d l s d l s d l s l s d l s l l l l l 988 l l l l l l l l 989 l 990 l l l l l 
 
 Capital. Interest. 
 1829–5th Jan. £772,322,540 … £25,342,549 
 1840–5th Jan. 774,022,638 … 23,862,257 
 £1,700,198 … £1,480,292 
 (Parliamentary Paper, 1849, No. 428.) 
 
 Population. Criminals. 
 1831 13,897,187 19,647 
 1841 15,906,741 27,760 
 1848 17,497,415 30,349 991 
 
 Official value. Declared value. 
 1828–9 £52,029,150 £36,152,798 
 1838–9 92,107,898 69,640,896 
 1843–4 117,574,563 51,932,656 
 1848–9 132,617,681 52,849,445 
 
 Official value. Declared value. 
 1828–9 £38,006,996 £20,921,652 
 1838–9 60,049,418 26,065,062 
 1843–4 83,926,385 26,490,778 
 1848–9 96,593,290 25,810,770 
 
 Official value. Declared value. 
 1828–9 £44,224 £485,981 
 1838–9 49,348 516,053 
 1843–4 79,330 718,064 
 1848–9 429,760 927,603 
 
 Cotton manufactures, all branches 280,889 
 Flax and linen all, branches 61,754 
 Silk 58,245 
 Woollen 97,353 
 498,241 992 
 
 Shoemakers 214,780 
 Dressmakers and milliners 106,801 
 Sempstresses 28,311 
 Staymakers 6,570 
 Tailors 126,137 
 482,599 993 994
 MR. HUME  wished, before the House divided, to state very briefly the ground on which he should give his vote on this occasion. The Chancellor of the Exchequer said he was at a loss to know the object of the hon. Member who had brought forward this Motion. The conduct of the Government, in having made large reduction, was an indication of their desire to proceed in the very direction intimated by the hon. Member; and therefore, if the House acceded to the Motion, it would amount to a vote of censure on the Administration. He (Mr. Hume) was not at all disposed to agree with the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer in that view. If the present Motion amounted to a vote of censure on the Administration, so also would the noble Lord's Motion for inquiring into the salaries of public servants. The noble Lord's Motion was only a partial one, but still it was a step in the right direction. His Motion was to inquire into the salaries and offices held during the pleasure of the Crown by Members of either House of Parliament, voted in the annual estimates, and also the salaries of officers engaged in law or equity, with the retiring pensions of Judges and those of the diplomatic establishments. The noble Lord must be well aware that, as it was in the power of the Crown to remove most functionaries, no inquiry was necessary; 160,000 l 1017 1018 1019 l l
 MR. COBDEN  said, he should oppose the Motion of the hon. Member for Oxfordshire, because it contemplated a general reduction of salaries as well as of wages. If he accepted it as contemplating a reduction of wages, then he (Mr. Cobden) was brought in that House to an admission that there ought to be a general reduction of wages throughout the country; for it certainly would be regarded as a war upon wages. When he referred to wages he meant the pay or emolument of the men who were employed weekly and paid for their labour. Now, he objected to an attempt to reduce wages by a vote of that House, because it would be impracticable, and being so, could be regarded as nothing better than nonsense. He also objected to the attempt then made to reduce salaries and
 1031 1032 l 1033 l l l l 1034 1035
 MR. M. GIBSON  thought that Thursday was too early a day for the consideration of this new matter. He would suggest a postponement, if only for another day, so as to give hon. Members time to communicate with their constituents on this subject.
 MR. W. P. WOOD  said, he wished to relate to the House an anecdote which he thought deserving of their consideration. The farmers of Oxfordshire had shown themselves practical reformers, like the hon. Member who so worthily represented them. There existed an agricultural club in Oxfordshire, formed for the purpose of protection; and its members had the good sense, during the last recess, to dissolve it, and came to a resolution, at a meeting at which he believed their hon. Representative was present, and which was carried almost unanimously, that the whole question of protection was at an end, and that it was of no use any longer to keep up the farce; and handed their subscriptions, amounting to 400 l 1037 l l l l l Cheers
 SIR B. HALL  said, he would now put to the noble Lord the question of which he had given notice on the previous day. That question had reference to an office in the Prerogative Court of Canterbury, called the Office of Registrar, a sinecure office; its value, as he had been informed up to yesterday, was 9,000 l 979 l l 980 "That every person who shall have been appointed after the passing of the first recited Act, except as therein excepted, or who shall be appointed after the passing of this Act, to the office of judge, registrar, or other officer of any Ecclesiastical Court in England, shall hold the same subject to all regulations and alterations affecting the same which may hereafter be made by authority of Parliament; nor shall any person by his appointment to any such office acquire any claim or title to compensation in case the same be hereafter altered or abolished by Act of Parliament."
 SIR G. GREY  said, the question was one of considerable importance, and the hon. Member was right in saying the practice of taking away life by such means had become more frequent than formerly. At the same time the detection of such crimes was extremely easy, and One advantage of the hon. Member's Motion was, that it gave opportunity for the expression of an opinion founded on experience, that the detection of murder by poison was so easy that few of them escaped. The subject, however, was under the consideration of the Government, and a Bill had been prepared on the sale of poisons. If the hon. Member had paid attention to the subject, he would know the great difficulty lay in the enumeration of the poisons to be included in the schedule; and he doubted if an inquiry, with the object of ascertaining, as the hon. Member suggested, by an examination of chemists and medical men, what course ought to be taken, would not produce more harm than good, by enabling persons to have recourse to other poisons than those now used to destroy life. Under these circumstances, he hoped the hon. Member would not press his Motion.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  recommended the hon. Member to withdraw his Motion, after the intimation of the right hon. Gentleman, that Government had prepared a measure to remedy the evil. There was no man who possessed such means of judging upon such a subject as the Secretary of State for the Home Department.
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, I agree in so much of what has been said by the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just spoken, particularly with regard to the services rendered by those who occupy the subordinate places in the chief departments of the State, and the obligations due to them for the fidelity, integrity, and ability with which those services are rendered, that I am surprised at being obliged to arrive at a conclusion different from that at which he has arrived. The reason, I apprehend, of that difference is, that I put a different construction upon the intention of the Motion, and a different construction upon the effect of the Amendment by which it has been met, namely, "the previous question." I do not understand the hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire to seek for a Parliamentary inquiry into the reduction of salaries. A Parliamentary inquiry has been instituted of which, I should infer from his speech, that the hon. Gentlemen was not aware—into the salaries of all the chief officers of State—into the salaries of all those who occupy offices in the diplomatic service, and in the judical departments. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire moves a resolution, the object of which, as I said before, is not a Parliamentary inquiry. It would impose upon the Government the performance of a duty enjoined upon them by the resolution of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, namely, to undertake the revision of salaries, and
 1026 bonâ fide 1027 l l l l 1028 1029 l l l l l 1030 l l l
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  objected to the principle of the Bill, which would cause an undue interference between landlord and tenant. It would be much better that they should allow the landlord and tenant to arrange their own matters amongst themselves. That would be much better and much more safe than to adopt the principle which was introduced in the Bill. He had material objections to a clause which was introduced by the hon. Member for Berkshire, which would give the landlord the power of making a claim against the tenant in cases of slovenly management and dilapidation. Altogether this appeared to him to be a one-sided measure, which, under the present circumstances of the country, would prove highly mischievous. It had been said that great agricultural advances had been made in the county of Lincoln, in consequence of the good feeling that existed there between landlord and tenant. He would not venture to continue his opposition to the Bill if it was the opinion of the House generally that it was desirable. He, however, protested against the principle, and would, in the absence of his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Lincoln, move, as an Amendment, that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  seconded the Motion, and protested against such an unjust interference with the rights of property, as would destroy the freedom which every person ought to possess of managing his own private affairs as he thought best. It had been stated that this Bill was a permissive Bill, but it was no such thing; it gave no power which did not exist before. He had another strong objection to the Bill, as it had the tendency to promulgate bad systems of agriculture. It recommended marling, which was found in many places very injurious to land. It was provided in this Bill that if a tenant built, whatever might be the nature of the building—however bad, inappropriate, or unnecessary it may be—the landlord was to pay for the erection, or the tenant was to be allowed to take away the materials of which
 1063
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, he would vote for the Amendment, as he felt the Bill would produce strong ill feeling between landlord and tenant.
 MR. AGLIONBY  supported the Bill, though, perhaps, some alteration would be found necessary to be made in Committee. This was not a question as to whether marling was good or bad for land, as the hon. Baronet the Member for Preston would have wished them to suppose, nor did he believe, with the hon. Gentleman, that the landlords of Lincolnshire had any animosity to the principle laid down in it. Prom the opinion which he had of the sincerity of the hon. Member for Berkshire, and of his anxiety to promote the interests of agriculture, he was induced to repudiate the insinuation that that hon. Member had introduced the Bill as an electioneering scheme.
 MR. PACKE  said, that although he felt that considerable alterations were necessary in the Bill, still, being aware of the many hardships arising to the tenant from change of ownership under the present state of the law, he was inclined to support the second reading. He thought that cases of hardship of this kind being frequent, the question was well worthy the attention of the House.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  begged to apologise for his unavoidable absence at an earlier period of the day. He declared his intention of decidedly opposing this Bill. It was called a Bill for improving the relations between landlord and tenant, but in his opinion it would have quite a contrary effect. Those relations wanted no improvement. He had consulted all the most extensive land agents in his part of the country, and all concurred in thinking that no alteration was necessary. For his own part, he had no dissatisfied tenants.
 1064
 MR. DRUMMOND  would vote for the second reading of the Bill, but he could tell the hon. Mover honestly, that unless it were so altered in Committee, as to be very unlike what it then was, he most give his vote against it on the third reading. In the abstract it might be fair that a man should not lay out money on land, unless he had a lease; but in his neighbourhood a landlord would not give leases, lest being obliged, at a future time, to raise money on his property, he should not be able to do so in consequence of the existence of long leases. The Bill would only be useful in one instance, that of settled estates.
 MR. S. HERBERT  said, that the hon. Member for West Surrey's exception was decisive as to the merits of the Bill, and for this reason, that the great majority of estates in this country were settled estates. The great argument hitherto used against the Bill, was that it was wrong to interfere between landlord and tenant, and that every man should be permitted to make the best bargain he could. But this was merely a permissive Bill, there was nothing compulsory in its enactments, and its only object was to enable a landlord to make such arrangements as he might think fair between himself and his tenants. Confidence was much talked of, and confidence was a very great thing in the case of a liberal landlord; but landlords were like other classes, of a great variety of character, and where inclined to act unfairly there was little security for the tenant in the present state of the law. He knew a respectable farmer who had declared to him that he could not sleep in his bed for thinking of the state of uncertainty in
 1065
 MR. TRELAWNY  noticed the see-saw support given to the Bill by the hon. Member for West Surrey. For himself, he should be anxious to support any measure calculated to improve the relations between landlord and tenant; but believing that the present Bill would only render them more complicated, he felt bound to support the Amendment.
 MR. COLES  considered that the Bill was an important and invaluable measure. He should support the second reading, but thought it was susceptible of some alteration in Committee. He gave it his hearty support.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  supported the Bill. He had only one objection, and that was, that the holder of a property might give such agreements to his tenants as might completely absorb the interests of his successor. He thought that the Legislature should guard against such a contingency.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  concurred with the hon. Member who spoke last. It was important to see that no opportunity was given to tenants for life to damage the interests of their successors. He was in all ways for taking care of posterity.
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  said, that the feeling of the House seeming to be entirely in favour of the Bill, he would beg leave to withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. PUSEY  begged that the House would give him some facility for proceeding with it. It was just as it had come improved from the Committee of last year. He begged that it might be committed on the next evening.
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  said, that the Bill certainly required further alteration. The farmers considered it would be quite useless to them in its present form. It was a perfect delusion to imagine that it would be sufficient, and he would oppose any attempt to hurry it through the House.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he would oppose the Bill in every stage, and he did not care a pin who was pleased or who was displeased at the course he thought it his duty to pursue.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department when it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring forward the second reading of the Irish Landlord and Tenant Bill?
 SIR G. GREY  said, there was a difficulty in giving a definite answer to the question. There were two or three Bills of great importance waiting to be forwarded to the other House, with which it would be desirable to proceed before bringing on the second reading of the Landlord and Tenant Bill. It was quite impossible, therefore, to fix a day for it at present. As to the Bill before the House, he had no objection to its being set down for Committee upon the Orders of the Day for to-morrow, but it should be with the understanding that it should take its chance.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  asked if he was to understand that it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to proceed positively this Session with the Irish Landlord and Tenant Bill? As, if it were not, he should move that the provisions of the Bill before the House should be extended to Ireland.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that his noble Friend, upon a previous occasion, had stated that it was the intention of the Government to proceed with the Irish Bill this Session.
 MR. V. SMITH  said, the hon. Member for the West Biding had asked his hon. Friend the Member for Stoke-upon-Trent to withdraw this Bill, in the hope of something better being done; but he should like to know what probability was there of such a hope being realised. If a Bill was introduced by his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade, hundreds of hon. Members would get up and say they were opposed to the system of centralisation, and could not bear to have great trading interests interfered with; and these principles, excellent no doubt in themselves, would destroy any chance of such a Bill being carried. The Railway Commissioners had never been popular, and, though they had been more unpopular than they were at present, they were not at all likely to carry any measure for the management of railways. All things considered, let them see if something might not be made out of the present Bill. There was a squabble among the directors at last. Let the House make the most of
 1074
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY  stated that the Home Secretary left the House, having requested that he might be
 1083
 COLONEL THOMPSON  would support the present Amendment in preference to the other. There was no use in legislating for the removal of evils without saying how. The House might as well determine that there should be no poor or no poverty. In the present case there appeared to be but three courses: to settle in what manner pluralities should be consolidated; to decide that the poor parishes should have no pastors at all; or to leave things as they were. The present Amendment appeared to go to the first.
 MR. LAW  said, that now, as the interests of the Church were in the charge of the Government, he should withdraw his Motion for reporting progress.
 MR. LAW  said, it would be impossible for any one, in the face of the facts, to attempt to undervalue the importance of the Bill, or of the Amendment which the hon. Member for Montrose intended to propose; neither could any one undervalue the importance of the absence of Ministers. [ The Treasury bench was at that time wholly unoccupied
 MR. S. HERBERT  said, that the more income a clergyman had, who held a contiguous benefice, the better able he was to support a curate in the poorer parish.
 MR. S. HERBERT  would now move the Amendment of which he had given notice. His object was not to diminish the income of any clergyman, but to secure, as far as possible, pastoral superintendence in every parish—so that a clergyman might be able to reach every parishioner; and every parishioner, so to speak, might have no difficulty in having access to him. He thought that with 100 l l
 LORD J. MANNERS  said, if there were one thing more than another that prevented religious endowments in this country, it was the apprehension that when parties had devoted part of their substance to the purposes of the Church, hon. Members like the hon. Member for Montrose, and those who sat beside him, would step in and say, "We will not respect your endowments,
 1086
 MR. FREWEN  observed, it was rather hard to call upon him to postpone his Bill merely because the Members of the Government were not in their places. He wished to inform the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge, that the Bill before them had been read a second time so long ago as the 20th of February; that, at the request of the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary he had postponed it for a month; when the 20th of March came there were additional postponements; and it was not fair now to require that the Bill should be further put off. He hoped the House would consider the position in which independent Members were placed, and go on with the Committee.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he should support the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for the University of Cambridge. When Members, not paid, attended in their places, he saw no reason why all the Ministers should be absent.
 MR. E. B. DENISON  represented to the hon. Member for Montrose, that if he carried his Amendment, he would prevent the consolidation of these parishes, and defeat the object he had in view. In many existing parishes there was no church, and in others the population was very small. Now, the only way in which such a population could be served was by uniting that with the adjoining parish, which, if the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montrose were carried, could not be done.
 MR. E. B. DENISON  thought some comprehensive measure was necessary to remedy the grievance resulting from competing lines, which would increase as regarded the public the more those lines came into operation. He did not, however, consider the present Bill calculated to meet one hundredth part of the evil, and he would advise the hon. Gentleman to withdraw it, and take his chance of a better measure being brought in at some future time. As an instance of the inconvenience arising from these competing lines, he might mention a case which had occurred on the Lincoln and Grimsby line. On one occasion a clergyman and his wife wanted to go as far as Retford, and they were obliged to wait until 10 o'clock at night at the junction, waiting for the Grimsby train. Similar instances of delay had occurred in other parts of the country. He was quite convinced that the public would continue to be put to great inconvenience unless some controlling power were exercised over all the railways in the kingdom. Considerable inconvenience was experienced by the passengers on the Leeds and Thirsk line, in consequence of the nonstoppage of the trains on the Newcastle and Berwick line to take them to their destination. There was, therefore, an absolute necessity for some controlling power to be exercised in order that the convenience of the public might be consulted. He was sorry to think that the Railway Commissioners were unpopular in the country, because he believed they were most anxious to discharge their duty. If they (the Commissioners) did not take up the subject in a large and comprehensive view, he was convinced the public would be put to increased inconvenience by the ill-feeling and various little tricks and contrivances of railway management. He hoped the Bill would be withdrawn, because its details were very objectionable.
 MR. HORSMAN  objected to its being held that the presence of Ministers was necessary to the proceedings of that House, for if such a principle were to be recognised, the Government could put an end to any Bill by merely absenting themselves.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that the principle upon which the Church was founded was, that every parish should have a resident clergyman, and every congregation its religious teacher. He wished to see the smaller parishes consolidated, so that there might be an end to the legalising of pluralities. They were a great convenience in some cases, but in others they opened a door to great abuses. He should support the Amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose. The Bill before the House was good as far as it went; but as a matter of principle he should give his vote against the existence of pluralities in the Church at all.
 MR. BANKES  said, that while he agreed with much that had fallen from hon. Members as to the necessity of some control over railways, he thought, at the same time, that if a supervision was established over railways and directors, it should be efficient, and entitled to the respect and confidence of the public, and it was because, with all deference and respect to the individuals who held the office of Railway Commissioners, he did not think they were a board of that description, that he could not consent to give them the great and extraordinary additional powers the Bill would confer on them. It was proposed that they should decide not only on the impropriety of any application from one railway company with respect to another, but were to award damages in case they deem it unwarranted or injudicious. He trusted the Government would remodel the present board, if it was to be constituted with such powers and erected into such a tribunal. At the end of last Session the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, in reply to a question he (Mr. Bankes) put as to the continuance of the expense of the present board to the public, stated a Bill had been prepared on the subject, and that further duties would be imposed on the commissioners; but that measure had never passed the other House of Parliament. The duty they now performed was not such as entitled them to their present high remuneration. He did not object to high remuneration to persons discharging onerous duties, but the present board had nothing to do of that description. If they were to have a
 1076
 MR. GLYN  hoped the House would indulge him with their attention for a few minutes, while he stated the reasons that would induce him to vote against the second reading of this Bill. He did not appear there as the representative of any particular company, because it so happened that the particular line with which he was more immediately connected would be placed by this Bill in a better position than at present. But this Bill was so filled with details and intricate questions of traffic and interchange of traffic, of working the lines, and of accommodating the public, that it was impossible the House could pass it without much more information than was at present placed in their hands. Now, for instance, the first clause gave adjoining companies power, on serving notice to that effect, to compel any trains they pleased to stop at the junction stations. Now, the favourite trains with the public were the express trains; and there could be no doubt that, immediately on the passing of this Bill, notice would be given for the stoppage of all the express trains. What would the consequence be? Between Carlisle and London there were eleven junctions or more; and he would ask hon. Members in what case they would be if they found that, in travelling from Carlisle to London, they were compelled to make eleven unnecessary stoppages? It was plain that such a system would vitiate and destroy the whole system of express trains. The next clause would compel the trunk lines to put on trains to meet passengers coming by the trains of junction lines. He would call upon the House to consider the increase of danger that would thus be occasioned on the trunk lines if the powers of arranging and despatching their trains were, to that extent, taken out of their hands, and causing trains to be run, not
 1071 1072
 MR. AGLIONBY  believed the object of the Bill was to afford increased accommodation and protection to the public, and would therefore support it, if the hon. Member refused to withdraw it. Having long entertained an opinion that the public required protection from the acts of commission and omission of railway directors,
 1073
 MR. AGLIONBY  did not know it was necessary for Ministers to be present at every debate in that House; and, if a private Member brought forward a measure, he saw no reason why it should be defeated or postponed merely because Ministers were absent. He would support the hon. Member if he went on with his Bill.
 MR. AGLIONBY  supported the Amendment. It might be said that it would not be right to have small livings with such scanty incomes as were at present attached to them. But he would increase those incomes, and would take care that no clergyman of the Church of England should work without being properly paid for it.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he wished to advert to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Dorsetshire, who placed his main objection to the Bill on his continued dislike to the present constitution of the Railway Commission. His observations, however, were not very consistent with each other, for he implied that he would not object to pass such a Bill, provided the Commissioners were a higher or more important body, and then went on to say he complained of the expense of the Commission, and desired it to be reduced to a mere department of the Board of Trade, leaving the President of the board to be advised on questions involving property to an enormous amount, and an extent of confidence not to be overrated, by a mere subordinate officer holding the situation of law clerk on a salary of a few hundreds a year. He asserted with the utmost confidence that care should be taken, the character and station of officers with such trusts should offer a fair guarantee to the public, not only for ability, but for unsuspected integrity. If they were to have a railway department for the sake of the public, let them command the services of such a man as Sir Edward Ryan, who, after fulfilling the highest functions in British India, had most honourably placed his abilities at the disposal of the Government in a situation which many persons who had filled such high offices would have declined to accept. The main object of the Bill was, he apprehended, to facilitate the thorough traffic over the whole system of railways. That was a subject of equal difficulty and importance, and it was obvious that the relations of those railways to each other and to the public were of the most complicated description. He was not surprised that difficulties should have arisen in conducting so vast and intricate a system; and he believed it to
 1077 1078 1079
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, with reference to the expressions he had used regarding Mr. Laing, in speaking of whom he certainly had mentioned the words "a law clerk," he wished to observe that Mr. Laing was a friend of his own; he was known to many Members of that House; there could be no mistake about the respect due to his character; nothing was further from his mind than to treat that gentleman with the least appearance of disrespect, and he wished to take that opportunity of saying that he thought gentlemen like him ought not to be so situated in the public service as that other parties should be able to hold out to them prospects sufficient to induce them to quit the employment of the State.
 MR. RICARDO , though consenting to give up the Bill, was resolved to keep attention alive on the subject. He regretted that the views of the Government had not been more clearly indicated.
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  presented several petitions from Stoke-on-Trent and other places in favour of the Bill, and proceeded to move the Second Reading of this Bill. He wished to state the reasons which had induced him to bring this measure before the House. He was chairman of a line the object of which was very much to shorten the distance between London and Manchester, and he found there were means by which another company might prevent that line being used, and the public having the advantage it was calculated to give. Under these circumstances he came to Parliament for a private Bill in reference to that particular case; but, on inquiring, it appeared that the grievance was so general, that he
 1067 l l s d s 1068 l 1069 1070
 MR. J. WILLIAMS  complained that the owners of certain collieries in Denbigh had found great injury was being done them in endeavouring to compete with railways in the carriage of their coal, and asked whether the hon. Mover of the Bill was willing to assent to a clause of which he had given him notice?
 MR. HENLEY , as one who had no connexion, direct or indirect, with any railway, wished to state the reasons why he could not support the Bill. It was argued that greater control was required on the part of Government over those railway companies; but an important element of consideration was, whether the means proposed were likely to attain that end; and, next, whether they should affirm the principle of a Bill, every detail of which was stated to be objectionable. When it was considered that some 5,000 miles of railway were worked all over the country, the marvel was not that some few cases of inconvenience arose here and there, but that the public were carried with so little inconvenience. If they brought the Government in to meddle with the matter, the public would have less convenience than before. With these feelings, he could not vote for a Bill which had been brought forward, as the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Northampton gave them to understand, in consequence of some squabble among the railway directors. The interests of the railway companies were the same as those of the public; and while they were in such a state of depression, they would consult the interests of their customers, and would regulate their affairs
 1075
 MR. HUME  said, he was for putting an
 1082
 MR. HUME  would repeat, for the information of the right hon. Baronet, the observations which he had previously made, and moved the omission of all the words in the first clause after the words "two benefices" in page 1, last line, so as to render it impossible for any one to hold two benefices.
 MR. HUME  objected to the Amendment of the right hon. Member for South Wiltshire, because, although one of the contiguous parishes might be under 100 l l l l l l l
 MR. HUME  was convinced that if there was a clergyman in every parish, the lay proprietors of great tithes would be compelled by the force of public opinion to do something towards providing for those clergymen.
 MR. HUME  regretted exceedingly the decision which the House had just come to; but as the Amendment now proposed would moderate in some degree the evil he had protested against, he would give it his support.
 MR. BAINES  begged to say, in reply to the first question, that the subjects of the settlement and chargeability of the poor had occupied the most serious attention of the Poor Law Board for many months, and that it was still under consideration. They were questions of great difficulty, upon which the opinions of the best-informed persons widely differed; indeed, the gentlemen who had signed the reports, though agreeing in opinion as to the defective state of the law, differed among themselves as to the remedy that ought to be applied. But, after the facts which had been brought out in those reports, the Poor Law Board felt it imperative to bring both subjects fully under the consideration of Parliament at the earliest period in their power. The present state of public business, however, precluded all hope of doing so during this Session; but he fully believed they would be able to do so in the next. With regard to the second question, he begged to state that, as the subjects of removal and settlement and chargeability were intimately and necessa-
 1061
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  concurred in the propriety of having a resident clergyman in every parish; but he thought great difficulty would be experienced in carrying out the object of the Amendment in the case of very small parishes with populations of perhaps sixty or seventy, such as existed to a great extent in Lincolnshire. Then, if they agreed to consolidate such parishes, he would like to know what was to become of the fabric of the church in very many cases. He thought if the line was drawn so closely as proposed, much difficulty would be felt
 1088
 Mr. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  wished to put three questions to the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board: 1. Whether it be the intention of Her Majesty's Government to propose any measure founded on the recommendations contained in the reports to the Poor Law Board, "on the laws of settlement and removal of the poor?" 2. Whether it be the intention of Government to introduce any Bill for the more equal distribution of the charges for the maintenance and relief of the poor? 3. Whether, in the event of no such general measure being introduced, it is their intention to propose such a measure relating to the unions of the city of London, within which the inequality more particularly presses?
 MR. GLADSTONE  saw only one objection to the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montrose, namely, that there was at present no adequate provision for a clergyman in many of these small parishes. If the hon. Member could point to any adequate provision for them, he (Mr. Gladstone) thought the House ought to agree to the Amendment. The case of Scotland, to which the hon. Member had adverted, was very different from that of England, for there was no be-
 1084 l l l l l l l 1085
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that the right hon. Gentleman who last spoke had addressed the House with his usual frankness, and he must admit without any appearance of reserve; but he (Mr. Gladstone) wished that the right hon. Gentleman had indicated more decidedly the view which he took of the question before the House. The right hon. Gentleman, in effect, told the House that his vote should be suspended at the will and pleasure of the hon. Member for Stoke-upon-Trent, and that if the hon. Member would only consent to move for a Select Committee, to which the whole question, not merely the Bill, but all matters relating to railway traffic, were to be referred, he would vote for the second reading of the Bill. Now, it certainly was quite opposed to the practice of Parliament for the House first to agree to the second
 1080 1081
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, the best argument against this Amendment would be, that it might prevent some pluralities that were not attended with any intolerable evil. But there was evil in the principle of plurality itself, and only the strongest plea of necessity could justify it in any particular case. Where it was to
 1089 l l
 SIR B. HALL : Sir, I must claim the indulgence of the House for a moment in consequence of a communication I have received from the Bishop of Winchester, in allusion to a question I put yesterday to the noble Lord the First Lord of the Treasury. It will be in the recollection of the House, that when I brought the question of the Registrarship of the Prerogative Court of Canterbury before the House, I asked the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown a question, to the effect, whether the appointment had been filled up, and whether such appointment had been filled up by the Archbishop of Canterbury with the name of his own son, or by a son of the Bishop of Winchester? I believe that was the exact question I put to the noble Lord. The noble Lord stated, in answer, that the Archbishop of Canterbury had filled up the vacancy with the name of his own son, who was a young man studying in the Temple. It appears, however, from one of those channels of communication which go forth to the public, that I said, "I begged to know from the noble Lord whether the vacancy had been filled by Dr. Sumner with the name of Mr. Sumner, son of the Bishop of Winchester?" and that the noble Lord replied, "it appeared that this office—that was to say, the second reversion to the office—had been given, since Dr. Sumner came to the see, to Mr. Summer, son of the Bishop of Winchester, who was a young man studying in the Temple." This is quite incorrect: because what the noble Lord said was, "it had been filled up by the Archbishop with the name of his own son." I think it due to the noble Lord to state that most distinctly; and therefore I think it right to add what has occurred this morning, as an act of duty I owe to the Bishop of Winchester. The son of the Bishop of Winchester, Mr. Charles Sumner, called upon me this morning, with a letter from his father, with whom I have the pleasure of being acquainted, in which the bishop says—
 "No son of mine has been appointed to the office in question, or to any office by the Archbishop of Canterbury; and as you have introduced my name in connexion with the subject, I am sure you will see the justice of taking the earliest opportunity of setting me right with the public." 1060 particeps criminis;
 SIR G. GREY : Mr. Speaker, before the Orders of the Day are read, I may be allowed, in the absence of my noble Friend the First Lord of the Treasury, to make a Motion, which, after the happy event that has taken place to-day, will, I am sure, meet with cordial and unanimous concurrence on the part of the House. The House will, I am confident, be anxious to take the earliest opportunity of repeating on this occasion the deep interest which it feels in everything that concerns the domestic happiness of the Sovereign, whose public and private virtues have justly endeared Her to the nation, and rendered Her an object of admiration and attachment on the part of all classes. I, therefore, beg to move—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, to congratulate Her Majesty on the birth of another Prince, and to assure Her Majesty that every addition to Her Majesty's domestic happiness affords the most sincere satisfaction to Her faithful Commons."
 SIR G. GREY  said, that when he left the House, another Bill was under discussion, and he thought the debate on it would not have terminated so soon.
 SIR G. GREY  stated that there were many benefices in England the value of which was so exceedingly small that it would be expedient to effect several consolidations. He should certainly not he favourable to any benefices being held unless the incumbent could exercise personal supervision.
 SIR G. GREY  said, he did not think it desirable that the proposed augmentations of livings should be effected out of the funds at the disposal of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners. It would be preferable, he thought, that such funds should, in the first instance, be applied to the cases of large populations requiring more spiritual supervision. It would be better to consolidate by force of law small livings which lay contiguous and having a limited population.
 SIR Gr. GREY  did not think there was any force in the objection of the hon. Member for North Lincolnshire to the Amendment, because in the smaller parishes, where there was a sufficient fund to support a curate, it was obviously preferable that the same amount should be given to a resident clergyman with the name of an incumbent instead of that of a curate, which was the only alteration contemplated by the Amendment. That would be the most likely course to prevent the parochial churches from falling into decay. He quite agreed with the hon. Gentleman who spoke last, that it was desirable that pluralities should be abolished, because they induced non-residence. The object of the present Bill was, that no two benefices should be held together, except under circumstances in which practically they should be considered as one benefice, the clergyman being able personally to superintend the two parishes, the population not being excessive, and they being actually contiguous. The right hon. Member for South Wiltshire went further, and proposed as an Amendment that no benefices should be held in plurality, except the value of the contiguous parish should be less than 100 l
 SIR H. VERNEY  advised the House to abstain from interfering with railways more than was absolutely necessary. He did not object to all Government interference, for fourteen years ago be had proposed the appointment of a commission to determine on an uniform gauge for all railways, and to subject them to a general supervision. The present Bill was full of details so objectionable in every way that even those in-lined to subject railways to Government supervision could not support it. No indisposition to such supervision existed on the part of the railway directors, but they objected to a vexatious interference which would defeat the object the Bill had in view. He would be sorry for the public, and still more for the railway interest, if it was carried.
 SIR J. B. WALSH  thought that the discussion of a measure so important ought to be attended by the presence of some Members of the Cabinet.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS : I have great satisfaction in seconding the Motion. Every hour that Her Majesty has reigned, from the first moment of Her accession, has added to Her name new claims to the affection and gratitude of Her people; and every child with which God has been pleased to bless Her, has furnished a new motive to all persons to hope for the continuance of that favour which has so long watched over the prosperity and happiness of Her people.
 MR. PETO  said, there were thirty-five parishes in the city which he represented (Norwich), and several of the livings did not amount in value to more than 35 l l
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  said, he thought the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex ought to be extremely well satisfied with the statement of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, who had given the persons interested in this question every reason to hope that at a future period their claims would be favourably entertained. At the same time, he thought it right to say, on behalf of his countrymen who were subjected to this tax, that they were compelled to expend a large sum of money upon their education, and that they were far superior to the class to whom the Chancellor of the Exchequer had compared them—that of horsedealers.
 SIR Gr. GREY  said, he did not think it necessary to enter at present into the question of how far it was desirable to extend the provisions of the County Court Act to Ireland, as he thought it was evidently impossible that such a question could be decided by an Amendment introduced in a Bill the simple object of which was to amend the Act already in existence in this country. The matters referred to by the hon. and learned Gentleman might be very properly considered in connection with a Bill which his right hon. Friend the Chief Secretary for Ireland was about to introduce, for consolidating and improving the Civil Bill Courts in Ireland. Therefore, in opposing the Motion, he did not wish to be understood as intending to express any hostility to the object which the hon. and learned Gentleman had in view. With regard to the general question, as to the extension of the jurisdiction of county courts, he could only say that, after the House had so decidedly expressed its opinion that the jurisdiction of those courts ought to be extended, it was not his intention to offer any further opposition to the first clause, ex-
 1110 l
 MR. MONSELL  hoped that the Bill to which the right hon. Baronet had referred, with regard to Civil Bill Courts in Ireland, would be introduced during the present Session. If an assurance to that effect were given, he would recommend his hon. and learned Friend to withdraw his Motion.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, the Bill to which his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department had referred was already prepared, and if there was any prospect of carrying it during the present Session, it would be submitted to the House.
 MR. KEOGH  said, that, after the statement of the right hon. Baronet, he would not press his Motion.
 MR. MITCHELL  said, he represented on this occasion the sentiments of a committee of gentlemen in the city of London, who watched over the interest of the commercial classes, and were presided over by Mr. W. Hawes. They had directed their attention to this Bill, and the Amendment which he wished to introduce in this clause was one that had been suggested by them. The firm of one of these gentlemen had 12,000 accounts on their books, to an aggregate amount of 50,000 l l l l 1111
 MR. W. BROWN  was understood to state that as an immense number of trading transactions took place between 20 l l
 MR. MULLINGS  observed that a party was not liable to the bankrupt laws unless he owed 50 l
 SIR G. GREY  said, the effect of the Amendment would be, that the judge would be obliged to order immediate payment in all cases where the debt ranged between 20 l l
 MR. FITZROY : Not having been made aware of the Amendment, he trusted that the proposed addition to the clause would be postponed until the bringing up of the report, and said that in the meantime he would give it due consideration.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  thought caution was necessary before the addition were adopted. In the superior courts, if payment was not made within a week of the judgment, an act of bankruptcy was of necessity committed.
 MR. S. MARTIN  said, there was extreme difficulty in determining in this country whether an act of bankruptcy had been committed, and he was anxious to know, supposing the additions to be adopted, how that important fact was to be tried.
 MR. COCKBURN  thought nothing could be more easy in framing this clause than to define the circumstances under which a party should be within the bankruptcy laws. If the judge were allowed to extend the period for payment of debts between 20 l l 1112
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  thought that if there was to be a discretion given to a judge, it ought to be general and for all purposes. If the power to give time was to be limited to two months, the limitation ought to apply to all debts, whether under or over 20 l
 MR. W. BROWN  considered that though there might be some ground for giving the judge a discretionary power to grant time in the case of a book debt, it was otherwise whore a bill had been given. The creditor might be depending upon its due payment in order to meet his engagements.
 MR. COCKBURN  said, the discretion hitherto granted to the judges of the county courts had not been abused, and that was one very important reason why it should be continued to be exercised by them.
 MR. MITCHELL  would withdraw the addition he proposed, with the understanding that he could introduce it again upon the bringing up of the report.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  proposed as an Amendment to strike out the schedule of fees appended to this clause, and to leave them as they stood under the existing Act. There were three classes of fees—the judges' fees, which went to Government, as the judge received a fixed salary; the clerks' fees, which went to the high bailiff; and the clerks' fees, which went to the clerks. He saw no reason for making a graduated scale of fees in this instance. It might be necessary in the case of small sums, and therefore there did exist a graduated scale in the existing Act up to 10 l l l
 MR. FITZROY  thought the Attorney General was dealing unfairly in this mat-
 1113 l l l
 SIR G. GREY  would remind the hon. Member that the argument of the Attorney General was, that the judges would have to decide on a higher class of cases, but no part of the fees would go into their pockets, as they were paid by a fixed salary. Surely the hon. Member did not think greater acumen would be required in a high bailiff to serve a summons, than in a judge to decide on a case? If an absolute uniformity of fees was established, they might be obliged to make the amount so high that it would not be worth while in many cases to go into court at all. The argument of the hon. Gentleman, that if there was to be no difference in fees between 20 l l l l
 ALDERMAN THOMPSON  would support the Amendment, the fees in the old Act being, as he thought, much too high; and he mentioned cases that were not unfrequent in the neighbourhood of his iron
 1114 s s d s s
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he wanted to understand the principle of this Bill. It proposed to extend the power of the court from claims of 20 l l 1115
 SIR G. GREY  fully agreed with the principle laid down by the hon. and learned Gentleman; it was a principle upon which the Government had long been acting. The salaries of the judges were fixed already, and it was but right that he should remark that the judges had no interest whatsoever, not the slightest, in the amount of business brought into their courts. When the Act was first introduced they had been paid by fees, as the exact amount of duty was not ascertained; but eventually these fees were commuted for salaries, and the judges were given to understand that their whole time should be devoted to the court. The Parliament fixed their salaries at a maximum of 1,200 l l l
 MR. ROEBUCK : But I want to know, if you buy the whole time of the judge, why do you not buy the whole time of the bailiff?
 SIR G. GREY : So far as practicable, that had been done also; but it would require a long statement to explain all the difficulties in the way. Some bailiffs had been appointed for districts; some for portions of districts; in some cases two had been appointed; so that it was impossible at once to commute their fees for any fixed salary, as had been the case with the judges. When the commutation took place, the clerks would be expected to place all their time at the disposal of the court.
 MR. ROEBUCK  wished it to be understood that the principle was now established of paying by salary and not by fees.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the principle had been already conceded and fixed by the old Bill. But the salaries of clerks opened up a difficult question. Some of the judges had placed all the business of their districts in the hands of the high bailiffs, whilst others had appointed a clerk in each town. Some had appointed only one clerk, and others had appointed two, dividing the duties between them.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, that nothing gave him more concern than to observe the unfortunate course which had been pursued by his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General on a former evening, in opposition to the Bill, and he trusted that the hon. and learned Gentleman would now give the benefit of his assistance in improving the efficacy of the measure. He (Viscount Duncan) had been requested to move an amendment with respect to the bailiffs' fees. He believed it was a notorious fact that the country high bailiffs were out of pocket by the present scale of fees. If, therefore, the amount was raised from 20 l l
 MR. AGLIONBY  gave his cordial support to the principle of the Bill, which he took to be the relief of small debtors from the courts of common law and Chancery. He admitted that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Lewes had in the main followed the principle of the former Bill, and it was to be hoped that the Government would adopt the plan of paying those who laboured, and none other. On the whole, he thought that the House and the country were deeply indebted to the hon. Gentleman who had introduced the present
 1117
 MR. COCKBURN  avowed himself favourable to the Bill, but objected to the schedule of fees, which he hoped the hon. Gentleman would withdraw. They were actually larger than the fees in the superior courts. The object of the House was to obtain not only speedy justice, but cheap justice. If the old fees had been found insufficient, that would be a reason for increasing them; but it was not so. He believed, on the contrary, that the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had probably somewhere about 30,000 l
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  agreed that it would be advisable to reduce the fees to the poorer classes as low as possible. The Government had been long considering the best mode of doing it. It had been under their consideration for a good while before the introduction of the hon. Gentleman's Bill.
 MR. FITZROY  was loth to proceed contrary to the declared opinion of the House: he would therefore accede to the proposition made by the hon. and learned Attorney General. He wished, however, to observe that if they put the clerks upon fixed salaries, and if they took the present average of fees, nothing would be more unfair than to leave those salaries without increase in the event of increased labour being imposed upon those functionaries; for example, adding the insolvency cases in the country, and the charitable trusts,
 1118 l l l s l s l
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  said, at present an experiment was being made by these courts, and it was not as yet clearly ascertained what the proper scale of fees ought to be. Now with respect to the appointments, all he could say was that gentlemen of high legal attainments had been readily found to fill posts of even higher responsibility than those of judges of county courts. He hoped Government would not be induced to increase the salaries of the judges, and if there was a surplus from fees, that suitors would have the benefit by being required to pay a less amount of fees.
 SIR G. GREY  merely wished to say that what the hon. Gentleman now stated about a breach of promise on the part of the Government towards these judges, was not exactly correct. The hon. Gentleman having made the same statement to him (Sir G. Grey) in private, he referred to the records of that House, and found that he had distinctly stated in answer to a question that the maximum was to be considered not as the fixed amount of salary but as a maximum, and that the amount of salary would be fixed by the Government according to circumstances. There was never the slightest intimation given that
 1119 s s d
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department would have the power of increasing the salaries of these judges, and Parliament ought not to interfere with his discretion, and compel the right hon. Gentleman to increase these salaries, whether he thought it expedient or not. Such a course would be equally unprecedented and improper. He thought the right hon. Gentleman might surely be trusted with this power; and if he thought the salaries were not sufficient, he would raise them.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that the salary of 1,000 l l l l l l l l l l l l 1120 l l
 MR. HUME  said, they were now considering whether one schedule or another should be adopted. They were all in favour of the Bill, but he thought that the scale of fees for plaints under 10 l l
 SIR G. R. PECHELL  thought the scale of allowances for the travelling expenses of the judges was too low. They ought not to compel a judge to associate in the commercial room with a bagman. Lords of the Admiralty, when they travelled, were not restricted to 15 s
 LORD D. STUART  said, that if the Government really desired to carry economy into the administration of the county courts, they would get rid of the treasurers, who discharged no heavy duties. The truth was the Government did not like to get rid of them; they were paid out of the Consolidated Fund, and the appointment placed a large amount of patronage at the command of the Government. It would be better to make some arrangements for dispensing with these treasurers, and the county courts would get on perfectly well without them. In many cases the clerks of the courts had very little to do, and it would be an excellent plan to join their duties to those of the treasurer. The Act provided that the offices of treasurer and clerk should never be held by the same person; but that was a mistake. At present the clerks and bailiffs were, in many instances, carrying on their duties at an expense to themselves. It might be asked why, if this were the case, they did not resign? The reason was that they entertained the hope that the Treasury would perform the promises which it had again and again made to them; and but for that hope they would, he believed, in many cases, surrender their offices. He hoped that the system of indirect taxation practised in these courts would be put an end to. He would ask the hon. and learned Attorney General whether he considered the judges in the county courts overpaid or not? If they were not overpaid, why should be impose upon them additional duties? and, if they were overpaid, then, with whom did the fault lie, but with the
 1121
 SIR G. GREY  repeated the statement he had formerly made, that he had never made any distinct pledge on the part of Government that at any future time clerics and bailiffs should be paid by salaries instead of fees.
 MR. COCKBURN  said, the operation of the proviso would be, that Government would have the power of paying by salaries instead of by fees. Now great inequalities existed with regard to the emoluments of county court clerks. There were 89 of them who received less than 50 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l
 MR. HUME  thought they should leave the matter entirely with the Government. It was very easy to raise salaries, but it was not so easy a matter to reduce them. The noble Lord the Member for Marylebone spoke of the vast amount of patron-
 1122
 MR. AGLIONBY  could not put trust in Government with regard to raising the salaries, inasmuch as the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary had intimated very plainly that he had not the slightest intention of raising the salaries on account of the additional duties to be imposed on the judges. He thought it would be exceedingly unfair not to increase the remueration when the duties were to be so much increased.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that he had prepared a clause to provide for that.
 MR. J. EVANS  said, that if the judges who had liberty to practise, with their salary of 1,000 l
 SIR G. GREY  wished it to be distinctly understood that he had never said that in no circumstances should any increase in the salaries take place. All he had said was, that from the information which Government at present possessed on the subject, he was unable to say that it would be their duty to increase the salaries. He understood from the Lord Chancellor that the county court judges were distinctly informed by him that they would be expected to devote their whole time to the duties of their office, and might be charged with additional duties; and he certainly did not see that any of them were entitled to compensation on account of the loss of their practice.
 MR. ROEBUCK  understood the right hon. Gentleman to say, that these gentlemen were distinctly told by the Lord Chancellor that their whole time was to be employed in the service of the Government, and that if additional duty was imposed upon them they could have no claim for additional salary. If that were so, then the case of these gentlemen was at once settled.
 SIR G. GREY  repeated the statement. As to the remuneration which the county court judges received, some of them were paid more than the amount of fees received
 1123 l l
 MR. AGLIONBY  asked if it was not the case that men who had given up lucrative situations and accepted these judgeships, and who, when paid by fees, were in the receipt of 1,400 l l l
 SIR G. GREY  said, those gentlemen, when appointed, received an intimation that at the earliest possible period payment by fees would be abolished, and payment by salaries substituted. Some of them, no doubt, received fees to a much larger amount even than the maximum salary fixed by Parliament; but it surely never was contemplated that the salary should be equal to the highest amount of fees received. The only matter for regret was that they had not been able to carry the commutation into effect sooner.
 MR. CLAY  asked if they could expect to get competent men to fill these situations, when they were found to be overwhelmed with work? His belief was that they would not, especially at such salaries as it was proposed to give them.
 MR. T. EGERTON  said, that he conceived the whole time of the judges was to be devoted to their duties. The magistrates of his county (Cheshire) considered them liable to act as chairmen of the quarter-sessions. In these days of economy it was most desirable that this should be the case.
 MR. MUNTZ  thought the judges were amply paid with 1,000 l
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, there were many complaints of the fees being excessive. He was glad the proposed scale had been withdrawn. The increase might safely be left to the Government, who, in his opinion, were the best guardians of the public purse. Any one listening to this debate might have supposed that this Bill was not one brought forward to benefit the public, but solely for the advantage of certain individuals.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that by the present law the plaintiff was required to bring his action in the court
 1124
 MR. CROWDER  said, he should move the omission of the clause. Nothing could be more monstrous than that a person living in Cornwall should have the power of compelling a debtor who lived at York to appear in the Cornwall court. He disapproved of the whole principle of the Bill, but had not the opportunity of opposing it on the second reading.
 MR. FITZROY  said, he had endeavoured to consult the interest of the defendant in the framing of this Bill. Suppose the plaintiff resided in London, and the defendant in Cornwall, and the defendant, at the trial, should not deny the debt: if the plaintiff were obliged to take all his witnesses down to Cornwall, that would put the defendant to a great expense for costs; whereas if the trial took place in London, no such costs would be incurred.
 MR. MITCHELL  saw no reason for considering the defendant more than the plaintiff. Why should not a defendant at York be made to appear in Cornwall, as well as a Cornwall plaintiff be compelled to sue at York? In his district, a number of small debts were lost, because the parties could not afford to sue at a distance.
 MR. ROEBUCK  thought the rule ought to be to lay the venue where the contract was made. It was probably true that in a majority of cases the creditor had right on his side; but by requiring him to sue in the place where the contract was made, it would be fair to both parties. It was in accordance with the general principle of the law, from which he saw no good reason for departing.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, this was a very simple rule, where the contract was made in writing; otherwise the question became a very nice one; it arose frequently in the courts at Westminster, and was a very complicated one. The principle of the old Bill was to give a cheap remedy. Where the parties were not at more than twenty miles distance, the creditor must sue in the court of the debtor; where the distance was greater,
 1125
 MR. ROEBUCK  advised the hon. and learned Gentleman to give these courts the same discretion as to costs as the superior courts had.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that debtors might remove purposely to avoid being sued. He would give the judges power to decide whether a plaintiff should sue where he resided, or should follow a defendant to his district.
 MR. COCKBURN  suggested a middle course. The question was, on which side the inconvenience lay. The plaintiff had to establish his case by witnesses or by his books, and therefore,  primâ facie ex parte
 MR. CARDWELL  was as anxious as any person could be to give an efficient remedy to the plaintiff where his case was  bonâ fide;
 MR. MITCHELL  said, he thought the judge who was to try the merits of the case ought to be entrusted with the discretion of fixing the locality in which it was to be tried.
 MR. CROWDER  objected to the course
 1126
 MR. HATCHELL  wished, as the principle of this Bill might be adopted in the measure that was about to be brought in for Ireland, to state, that at present, as regarded the local courts in that country, a defendant must be sued in his own locality; and when they spoke of the difficulty imposed on the plaintiff in such a case, the Committee should recollect that the principle and object of this Bill was to give to plaintiffs a considerable benefit by enabling them to sue for debts which they could not sue for now, except at a ruinous expense in the superior courts of Westminster. If the present clause were adopted here, it would perhaps be adopted also in Ireland, and cases might happen in which a man in a humble station of life in Cork or Tipperary might be sued for 5 l l
 MR. MULLINGS  said, that they had to decide in the present case where the balance of difficulty was very nearly equal. But as it was generally presumed that the balance inclined in favour of the plaintiff, he thought that the action should be tried in the district in which he resided.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the difficulty was in a great measure got rid of because the defendant could be sued, by leave of the judge, in any county where he resided, if the action was brought after six months, or he could be sued where the cause of action arose.
 MR. AGLIONBY  did not think the hon. and learned Gentleman had got rid of the difficulty. He thought the action should be brought where the plaintiff resided.
 MR. P. WOOD  considered that the difficulty arose from the extension, in which he concurred, of the jurisdiction from 20 l l s s 1127 l l bonâ fide
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  expressed his objection to it, on the ground that it would tend to increase the expense of proceedings. In his opinion one main cause of the well working of the county court system was the limitation of fees by Act of Parliament.
 MR. FITZROY  wished to ask the hon. and learned Attorney General, if a respectable attorney could be found to practise in these courts at a fee of 15 s
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, the clause set forth that no person should be heard unless he were an attorney, or barrister, or a per son instructed by an attorney, with the permission of the court, so that it was evident there would be no preaudience. It struck him that a question then arose which it would be well for that House to decide, and which was this. He believed that, by the alterations which this Bill would cause, there was certain to be created a provincial bar in this country, the effect of which would be, in a great measure, to interfere with the London bar. They would have a small provincial bar, which would be composed, according to the provisions of the Bill, of barristers and attornies. That being the case, he thought it would be well to introduce amongst that bar those finer feelings, and that nice sense of honour, which he (Mr. Roebuck) demanded to be acknowledged as the distinguishing characteristics of the bar of England at present. It would be a great mischief to break down the honour and respectability of that bar; and, therefore, he thought the end and object to be desired, namely, the honour and integrity of
 1128
 SIR G. GREY  objected to the clause, and said it was the first time such a duty as the regulation of fees to practitioners in courts was sought to be imposed on the Lord Chancellor. He, therefore, thought it better to adhere to the restrictions made by Parliament, and assign a maximum.
 MR. W. MILES  said, they had the strongest possible reason to rely on the decision of the Lord Chancellor, as being the highest authority in legal matters in the realm. He, therefore, hoped and trusted his hon. friend would stand by the clause, and that the Committee would not mix it up with the provisions of the clause which followed it.
 MR. COCKBURN  suggested the insertion of some words which would limit the regulations of fees by the Lord Chancellor to cases between 20 l l
 MR. LAW  said, that as the Act had been extended from 20 l l l
 SIR G. GREY  suggested that, as his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Southampton had not succeeded in framing a clause which would meet the difficulty of the case, the better course would be to allow the whole of the clause to be negatived, with the view, after due consideration, of bringing it up on the report of the Committee. If the Committee divided on the clause at present, he believed that they would be unable properly to understand what it was that they were dividing about.
 MR. COCKBURN  proposed that the whole of the first part of the clause, which was merely a recital of the 9 & 10 Vict., c. 95, should be struck out, and he would then suggest the insertion of some words which would, in his opinion, meet the case.
 MR. COCKBURN  then moved the insertion of the words he had proposed.
 MR. MITCHELL  said, that as it still
 1129
 SIR G. GREY  objected to the insertion of the words, inasmuch as they would have the effect of laying down a totally different principle with respect to the regulation of fees above 20 l l
 MR. CROWDER  said, that the object of this clause was to make it imperative on the plaintiff to sue in the district court in cases of debt or cost under 50 l 1130 l l
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that he considered that the limit placed at 50 l l l l l l
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that if certain consequences followed in the case of 5 l l l
 MR. FITZROY  said, that he was prepared, if the Committee required it, to make a modification, and make it 10 l l
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he was prepared to abide by the Bill as it stood, and was sorry that the hon. Member who proposed the Bill should show such a want of confidence in it.
 MR. HUME  hoped that the hon. Member would allow of 20 l
 MR. FITZROY  said, that he had only inserted the sum of 10 l l l
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  brought
 1131
 MR. HENLEY  objected to proceeding with new clauses at that hour.
 SIR G. R. PECHELL  hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman did not seriously intend to press the House to decide upon these clauses now. One of them at least he intended to oppose, and some time ought to be given. They should be brought up on the report,
 MR. COCKBURN  said, that the clauses were valuable additions to the Bill, but thought the consideration of them should be postponed if there was any opposition to them.
 MR. HENLEY  then moved that the Chairman report progress.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that an understanding that the Bill was to be reprinted, and that the House should again go into Committee on the new clauses, would possibly meet the views of hon. Gentlemen.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he would agree to the suggestion if the hon. Member who had charge of the Bill would concur in it.
 COLOSEL CHATTERTON : Sir, when the attention of the House was last called to this measure by the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex, he entered so fully and so faithfully into the great injustice of this oppressive tax, that I shall not have occasion to trouble the House with many remarks; and particularly so, as I cordially agreed with all that fell from the noble Lord. But, Sir, as upon that occasion, I presented a petition from a most respectable, talented, and highly deserving body of gentlemen, the solicitors and attornies of the city I have the honour to represent; I feel called upon to express my anxiety for the success of this Motion, by the abolition of this tax. Its inequality and injus-
 1106
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he would vote for the remission of this tax, with the view of compelling the Government to return to those duties which, in his opinion, had been very injudiciously removed.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained that what he had stated was, that horsedealers had to pay for a license, and that it was a legitimate argument that the imposition of that tax was as great an injustice upon them as the certificate duty was upon attorneys. It was far from his intention to say anything that could be regarded as derogatory to gentlemen who followed the profession of attornies—a profession which he regarded as highly honourable.
 The CHANCELLOR of THE EXCHEQUER  was sorry to say he must oppose the remission asked for, solely on the ground that the amount could not be spared from the revenue. He did not feel hound to give any further reason for opposing the remission of a tax, that task more properly belonging to the proposal of a new one. It was sufficient for him to state that it was an existing tax, and that it would not he convenient to the revenue to remove it. He had stated on a former evening what would be the probable amount of the surplus, and how he intended to appropriate it; and he could assure the House that no thing had occurred to alter his intentions, although his plans might require some modification in the details. There might be justice in this claim for remission; but it should be remembered that there were thirty other callings in which licenses were required, all of whom might petition with equal justice. There was a license, for instance, on horsedealers. Why not grant remission to them? Why not to all? But that all would amount to one million a year. No one in the House would surely expect him to give up that amount. The hon. and learned Member for Abingdon had understated the amount to which the revenue would suffer by the proposed remission, for he had merely stated the amount levied in England, whereas it would be necessary, if remission were made, that it should extend to the three kingdoms. The amount in that case lost to the revenue would be 117,000 l 1105
 SIR F. THESIGER  said, he felt great pleasure in expressing his acknowledgments to the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex by whom the Bill had been introduced, for the great and disinterested exertions which he had long made to relieve the solicitors from a tax which pressed so heavily on them. He would not have come forward to support the Motion of the noble Lord, if he did not feel that justice imperatively required that these taxes should be abolished. The tax was 12 l l l 1103 l l l ad valorem l l l l 1104
 SIR R. FERGUSON  said, that out of 25,000 l l d
 MR. F. FRENCH  remarked, that the clerks of the peace were already sufficiently remunerated.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  had no personal feeling in the matter, but it appearing to be the impression of the Irish Members generally, that the clerks of the peace were sufficiently paid, he must decline to accede to the proposition.
 MR. NAPIER  thought it was desirable to recommit the Bill, as he and other hon. Gentlemen had Amendments to propose which it would be better to discuss in Committee than on the consideration of the report.
 Mr. HATCHELL  said, there could be no reason that a tenant, occupying under such circumstances, should be deprived of the right of voting, not only as to the county franchise, but also on that of the borough: but he thought the clause as it stood would not fairly carry out the object of the hon. Member, and therefore he should have to propose certain verbal amendments.
 VISCOUNT BERNARD considered the
 1139
 MR. GROGAN  opposed the clause on the ground that if it were passed it would be impossible to know who the voter was. If the landlord did not pay it would be only necessary for the tenant to come forward and claim to vote, and the requirements of the Act as to paying rates would not be followed.
 SIR D. NORREYS  thought the question was whether the party was in occupation of property to the required value; in that case the occupier would appear on the rate books, and who paid the rates was a matter of no importance.
 MR. MONSELL  observed, that the objection was that the party would not appear on the rate books. But he thought fraud might be prevented by the production of the agreement between the landlord and the tenant, by which the landlord undertook to pay the rates; therefore, the clause was not really open to the objections which had been urged against it.
 MAJOR BLACKALL  did not consider the clause necessary, because the tenant might, under his agreement, pay the rate to entitle him to the vote, and then deduct it from the rent.
 MR. STAFFORD  looked on the clause as a power placed in the hands of the landlord to make faggot votes.
 SIR G. CLERK  thought that the proper form should be for the tenant to be allowed the right of claiming to be rated, and on doing so, and paying the rate, that he should then be entitled to vote.
 MR. HATCHELL  said, that was precisely the effect of the Amendment which he proposed.
 SIR J. YOUNG  said, a more obnoxious clause than this had never been heard of. If it were moved  bonâ fide
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  defended the principle of the clause, as putting it out of the power of any individual to disfranchise a voter. At the same time, he should suggest to the hon. proposer that the clause, with the amendments of his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General for Ireland, should be withdrawn for the present, and printed, and that it might be discussed on the third reading.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  said: Sir, notwithstanding the determination of the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government to oppose the introduction of the clause I have given notice of—notwithstanding he has come to this decision before even he had heard a word of argument either myself or hon. Members may bring forward in support of it; and although I have the highest possible respect for the exalted situation the noble Lord holds in Her Majesty's Councils—still I have a duty to my constituents as a Member of this House, which even this threat of the noble Lord will not prevent my endeavouring to perform. Sir, upon the passing of the Reform Act in 1832, there was naturally adversity of opinion upon that law; and I should not have ventured to bring forward my proposition, were I not supported in my view of the case by many high legal authorities, and amongst others by the often declared opinion of one of the most talented, upright, and consistent Judges that ever adorned the judicial bench, that the disfranchisement of those called "non-resident freemen" was contrary to law, and the spirit of the Act. Now, Sir, were these persons disfranchised by a decision of this House, I should not have hazarded any appeal; but such is not the fact—they were disfranchised by the decision of an Election Committee of this House; and I feel convinced every hon. Member who has had experience here will agree with me, that Election Committees, as formerly constituted, were the most unjust and partial tribunals before which any man could appear. They were restrained by no law—they were guided by no precedent—their decision was final and arbitrary—there was no appeal—and it was by the decision of such a tribunal that so many were disfranchised, and lost a privilege they so much prized, and so long enjoyed. Perhaps some hon. Gentlemen may imagine my remarks are unjustly severe; but I would ask, was it not a notorious fact, that the moment an Election Committee was struck, its decision was publicly talked of, and anticipated? Very many cases could I quote in proof of this; but I shall only state my own case—
 "Quæqua miserrima vidi, Et quorum pars magna fui." 1141 "Ab initio" "And be it Enacted, That the class of Voters usually called "Non-resident freemen," be permitted to vote at the Election of Members of Parliament for cities and boroughs, if duly registered, and resident within the county."
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  said, freemen belonged to the county of a town for the
 1142
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  was very sorry to refuse the hon. and gallant Member, but the question had been settled by the Reform Bill many years ago.
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  hoped the hon. Member would not divide the House on the question.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  withdrew the clause.
 MR. C. ANSTEY , in the absence of the Lord Mayor of Dublin, who had given notice on the subject, moved the omission in Clause 1, line 11, of all the words which provided that "the voter should, on or before the 1st of July, have paid all poor-rates in respect of his lands, tenements, or hereditaments, which should have become payable from him in respect of such premises previously to the 1st day of January then next preceding." He believed that the retention of these words would restrict the franchise, and that, in accordance with the title of the Bill, and the determination of the Legislature, the possession of property of a certain amount ought to be—whether rightly or wrongly was not now the question—a test of the fitness of the party for the possession of the franchise.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  opposed the Motion, because one of the main features of the Bill was, that it insisted on the payment of rates prior to voting.
 MR. ANSTEY  then rose to move an Amendment to the 6th Clause, with a view to reduce the qualifications of voters in boroughs from 8 l l
 COLONEL DUNNE  agreed that 8 l l
 MR. LAWLESS  said, that if the hon. and learned Member for Youghal's Motion proved unsuccessful with the House, he should propose a 6 l
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  was opposed to the proposition of the hon. and learned Member for Youghal. When a similar Amendment was moved by the Lord Mayor of Dublin, he entered into calculations and fully stated the reasons against such an alteration of the Bill. He should now, therefore, not detain the House by repeating them, but content himself with recommending that the proposed change be not agreed to.
 MR. BRIGHT  observed, that every Irish Member in favour of extending the franchise, was decidedly of opinion that an 8 l l
 MR. STAFFORD  begged to inform the hon. Member that there would be no difficulty as to the machinery. The noble Lord, though he talked of grouping some of the boroughs, did not, with respect to the franchise, speak of the Bill as a temporary, but as a final measure. [The ATTORNEY GENERAL dissented.] Then, he was to understand that the Bill could not be considered final. If the Bill were not to be final, the less time they consumed in its discussion the better.
 MR. AGLIONBY  concurred in the view taken of this question by the hon. Member for Manchester. He believed that the proposal of the hon. and learned Member for Youghal would be attended with more harm than good. Would any one tell him that if they introduced the Amendment of the hon. and learned Gentleman into the Bill there would be a chance of its passing this Session in another place? He believed it would not. As he was satisfied the Government had gone as far as they could do with safety to the measure, he was ready, on the present occasion, to give them his cordial support.
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  said, what had occurred that night convinced him he was right in having always doubted that the Irish Reform Bill was an honest measure. If he had another reason for opposing the Bill—which was but another kind of Reform Bill—it would be from the variation of the opinions expressed by the hon. Member for Manchester now from the opinions he had given utterance to at a meeting a short time ago at Crosby Hall. He would read to the House an extract from the hon. Member's speech on that occasion:—
 "The Irish Franchise Bill was a proof of the great change which had taken place, not only throughout the country, but in Parliament, proposing, as it did, alterations in the qualification required for voting which ten years ago would not have been tolerated. About ten years since, a Bill not relating to the property qualification at all, but intended to improve the system of registration, was opposed as if the welfare of the empire depended upon its rejection; but the opposition to the present Bill was so languid that an hon. Member, who thought that 8 l 1145
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  had not the good fortune to hear that part of the hon. Member for Manchester's speech on which the noble Lord had laid so much stress, in consequence of the noble Lord having turned his back when reading it. [Viscount BERNARD: I will read it again.] He thought it quite unnecessary, for the real question before the House was, whether the franchise should be 5 l l l l
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  said, the hon. and learned Member for Youghal had told them that he proposed this Amendment because it was his wish to extend the franchise; and therefore he thought no hon. Member opposite was entitled to attribute to him any other motive. For himself, he must say he did not wish to see a great extension of the franchise. He desired to see monarchical institutions preserved in this country, but he did not wish to see a free democratic social republic established. He was for a full and fair representation of the people, but at the same time he thought what was called a full and fair representation of the people might be carried too far; and, careless of the popularity or unpopularity which he might incur, he felt himself compelled to say that the present was too extended a measure. He saw the hon. Member for
 1146 "He considered the extension of the suffrage, vote by ballot, the payment of Members, and the redistribution in the proportions of electoral districts, as all of them mere machinery, and not ends, which any rational man would think worth spending his time upon. In the accomplishment of these objects they should still keep in view their great ultimate object, which he would not hesitate to call a 'social revolution.'"
 MR. W. J. FOX  did not know where the noble Lord had found the report of his speech to which he had referred; but he thought that of the few sentences which he had quoted, or, at least, referred to, there was one that contained quite enough to show him what he meant by the term "social revolution." He (Mr. Fox) had clearly and fully explained that it was not a revolution which had anything to do with bloodshead, plunder, or the destruction of venerated and useful institutions, the redistribution of property, or any such absurdities; but that by a social revolution he meant a change which should put talent, integrity, and legitimate influence in the place of corruption and of intimidation in the representation of the people in that House. The remarks which followed those that had been read had been brought into notice in some publications, so that he should have thought the one part of what he said on that occasion would have been
 1147
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  said, the hon. Member for Oldham required no one to make any explanation in his behalf; but as he had listened with great pleasure to the speech which the hon. Member had delivered before the National Reform Association, he begged to say that that speech was received with the greatest satisfaction by the meeting—not because they were revolutionists, for they desired to carry no object by physical force—but because they concurred in the views so well expressed by the hon. Gentleman. The noble Lord the Member for the county of Down stated, that he was in favour of monarchical institutions, but that he was not for a full representation of the people. [Viscount CASTLEREAGH dissented.] Well, then, the noble Lord said he was not for a social republic; but he would tell him that the refusal of just concessions to the people was what would lead them to demand a social and democratic revolution. It was only by timely concessions that revolution could be arrested; and for that reason he would support the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Youghal.
 MR. M. O'CONNBLL  said, that he was sorry to hear the noble Lord revive a cry
 1148 l
 MR. W. J. FOX  appealed to the indulgence of the House to permit him to read the conclusion of the speech the commencement of which had been just adverted to by the noble Viscount the Member for the county of Down. In the few remarks he (Mr. Fox) had made, he did not consult the printed report of his speech which the noble Viscount had quoted, and which the courtesy of the noble Viscount had placed within his reach. The noble Viscount, however, had not quoted his observations with that completeness which was essential to correctness, and he (Mr. Fox) begged to be permitted to read the entire passage. He had said—
 "In the accomplishment of these objects they should still keep in view their great ultimate object, which he would not hesitate to call a social revolution—a revolution, however, which would leave intact, in all their sacredness, the principles of the constitution, the maintenance of order, and the greatest possible amount of liberty, but a revolution which should raise into operation the intellectual and moral aristocracy of the country, with ability to govern, and integrity to govern well."
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  had no intention of misquoting the hon. Member, and had explained the purport of the conclusion of the sentence. He had, however, thought that the expression "social revolution," in the hon. Member's speech, was not sufficiently qualified by the after portion of his speech, because he could not imagine how a social revolution could be effected consistently with the maintenance of order in this country.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON : Sir, I beg to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland, that he has not replied to my request regarding the substitution of the word "August" for May, in the 10th clause, 15th line of the Act. As I have before stated my reasons for this request, I need not trouble the House at any length; but I really cannot see how
 1149
 MR. GROGAN  supported the Amendment. The clause, as it now stood, would be an  ex post facto
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  could not consent to allow the old class of voters to remain upon the register during the last quarter of the registration year, when these voters were declared by the Act incompetent to vote.
 MR. GROGAN  had thought the object of the Bill was an extension of the suffrage; but it appeared that the Government only meant to extend the franchise in a democratic sense.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  saw no reason for agreeing to the change proposed by the hon. and gallant Member opposite.
 MR. GROGAN  had an Amendment to propose, to the effect that the revision of electoral lists in Dublin should take place a month after the revision through the country generally, so as to allow the barristers of Dublin to attend conveniently to legal duties connected with the registration in the country.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  did not apprehend that any inconvenience would be found to arise from fixing the period of revision for the capital and the country at the same time. In England the London and country registration was effected at one and the same time, and the system worked perfectly well.
 MR. J. STUART  said, he had given notice of an instruction to the Committee to insert a clause that should provide a
 1150 1151
 The CHAIRMAN  asked the hon. and learned Gentleman whether he intended to put his Motion in the shape of a new clause?
 MR. J. STUART  intimated that that was his intention.
 The CHAIRMAN  then stated that, as a new clause, the proposition must be made after all the other clauses had been disposed of.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that although it would not be necessary for him now to enter into a lengthened reply to the hon. and learned Gentleman, yet perhaps it might be convenient that he should make a few observations on what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, that it was impossible for him to have known what the hon. and learned Member for Newark was about to propose; he could not therefore prevent his proceeding; but now that one irregularity had taken place, he would recommend the Committee not to pursue that irregular course any further.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  apprehended that the hon. and learned Member was perfectly right in drawing the attention of the House to one of the greatest abuses that existed in Ireland. So far from taking it ill at the hon. and learned Member having referred to the report of the Committee for which he (Mr. Osborne) had moved, he felt grateful to him for having applied his sound and legal mind to the discussion of this question. He did not think any mere forms of the House ought to obstruct a Member from drawing the attention of Parliament to such a question.
 The CHAIRMAN : I beg the hon. and gallant Gentleman's pardon, but he is out of order.
 MR. J. STUART , while submitting to the better judgment of the Chairman on the question of form, thought they were, in truth and in substance, discussing the question whether a clause to the effect he had proposed should form part of the Bill. He did not think they would be greatly
 1152
 MR. B. OSBORNE  did not claim it as an indulgence, but he claimed it as a right.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, he felt bound again to interfere, and to press on the Committee the importance of adhering to those rules, which had always been observed since he had had the honour of filling the office of Chairman.
 MR. B. OSBORNE : Then docs the hon. and learned Solicitor General mean to quash all discussion on the Bill?
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, on the other hand, he was anxious for it, but had been called to order. He might state that, so far from the House having taken no step in this matter, they had passed the judgment on Small Titles Bill, which contained some important provisions on the appointment of receivers.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, if the question could not be discussed in Committee, he would move that the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, an opportunity for the discussion would be afforded after the other clauses were gone through, by moving the addition of a new clause. He hoped the Committee would support the Chairman in adhering to the usual rules of conducting the business.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  asked if the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Newark would take the opportunity pointed out of moving his clause?
 MR. J. STUART : Oh, certainly; as soon as the other clauses are agreed to.
 MR. TURNER  asked whether in applications made under that clause, the relatora must obtain the sanction of the Attorney General.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, this would be necessary in cases where the suit was instituted in the name of the Attorney General. The clause would give power for a petition to be filed instead of an information, all other matters remaining as they were.
 MR. TURNER  would beg to ask another question, as to the proof of service of notice which would be requisite, and pointed out the possibility of a false affidavit of service being made, whereby the parties would be left entirely at the mercy of those pretending to give the notice.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said,
 1153 pro confesso
 MR. TURNER  would leave the matter in the hands of the hon. and learned Gentleman.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that he objected to this clause altogether, because it transferred powers to the Master which should be left with the court alone.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that he would endeavour to modify the clause so as to obviate the objections of his hon. and learned Friend, by specifying more distinctly the matters to be referred to the Master. His hon. and learned Friend would have an opportunity of considering the amended clause on bringing up the report.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  observed, that within the last few weeks the Lord Chancellor of Ireland had given a most extraordinary judgment as to the proceedings of the court in Ireland. There was a case in which a stablekeeper was receiving 10 s 1154
 MR. HATCHELL  said, that he could not allow the present observations to pass without placing his protest, on the part of the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, and on the part of the profession, against what had been stated. Did the hon. and gall nt Member mean to suggest that these abuses occurred in the time of the present Lord Chancellor? [Mr. OSBORSE: They were all equally bad.] The Lord Chancellor who, for some years past, had had the management of the court, had endeavoured to put an end to these abuses, arising unfortunately from the state of property in Ireland. The appointment of receivers, their security, and the mode of controlling them, was all grounded on the practice and precedents of the Court of Chancery in England. They were under the same control, and were bound to account in the same manner. The embarrassments of the estates in the country had led to these abuses. As to the Lord Chancellor, it was perfectly well known that when he came to the bench in Ireland, he used his utmost efforts to rectify these abuses. The Lord Chancellor of Ireland had two years ago tried to get rid of these abuses. The hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex had made some allusion to a solicitor in Ireland having made his stable servant a receiver, and that such a step had been sanctioned by the Lord Chancellor. If such a thing were done by the Lord Chancellor, it was done merely on the evidence that came before him, and in accordance with the rules of the court. The hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex had appeared to contrast the conduct of the Master of the Rolls with that of the Lord Chancellor of Ireland; but, while he (Mr. Hatchell) readily admitted the ability and urbanity of the Master of the Rolls, he must also
 1155
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  begged to call the attention of the Committee to the course which had been taken in consequence of the report of the receivers' committee. Receivers were either receivers under judgments, under what was called Pigot's Act, and receivers under the estates of infants and lunatics. The latter were not mismanaged; but with respect to receivers under judgments, they were really the officers of the judgment creditor, appointed for the purpose of getting execution of his debt. It could not be expected that receivers in such a case would lay out money to improve an estate, as was done by the other class of receivers. The only mode of getting rid of the evil was by getting rid of receivers under judgments altogether. Now, what had been done in consequence of this? The House had passed a Bill by which no receiver would in future be appointed over an estate in Ireland on a judgment. That was a very considerable step in the improvement of the system, and receivers under judgments would rapidly disappear. Nothing gave him greater confidence in the Bill upon which the Committee had bestowed their attention that evening, than the manner in which the Lord Chancellor and the Master of the Rolls had done him the honour to consult with him on the subject; and he was satisfied that there existed a sincere desire on the part of both those distinguished Judges to carry out by a series of orders a complete reform of the Court of Chancery.
 MR. B. OSBORNE , in explanation, said, that it was supposed that because he had praised the Master of the Rolls he had made an attack on the Lord Chancellor of Ireland. But even if he had made that attack, the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken offered no defence; no explanation of the case to which he had alluded, of a solicitor having appointed his own stable servant at the rate of 10 s
 MR. KEOGH  said, that he was aware of the facts of the case, and he would by permission of the House explain them, and having a perfect knowledge of them, he felt that not the slightest censure could be with propriety cast on the Lord Chan-
 1156 l l l
 MAJOR BLACKALL  hoped that if the House was to legislate by a clause in this Bill as proposed, there would be time given to consider it. Perhaps the Chairman had better, therefore, report progress.
 MR. J. STUART  said, he would bring up the clause on the report.
 MR. GROGAN  objected, that the word "officers" did not sufficiently specify the persons entitled to compensation, and moved the omission of a part of the clause, in order that clerks who might not be properly considered officers, should have an opportunity of preferring their claim for compensation to the Treasury. He did not wish to coerce the Treasury to grant them compensation, but to place them in a position to demand it. If the clause was not intended to include those persons, he would press his Motion to a division.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  could not consent to the addition of the words. The clause did not prevent those persons making their claims if they desired to do so; and it was for the Treasury to determine whether they came within the meaning of the clause, and were entitled to compensation.
 MR. KEOGH  rose to inquire if the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite had any intention of introducing a provision for the purpose of giving a Parliamentary title to estates sold under the authority of the Court of Chancery as well as to those sold by direction of the Encumbered Estates Commission?
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  replied that it would be quite impossible to introduce any such provisions in the Bill then before the House. The subject was one of great magnitude, in legislating on which many guards and checks would be required.
 MR. CLEMENTS  proposed to add an Amendment at the end of Clause 3.
 LORD ASHLEY , in reply, said that as soon as he received the printed clauses of the Government he would determine what day he would appoint.
 LORD ASHLEY : As I see my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department in his place, perhaps he will be good enough to allow me to put the question to him of which I gave notice last night, when, owing to the lateness of the hour, it was impossible for me to introduce the question of the Ten Hours Factory Bill. I then gave notice that I would tonight ask my right hon. Friend for some explanation as to certain rumours which are current as to the intentions of Her Majesty's Government upon this subject. It has been reported that Her Majesty's Government have some intention of proposing a scheme of their own in reference to the factory question; and I think it is most desirable that the country should know as soon as possible whether that rumour be true, and that this House should as soon as possible have a general outline of the scheme to be proposed. I therefore take the liberty of asking my right hon. Friend if there is any truth in that rumour, and, if it be true, whether he is willing, in general terms, to give the House and the country an explanation of what Her Majesty's Government intend to propose?
 LORD J. MANNERS , without wishing to enter into a discussion upon the subject, entirely dissented from the principles enunciated by the hon. Member for Montrose.
 MR. STAFFORD  observed, that the question whether the Bill was a boon to Ireland or not, stood, as he apprehended, upon this ground—Providence had afflicted that country with so severe a visitation that some of our fellow-subjects were in danger of starvation. The Government, under these circumstances, came forward, and with the consent of Parliament made an advance of money to relieve the distress of Ireland; but how far that measure
 1137
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  appealed to the House whether the conduct of the Government towards Ireland for the last three or four years ought to be characterised by harshness. The limitation upon repayments which had been imposed by the Treasury, had been, on the contrary, marked by the utmost consideration to the distresses of the unions; for whereas, under the Act, the Government was authorised, and indeed called upon, to require repayment in two sums, the Treasury had limited these repayments to 3 s
 MR. F. FRENCH  said, it had been stated that there were some districts in Ireland which were as well off as any parts of this country; but it could not be contended that those portions of Ireland to which the Bill would apply were in such a favourable position. He thought it most objectionable to give to the Government the large discretionary powers which this clause would confer upon them, and he would therefore support the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Leitrim.
 MR. EDWARDS , in the name of his constituents and of the factory operatives throughout the kingdom, protested against the course the Government had thought fit to take, and to assure them that no such compromise as that proposed by them, no increase of the daily toil of women and children to the extent of two hours, would be accepted by the people of England. The opposition to an Act passed by large majorities of both Houses of Parliament, originating with a few interested persons, ought not to have been entertained. There could be no doubt as to the intense feeling in favour of this measure throughout the manufacturing districts, where the universal desire was that the Government should, without delay, frame a Bill that would confirm and ratify the real intention of the framers of the Act of 1847.
 MR. TRELAWNY  thought that some hon. Gentlemen seemed disposed to repudiate these advances; and the hon. Member for Leitrim had said that the Chancellor of the Exchequer ought not to ask for the repayment of more than 6 d
 MR. HUME  deprecated all interference between masters and workmen, and contended that mischievous results would fol-
 1135
 MR. CONOLLY  considered, that it would be manifestly unjust to press the people of Ireland for an amount which had been expended to relieve them from famine while they were still suffering from that painful visitation of Providence; and if it was expected that the Exchequer should be fully reimbursed for money that had been advanced, it was manifestly absurd to demand it at this moment, when the Irish people were utterly unable to pay it. He hoped the Government would consider the expediency of extending the time for repaying the advances over a greater number of years.
 MR. W. BROWN  observed that the Bill at present stood for Wednesday; but he hoped the discussion would not come on upon that day, as in that case no time would be afforded for the consideration of the Amendments. He suggested that it should be postponed till Wednesday week.
 SIR G. GREY : Sir, I have, as was my duty, given much careful consideration to the question of what would be most practicable and least injurious to all classes, in any amendment of the factory laws, and at the same time consistent with the object that my noble Friend himself has in view. My noble Friend stated a few nights
 1133 1134
 MR. A. J. B. HOPE  said, that in Australia the various religious bodies were on a footing of perfect equality, being all salaried by the State; and they all had or might have the power of self-government, with the sole exception of the Episcopal Church. If the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade thought that the proposal to give to the Church of England, which numbered one-half of the population, the power to establish some system of self-government, would operate as a State grievance to the colony at large, why did he not consistently carry out that principle, and say that it was dangerous for the Church of Scotland to have its assemblies, the Wesleyan body its conferences, or the Church of Rome its synods, in Australia? [Mr. LABOUCHERE: These are voluntary bodies.] The Church of England was the same in the colonies. It used the same ritual and ordinances as the Church at home; but that no more made it the established Church in Australia than it was in Scotland, or any country where another church was established, than the Church of Rome was the established Church in Australia, because it was so in Italy. Either the argument of the right hon. Gentleman fell absolutely to the ground, or there was something obnoxious and detrimental in the Church of England which made it dangerous to the body politic—an assumption utterly impossible to be made by a member of the Church of England, in a country where it was the Established Church. Therefore, the main argument of the right hon. Gentleman resolved itself into that most convenient principle, the principle of " laissez faire 1212
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that if he had believed that by opposing the proposed clause, he would in any degree impair the efficiency of the Church of England in the colonies, it certainly should not have met with his opposition. But he believed that it would very much impair its efficiency, and therefore he could not agree to it. As he understood, the objection of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford, to the present state of things in the colonies was, that the Church of England had not a church government to refer to—that they had no ecclesiastical courts to control and direct them. Now, it was true that upon the first institution of the bishops to the colonies, it was intended to give the Church of England there such courts; but, upon further consideration, it was found that the Crown had not the power, and consequently the intention was abandoned. But he apprehended that it was by no means necessary to the efficiency of the Church in the colonies that it should have ecclesiastical courts, with power to pass ecclesiastical censures and the other various modes of government established in this kingdom. It seemed quite enough that the Church should be put upon a footing of equality with other persuasions with regard to the management of its own internal affairs. Did he understand the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Staffordshire to say, that his only reason for asking the House to adopt the present resolution was, that it would enable the Church to meet without incurring the penalties of  prœmunire? prœmunire 1231
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, the right hon. Baronet had challenged them to name any disability under which the Established Church laboured. The disability was, that the Church could not meet together to pass by-laws, like any other corporation, under the penalties of  prœmunire imperium in imperio 1229
 MR. ADDERLEY  seconded the Motion.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he must complain of the off-hand manner in which the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had treated this question: the right hon. Gentleman seemed to think that a reply of ten minutes was sufficient to meet the elaborate and statesmanlike speech of the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark. At the beginning of his speech, the right hon. Gentleman said the
 1185 "The duties of Government required in an infant settlement might be discharged by the colonists themselves. He hoped they would revert to the ancient and wise policy of their ancestors, and
 1186 "Complaints were capriciously treated, when they interfered with the schemes and plans of the Colonial Office. But a spirit was springing up in the colonies which would force on this Office a different system. All he contended for was this, that nothing could so speedily and so surely accelerate the prosperity of the colonies as their emancipation from the hands of the colonial authorities at home, and their being left as free agents to govern themselves, with as little interference from home as the political relations of the mother country would permit." 1187 assuitur pannus unus Cries of 1188 "Until we began to colonise with convicts towards the end of the last century, the imperial power of England never, I believe, in a single instance, attempted to rule locally from a distance a body of its subjects who had gone forth from England and planted a colony. In every such case down to that time, the imperial authority recogcognised by word and deed the necessity of allowing the colonists themselves to govern locally.
 1189 New South 1190 Wales Vindicator "We have long been compelled to forego the just rights and privileges to which we are entitled as the sons and brothers of Britons. … We have all a right now to come forward, to claim those free institutions which we desire to be implanted amongst us, which shall confer on us the power of governing ourselves. … Ere long the new constitution for the government of this as well as the other Australian colonies will be received, and come into operation; and then, if the people are only true to themselves—they don't look to you or your Bill—a mighty change for the better may speedily be effected. … Public attention has been much aroused of late to the monstrous sort of 'constitutions' which have been thrust upon the colonies. … It is clear that there are now at last men in the British Parliament alive to the interests of the colonies, and we fully anticipate that Earl Grey's Bill, by the time it has become law, will have received such alterations and modifications as shall have made it perfectly acceptable to us." "Lord J. Russell and Earl Grey were always leading us to suppose that they recognise our right to deal with matters of domestic and internal concerns; but these professions only end in the British Government withdrawing from the control of our affairs when it is convenient for them in that way to get out of their promises and debts, but immediately after recurring to their system of interference and domination." "We would prefer less independence if we might only know what we have with distinctness; and what we have, let us possess on some sure foundation. If the veto on our acts is to be ineffectual, why retain it? If it is to be used on convenient occasions it will irritate, but never command willing acquiescence. Control once repudiated, and yet recurred to under pretence of its being only nominal, can never again be looked upon as legitimate; it will only be yielded to per force, and for ever kicked at, till at last with it will go the whole connexion." 1191
 MR. E. B. DENISON  asked whether Her Majesty's Government had fully reconsidered the clause in the Bill framing the federal assembly, which had been withdrawn for reconsideration? If so, he should be glad to hear what were the views of the Government.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the clause had been carefully reconsidered, and that the Government were prepared, while adhering to the principle upon which it had originally been framed, so to alter it as to give the smaller colonies sufficient weight in the federal assembly should they think proper to join it.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he wished very briefly to state the reasons why he could not accede to the proposal of the hon. Baronet to recommit this Bill, for the purpose of considering the clauses of which the hon. Member had given notice. The subject which the hon. Baronet had brought forward was not new to the House, as it had been already explained to them with great detail and much ability by the hon. Gentleman. With regard to the great object which the hon. Baronet professed to have in view, there was no difference between them, that object being to secure the true interest of both the mother country and the colonies, by leaving the management of local concerns, as much as possible exclusively to the colonies, while the mother country exercised her authority in restraining the different colonial posses-
 1183 1184
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, it was upon no small points of difference, still less upon any legal difficulty, that he should advise the House not to consent to the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman; but because he strongly objected to the very principle of that proposition. He entreated the House, before consenting to it, to consider what that principle was, and what were the consequences to which its assertion must necessarily lead. It was proposed to engraft upon this Bill an ecclesiastical system involving points of the greatest difficulty and importance, to establish a local legislature, independent alike of the Imperial Parliament and of the colonial legislatures. [Mr. GLADSTONE: I made no such proposal, I said expressly a private and voluntary compact.] He could not help thinking, after reading the clause, and hearing the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, that the body he sought to establish would be neither more nor less than a legislature for certain purposes, empowered to make ecclesiastical regulations which would have the force of law on
 1208
 MR. LABOUCHERE : Ecclesiastical penalties?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  feared that he had not very clearly understood the intention of the right hon. Gentleman. But what would be the effect of the measure, if it was to be entirely voluntary with the inhabitants of the colony whether they would comply with the regulations or not? Why did the right hon. Gentleman come down to propose and support an enactment which would be utterly futile and inoperative? Whatever his intentions, the effect would be to constitute an ecclesiastical synod in these colonies, with the power of making laws irrespective of the colonial legislatures of the Imperial Parliament, which laws would be obligatory upon the members of the Church of England within the colonies. A proposal so serious ought to be entertained as a separate measure, and gravely and deliberately considered, and not engrafted upon a Bill professing very different objects, and dealing with entirely different matters. As to the constitution of the proposed synod, the principle was acknowledged that laymen might be members; and the Crown was to have the power of rejecting or confirming its canons. He did not understand whether this synod was to consist of a single body—bishops, clergy, and laity, all sitting and discussing these questions together, or whether they were to be two or more bodies, the clergy sitting separately from the laity. If it was to be one assembly, composed of all the members of the Church of England, he, as a member of that Church, should very much object to questions of the kind proposed being discussed and decided by a tumultuary as-
 1209 1210 1211
 MR. ROEBUCK : Then we will pass that by. [ Loud ironical cheering 1222
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, the proposition, under an appearance somewhat mysterious, was really an important one. They had to deal with what the proposition called the United Churches of England and Ireland in the colonies. Every person understood what was meant by the United Church of England and Ireland. It was subject to certain laws, and enjoyed certain high privileges and powers in this country. But there was a party in the country who wished to deal with that Church in a way that they (the House) would not permit. What did that party wish? They wished to have a church, called the United Church of England and Ireland, and to have that church above the law. They wished to have a convocation sitting by the side of Parliament. They had put that down heretofore, and they did not intend it should ever be revived, even by a side wind in the colonies. They were not to be mystified out of their common senses in reference to the proposition before them; and as regarded that proposition, he
 1219 1220 1221
 MR. ROEBUCK : Did the right hon. Gentleman say—was he prepared to say—Let us have no bishop?
 MR. ROEBUCK : It is surely in the estimates.
 MR. ROEBUCK : There are Ecclesiastical Estimates for all our colonies.
 MR. HUME  wished to relieve the minds of hon. Members, who seemed to be alarmed for the position in which members of the Church of England were likely to be placed in the colonies. He took it for granted that no court would be found in the colonies which would enforce the penalties of  prœmunire
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, he was afraid, from the speech they had just heard, and from other symptoms which unfortunately no one could help perceiving, that we were approaching times in which the principle on which an Established Church was maintained, would be discussed under far different circumstances from those to which they had hitherto been accustomed, and under which all who were friendly to the Church, to the monarchy, or to the English constitution, would ever wish to hear it discussed. There were men—and he believed he was doing no wrong to the hon. and learned Gentleman if he inferred from his speech that he was one of the number—there were men who were unfriendly to the principle of an Established Church, who did not think it beneficial to the great interests of the country, and who rejoiced at everything that tended to impair its efficiency or to retard its progress. But he did not believe that that was a principle upon which either the House or Her Majesty's Government—to whose sincere desire to promote the best interests of the Church, according to their own view of those interests, he, though entertaining very different views, was ready to bear his testimony—he did not believe that was the principle on which they would oppose the clause then under the consideration of the House. The only principle upon which an Established Church could ever exist in any country, the only principle on which it was defensible, was, that it was the embodiment of the religion believed by the mass of the people. The power which it possessed over the minds of the people was originally derived—not from their laws or establishment, but from its intrinsic truth, and its influence over the consciences of men. The Establishment was upheld by the belief of the people, and not the belief of the people by the Establishment. Therefore,
 1223 1224 bonâ fide 1225 1226
 MR. WALPOLE  thought that the object of the clause had been misunderstood by the Government and the House. It was an error to suppose that it was to create a convocation, or to give supremacy to the Church of England in the colonies. If the clause could have any such operation, there was no man in that House who would resist it more strenuously than himself; but he was prepared to give it his most cordial support, because he believed that the only effect that was hoped or intended to result from it was, that the members of the Church of England should be placed on terms of perfect equality with all other classes of religionists in having the power to manage their own affairs. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General and all other hon. Members who were prepared to take the same course with respect to the present Motion, were fully aware
 1232
 MR. ANSTEY  said, he wished to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford to a fact which he seemed to have overlooked. He appeared to be of opinion that the principle of religious equality had been wounded either by the measures of the local or the imperial legislatures; not in the matter of endowment, for that was equal, but in reference to matters of doctrine and discipline. He had cited the powers of the Churches of Scotland and of Rome to enforce their respective disciplines, and had stated that the Church of England possessed no such power—
 MR. ANSTEY  said, the documents moved for by the right hon. Gentleman himself disclosed a very different state of
 1213 primâ facie 1214
 MR. GLADSTONE : What I said was, that each religious body had its own private laws, for its own regulation and government.
 Mr. GLADSTONE  was understood to answer in the negative.
 MR. GLADSTONE : No, not subject to penalties.
 MR. GLADSTONE  could not give the vote which he intended to give in support of the Motion of the hon. Baronet, without stating briefly to the House what he intended to imply by that vote. The right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down expressed the opinion that it would be found quite impossible in practice to draw the line of demarcation between the powers of the Crown and the Parliament on the one hand, and the powers of the legislative assemblies of the colonies on the other. It would be too much he (Mr. Gladstone) thought to assert, in very strong terms, the negative of that proposition. But the principle on which he intended to give his vote was this, that it was a most valuable and important object to attain to emancipate the colonial legislatures altogether, in all matters purely of a local nature, from the control and interference of the Government at home, excepting upon defined and specified subjects, involving imperial considerations. That, he conceived, was an object of sound colonial policy, secondary to none in value and importance. But then it was said it was impracticable. Now, he had seen enough of its practicability to justify him in giving his vote in favour of having the question carefully examined; for he did not think that vague opinions glibly explained in debate were any sufficient answer to a Motion that contemplated the attainment of a great practical object, because we must recollect that we had in former times colonies in North America, the acts of which were not subject to any review whatever at home. These colonies grew and flourished under that system; and no inconvenience that he was aware of was ever felt while that system remained. At present if an Act passed a colonial legislature, and it were found in the minutest point to contravene the law of England, the Secretary of State was obliged to disallow it, and call upon the colony to amend it. Why was that so, that the law of England in every particular overrode the law of the colony? Might it not be that a multitude of details rendered it desirable that the local legislature should have the power of departing from the law of England? Whilst this might be required for the convenience of the colony, it would also be for the benefit of the mother coun-
 1193
 MR. GLADSTONE  then rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice, consisting of a clause and several provisoes on the framing and construction of which he prayed for a lenient consideration by the House. He desired to propose that, whatever might be the state of the law here, inasmuch as great doubts affected the right of the members of the Church of England in the Australian colonies to make regulations for the conduct of their local affairs in spiritual matters, these doubts ought not to be allowed to impede their free action in that respect, but that it should be lawful for the bishop, and clergy, and laymen, declared members of the Church, and in communion with it, to meet together on the footing of mutual assent, and adopt such measures for their government as they might consider desirable and expedient. And here, he must say, that he thought it the absolute duty of the Government, charged as they were with the superintendence in so many ways of the interests of the Church, to have included this subject in any attempt to pass a final Act with regard to the local affairs of the Australian colonies. But as they, with the best means at their command for discharging this duty, had not thought proper to undertake it, he had himself very reluctantly stepped so far into their place as to have applied the very limited means within his reach for preparing a proposition to submit to the House on this question. He hoped, therefore, that what he had to say would be considered with some indulgence, and that the law officers of the Crown (whose legal acuteness ought to be directed to devising and framing legislation on this subject, instead of being confined to criticising and objecting to the plans of legislation submitted by others) would at least treat him with mercy and forbearance. He had placed on the list of Notices a clause which enabled and gave the sanction of Parliament to these proceedings of the members of the Church in Australia, on the footing simply of a voluntary and private compact; and he could not declare too early or too explicitly what was the nature of his object. The House ought well to understand that the system of established religion did not prevail in Australia for any useful, intelligible, or rational purpose. It prevailed, if it prevailed there at all, for no other purposes whatever than those of incumbrance and vexation, of impediment to law and to order, of disturbance to the minds and the
 1196 1197 "That it shall not be lawful to impose or inflict, by any such regulation, any temporal or pecuniary penalty or disability other than such as may attach to the avoidance of any office or benefice held in the said Church." "That no such regulation shall be binding on any person or persons other than the said bishop or bishops, and the clergy and the lay persons within the said colonies who are or may be declared members of the Church of England, or otherwise in communion with him or them respectively." "That any such regulation, touching the existing relation of the said bishops, clergy, and others, to the Metropolitan See of Canterbury, shall be forthwith transmitted by the presiding bishop, or his deputy, to the archbishop of the said see, and shall be subject to disallowance by the said archbishop, under his hand and seal, at any time within twelve months from the passing of the said regulation, or within six months from the receipt thereof by the said archbishop, but not afterwards." "That it shall not be competent to the said bishops, clergy, and lay persons, or any of them, to pass any regulation affecting the rights of the Crown in the nomination of bishops, without the consent of Her Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for the Colonies." "That no such regulation made as aforesaid shall authorise the bishop of any diocese to eon-firm or consecrate, or to ordain, license, or institute, any person to any see, or to any pastoral charge or other episcopal or clerical office, except upon such person's having immediately before taken the oath of allegiance to Her Majesty, and having likewise subscribed the Articles of the United Church of England and Ireland, and declared his unfeigned assent and consent to the Book of Common Prayer." 1198 quasi 1199 1200 1201 Blackstone 1202 1203 nisi 1204 status status nisi sic volo sic volo 1205 l l 1206 1207 "And whereas doubts have existed as to the rights and privileges of the bishops, clergy, and other members of the United Church of England and Ireland, in regard to the management of the internal affairs thereof in the said colonies—be it enacted, that it shall be lawful for the bishop or bishops of any diocese or dioceses in the said colonies, or in any colony which Her Majesty shall, by Order in Council, declare to be joined to them for the purposes next hereinafter described, and the clergy and lay persons, being declared members of the Church of England, or being otherwise in communion with him or them respectively, to meet together from time to time, and at such meeting, by mutual consent, or by a majority of voices of the said clergy and laity, severally and respectively, with the assent of the said bishop or of a majority of the said bishops, if more than one, to make all such regulations as may be necessary for the better conduct of their ecclesiastical affairs, and for the holding of meetings for the said purpose thereof."
 MR. GLADSTONE  was aware that at this stage of the measure he was not entitled by the laws of debate to the privilege of reply, but he would take the liberty of trespassing for a single moment on the attention of the House, while he endeavoured to remove a misrepresentation which seemed to have led astray the judgments of several hon. Members. All that he de-
 1233
 MR. GLADSTONE : It is not so.
 MR. GLADSTONE : No.
 MR. GLADSTONE : I say there is no such vote in the estimates.
 MR. GLADSTONE : It is not so.
 MR. W. P. WOOD  said, that with regard to any legal difficulties that might be
 1215 1216 1217 1218
 SIR G. GREY  would remind the House that the specific Motion before it was, that this Bill be recommitted for the purpose of introducing clauses, purporting to define imperial and colonial questions, and to give the colonial legislature the absolute unrestricted power of dealing with questions strictly colonial, reserving to the Queen in Council—not to Parliament—the right of dealing with matters which were to be considered strictly imperial. The hon. Member for North Staffordshire appeared totally to misapprehend the arguments of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade. The hon. Gentleman said, that the Government advocated the principle of allowing colonial legislatures to legislate upon all subjects falling properly within their province, and he seemed to think that there was some great inconsistency in the Government opposing the introduction of these clauses. But the great objection made by his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade was, that the clauses showed the impracticability of inserting in an Act of Parliament any such accurate definition of imperial and colonial questions as could carry out the object proposed. The hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark proposed to specify certain powers and prerogatives which should be reserved to the Queen in Council; and at the end of the list of these, fifteen in number, he would add—"And all powers necessary for giving effect to the above powers and prerogatives." It was to the vagueness of the proposed definition that the great objection lay; and one could hardly conceive anything more unwise than to insert in the Act an uncertain definition, likely to raise all sorts of questions. The sentence just alluded to was certainly most comprehensive; and the result of the clause would be perpetual doubt, and constant questions and collision between the colonial and imperial authorities. That was the objection raised by the right hon. Gentleman to this proposal. He (Sir G. Grey) entertained
 1192
 SIR G. GREY  had not anticipated, after the speech which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford had made, that the consideration of his clauses would have involved the House in the wide and important questions connected with the relation of the Established Church to the State. He would only say, therefore, on this subject, that he differed with the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield in the wish which he had expressed to see a disunion of the Church and State. Anxious, however, as he was to see the Church an instrument of increasing usefulness to all classes of the community, he could not help expressing his deep regret that steps had been taken by some members of the Church which had led to proceedings tending to exhibit the Church in a state of disunion and distraction, thereby impairing its efficiency and diminishing its usefulness. He had thought that the House would not be led into this discussion, because the right hon. Gentleman had based his Motion on the fact that there was no Established Church in the colonies. The right hon. Gentleman said, that he wished the Church of England to be placed on a footing of perfect equality with other communions. But if he understood the right hon. Gentleman aright, he appeared to be asking on the behalf of the Church of England powers and advantages which other communions would not enjoy. He asked for the bishops, the clergy, and the laity of that Church, that power should be given to them by Parliament to form themselves into a convocation, which should make regulations having the force of law, and binding on members of that communion, not only  in foro conscientiœ 1227 1228 inter se
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH : * 1165 1166 1167 l 1168 1169 Nesci, o mi fili, quantillâ prudentiâ homines regantur 1170 1171 status 1172 status 1173 1174 1175 1176 1177 1178 1179 1180 "The good people of the several colonies, alarmed at the arbitrary proceedings of Parliament and the Administration, declare—That their ancestors were, at the time of their emigration, entitled to all the rights and liberties of natural-born subjects within the realm of England. That by such emigration they by no means forfeited any of those rights, but that they were, and their descendants now are, entitled to the exercise of all such of those rights as their circumstances enabled them to exercise. That the foundation of English liberty is a right in the people to participate in their legislative council; and as the English colonists are not represented, and can not be properly represented in the British Parliament, they are entitled to an exclusive power of legislation in their several provincial parliaments in all cases of taxation and internal polity, subject only to the negative of the Sovereign." "Then a great nation, informed by its legislators that the wheels of government were about to
 1181 1182
 MR. F. FRENCH  did not think that the Chester and Holyhead Company had any right to complain. If there was any cause of complaint, it was on the part of the Dublin Steam-packet Company. It was known that tenders would be taken by the Admiralty; but this company, that now complained, did not send in any tender. A tender was sent in by the Dublin Steam-packet Company, and everything was nearly fixed on, when, at the last moment, not for the purpose of making money, but for the purpose of thwarting the Dublin Steam-packet Company, a tender at a lower rate was sent in by the Chester and
 1253
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, he came down to the House rather with an impression that this was a squabble between the two companies, but the hon. Baronet had made charges against the Government and the department over which he had the honour to preside. He thought that in all cases where there was a doubt thrown on a department that it had acted fairly and honestly in regard to a contract, so far from shrinking from inquiry, that inquiry ought to be sought, and in this case he should seek it. But in so doing, he trusted the House would not for a moment give credence to the statement which the hon. Baronet had made, and which he was sure he must have given from the instructions of other persons. He (Sir F. T. Baring) was cognisant only of the latter part of the transaction, but he could scarcely recognise it as the same from the statement of the hon. Baronet. The facts of the case transpired, some of them, before he was in office; but he apprehended the case stood thus: It was quite true that on the recommendation of the Committee the railway company had power given them to run steamers; but the Committee never intended that the Government should only employ those steamers, and that this company should have a monopoly of Government employment. What were the facts? The Government had steamers on the line before. The company competed with them, not they with the company. He was afraid it had not been a profitable business for the company. The company had offered by private arrangement with the Treasury to take the mails; but they asked so much that the Treasury would not accept the
 1254
 MR. S. HERBERT  was glad to hear the explanation of his right hon. Friend, for it gave a different colour to what he had heard respecting this transaction. With respect to the proceeding when the first public competition took place, it was represented to him not as a public tender, but as a private negotiation between the Dublin Company and the Government. [Sir F. T. BARING: That negotiation was between the Government and the other company.] He was glad to say the statement of the right hon. Gentleman set that at rest, unless in Committee the contrary allegation should be proved. He doubted very much that the Dublin Steam Packet Company could perform the service at the amount agreed to, for if a company with
 1255
 MR. B. OSBORNE  conceived that they were to take up this question, not as a local squabble between two companies, but as one affecting the interests of England and Ireland. He dared say the fact of this railway having been established would be one of the arguments used on Monday night next in support of the proposition for abolishing the Lord Lieutenancy. He thought the First Lord of the Admiralty had given a fair answer to the charge that had been made, and consequently with that part of the question he had nothing to do; but he must say this, that, considering the great inducements that were held out to this company to lay out their money on this line—not a line merely projected for private advantage, but a line in which great national interests were involved—there was an impression abroad that that company had not been treated with the consideration its merits demanded. They were also induced to lay out 200,000 l 1256 l l l
 MR. MANGLES  should not have said one word had it not been for the taunt of the First Lord of the Admiralty, who said that he did not wonder at this debate, because he saw so many present in connexion with the railroad. He (Mr. Mangles) had also looked round, and he believed he was the only individual in the House who was, in the least degree, connected with the company; and, with the exception of his interest in the North Western Railway, he had not a shilling in the Holyhead Railway. The right hon Gentleman had stated the truth as far as he had gone, but he had only stated it partially. It was true that an offer was made by the Chester and Holyhead Company to carry the mails before it was put up to public competition—he was speaking without book, for ha came to the House unconscious of the Motion being about to come on, and he had brought no papers with him. The company said they would carry the mails, and asked, he believed, 35,000 l l 1257 per se l l l l via l 1258 nolens volens
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it would have been much more convenient had a good deal of this discussion been postponed, or reserved for the Select Committee, by whom the matter could be fairly gone into. He had only three observations to make with reference to the statements of the hon. Gentleman who had last addressed the House. The greater part of the transactions to which he referred had taken place five years ago. The whole of the arrangements with the Post Office, the whole arrangements as to the building of the bridge, had taken place, not during the existence of the present, but of a former Government. Was it not, then, far better that those transactions should be inquired into before a Committee, than that the Government should be asked to enter into explanations of things of which they knew nothing? The Committee would be granted, and the whole matter would come before them, for, of course, there could not be the slightest object in concealment. Then the facts would come out, though, perhaps, not quite in the shape in which the hon. Gentleman stated them. When he said that nothing in the world had been done by the Government towards giving the company a helping hand, he would ask him—referring only to transactions which had happened between himself (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) and the company—if he had not paid money to them which, though earned, was not actually due; and whether, on the other hand, he had not refrained from pressing them for money which was most indisputably due from them? If this were so.
 1259
 MR. H. HERBERT , as an Irish Member, wished to tender his thanks to the hon. Baronet who had brought forward this subject, which was most intimately connected with the prosperity of Ireland. Whether regarded in that light, or as a further step to an accelerated communication between England and America, it was most important that the adjudication should be the speediest, the safest, and the best that could be adopted.
 SIR R. BULKELEY  said, he had heard nothing from the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty which materially answered his observations. Before Easter he had moved for certain papers on the subject; on more than one occasion he had jogged the memory of the Secretary to the Admiralty, who said that the papers would not take five minutes to copy; but up to that moment they had not been produced.
 MR. COWPER  said, that the papers referred to were in the hands of the printer; and if the hon. Baronet had waited till they were laid before the House, he would have been spared the trouble of making many of the observations which he had made.
 LORD D. STUART  seconded the Motion.
 LORD D. STUART  had not heard a single reason why the Committee moved for should be refused. It had been said that no good could possibly result from giving themselves the trouble of going through a fresh investigation by the means of a Committee. Was it any reason that justice should not be done to these poor men, because they had friends who supported their cause through the agency of the public press? Was it a reason when poor people were oppressed, that they should be further oppressed, because some persons were found to take up their cause? Surely, when people had a right to demand a redress of grievances, the best way was to solicit, and if possible obtain, the support of the public press. The peaceful agitation which the press created was evidently the most advantageous mode of gaining any legitimate object in public affairs. There might be hundreds, perhaps thousands, employed as bakers. Of this there could be no doubt, that petitions on the subject came from all parts of the kingdom. He would ask, then, when thousands were dependent for their health and morals on the legislation of that House respecting the present subject, when the lives of those men were in danger of being shortened by the present defective state of the law, would the House deliberately refuse to grant an inquiry? The right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary had told them that all the information which could possibly be obtained on the subject was already before them; but how could be or any one assert that a great deal of information might not yet be obtained? He should not detain the House longer than to say that he had resolved to give his noble Friend all the support in his power on this subject.
 LORD R. GROSVENOR , in reply, said that the petitioners ought not to be held responsible for all that appeared in the paper to which the hon. Member for Manchester referred; for they, like himself, had probably no more connexion with it than arose from taking it in.
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  said, the Motion he was about to submit to the House was one which appealed to the best feelings of the heart. He had on a former occasion explained the grievances of which the journeymen bakers complained, and he could not believe that any serious objection would be made to his proposal. When he first brought forward the subject, he moved for a Committee to inquire into the sanitary condition of the journeymen bakers. To that Motion the right hon. Home Secretary replied, that as papers on the subject had been laid upon the table, there was no necessity for inquiring into matters which would be clearly developed in those papers. The right hon. Member for the University of Oxford then said he would prefer seeing a remedy applied by a Bill, rather than that the subject should be referred to a Committee. Last year he (Lord R. Grosvenor) moved for leave to bring in a Bill to prohibit labour in bakehouses during certain hours of the night. The evils under which the men laboured were admitted, and it was not attempted to be proved that the remedy proposed would not be efficient; but a certain set of phrases were strung together, and all sorts of evil prophesied from the working of such a Bill were made, and leave was refused. The petitioners whose petitions he had presented at an early period of the evening stated that they had considered the arguments used against the proposed Bill, and believed the majority of the House were under a complete misconception as to the effects it would produce, and they prayed for a Committee of Inquiry. The right hon. Home Secretary had admitted that there might be a case upon the sanitary ground, and he (Lord R. Grosvenor) proposed now to delegate to a Committee of Inquiry whether the state of the bakehouses was not extremely prejudicial to health—those houses in which the food of the people was prepared. It was complained that they were in such a state as to injure not only the persons working, but the bread made there—an article liable to be affected by the air that was around it;
 1246
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that when the parties on whose behalf this Committee was moved ascertained that it was opposed on no better grounds than those just advanced by the right hon. Gentleman, they would arrive at the conclusion that their case had not been fairly met. It was urged against the present claim that other callings and trades would bring forward their grievances also; but all he could say to that was, that if Parliament went on refusing to allow these parties to give evidence of their grievances, it was not very likely that the working classes would much longer persist in their attempts to get their condition ameliorated by appeals to the Legislature. Now, bearing in mind what we saw going on around us in other countries, he did not think it wise to turn a deaf ear to claims so unanimously preferred. Although evidence might already have been collected, he thought a Bill on the subject would come with all the greater force if founded upon the more recent statements of the journeymen bakers. When the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex proposed to bring in a Bill, he was opposed; and when he suggested a Committee, he was told to introduce a Bill; but if these parties were thus driven from pillar to post, they would come to the conclusion that Parliament was either unable to mitigate their grievances, or unwilling to inquire into them, or they would conclude that, under the guise of modern philosophy and dogmatical rules, the Legislature were only showing their incapacity to deal with a complex question. He did not
 1248
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thanked his hon. Friend the Member for Tavistock for the support he had given him in resisting this Motion. He hardly knew what more he could say on the subject, than he had already said on the three or four occasions when he had had to oppose propositions for reducing or repealing taxes. He had stated what sum he thought it necessary to maintain to meet contingencies, and how he proposed to apply the surplus that would be left, and the House had confirmed him in the course he then took; he could not, therefore, consent to any proposition which would interfere with that arrangement. He quite agreed that it would be impossible to have an  ad valorem s s d 1243
 MR. ARKWRIGHT  begged to inquire of the right hon. President of the Board of Trade whether he intended to ask Parliament to interfere in any way with respect to the Exhibition of the Works of Industry, 1851? and whether he would give an assurance that no application for an allowance of public money in aid of that exhibition would, under any circumstances, be sanctioned by Her Majesty's Government?
 MR. G. THOMPSON  said, he felt himself called upon to take some notice of what had fallen from the hon. Member for Manchester. He had himself been accused
 1250
 MR. BAILLIE  said, he had given notice of a question of rather a delicate nature; but looking at the public inconvenience which had occurred in consequence of the Lord Chancellor's inability to attend to the proceedings of the Court of Chancery, which had for a long time been in abeyance, he trusted he might be excused for asking the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department whether he was able to give the country any intimation as to the probable period at which the Lord Chancellor might be expected to resume the duties of his office?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  did not anticipate that it would be his duty to ask Parliament to interfere in any way with respect to the conduct of the Exhibition of 1851, which in its origin had been, and he trusted to its termination would be, entirely dependent on the voluntary exertions and contributions of the public. The only point on which it was possible he might ask the interference of Parliament, and which was now under his consideration, was whether in the Bill which it would be necessary to propose to the House to amend the Act for the registry of designs, it might not be expedient to introduce a clause to protect from piracy the unpatented articles that might be exhibited. With respect to the second question, he objected on principle to answer questions of that general description; but he could assure the hon. Member that, having the honour to be one of the commissioners for the conduct of the exhibition, nothing was further from the intention of the commissioners than to apply to the Treasury for any advance of money, and that if they did apply he believed that Her Majesty's Government would be unwilling to entertain it. The only expenses which would fall upon the Government were those to which his noble Friend at the head of the Government had referred when he stated that he intended to advise the issuing of the commission, namely, those ordinary and trifling expenses which were necessarily connected with the conduct of any public commission. Beyond that, he did not anticipate that the country would be asked for a single shilling towards the exhibition.
 MR. BRIGHT  understood that the noble Lord wished the inquiry to extend to the places in which these men worked, and the time they were employed. The noble Lord had even spoken of their disgusting dirtiness. But he (Mr. Bright) could not understand how Parliament could take steps to alter the buildings in which they labour, or to make them more cleanly. He did not see how Parliament was to interfere directly and avowedly with the labour of adult men. Indeed, the noble Lord's clients, however much they might suffer, seemed to be in a very good position to plead their own cause, for they had an organ of their own, termed the  Bakers' Gazette and General Trades' Advocate 1249
 MR. TRELAWNY  said, he had a Motion on the Votes for the application of two millions a year to the reduction of the National Debt, in time of peace; and, therefore, however much he might agree with the hon. Gentleman the Member for Dumfries as to the evil results of this and other taxes, he could not consent to support the present Motion. He believed that great fallacies had been put forward on the subject of taxation; as, for instance, the other night, when they heard so much in favour of the remission of the duty paid by solicitors, though he, for one, considered that tax, like many others, was paid, not by the attorney, but by the consumer. He should censure hon. Gentlemen on that (the Opposition) side of the House for supporting all these reductions of taxation, because he thought they ought to regard the reduction of the debt as a matter of far more prominent importance. It was from this feeling that he felt bound, though with great reluctance, to oppose the Motion of the hon. Gentleman.
 MR. HUME  said, the address of the right hon. Baronet was an appeal to the House to this effect:—"I have made up my mind. I will not listen to any change of my plans, and therefore I will not enter into the particulars of this advertisement tax." He (Mr. Hume) objected to too great a deference being paid to the judgment of the right hon. Baronet in this matter. He knew that the Government of the country could not be carried on without money, but then it was the duty of a Chancellor of the Exchequer to obtain that money at the least possible inconvenience to the great mass of the community. The question was not whether the advertisement duty was new or old, but whether it bore on particular interests, and whether the amount it produced might not be obtained in a manner less burdensome to the people. The House ought to overrule the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the present occasion, the more particularly if they thought with him (Mr. Hume) that he had made an unwise distribution of the
 1244
 MR. M. GIBSON  seconded the Motion.
 MR. EWART , having presented a great number of petitions, chiefly from newspaper proprietors, against the advertisement duty, proceeded, pursuant to notice, to bring forward his Motion for the repeal of the duty on advertisements. The petitions
 1238 Illustrated London News Art Journal Punch 1239 "Ignotum tragicæ genus invenisse Camœnæ, Dicitur, et plaustris vexisse poemata Thespis." 1240 s s d 1241 ad valorem l l 1242
 MR. EWART , in reply, observed, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said that objections might be taken to any tax; but when the House was in a position to remit taxation, the question was, what was the most objectionable tax; and he (Mr. Ewart) regarded this as one of the most objectionable duties now imposed. He hoped, therefore, that the House would as-seat to his proposition.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  thought that the House ought not to turn a deaf ear to such complaints; he should, therefore, vote for the Motion of the noble Lord.
 SIR G. GREY  would have bsen glad if he could have felt it consistent with his duty to agree to the Motion; but the objections he had had to urge on former occasions remained unremoved. He felt the force of the argument urged on those occasions by several Gentlemen, that it was inexpedient to grant Committees of Inquiry founded upon such petitions, unless the House had some clear and definite conception of legislative measures that might be founded upon the report of such a Committee. When the noble Lord moved for a Committee of Inquiry two years ago, he was met by the argument that the evidence upon the subject of the condition of the persons in this trade was taken before the Sanitary Commission. Statements very painful to read were made, and it was impossible to deny that those persons were subject to very serious evils in the prosecution of the business in which they were employed; but the remedy proposed by the noble Lord was rejected by a very large majority, because it was felt that it would not only be violating the principles of political economy, but that it would be impossible to enforce it, and that if we proceeded to legislate for this trade, there was no reason why we should not be asked to legislate with regard to others. He (Sir G. Grey) believed, as he had said before, that arrangements might be made between employers and men, by mutual consent, which would tend to remedy many of the evils complained of; and that by looking to Parliament the parties were diverting their attention from the means by which they might attain a remedy. The petitioners asked for an opportunity of proving before a Committee that the House was wrong in
 1247
 SIR G. GREY  believed it was well known to all, that for several weeks past the Lord Chancellor had been suffering under severe indisposition. He was sure the hon. Gentleman would rejoice to hear that the noble and learned Lord was recovering, and was already able to attend to business connected with his office, though he had not yet resumed his regular sittings in the Court of Chancery. The noble and learned Lord intimated to the leading counsel of his court at the beginning of this term, that he was ready to hear in his own house any appeals that might require immediate attention. There was only one case of that nature at the time; upon which the noble and learned Lord, after hearing it argued, had pronounced a very able judgment.
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  would remind the right hon. Baronet that if he opposed every Bill on which there was a difference of opinion, he would never agree to any Bill. He thought that many of the provisions of this Bill were exceedingly useful; what was wanting in Ireland was to have all the measures on this subject comprised in one Act; this Bill proposed to do so, and with some alteration would effect that object. He should remind the House that they had omitted from their legislation one branch of the fisheries that was open to every man—he alluded to the sea fisheries. He hoped that either the Government or some independent Member of the House would take up the question, and in the course of next Session introduce some measure that would be for the advantage of that great and important branch of their fisheries.
 LORD NAAS  said, there could be no doubt the opinion of the Committee last
 1266
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  supported the second reading, with a view to have the measure referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  said, that agreeing with the  Times 1260
 COLONEL DUNNE  would support the Bill: he said there was a pressing and immediate necessity for some measure to consolidate the existing laws, and prevent the confusion of conflicting decisions. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland, on bringing in what was commonly called "The Rod Act" last year, admitted that further legislation was necessary, and it was to be hoped he would lend his assistance to the present measure. He (Colonel Dunne) objected to interference with vested rights in Ireland, but at the same time did not wish to see those rights unnecessarily extended, and the rights of the public diminished. The Bill before the House interfered less with the milling interest than any former measure, and the House
 1267
 MR. SCULLY  rose to support the Amendment on other grounds than even those which had already been put forward. He was sure that every one acquainted with Ireland would be ready to admit that the measure was of a nature likely to injure other interests in Ireland besides those which had been already referred to; he alluded more particularly to the mill interest; and he thought that anything which affected the millers ought to be received with much caution. The commissioners created under the Bill might sweep away all the weirs—they might interfere to almost any extent. In his opinion a short Act, consisting of only three or four clauses, might easily be introduced, amending the Act of 1842, so as to remedy many of the evils at present complained of. As to the destruction of fish, there was every reason to believe that that took place less frequently at the mouths of rivers than higher up, where the spawn and the young fish were not properly preserved. Sufficient time had not yet been given to test the working of the old Act, and he had received letters stating that the conservators had been of the greatest service in preventing the destruction of spawn and fry. It would be better to withdraw the Bill, and to bring in a short simple Act, which would meet all objections.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  entertained the strongest objection to the second reading of this Bill. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Bodmin had criticised the report of the Board of Health; but as another opportunity would be afforded for discussing that subject, as well as the measure which had been proposed by his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary, he would not now touch upon either of those topics. The question at present before the House was, whether the Bill of his hon. Friend the Member for Bodmin should be read a second time. Now, that Bill appeared to him (Mr. Labouchere) to involve a principle which made it impossible for the House to accede to it. Even if the House agreed in opinion with the hon. Gentleman that the Bill introduced by the Secretary of State for the Home Department ought not to be sanctioned, he (Mr. Labouchere) should still object to the present Bill. The Bill empowered railway companies, with the sanction of the Railway Commissioners, to undertake and conduct the business heretofore carried on by cemetery companies. He would not enter into a discussion of the sanitary branch of the subject; but this he would say, that it was contrary to all principle to allow railway companies to embark in any description of traffic different from that which was the real and legitimate object of such companies. Even the transmission of passengers by steamboats was considered a departure from the proper functions of a railway company; it was impossible, therefore, to allow such a company to perform all the duties of a cemetery company. He felt, therefore, bound to oppose the second reading of the Bill. He might just observe that, in all his consultations with persons connected with railways—including railway directors—he had not met with any one who did not altogether repudiate such a measure as this. He should, therefore, move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 MR. LACY  rose to move the Second Beading of the Extra Mural Interments Bill, which, he was satisfied, embodied the best mode of securing interments without the metropolis that could at present be adopted. He was convinced that the most effectual way of taking the dead out of town 20 or 30 miles was to do it through the medium of railways. If they adopted the ordinary hearse conveyances they could go only a few miles, and in a short time it would be found that they had a belt of graveyards surrounding the metropolis; whereas if they went out 20 or 30 miles, they would only be spots here and there. He was of opinion that every person ought to have a grave for himself, and one acre of land would not contain more than 1,500 corpses. If 60,000 corpses a-year were to be taken from London—and that would soon be the average—not less than 40 acres of land would be required annually. Only let the House consider, if this was the case, what, in a few years, would be the difficulties experienced with regard to land. The Bill proposed by the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary had for its object to carry out the recommendations of the report issued by the Board of Health; but he (Mr. Lacy) thought it would not be difficult to show the utter impracticability of the plan proposed by the board. Their report pointed to a great national cemetery down the river, including Abbeywood, Belvidere-
 1272 1273 l
 MR. HUME  would repeat the question which he intimated yesterday to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland, whether it was true that a public officer connected with Dublin Castle who had been intrusted with public money had decamped, the public loss thereby being very considerable? He (Mr. Hume) was quite ignorant of the case. He was only anxious, that, if unfounded, the rumour should be at once sot at rest; and that, if it was unfortunately well-founded, the House should know the worst.
 MR. NAPIER  said, the reason he objected to sending the Bill to a Committee was, that what was good in it was not new, and what was new was not good. In 1842 an Act was passed to consolidate the Acts then existing, and to settle the doubts then expressed as to the state of the law. They were now called upon to pass an Act to consolidate laws that had been consolidated already, and to explain doubts which had long ago been set at rest. Was it wise or right before ten years had passed away to sweep off the Statute-book a measure which was calculated to define the state of the law, and thus to revive all the doubts and difficulties which had been settled and determined? They talked of giving a Parliamentary title to property; but if the House acted in that way, any title would be preferable to one resting on an Act of Parliament. People in Ireland had said to him, "For God's sake, do get the Legislature to leave us alone." Their legislation on Irish property was one continual scene of clipping, altering, and changing—consolidating Acts now, explaining them then, then separating them, and then consolidating them all over again—thus continually directing the minds of the people to look to Parliament instead of teaching them to rely on their own exertions. Where were the doubts to be resolved? He knew of none. The Act of 1842 was as plain as words could make it. He had a very great dislike to give extensive powers to commissioners. In Ireland the practice was particularly objectionable, as the exercise of such large and arbitrary authority had an injurious effect on the minds of the people.
 MR. C. ANSTEY , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said that he had received a number of suggestions for the amendment of the measure, and that, if he should succeed in having it read a second time, as he hoped he should, he intended to move that it be committed  pro formâ 1262 l 1263 l
 MR. C. ANSTEY , in reply, stated that he had no objection to the Bill being sent before a Select Committee, but would persist in his Motion for a second reading.
 MR. CONOLLY  was not averse to some amendment of the present law on this subject, but he could not consent to the system proposed by this measure. The powers proposed to be conferred on the commissioners to be appointed under the Bill, were, in his opinion, as unconstitutional as they were unprecedented. He did not deny the necessity of some legislative interference with regard to fisheries, and was ready to promote, as far as was in his power, any salutary legislation; but he protested against any proposal of a tyrannical or oppressive character, especially when it invaded the rights of private individuals, who were utterly unable to defend themselves. The hon. and learned Member for Youghal had claimed great credit for bringing this measure forward; he had held himself up as the protector of the poor, and had said that the Bill would place food within the reach of people who were now debarred from it by monopoly. He (Mr. Conolly) believed, however, that if this measure, in its present form, be-
 1264 1265
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  seconded the Motion. The measure which had been introduced by the Government on this subject was open to many objections, and he certainly preferred the course which was re-commanded by his hon. Friend. The enormous expense which would be incurred by the plan proposed by Government, was a Strong objection to its being adopted. If any measure of this kind were to be made the subject of legislation, it would fee imperative on the Government to avail itself of railway conveyance. He strongly objected to the provision which made the payment of any deficiency attending the Government measure to be provided for out of the poor-rates. He did not presume that the Bill of his hon. Friend was per-
 1274
 MR. W. FAGAN , in the hope that the Bill now under discussion would be referred to a Select Committee, as suggested by the noble Lord the Member for Kildare, would vote for the second reading, for the purpose of showing his approval of the object the hon. and learned Member for Youghal had in view, namely, to increase and protect salmon fisheries in Ireland—and of expressing his opinion in that manner, that some amended legislation was necessary to preserve these fisheries; and, lastly, for the purpose of testifying his sense of the energy and ability which the hon. and learned Member for Youghal had exhibited, not only in framing the Bill now before the House, but also as Chairman of the Committee of last Session, when he
 1268 1269
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  opposed the Bill, which proposed to create three commissioners—a triumvirate—with most arbitrary powers. He referred particularly to the 14th clause, which he considered would place in great danger the interests of the millowners. He felt it his duty to support the Amendment.
 MR. GROGAN  considered that some measure was necessary; and though he could not support the Bill in its present shape, he thought it should be referred to a Select Committee upstairs, fairly and impartially selected, with ample power to examine and arrange its provisions. That would be the way to have unanimity on the subject, and to ensure the passing of a Bill this Session that would protect the real interests of the country.
 MR. GROGAN  asked whether it was true that there was a second defaulter who had decamped from Dublin Castle?
 SIR G. GREY  was not sure that he quite understood the question of the hon. Gentleman. If the question was whether any private communication had passed between the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown and certain Members of that House, that was a question upon which he could give the hon. Member no information. His noble Friend was not in the habit of communicating to him the contents of his private letters. He could only say that he had never heard of any communication of the kind referred to before. As to making the Motion of the hon. Member for South Essex a vote of confidence, he had not even heard the subject mooted.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, there was an investigation going on with reference to another gentleman, who was not, however, in the Chief Secretary's office; but he was not able to say what was the defalcation, if any, nor under what circumstances it had taken place. He knew that an inquiry was going on with regard to it, but he would rather not say any more on the subject at present.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  was sorry he had been unable to answer the hon. Gentleman's question the day before; but he had thought it better to make the necessary inquiries first. He supposed his hon. Friend alluded to the case of Mr. Mathews, late clerk in the Chief Secretary's office, Dublin. The facts of that case were these:—The Paymaster of Civil Services in Ireland having brought to the notice of Government certain irregular transactions in which Mr. Mathews was engaged with respect to the distribution of what was called the "Concor-
 1261 l
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, he had always acknowledged the importance of an
 1270
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the clause was not in the Bill originally, but was introduced when the Bill was in Committee in the other House. In his opinion the clause was not of much importance; but he hoped the hon. and gallant Member would not divide upon it.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  was apprehensive that the machinery of the Scotch courts would not tally exactly with the arrangements of the Bill, But he would consult the Lord Advocate with the view
 1281
 The CHAIRMAN  said, he was unwilling to interrupt the course of any Motion, but he must beg to express to the hon. and learned Gentleman his opinion that the Motion which he (the Chairman) found the hon. and learned Member was about to propose, did not come at all within the scope of the Bill under discussion, which
 1282
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  said, he did not much like to be thrown over in such a manner; but, of course, if the hon. Gentleman in the chair decided against his proceeding with the Motion, he should at once submit. He begged, however, to observe, that when he first contemplated to bring the matter forward, it was his intention to propose his clause as an Amendment on the Irish Parliamentary Voters Bill; but then he was told he could not introduce it into that Bill, and that the present Bill would afford the fitting occasion. His Motion had been for sometime on the Paper, and he really thought the objection now started ought to have been communicated to him before. However, he was in the hands of the Chairman.
 The CHAIRMAN  had had no communication with the hon. and learned Member as to the fitting occasion on which to propose the Motion.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, no doubt the rule propounded from the chair was quite clear; the course for the hon. and learned Gentleman to pursue, however, was equally clear; all he had to do was to withdraw his Motion, of which he (Mr. Aglionby) entirely approved in itself, and which he should cordially support, both as an act of justice towards Ireland, and as a valuable precedent for England, and to propose it again on the third reading as a separate clause. The Bill, if so amended, would then have to be put from the chair "as a Bill to shorten the duration of elections in Ireland, for establishing additional places for taking the poll thereat, and for taking the votes thereat by way of ballot."
 MR. HUME  hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would adopt the course suggested by the hon. and learned Member for Cockermouth, and upon the House resuming give notice of the clause as a separate clause to be proposed on the third reading. The House would then have full notice of what was intended; and all who desired to give this most necessary protection to the people of Ireland would, he trusted, be in their places when the occasion arrived for recording their votes.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  cordially thanked the hon. and learned Member for Tralee
 1283
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  fully concurred in the hope that his hon. and learned Friend would give the notice suggested, so that all the Irish representatives might have the opportunity of rallying for the protection of the Irish constituencies, and for the benefit, ultimately, of the electors of England.
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  had certainly not consulted the hon. Gentleman in the chair upon the point; but, on the other hand, the objection had not seemed to strike the hon. Gentleman until he (Mr. M. O'Connell) had made some progress in his observations introductory of the Motion. The Government, as all other parties ought to be, had been quite aware that the Motion was on the books; he himself had been in attendance every evening watching the Bill; and he must repeat his feeling, that it would have been more courteous to him had he been informed that this special demurrer would be started. As it was, he should adopt the course suggested.
 The CHAIRMAN  had really not been aware of the scope of the hon. and learned Gentleman's Motion; indeed, he had so many things before him, that he had not had time to notice it at all.
 LORD C. HAMILTON  said, that the clause proposed to give powers to the Lord Lieutenant; the office might be abolished.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  apprehended that in that case the duties of the Lord Lieutenant would devolve by statute upon some other functionary.
 LORD NAAS  then opposed the whole clause, because it was different to the provision of the English Act. It was desirable to assimilate the laws of the two coun-
 1284
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  agreed entirely with the noble Lord. If the Executive Government could alter the polling place as they pleased, the elections would be virtually in their hands.
 SIR G. GREY  explained that his attention had not been particularly directed to the clause. As the principle of the Bill certainly was to assimilate the law of Ireland to the law of England, it would be better to leave out the clause, and introduce a new clause with similar provisions to the English Act. If the noble Lord had prepared any such clause, perhaps it could be introduced then.
 LORD NAAS  said, he would sooner leave it in the hands of the Government; and the clause was struck out.
 LORD J. MANNERS  thought it would be for the convenience of the House that he should state the course which he intended to pursue with reference to this measure. He did not propose to make any statement on the present position of the Bill, but he agreed with his noble Friend who had hitherto taken charge of the measure, and who had announced his intentions publicly, though not as yet to that House, that the framework of the proposition brought forward by Her Majesty's Ministers was more likely to produce a beneficial result than the framework of the measure which he and his noble Friend had introduced. Thus far he agreed with his noble Friend, and he was prepared to accept, with him, the machinery by which Her Majesty's Government proposed to carry out the object they had in view. But beyond that his concurrence with his noble Friend did not go, and therefore, on the bringing up of the report, he would move that "half-past five" be substituted for "six o'clock" in the evening—an alteration which, in point of fact, would make the proposal of the Government an effective Ten Hours Bill. He would say no more than that he conceived the honour of that House and the rights of the people were concerned in passing an effective Ten Hours Bill.
 LORD NAAS  could confirm the statement of his hon. Friend, that the medical
 1286
 MAJOR BLACKALL  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer when it was the intention of the Government to proceed with the Drainage Advances for Ireland Bill? whether, in the meantime, orders have been issued to the Board of Works to proceed with the drainage works already commenced; and, also, whether it was the intention of the Government to propose any extension of the purposes to which money borrowed for the improvement of landed property in Ireland may be applied?
 MR. OSWALD  asked if there was any objection to lay the Bill on the table at once?
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, he would not proceed with the Public Health Bill to-night, and that ample notice would be given of the intention of the Government with regard to that measure. The Bill was not intended to supersede private Acts, but those towns which had private Acts would be enabled to place themselves under the operation of this measure.
 MR. DISRAELI  thought the power given to the Commissioners by this clause was of a most arbitrary character.
 MR. COWAN  hoped the Government would not think it necessary to proceed with the Public Health (Scotland) Bill, because he believed this Bill would carry out sanitary measures very efficiently, and would be generally acceptable to the country.
 MR. COWAN  stated that, although the clause required certain advertisments to be published in in the  Edinburgh Gazette
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that was a point on which he must decline to give an opinion at present, but which might be fitly considered in Committee on the Bill.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Bill was a mere repetition of the clauses of former Bills. He had made some corrections and alterations in the Bill only an hour ago, and he hoped to lay it on the table in a day or two.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply to the first question, that the Bill was quite ready, and would have been laid upon the table if there had been any prospect of proceeding with it, but the time of the House was, at present, pretty fully occupied. With regard to the second question, he was not authorised to make any of the advances proposed to be sanctioned by that Bill until the Bill had passed; but the balance in hand would be applied to the continuance of works, so far as it went. In reply to the last question, he might state that he intended to propose that money borrowed for the improvement of landed property, both in Great Britain and Ireland, might be applied to farm buildings. He must say that he had some doubts as to the propriety of this measure, and he believed there would be very great practical difficulties in carrying it out. He thought, however, that the question ought
 1276
 MR. AGLIONBY  appealed to the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary whether they might not go into Committee that night,  pro formâ
 MR. LABOUCHERE  suggesed that the clause might be amended by merely giving the Commissioners power to direct, when they deemed it necessary, that a fresh meeting of shareholders should take place.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  admitted that the power conferred by the clause was an unusual one, but the Bill proceeded entirely on the principle of vesting a large discretionary authority in the Railway Commissioners.
 COLONEL RAWDON  inquired whether the Bill would apply to flax-mills, because it was most important to encourage the growth of flax in Ireland?
 MR. HUME  said, he rose to put a question to the right hon. Home Secretary which related to a matter of considerable importance to the public. A short time ago, two persons took third-class tickets at one of the stations on the Eastern Counties Railway. When the train came up, there was no room in the third-class carriages, and an officer of the company directed them to take their seats in a second-class carriage. The passengers hesitated, but the officer told them to get into the carriage, and they accordingly did so. When they arrived in London they were asked for their tickets, and, on producing the third-class tickets, they were told they must pay the difference between the second and third-class fare. They refused to do so, explaining that they had been placed in a second-class carriage by an officer of the company. They were then taken in charge by a constable, and were locked up until the arrival of the superintendent, who, instead of dismissing them, directed them to be taken before a magistrate. The magistrate, on hearing the complaint, at once dismissed it. One of the parties, Mr. Gay, had since brought an action for false imprisonment against the company. The case was tried, and the jury returned a verdict that the company were liable for the acts of their servant; but they were directed by the Judge to reconsider that verdict. He, therefore, wished to ask the
 1277
 MR. HUME  hoped that every Bill would come into the House equally well considered beforehand. The hon. and learned
 1280
 MR. HUME  said, the Bill, which contained no fewer than 377 clauses, had only been delivered that day. The Lord Advocate had, however, paid great attention to the suggestions that had been made to hire, and he (Mr. Hume) believed that all the material objections raised against the Bill had been removed. It was not, there-fore, his intention to offer any obstacle to the progress of the measure.
 MR. R. M. FOX  rose to put a question to the Chief Secretary of State for the Home Department. On Tuesday last at the Clerkenwell Police Court a man of the name of Reardon was put into the witness box. The New Testament was handed to him, but before he was sworn the officer of the court, after ascertaining that he was a Roman Catholic, told him to make the sign of the cross. Reardon refused, stating that it was an insult to him to ask him to do so, as it implied that unless he first made the sign he would not consider his oath on the Evangelists binding. Mr. Combe, the presiding magistrate, then took up the matter, and said he had never before known a Roman Catholic witness refuse to make the sign of the cross before being sworn. Reardon still refused, and Mr. Combe said, that if a Roman Catholic priest were present,
 1278
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, one could not help congratulating the Committee, and especially the Members from Scotland, on the wonderful despatch and unanimity with which a Bill, consisting of not fewer than 380 clauses had been disposed of; and he begged to say that he thought the Committee bad that night effaced all memory of the evil precedent of yesterday.
 MAJOR BERESFORD  said, that this clause gave the Railway Commissioners power to annul the resolutions which any meeting of shareholders might adopt. This was a most extraordinary power to vest in the Commissioners, and he would divide the Committee on it.
 MAJOR BERESFORD  assented to this suggestion; and
 MR. GROGAN  begged to move for a return of the names of all persons appointed, or recommended for appointment, by the President of the Board of Control, to any medical situation in the East Indies.
 MR. GROGAN  did not intend to cast the slightest imputation on the manner in which the right hon. Gentleman had dispensed his patronage. He had made the Motion at the request of the medical profession in Ireland, among whom there prevailed a suspicion that they were not fairly dealt with in respect to the appointments in India.
 MR. GROGAN , though not satisfied with the explanations given, would withdraw the Motion.
 SIR G. GREY  could not understand why the return should be confined to the medical appointments. It might, with as much reason, be extended to the whole patronage exercised by the East India Company.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that his attention having been called by his noble Friend the Member for Arundel to the report in the  Times Times 1279
 SIR G. GREY  said, the Bill was not under his charge; and, as the noble Lord the Member for Bath had gone away after expressing a wish that it should be left over till Monday, he did not think they would be justified in taking it up.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that without professing to be very accurately informed as to the particulars of the case to which his attention had been called, he believed the facts stated by the hon. Gentleman were substantially correct. A person named Gay brought an action against the Eastern Counties Railway Company for an alleged illegal imprisonment by the servant or servants of that company. He was advised—and he spoke under the correction of hon. Friends of his learned in the law—that it had long been the settled rule of law, that when a servant wilfully did an illegal act in the course of his employment, the master was not liable, unless there was evidence to show that such act had been done by his authority or with his consent. The case, he believed, resolved itself into this, that the plaintiff had brought his action against the wrong party; that he had proceeded against the company instead of against their servant. He could only say, in reply to the hon. Gentleman's question, that the Government had no intention of altering the long-settled rule of law by which the liability of masters for the acts of their servants was determined.
 SIR J. C. HOBHOUSE  opposed the Motion, as being one of a very objectionable and invidious character. A similar return was moved for by the hon. Member for Carlow on the 16th of April, and on a division it was rejected by 53 against 23 votes. That return, indeed, extended to every description of appointment excepting the judges of the courts of law in India. Why the President of the Board of Control should be so particularly pointed out for this exhibition, as if he had done something worse than any other Minister of the Crown in the dispensation of patronage, be could not understand. As far as he was himself concerned, he could say that the distribution of patronage was just the most disagreeable thing that attached to the office he held.
 SIR J. C. HOBHOUSE  had omitted to mention that, after all, the appointments put in his hands as President of the Board of Control were only two in each year, for, in point of fact, it was the East India Company who made the appointments, he only having the power of recommending the parties to the Company.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the hon. Gentleman was assuming a state of things which the bishop denied the Order in Council effected, and which the law officers held, when the matter was referred to them, it did not.
 MR. M. GIBSON , on the part of the promoters of the Bill, felt bound to resist the Amendment. The right hon. Gentleman, in the statement he had made to the House, had omitted one branch of the question, which, in fact, involved the ground upon which this measure had been submitted to Parliament. The object of the Bill was to apply the parochial revenues of Manchester to the general parochial wants of Manchester; and if they gave so large a sum to the canons as was now proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, they would materially trench on the surplus from which alone could come the provision for the poorer clergy in the numerous other parishes of Manchester which were not otherwise provided for. This would be inconsistent with the whole principle of the Bill, and he therefore must decidedly oppose it.
 LORD J. MANNERS  said, that the right hon. Member for Manchester assumed the whole question at issue implied that there was no other object to be regarded than the spiritual provision of the parish. He (Lord J. Manners) denied that the Committee to whom the Bill was referred gave any opinion upon the much-disputed question of cure of souls. That part of the right hon. Gentleman's argument, therefore, with respect to the justice and equity of the case, ought not to be considered then. He should support the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge.
 MR. PLUMPTRE  said, it seemed to him the question was whether the sum to which the extra 150 l
 SIR B. HALL  said, that the amount of salary for the canons had been fully discussed in Committee, and the sum inserted in the Bill was thought amply sufficient. There was one cathedral church in Manchester, and fifty-three district churches, all of which were to be provided for; and he thought it hard that, after so full and careful a deliberation in Committee, the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge should come down and ask for 750 l 1304 l l l l l l l l l l l 1305 l s l "This school is one of those relics of former times which are now happily disappearing under a more just idea of the nature and importance of education properly so called. The instruction is as narrow as it is very well possible to be, sewing and reading are the only things taught. The children repeat a collect or two, and parts of the catechism by rote, but there is a lamentable want of enlightenment. Moses and David were given as two of the disciples of Christ; and by several other answers equally unintelligent, I fear this was not an exaggerated instance of their general want of all correct knowledge of Scripture history and facts. There is no method at all." l l s l s l s l s l s l s d l s d l l s d l s d l l 1306
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the facts which had been brought forward by the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone had no bearing whatever on the present question. There had, unfortunately, been some disputes about the ecclesiastical property of Manchester, and whether it ought to be applied to the cure of souls; but, whatever might be the opinions of hon. Members on that subject, this Bill settled that prospectively, and as vacancies occurred, the funds should be applied to the spiritual cure of souls. The Bill was a valuable Bill, and he should be sorry if it did not receive the sanction of Parliament. With respect to the immediate question, it related entirely to the income of the future deans and canons. The existing deans and canons had no personal interest in it whatever. It was only as vacancies arose that the proposed incomes were to be attached to the canonries. The Bill proposed to assign 1,000 l l l l l l l l
 MR. DEEDES , as chairman of the Committee, begged to state that the decision of that body in favour of 600 l l 1307
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the majority of the Committee had been strongly in favour of reduction. The surplus even under the Bill would be hardly sufficient, as it would require not 50, but 100, clergymen to supply the spiritual wants of Manchester, with its 400,000 inhabitants.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that the House had every reason to be satisfied with the manner in which the Committee had discharged their duty. He accepted the Bill as generally satisfactory, and he hoped the House would not agree to the Amendment proposed. This was not a question of payment, but of apportionment, of distribution; and the House must bear in mind that every 150 l
 MR. WADDINGTON  said, that from long knowledge of the canons of Manchester he could speak in the very highest terms of their zealous performance of their duties. It was true that Canon Clifton had a living in Bedfordshire; but he could positively state that Canon Clifton was scarcely ever absent from Manchester. The fact might be a subject of complaint with the parishioners in Bedfordshire; but the matter in hand was the conduct of the canons of Manchester as such. It was also true that Canon Sergeant, as was stated, spent a portion of his time at Furness; but the reason was that the canon, being delicate in his chest, required change of air, for the benefit of his health.
 MR. HUME  wished to know what parochial duties the canons performed—and how it could be pretended that they performed any when they themselves had contended that they were not bound to discharge any. Really there was no one ever convicted of misconduct or neglect of duty for whose character some one was not ready to come forward and bear testimony in that House.
 SIR. H. INGLIS  said, the hon. Member for Montrose seemed to think it hard that absent people could not be assailed in that House unvindicated; but he thought the fact very creditable to the House. This was not a Bill of pains and penalties, as
 1308
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, it was idle to talk of "justice" to parties who might be the future holders of these canonries, the measure being, as had been stated, purely prospective. The question of pluralities was not an ecclesiastical one, but one of common sense and common honesty. The system was not allowed in any service but that of God. It was perfectly monstrous to hear of a body of "priests," in a population of 400,000 souls, having "no parochial duties to perform." They had utterly neglected their duties. They ought to have had in their collegiate church services every hour of the day, at least all the canonical "hours." It was for such purposes that these cathedrals had been built—not to furnish sinecure situations for gentlemen to live among their equals, but to conduct the worship of God in a way in which it could not elsewhere be conducted, and as it never would be conducted by these canons. He was sorry the Amendment had been brought forward, and should vote against it and support the Committee.
 MR. BRIGHT  did not think that the duty which attached to these offices in past times had anything to do with the question; some indeed might be of opinion that if the same duties were now to be performed by these canons, the less they had of salary the better. The object of the Bill was to apply large funds—and they would be much larger when better managed—to the payment of certain clergymen who had no cure of souls in the parish, and to accumulate a fund from the surplus to raise the salaries of the working clergy of the parish. It appeared to him that the Committee on the Bill had done what any eight or ten sensible men would do when having to consider the apportionment of money under such circumstances; and he was quite sure their decision would give
 1309 l l
 MR. GOULBURN  had brought forward the proposal he had submitted, believing that it would reconcile conflicting interests.
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  confessed that he was much surprised at the opposition which, at the eleventh hour, the hon. Baronet on the Opposition benches had thought fit to offer to the passing of this tardy measure of justice to Ireland. But if he was surprised at that opposition, he was still more surprised at the reasons which the hon. Baronet had adduced in support of
 1328 1329 ad nauseam
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  could not understand the hon. Member's astonishment at the opposition which the Bill received at that side of the House. It should be remembered that when the Bill passed a second reading, no time had been allowed for the expression of a fair opinion upon that most important subject. When the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland introduced some measures last year, he had stated that the time had arrived when it was absolutely necessary to bring forward the same, and that they ought no longer to be delayed. Now he would ask the right hon. Gentleman was this the time to bring forward such a measure as that then under discussion? Let the House just consider what was the position of the country at the present moment? One would think that when a new Franchise Bill was proposed, that the country was entirely free from distress; that there would have been demands for such a Bill; that public meetings would have been held; and that the table of the House would be loaded with petitions in favour of such a proposition. No such thing, however, was the case. There was a perfect indifference in the
 1330 l s l "It is perfectly notorious that in bringing on the Relief Bill we had to contend with the scruples of the Sovereign under whom we were acting. We brought forward that Bill in 1829. In the preceding year, the House of Lords, by a majority of 40, had refused to enter into the consideration of it. We brought forward the measure, and it was perfectly understood that one condition of the Relief Bill was, that the constituent body of Ireland should, if possible, be made an independent constituency—that the 40 s l 1331 s "But I perceive that hon. Gentlemen seem to doubt whether all this inquiry has led to any practical results. One reference will meet this objection, and meet it triumphantly. The Committee of 1824 and 1825, on the state of Ireland—that Committee which I consider we owe to my noble Friend (Lord Althorp)—it was to the evidence taken before that Committee that we owe the success of the Roman Catholic question. The evidence taken before the Committee contributed more than any other cause to remove the doubts and prejudices which had previously existed in the public mind with respect to the propriety of conceding Catholic claims." "Do you think that raising the qualification for the exercise of the elective franchise, if it was accompanied with the settlement of the great question you allude to, would be very unpopular with the body of Roman Catholics?—My opinion is, that it would not; it is possible that against that, as against everything else, a cry for a moment would be raised, but I do not think that any permanent feeling of discontent would be produced by it. "Do you think that such an arrangement would be injurious to those fair interests which the Roman Catholics are entitled to have in the country?—My notion is, that the Roman Catholics ought not to have an interest according to their numbers but according to their property." "Do you think that raising the qualification to 10 l 1332 An nual Register Annual Register "The Bill which admitted Catholics to the Houses of Parliament and to all offices of political power and trust had been accompanied throughout its whole progress by another Bill for disfranchising the whole body of 40 s l "They (the Ministers) admitted that to raise the qualification would be an effectual remedy, and that Parliament was competent to apply that remedy; but they would not ask Parliament to apply it without providing a substitute in the form of unlimited emancipation for the political privilege which was to be abolished. The two measures were to support each other. To the one party it was to be said, emancipation is the only condition on which we agree to disfranchise, and to the other disfranchisement is the only condition on which we shall agree to emancipate." l "I am glad that before we proceed further with the details of the Bill, the sense of the House shall be fairly taken as to whether a profit shall be considered a distinct mark of the county franchise; and I do entreat hon. Gentlemen carefully to consider what will be the effect on the constituencies of England, and on the franchise of England, if they consent that mere occupancy in Ireland shall determine the county franchise." "I know that there "re some who are for fixing
 1333 "He objected to this Bill as altering the principle of the Reform Bill by not requiring any property as a qualification for voters in counties. It was also objectionable, because it was a direct violation of the condition which accompanied the Bill for Roman Catholic relief, which imposed and required a 10 l l 1334 "But still this country has been too long trained to a system of agitation to be at once weaned from such a course, and nothing but a continued enjoyment of that peace which the absence of all political excitement has now created, the improved habits it will generate, and the social advantages it will not fail to produce, can save the land from wasting her energies in the strife of rival factions, instead of exerting them by industry for the improvement of the country. It is to secure for Ireland this continued repose which is so vitally essential to her prosperity—to protect the country from the renewal of an agitation for objects that cannot be attained, and which, for many years, has disturbed its tranquillity—soaring away capital, destroying confidence, and rendering impossible the steady application of industry, that I desire strongly to impress on Her Majesty's Government the importance of applying to Parliament for a renewal of those powers which the 11th as 12th Vic. cap. 26, placed at the disposal of the Executive Government in Ireland."
 SIR J. YOUNG  could not say that he
 1335 l s s l l l 1336 l l l l 1337 1338 1339
 MR. W. FAGAN : The hon. Baronet who had just resumed his seat, in his most excellent speech in favour of the Bill, had taken exception to what he (Mr. Fagan) considered, if not the principal, at least an essential part of the measure, namely, the amount of rating; and the hon. Baronet based his objection on the ground, that the poor-law valuation was too high. Now, though he (Mr. Fagan) was free to admit that in the present fallen condition of Ireland, after three years of famine, that valuation was for the present too high; he denied that such was the case in the ordinary and not abnormal condition of the country. He would remind the hon. Baronet that it was given in evidence last year before the Poor Law Committee of which he was chairman, that generally
 1340 l l l l l 1341 1342 l 1343 l 1344 l l s 1345
 MR. NAPIER  would support the Amendment, because the measure was not in harmony with the constitution of England, and because it violated the Reform Bill of England and Scotland. In the ease of towns it was quite right that some change should be made with respect to joint occupation; but in counties, where there was an inferior class of occupiers, it was quite different. If each partner in the occupation had a share equal to 10 l l s l s s 1346 l l l 1347
 MR. SHEIL : Sir, the hon. and learned Gentleman has condensed his logic and his emotions in a single sentence. He said, "You are giving power to those who can more the masses." It is, I think, a signal misapprehension to imagine that the natural and legitimate influence of property will be detrimentally affected by a measure by which, as the hon. Baronet the Member for Cavan has observed, the clause commonly called the Chandos Clause will be extended to Ireland in a form far more ample and comprehensive than that in which it exists in this country. It is enough to state that a tenant-at-will, rated at 8 l l l 1348 s l l 1349 1350 1351
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  acknowledged the ability and eloquence of the right hon. Gentleman's speech; but it appeared to him to refer to matters long passed away, and to have no real connexion with the subject before the House. Holding the opinions he (Viscount Jocelyn) did, he must object to the Bill, and vote for the Amendment. He had been willing to receive in a fair and liberal spirit from the noble Lord at the head of the Government any well-conceived measure for the extension of the Irish franchise, for it was impossible to doubt that the state of the franchise in Ireland required amendment; but though he agreed entirely in the principle of the Bill, he could not give it his support, because in its present form it would operate fatally to the interests of Ireland. It was impossible to apply one system of legislation to Ireland, and another to England, without doing mischief. He objected to the Bill on several grounds: first, that the basis selected for the franchise would afford no criterion of the class of persons who would enjoy the franchise. In one poor-law union, while the rate was 8 l l l l l s 1352
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  said, he had come to a different conclusion from his noble relative who had last addressed the House with regard to this Bill. He felt that after the great discussion which it had undergone, they ought to allow it a fair trial. At the same time, he should have preferred an arrangement giving a 12 l l l l l l l l
 COLONEL RAWDON  said, that while he accepted the vote of the noble Lord the Member for the county of Down, he could
 1353
 SIR J. GRAHAM : Having had, Sir, a share in framing and carrying the Irish Reform Act, and having, on various occasions, expressed a strong opinion that that great settlement ought not lightly to be disturbed by any new enactment, the House will not, perhaps, think it unnatural if I find it difficult to give a silent vote on the present occasion. But, with the permission of the House, I will confine within the narrowest limits the observations which I feel it to be my duty now to make. Sir, my hon. and learned Friend the Member for the University of Dublin has stated that he has observed with regret that great settlements with regard to Ireland are constantly contaminated with party objects and party prejudices. Sir, in directing my attention to the consideration of this question, I can assure my hon. and learned Friend that, in all sincerity I can disclaim all party objects and feelings, and that not the slightest tincture of party or factious animosity discolours my impartial judgment on this occasion. But I have bestowed great attention and have felt some anxiety as to the course which I feel it to be my duty to take with respect to this measure. Sir, I thought it imperative on me, when the right hon. Gen-
 1354 l l l l 1355 s l l l 1356 l 1357
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I hope the House—as I have not as yet presumed to give an opinion upon this measure—will not think it intrusive if for a few moments I express my opinion. I do so, not only with great hesitation from a consciousness of the difficulty of the subject itself, but from having to follow the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ripon—a speech which is one of a rather perplexing character. The right hon. Baronet disapproves of the most important portions of the Bill in favour of which he is going to vote. He recalls to our recollection, with something of Parliamentary pride, that he recorded his vote against its 2nd clause. The right hon. Gentleman absolutely disapproves of the clause which has fixed the suffrage at an 8 l 1358 1359 bonâ fide 1360 1361 bonâ fide 1362 1363 l l l 1364
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, I will not detain the House long on this occasion, because I really do not think, even if I were capable of addressing the House at any length, that this Bill requires on its third reading much explanation of its merits. The question is simple. Here is a
 1365 s l 1366 1367 s l l l l s l 1368
 LORD HOTHAM , seeing the hon. Member for Marylebone in his place, wished to say a few words on a subject to which that hon. Baronet had recently called the attention of the House. The hon. Baronet inquired, some days since, of the noble Lord
 1311 "Archbishop Howley had recommended the abolition of the office, or reduction of the emoluments, and therefore might probably feel that he could not, with propriety, nominate any one to it at a time when his nominee would be entitled to compensation in the event of the interference of Parliament." 1312 1313
 LORD J. RUSSELL  would only say, that he did not think any one would for a moment suppose that any stain could attach to the character of the late Archbishop of Canterbury. Indeed, he believed but one feeling was entertained in that House and elsewhere as to the disinterested conduct of Dr. Howley. He did not know to what publications the noble Lord
 1314
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, with regard to the first question, that no report had yet been presented, nor could he say when such report would be drawn up. With respect to the second question, the arrangement between the Commissioners and the Bishop of Gloucester was referred to the law officers of the Crown, and they gave their opinion against the legality of that arrangement, and it had consequently not been carried out. Since 1849 the Commissioners had made no return relative to the Horfield estate.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, on the 1st of January, 1844, sent a number of queries to the bishops, asking them to state, under different heads, the various sources of their income, and the amount of their several payments. Those returns were duly furnished, and it was from a comparison of these different documents that the commissioners made their estimates and calculations of the respective sums to be paid or received by the various bishops. The Act required that the returns should be made septennially, so that it was to be presumed that on the 1st of January, 1851, the House would be in possession of new data. It was true that the Ecclesiastical Commission of 1838 had not obtained accounts in detail of leases, tithes, and various other items; but the House was aware that there had been another commission since then; and there could be no doubt that their reports and evidence, which would be soon upon the table, would furnish satisfactory information on these subjects. He had not heard that the commission had experienced any difficulties in obtaining the information for which they applied.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that as it was most desirable there should be no delay in making known the course he proposed to pursue with regard to the stamp duties, he would, with the permission of the House, proceed to state it then. He hoped the House would allow him first to refer to what had happened with regard to this question, and to the difficulty in which he had been placed in endeavouring to reconcile the interests of individuals and the interests of the
 1317 l l l 1318 1319 ad valorem s d s s "Perhaps few statutes which have ever passed the Legislature have been more perplexing or more fruitful of litigation than the Stamp Act, 55 George III., cap. 184, now in force; and while, therefore, the proposed measure of Government is just and equitable, it is one of which all who have had any experience in the existing stamp laws have long felt the urgent need. We beg, Sir, further to state that, in the course of the many years' experience which we have had of the present Stamp Act, no part of it has appeared to us to be more unequal in its pressure, or more unjust in its principle, than that which imposes the duties now payable on bonds and mortgages. And we think (in common, we believe, with the members of our profession and the public generally) that a uniform  ad valorem s l 1320 l s ad valorem l s d s l s d l s 1321 ad valorem s s s s d s s s s "The council are glad to find that there is a disposition on the part of the Government to reduce the  ad valorem s d ad valorem s 1322 s l
 MR. HORSMAN  asked what security there was of the estate coming into the hands of the Commissioners after the demise of the bishop, according to the terms of the Order in Council. Also in what position the Commissioners stood in regard to the estate, and whether this part of the arrangement would be enforced or not?
 MR. HORSMAN  rose to put the question, of which he had given notice, when the Ecclesiastical Commission would present another general report, none having been presented since 1847, and also whether any and what proceedings had been taken either by them or the Bishop of Gloucester since 1848 in the case of the estate of Horfield? It would be remembered that two years ago an arrangement had been made by the Ecclesiastical Commissioners and the Bishop of Gloucester, under an Order in Council, which, however, had not been carried out. There was considerable doubt as to what was intended to be done; and, perhaps, the noble Lord at the head of the Government would explain what course the Commissioners intended to take?
 MR. HUME  complained that the new committee rooms were excessively cold, and that in some of them it was very dif-
 1315
 MR. B. OSBORNE  inquired whether the ventilating process to be adopted was Dr. Reid's?
 MR. B. OSBORNE  begged to ask the hon. Member for Lancaster, whether the gallery erected in the new House of Commons last week had been pulled down, and whether the House would be prepared for the reception of Members after the Whitsuntide holydays? He also wished to ask, with reference to nine boilers which now occupied one of the quadrangles, whether Mr. Barry had submitted any estimate of their expense, and to what purpose those boilers were to be applied?
 MR. T. GREENE  said, that the gallery at the further end of the House, to which he understood the hon. Member to refer, had been taken down. He believed the House would be ready for the reception of Members, in order to test its convenience, very early. [Mr. B. OSBORNE: When?] He believed it would be ready for their reception in the course of the next week; but of course their going there must to a cercain degree depend upon the state of the weather. [ Laughter
 MR. T. GREENE  said, that the apparatus now erecting was for carrying out Mr. Barry's plan, and not Dr. Reid's.
 MR. T. GREENE  said, that the attention of the commissioners had been directed to the state of the committee rooms. The boilers to which he referred were intended for the purpose of warming those rooms; and he believed, that in the course of another year the whole of the apparatus would be completed, and the committee rooms would not then he as cold and uncomfortable as they were at present.
 SIR B. HALL  wished to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government whether it was the intention of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners to furnish the House with any authentic information respecting the actual revenue and expenditure of the various dioceses throughout the country? He trusted that they were in a position to do so, and that they would feel it to be their duty to enlighten the House, if it should be in their power to do so, on a subject of so much importance. The Select Committee which was appointed under the Commission of 1838 to collect information from the bishops with respect to church leases and tithes, had not received from the bishops such co-operation as enabled them to prosecute their inquiries satisfactorily. Sixteen of the bishops, including the two archbishops, sent answers to the communications addressed to them by the Committee; but nine bishops peremptorily refused to make any return whatever of the income and expenditure of their sees; and the then Bishop of Worcester took: no notice of their application one way or the other. The Bishop of Bangor coolly informed them that he felt that it was his duty to decline giving the information applied for; and some other prelates gave answers equally unsatisfactory. From that time to the present there had been no return whatever of the value of the property of the bishops, except a return published in the year 1845, which was anything but satisfactory. It merely gave the calculations in gross, but did not furnish the House with any detailed accounts of the income and expenditure. There were circumstances which had occurred likely to augment the value of certain sees, and yet the returns did not show the fact. In the see of London great improvements had taken place in
 1316 l l
 The EARL of MARCH  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, whether Government was prepared to bring in any Bill for improving the mode of taking the averages of the price of corn, with a view to arrive at more correct results?
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, previous to the third reading of this Bill, he wished to propose to the House that they should pass a resolution, notice of which had been previously given. He was very sensible that it was an apparently invidious task to propose to the House to retard, even for a moment, the passing of a measure which had for its object, or at all events for a main portion of its object, to confer franchises and representative institutions upon a portion of our fellow-subjects who had not hitherto had the advantage of enjoying them. But he feared lest this Bill should prove a new exemplification of the truth of the old maxim, that the more haste was sometimes the worst speed; for he believed that the legislative measure which they were now asked to sanction was crude and immature, and in some important particulars was at variance with the establishment of those institutions. He was convinced it would not only be the best, on grounds of general policy, but it would also save the time of the Government of this country, and enlarge the colonial freedom, if they were to ascertain the feeling of the inhabitants of the colonies before we finally dismissed the measure. The House knew the inconvenience of arriving at an overhasty decision on these matters. Her Majesty's Government had not been many weeks in office, in 1846, when they asked and obtained the consent of Parliament to a Bill providing a constitution for New Zealand; and before many weeks had passed, that constitution was on its way across the sea. What subsequently took place amply demonstrated that if there had been any one in this House able to persuade the House to refuse the demand for immediate legislation, that person, however unacceptable and unpopular his Motion might at the moment have been, would eventually have been acknowledged as the good genius of the colonial department. For what happened? The constitution arrived in New Zealand; and the very next post brought back a demand on the part of the Governor that the law should be suspended—a demand so urgent that the Government were compelled at once to propose to the new Parliament that it should undo, bodily and entirely, that constitution which, twelve
 1385 1386 1387 1388 1389 1390 1391 1392 1393 1394 "I am afraid, that the remedy proposed by the Committee of the Privy Council, namely, that of vesting a power in the legislatures of the different colonies, of amending their constitutions, by resolving either of their single houses of legislature into two, will hardly meet the evil. A single house of assembly or legislative body will always attempt to assume to itself a portion of the power of the executive. The members, looking to the class from which they are likely to be selected, will not have much idea of the importance of imposing strict and definite limits for the purpose of keeping the executive and legislative functions perfectly separate and distinct. The proceedings of the legislative assembly at Sydney, during the last session, will afford ample evidence of the tendency of a single legislative body to struggle for the possession of executive power, if, indeed, any evidence of such a fact be required. When, therefore, a body thus constituted has once found itself in the possession of a power which it may be enabled to wield in some instances for the benefit of the individual members, in others for the purpose of assuming to itself some portion of the power which can only be wielded properly by the executive, it is not at all probable that it will originate or carry out a change which will in effect diminish its power, and tend to deprive each individual composing it of a portion of the importance which attaches to him as a member of such a body. I would submit also that if each colony be empowered to alter its constitution irrespective of any changes in the other colonies of the Australian group, the reasons which have induced the Committee of Council to recommend that all should have governments constituted upon the same model would seem to have but little weight, as a change on the part of any of the four would at once destroy the uniformity. My opinion, I confess, remains unchanged by anything that I have heard or read since I last addressed your Lordship on this subject. Indeed, every additional day that I remain in the colony serves to add to the strength of ray conviction, that it would be most desirable, when the change in the form of the government of this colony does take place, that a second chamber should be constituted at once by authority of Parliament. Such a chamber, however, should differ from those which did exist in the North American colonies, inasmuch as a large portion of the members should be elected, or otherwise rendered independent of the Government, and they should hold their position for a long period, if not for life. 1395 1396 1397 l 1398
 MR. ROEBUCK  rose to second the Amendment. The House was now called upon by the Government to take a most important step in the history of the administration of our colonies. The House was now called upon to divest itself, to a certain extent, of its power over these colonies. Was that policy of the Government justified by our colonial experience—the experience of ourselves, and of other nations? What were the circumstances under which the House was called upon to pass the Bill? It appeared to him that the Government had learned no lesson from the experience of the past; they had not yet learned that between the mother country and the colonies disputes might and would arise—disputes relative to the extent of the power of the colonies themselves. The noble Earl the Secretary of State for the Colonies had been chosen to that office because he was supposed to be fit for it. What had be done? When South Africa and Australia called on him to legislate for them, he applied to the Committee of Privy Council, by whom a constitution was drawn up. And, as the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford said, with regard to New Zealand, what had he done? He believed the noble Lord's impulse and his wish was to be right, but he had shown a want of courage in dealing with the principles which he professed. With regard to New Zealand, was there ever a body of men more worthy of the power of governing themselves than the emigrants there? They were men far above the real exigencies of want, men as able as the Members of that House to govern themselves. They planted a colony in that country, and they told the Colonial Minister what every colony of Englishmen had told the Colonial Minister, that they desired to govern themselves. Earl Grey was the first Colonial Minister who had said that that desire ought to be gratified, and had brought in a Bill for the purpose of carrying out the recommendation of these colonists. He did not agree with the right hon. Gentleman in what he said on that subject. There was a giving way—a yielding to
 1400 1401 1402
 MR. HAWES  said, he believed he might fairly ask the indulgence of the House, and plead on his own behalf some difficulty in following the right hon. Gentleman and his seconder, the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, inasmuch as he could be but little prepared for the speech of the right hon. Gentleman—a speech upon every topic and principle of colonial policy which could by possibility be brought into discussion upon the third reading of the Australian Colonies Bill. This Amendment was one which bore upon the face of it a very limited and narrow character. The right hon. Gentleman desired to proceed no further with the Bill at present, but to transmit the Bill and all the Amendments adopted and rejected by the House in the course of discussions upon it to the governors, the legislatures, and the people of four colonies; and he called upon those legislative bodies, and the people of those colonies, to return to the House an answer by which we should be enabled hereafter to legislate satisfactorily to the colonists. He thought it would have been better at once to have moved that the Bill be read a third time that day six months. That would have been a direct course. But the right hon. Gentleman, as he had said, had dilated upon every topic relevant or irrelevant to the subject under discussion,
 1403 1404 "That the Bill laid before Parliament, entitled a Bill for the better government of Her Majesty's Australian colonies, so far as it relates to the colony of South Australia, meets the wishes and the wants of the colony in most of its essential provisions; and a Bill constituting a representative government with such extensive powers deserves to be regarded as a large, liberal, and comprehensive measure." rudis indigestaque moles 1405 1406 "That a petition be addressed to the Crown, and to each House of Parliament, praying that the separation of Port Phillip and New South Wales may he immediately carried into effect, by a Bill having reference solely to that object, and also praying for the establishment of a separate legislature for this colony, on the same principle as now applies to the constitution of New South Wales, providing for the establishment of a legislative council, eighteen members of which to be returned by the several districts, and nine members to be nominated." 1407 1408 bonâ fide 1409
 MR. J. E. DENISON  said, that, looking round on the House, he feared that it would be practically impossible now to introduce any amendment in this Bill, though permitted by the forms of the House, unless the Government would sanction them. He feared the Bill would have to go in its present shape to the other House. He thought the measure wrong in much that it gave, and more wrong in some things that it withheld. It was wrong in the form of constitution granted to these colonies, wrong as to the federal assembly, and certainly wrong as to the way in which that assembly was to be constituted. But it was infinitely more wrong in that which it withheld from the colonies—the management of their own waste lands. He had supposed the principle and very essence of the Bill to be, that people were better able to manage their own affairs than others at a distance of 16,000 miles
 1410 1411 1412 l s s l l s 1413 "I am sorry to tell you, gentlemen, that the law of the Imperial Parliament makes this land worth 1 l
 MR. C. ANSTEY  intended to assent to the third reading of the Bill, but he wished to make a few observations confined to the grievances of the colony of Van Diemen's Land, in the hope that the Government would give to these grievances a favourable consideration. Between the years 1824 and 1840 the system of free emigration to Van Diemen's Land had a fair trial, and was attended with successful results. The emigrants went out on the understanding that the penal system was to be gradually abandoned; and by the year 1840 the convict population was reduced to only one-half its former proportion to the free population. In 1838, the colonists asked for free institutions, but the Government determined to delay conceding them for some time longer. Having withheld from them free institutions, the Government also resolved upon constituting Van Diemen's Land their penal settlement par excellence; and thenceforth transportation to New South Wales was ordered to cease. The result was, that since then from four to five thousand convicts annually were sent to Van Diemen's Land, diverting the free emigration to the more favoured colonies, and greatly diminishing the former excess of free population over the convict population. All the taxes raised by the colonists, too, were swallowed up by the cost of police; and whilst between 1828 and 1840 the sum invested in the purchase of land by the colonists alone was 218,000 l l l l l 1415 l l 1416
 MR. AGLIONBY  begged to make only one or two remarks in that stage of the debate. On the subject of the waste lands he would not enter, because he conceived that to be out of place on the present occasion. With respect to the civil list he would only observe, that he thought it ought to be put under the control of the local legislature, and the sooner the better. Now, with respect to the present Bill, and the various Amendments proposed, it seemed to him that the question raised by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford was simply this, "would they take the Bill as it was, or postpone it for another Session? "Now, weighing the balance of good and evil, he (Mr. Aglionby) was for assenting to the Bill as it was at present. He concurred in a great deal of what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman opposite, and agreed with him in some of his objections; but, at the same time, he considered it was better to take the Bill now than postpone it. It would be of importance to show the colonists that the Imperial Legislature was disposed to take a step and then a vote on the management of their own affairs. If he thought that was a final measure, he would oppose it; but, as it recognised a proper principle of self-government, and gave a means for improving and reforming the constitution hereafter, if found expedient, he did not think it ought to be put off for another Session.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, that the main argument in favour of this measure was, that it was ardently desired by the colonies. Now, it was admitted that there was considerable indifference with respect to it in the important colony of New South Wales. With respect to the others, it was not surprising that they should be anxious for representative institutions. But he denied that there was any evidence to show that they were in favour of this particular measure. On the contrary, as far as public opinion was manifested by the legislative councils, by the legislatures in the various colonies, and by public petitions, it was clear that the colonists desired to have a copy of the British constitution. He was not going to delay the House by repeating evidence adduced, or bringing forward extracts
 1417 1418
 MR. SIMEON  said, that in voting for the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford he should deeply regret their causing any dissatisfaction in the colonies; but it would be a cause of much deeper regret to him if they allowed themselves to pass a measure which would be dangerous to the character of that great legislative assembly, and injurious to the best interests of the colonies. The hon. Member the Under Secretary for the Colonies had characterised the proposition of the right hon. Representative for the University of Oxford as the strangest one he had ever heard; and, in answer to that, he (Mr. Simeon) should say that the contingency was probably the strangest that had ever before occurred in the British House of Commons. In the Speech of Her Majesty from the Throne, a liberal colonial policy was indicated and the first week in the Session the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown came down to that House and delivered a speech which, he would venture to say, appealed to the heart of every man interested in the welfare of the colonies. Yet, notwithstanding all that, they had a series of protracted debates, in which hon. Gentlemen on one side of the House called for legislation by the operation of two chambers, the benefit of which Her Majesty's Ministers admitted in theory, though they opposed it in practice. The hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies had spoken of the Amendment as if it were prompted by a vain desire to save expense to the mother country. He (Mr. Simeon) could not consent to regard the colonies as costly incumbrances. He believed that the imperial fame of Great Britain depended more than on anything else on the preservation of her colonial connexions, and he would never be a party to the severing of what he hoped would continue for ages. They were told that the Bill contained a provision by which the colonies would have the power of altering their constitution if they found that it did not suit the exigencies of their position. The House had two courses before it in the outset: it might either have given the colonies the power of summoning constituent assemblies to make a constitution themselves, or it might have itself framed such a constitution as it seemed best; but, instead of taking either of those courses,
 1419
 MR. HUME  said, he concurred in the opinion of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down that the Colonial Office had up to that moment been an incubus upon the colonies, and it was because he was anxious to get rid of its baneful domination that he supported the Bill. His aspiration year after year had been that the colonists might be allowed to govern themselves, and have a government conformable to their own wishes. He despaired of seeing anything good from the Colonial Office; but he regarded the speech of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, which had so often been referred to, as the commencement of a new era in the colonies. The measure under consideration he considered to be the measure, not of the Colonial Secretary, but of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, on whom it had been forced by the discontent caused throughout the whole of the colonies by the misgovernment of the Colonial Secretary. If there was any part of the Bill of which he (Mr. Hume) disapproved, it was the appointment of nominees. It was proved by the correspondence respecting the Cape of Good Hope, that in that colony the opinions of the ablest and most popular men were disregarded from the moment when they became the nominees of the Crown. Whilst he admitted that this Bill was full of anomalies, and that the Government ought to have taken a more decided course, he would, under the circumstances, counsel the House not to reject it. There was much in it to which he objected; for example, the provisions with respect to the civil list, and with respect to the
 1420
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that not only the hon. Member for Montrose, but all who had expressed their intention of voting for the third reading of the Bill, had not failed to inform the House that the measure was defective; and in this manner it was, that a great and important measure of this kind was to be passed by the Legislature of this country. At present, however, the simple question before the House was, whether they would pass the Bill, fraught as it was with delay, and calculated to produce many mischiefs, or whether they would do what the Government pretended they were anxious to do, namely consult the colonies, before proceeding to legislate upon the form of government which might be acceptable to them. The old adage, "the more haste, the worse speed," was exactly applicable to the conduct of the Government with respect to this Bill. When it was introduced it was stated to be based upon two positions, that of consulting the colonists and avoiding delay; the Bill, however, was so happily concocted, that it did neither the one nor the other. Another objection to the Bill was, that it exactly reversed the wishes of the colonists. They were required, by its provisions, to suggest a form of constitution for themselves, which the Government at home were to criticise; whereas, what the colonists required was, that the Government should originate and propound some plans for them, making the carrying out of these plans contingent upon the concurrence of those for whom they were designed. The colonists had said, "If you are going to make us any newfangled constitutions, to give us electoral bodies such as no person
 1421
 MR. DIVETT  believed that the colonists of South Australia were most anxious that the Bill should be passed in its present shape, and would, therefore, cordially support the Motion for its third reading. Numerous attempts had been made to impede the progress of the Bill by Members of the Colonial Reform Association, who had spoken so often on the subject that other hon. Members had had but little chance of addressing the House; and he could only characterise their efforts as impracticable attempts to unite extreme Radicalism with extreme Toryism. It had been said by more than one hon. Member, that land could not be obtained in the Australian colonies under 1 l 1422
 MR. STANFORD  regretted that he was not able to vote in favour of the Amendment proposed by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford. He should regret very much to see this country give up all control over the waste lands in the colonies, because, in his opinion, much benefit was derived from the opportunities afforded us by those waste lands of sending out our surplus population. With regard to the veto exercised by the Crown on measures passed in the colonial legislature, he thought that the right hon. Gentleman had been most unfortunate in the two instances which he had selected. If the Bill to allow the mortgaging of the wool of sheep had not received the veto of the Crown, it would have proved fatal to the interests of the colony; and Ministers advised the Crown to assent to the Rebellion Losses Bill, on the ground that it was supported by a large majority in Canada. No one could say that there had been any tyrannical exercise of the power of the Crown in those cases, and therefore he was by no means convinced by the right hon. Gentleman's arguments of the propriety of voting for his Amendment. The arguments used by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield were of a different character. The hon. and learned Gentleman objected to the Bill because it did not preserve a proper analogy between the constitution of Australia and the constitution of this country, He recollected, however, a time when the hon. and learned Gentleman represented himself as a Diogenes searching in vain for the British constitution; and he was, consequently, rather astonished to find him objecting to this Bill on the ground that the constitution which it gave was not analogous to that British constitution which he was unable to find. The hon. and learned Gentleman's objections were merely theoretical, and he never addressed himself to the Amendment at all. Not having heard, therefore, any reasons which were sufficient to induce him to vote for the
 1423
 MR. MACGREGOR , though not content with many of the provisions of the Bill, yet looking to the evil of further delay, and considering the good that it contained, he would support it, that it might be sent out to the colonies at once. If the Bill were to be a final measure, like the constitution given to the American colonies, he should not give it his assent; but seeing that it left so much to the colonists themselves, and having confidence in the noble Lord at the head of the Government, that he would not deny to the colonists any measure which appeared to them to be practical, he saw no reason for rejecting the Bill. With respect to the local affairs of the colonies, he thought the Colonial Office ought to leave to the colonists themselves the management of all those concerns which were of a peculiarly local character; but he would make some exceptions to these. He would not allow the colonies to impose heavy or restrictive duties on goods imported into their own territories either from the home country or a foreign country, or from one colony to another; and the various matters included in the schedules of the Bill he would leave to the colonists themselves to regulate; and with respect to salaries, while he would leave the salaries of the governor and the chief justice a matter of arrangement for the Home Government, he would leave all other public salaries to the management of the colonies. He considered also that some alteration should be made in the price of laud in those colonies, which was so high that it drove many to the United States who would otherwise proceed to Australia.
 MR. ROEBUCK  then moved, pursuant to notice, the insertion of a Clause to enable the several Legislatures of the colonies in British North America to establish a General Federative Assembly for those colonies. It was his opinion that those colonies, if they were left in their present condition, would, before long, become annexed to the great federal union of the United States, already quite extensive enough. The only way to prevent this mishap would be to create a national feeling among them; and this object he believed his clause would effect.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  must object to the introduction of the clause. He did so without entering into the question whether or not it would be wise to form a federative assembly in our North American colonies; he considered it desirable to keep the present Bill limited to its stated object—the formation of federative assemblies in our South Australian colonies; and he therefore objected to the introduction into it of a provision relating to North America.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he should not press his Motion to a division. He was content on the present occasion with recording his opinion.
 MR. AGLIONBY  proposed a clause, providing for representative institutions and the means of self-government within the islands of New Zealand.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the Government had very recently received despatches from the Governor of New Zealand,
 1427
 MR. HAWES  said, that undoubtedly the question raised by this Amendment was of the greatest importance. The question, however, of land sales had been investigated by a Select Committee, and the Land Sales Act was the result of that investigation. The object of the Amendment was to transfer land in the colonies from imperial control. Now, the Legislative Council of South Australia had objected to any interference whatever with the Land Sales Act. The stockholders in New South Wales had distinctly requested of the Government to adhere to the policy of the same Act; and a petition had been presented to that House praying that the Act in question would be maintained. Therefore he thought that it would be highly inexpedient to depart from the policy of an Act, under which nearly 2,000,000 l 1428
 MR. HUME  said, the subject was of too great importance to be disposed of incidentally. It ought to be coupled with the question of how far the colonies shall pay their own expenses. A substantive Motion ought to be made on the subject, and when brought forward he would be prepared to vote for giving the sale of the waste lands to the colonists themselves, so soon as they could fairly undertake it.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, the principle of 20 s s s l
 MR. HUTT  disputed the statement of the hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies as far as they related to the South Australian Company.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that upon the House resolving into Committee, and on the noble Lord withdrawing his provisions, he (Sir G. Grey) should then move the clauses of which he had given notice, in the form in which they were printed, with a provision relating to mills worked by water power.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he was ready to support the Bill of the noble Lord; but there seemed in this case to be something like a compromise between the noble Lord and the Government. Now, he hated all compromises, and he should not be a party to anything of the sort.
 MR. HODGSON  rose to ask the right hon. Baronet whether under the Bill operatives would be enabled to work up lost time in factories worked by water, where the loss of time was occasioned either by deficiency or excess of water?
 SIR G. GREY  replied that the object of the hon. Member would be effected by the provision that he intended to introduce.
 LORD J. MANNERS  should like to know
 1432
 SIR G. GREY  promised to name an early day for the next stage of the Bill. He thought it very desirable that the question should be settled soon.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that it was usual for the resolution to be printed, and as he understood some alteration had been made, that was an additional reason why it should be placed in the hands of hon. Members before they were called upon to agree to it.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  inquired what those millions were for? Was any part of the vote for the New Houses of Parliament, on which, as he had that evening been informed, 2,000,000 l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would not interfere with any purpose to which the hon. and gallant Member proposed to apply the New Houses of Parliament.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the only objection he had was that it was so much time lost. The House might reduce any thing; they probably would not increase it beyond what he proposed.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was quite true, as his hon. Friend said, that in the measure recently submitted to the House, some persons were taxed more highly than they had been. He never said that they would not. On the contrary, he stated that in proposing to relieve the smaller proprietors, the larger proprietors would be more highly taxed; but that, upon the whole, 300,000 l 1430
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that in the schedule, agreements were included which were not included in the former Bill. With regard
 1431
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the vote he was about to ask for, large as it might appear, was really only a  pro formâ l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : On what particular stamp?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  placed in the hands of the Chairman certain resolutions to be the foundation of a Bill.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, it struck him the most convenient mode would be to adopt the resolutions; they would then appear in the Votes to-morrow, and if any hon. Gentleman saw any objection to them when the report was brought up, he could move that it be recommitted.
 MR. HUME  said, they ought not to go on till they had got the whole schedule. The object of the present Motion was to have the Bill printed, and the schedule would be printed.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, it was very desirable that the House should know what they were called upon to do. He wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman if the same subject-matter was in this as in the former Bill: first, agreements; second, bargains and sales for a year; third, bonds; fourth, covenants; then leases, then mortgages, then settlements, then warrants of attorney. He thought he had enumerated almost the whole; he wished to know if these were in the new Bill.
 MR. W. BROWN  said, that until they had some data to go upon they were quite in the dark.
 MR. GROGAN : On awards in arbitration.
 MR. GROGAN  inquired whether it would be competent to move reductions on any other matters besides those which were mentioned in the resolution, because he had received a strong representation from the city he had the honour to represent as to the justice of reducing one particular stamp.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, there was no doubt that as the Bill was originally drawn, instead of effecting a reduction of 300,000 l l
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  wished to I know the nature of the resolutions now proposed, and whether the right hon. Gentleman meant to hind the House to any opinion upon them? He begged to remind the right hon. Gentleman that, in the case of the Stamp Act of 1815, the discussion took place on the resolutions upon which the Bill was founded. If the resolutions upon which the recent Stamp Duties Bill was founded had been well considered, the House would have escaped the danger of; having been on the eve of passing a mea sure which, under the pretence of a boon, would, in fact, have increased taxation to some portions of the community.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, he did not object to this, but must observe on the inconvenience of dealing in a private Bill with a general law. This Bill, to a great extent, departed from an Act which was passed to regulate the incomes of canons, and yet it was a private Bill; and when objections were taken against it, it was answered that "the Committee had settled them,"—an answer which, according to ordinary practice, was sufficient in the case of a private Bill; but this was in reality a public Bill, as much so as a Bill to relieve Manchester from the window tax. And he was sure one-half of those who had voted against his Motion the other evening had done so in utter ignorance of the question; for in a daily paper it had that day been stated that the object of his Motion had been to restrict the means of pastoral instruction, whereas its effect would have been to augment those means to the amount of 1,200 l
 MR. T. P. WILLIAMS  thought this Bill more objectionable than the last, and moved that it be read a second time that day six months.
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  said, this measure had been discussed at great length last year, for the only difference between this Bill and a Bill introduced last Session was, that they proposed to convey water by different means from the same locality. This Bill was opposed by all the landowners and millowners along the line by which it was proposed to convey the supply of water to the metropolis. The promoters of the Bill proposed to take 60,000,000 gallons of water daily from the Thames at Henley, and the consequence would be that the mills in the neighbour-bourhood would be deprived of their supply of water during the summer season, and the navigation of the river would be impeded at the same period of the year.
 SIR DE L. EVANS  considered that, as this Bill would not interfere with the propositions of the Board of Health, and as there would be ample time to consider the report of that board before this measure could go through Committee, it would be unfair towards the promoters of this scheme, who had expended a large sum of money in order to carry out their plans, to prevent the progress of the Bill.
 LORD ASHLEY  said, that the Board of Health had already recorded their opinion, in resolutions which had been laid before the House, of the inexpediency of sanctioning the expenditure of capital upon schemes of this kind until the board had
 16 l l
 MR. HUME  was surprised at the opposition offered to this Bill by the noble Lord. It was clear, however, that his object was to deprive the ratepayers of the appointment of the commissioners, and to leave the regulation of the water supply in the hands of the board of which he (Lord Ashley) was chairman. It had been said that the rights of millowners
 17
 MR. MUNTZ  did not think that any of the arguments that had been urged against the Bill ought to induce the House to prevent it from going into Committee. The question for the House to consider was, whether the metropolis was well supplied with water; and, if it was not, what objection could there be to obtaining a sufficient supply? How was the metropolis to be supplied with water? Some time since a plan was proposed for sinking Artesian wells; but that project was strongly opposed. Now, it was proposed to obtain a supply of water from the Thames at Henley; but that plan, it was said, would stop the mills and destroy the navigation. It was clear they must get a supply of water from somewhere; and in order that the subject might be fairly sifted and considered in Committee, he would vote for the second reading of the Bill.
 COLONEL KNOX  said, the scheme in question would rob the river, and affect the navigation, as well as stop the mills. The Bill was but a  rechauffé
 MR. MOWATT  thought it would be admitted that every inhabitant of London, whether rich or poor, suffered great inconvenience from the present inadequate and impure supply of water. The Sanitary Commission had not submitted to Parliament any measure on this subject. If they had done so, the House might have compared the merits of the plan proposed by this Bill, with that proposed by the board. It had been said, that the promoters of this Bill asked for 2,000,000 l 18
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  said, as an inhabitant of this metropolis, no one could be more desirous than himself that all its inhabitants should have an ample supply of pure and wholesome water; but bethought it desirable that that supply of water should not be left to trading companies. That system had been tried, and he thought it had universally failed. He considered that the supply of water should in future be regulated by some other authority, which might determine the mode of supply, and the cheapest and best method of its distribution. He cautioned the House not to sanction the further investment of capital in schemes of this nature. If they allowed this Bill to be read a second time, they would entail great expense upon the opponents and promoters of the measure, and probably without any ultimate benefit to the inhabitants of the metropolis. The hon. Member for Penryn had said, that the Board of Health had long been engaged in the consideration of this subject without adopting any report; but he begged to inform the hon. Gentleman that that commission had only recently had their attention directed to this important part of the question. He hoped the Bill would be postponed until the House had an opportunity of seeing what other measures were proposed for affording an efficient supply of water to London.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  could assure the House that no subject could come under their discussion in which the inhabitants
 19
 MR. WYLD  objected to the attempt of the Board of Health to carry the centralising system further, and maintained that the people could manage matters of this kind themselves, and did not want the interference of the board with them.
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY : Sir, I am anxious to offer a few remarks to the House on the vote which it will be my duty to give on the present occasion. I confess I am not surprised at the Motion made by the hon. Member for West Glou-
 40 Morning Chronicle: "The decrease of spring labour is again crowding the workhouses in several of the southern and western unions. The guardians are making strenuous exertions to avoid the necessity of outdoor relief. In Killarney, beside the ordinary workhouse, there are no less than eleven auxiliary establishments, in which there are 4,873 paupers. Another cause of the extent of pauperism arises from the great number of helpless people, chiefly women and children, left behind by able-bodied men who are emigrating to America." 41 s d Morning Chronicle "to provide employment for suck needlewomen as might be out of work, by supplying them with materials for articles of coarse clothing, to be divided amongst the subscribers for distribution amongst poor persons; to procure instruction in needlework for women who are not efficient at their business, and to teach those who are capable of learning, and who merit such an advantage, certain descriptions of needlework which the women of London, from want of moans of learning, are incapable of executing, and the materials for which, made in England, are now sent abroad to be manufactured by foreigners for sale in this country." 42 l l Times s d s s d 43 44
 MR. MILES  was somewhat surprised at the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He charged hon. Gentlemen upon his (Mr. Miles') side of the House with inconsistency; but what ground was there for the charge? They were accused of not having attended in such numbers as the hon. Baronet could have wished; but he ought to recollect that the Motion did not originate with protectionists, but from the free-trade benches. What the party to which he (Mr. Miles) had the honour to belong, had advocated, they still continued to advocate; and though there might be waverings and vacillations on the bench to the right of the chair, amongst his friends there was a concentrated and determined feeling. Every man who sat near him had stood by the principle of protection through evil and through good report. He saw no reason, however sincere protectionists might be in the advocacy of their ideas, why they should obtrude a discussion indiscreetly, inopportunely, and unadvisedly upon the House. The time was not far distant when Parliament would listen with a willing and an eager ear to the doctrines of protection, and when a British public would entertain these and no other. There was no similarity whatever between the eon-duct of the question of repeal and that of protection. The question of the corn laws had been argued and decided in
 48 Ironical cheering l 49 Laughter
 MR. GRANTLEY BERKELEY  replied. He denied the assertion of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer that the object of his Motion was to bring about the imposition of an 8 s 97
 MR. GRANTLEY BERKELEY : Sir, I really feel it necessary on this occasion
 20 "You also say here that the only hope of replacing the agricultural and other native and colonial interests in a state of prosperity rests on the re-establishment of a just system of import duties. I do not deny, or wish in any way to shrink from the responsibility which rests upon Her Majesty's Government for the line of policy they have
 21 "I think it would neither be desirable to go back from free trade to prohibition or restriction, nor advisable to dissolve Parliament in order to ask the opinion of the country upon the subject. That is the conclusion to which I have come. With respect to the suffering which has been stated to exist, it is neither inconsistent with my expectations, nor inconsistent with what I have heard, that in various parts of the country deep suffering does exist, and that that suffering is partly—and I should say in part only—owing to recent changes in our commercial laws, which I believe were in their general aspect inevitable." 22 "I believe that ton years ago it might have boon foreseen that this country, as it became more opulent and commercial, would require great changes in that direction, and my object was at that time to make the transition accompanied by as little suffering and distress as possible. But the advice I gave with that view was rejected, not only with contempt but with indignation"— l 23 24 25 d. s 26 Martin Chuzzlewit. s "Whoever dares this loaf displace, Must meet King Richard face to face." 27 "To afford an example of the manner in which the landed interest of one of our most agricultural counties has been affected by the operation of the free-trade measure of 1846, I have but to refer to the following short statement. The county, under consideration is Suffolk, and it is to the farmers' capital in that county that I shall call attention. The estimated quantity of land in Suffolk amounts to 918,000 acres, comprising about 
 
 46,000 acres of rich loam land, at a 
 value of 8 l 
 which makes £368,000 
 80,000 acres marsh, at 10 l 800,000 
 100,000 acres poor sandy soil, at 3 l 300,000 
 150,000 acres good mixed soil, at 9 l 1,350,000 
 450,000 acres wet, heavy land, at 8 l 3,600,000 
 92,000 acres waste, wood, and roads 
 Making a total in value of 6,418,000 l l 
 
 Shillings. Acres. Loss. 
 15 per acre on 46,000 of rich loam land £34,500 
 20 per acre on 80,000 marsh 80,000 
 5 per acre on 100,000 poor sandy soil 25,000 
 15 per acre on 150,000 good mixed 112,500 
 30 per acre on 450,000 heavy land 675,000 
 Total £927,000 28 
 
 Annual loss in the cultivation of the soil £927,000 
 It may have been observed before, that the loss of capital amounted to 2,139,333 
 Giving a total of £3,066,333 s s 
 
 131 acres of wheat, at 26 bushels to the acre, at 7 s £1,088 2 0 
 131 acres of barley, at 36 bushels to the acre, at 4 s 943 4 0 
 131 acres of clover and beans nil. 
 131 acres of fallow, 30 acres in turnips 60 0 0 
 125 acres of pasture, at 1 ton per acre, at 60 s 375 0 0 
 After-grass off ditto, at 15 s 93 15 0 
 262 bushels tail wheat, at 6 s 78 12 0 
 196 bushels tail barley, at 3 s 29 8 0 
 Which gives an income of £2668 1 0 29 
 
 Rent of 722 acres, at 26 s £938 12 0 
 Tithe 184 0 0 
 Tradesmen's bills, at 4 s 144 8 0 
 Rates, at 4 s 144 8 0 
 Labour—30 men, at 10 s 780 0 0 
 Interest upon 6,000 l l 300 0 0 
 Living for the farmer, 10 s 361 0 0 
 £2852 8 0 
 From which deduct 2668 1 0 
 Balance against farmer £184 7 0 l l l l "I fully believe that unless some alteration is made in the existing law as regards the importation of foreign corn, that in the course of another twelvemonth half the farmers will be ruined: from my own knowledge know that many are obliged to sacrifice the little private property they may have to pay their rents, and to go on smoothly in the world; this is not as it should be. I was credibly infromed the other day that a corn merchant in Bristol had imported several large vessels of corn at 3 s "The country is fast approaching to ruin, and it cannot go on with the present low prices of agricultural produce. I farm 1,000 acres of land, principally fen, in a part where corn can be produced as cheap as in any other part of the kingdom. The difference between 4 s d s d 30 l s s d s l l s s d s d s d s d d s 31 32
 LORD ASHLEY  said, the Board of Health had now completed their report on this subject, but great labour had been required in its preparation; and a report of such magnitude, and involving so large an amount of evidence, would require many corrections. He had little doubt, however, that the report would be laid upon the table before Whitsuntide. As a private Member, he felt himself palled upon to offer his decided opposition to this Bill, and to that which stood next on the paper. He thought that the Watford scheme, even if it were carried into effect, would produce no beneficial results whatever; and he therefore hoped that this Bill would not be proceeded with, at least during the present Session. He believed the report of the Board of Health would develop to the House new sources of supply, and a mode of administration five times cheaper than that proposed by this measure.
 MR. ARCHIBALD HASTIE  said, he had not heard any good reason adduced by the hon. Mover why the House should resolve itself into Committee as proposed. On the contrary, he had simply heard that which had been going the round of almost all the newspapers in the country—broad assertions, without any correct data on which to found them. He quite agreed in the statement that corn was now, and for the last six months had been, at a very low price, but that price was not lower than had prevailed for much longer periods under the old protection laws. Therefore, until the price of corn had been for a considerable time longer at a lower price than ever it was under protection, there was no ground whatever for going into any inquiry on the subject. Whenever it happened that for three consecutive years the price of corn had been lower than under the old law, and that parties com-
 33 s s s s s 34 35
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I can assure the House that at this late hour of the night it I is not a very agreeable task to me to be obliged to address it. But after the observations of the right hon. Gentleman, in which he has described so freely the assumed policy which would be pursued by those with whom I act, I think I may, before the division is called, at least be permitted to place before the House a more correct perception of the course we should approve of. This Motion has come upon myself somewhat unexpectedly, and I should think that that was the general feeling of the House. The Motion is, "That this House will resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House to take into consideration the Acts relating to the importation of foreign corn." Now, Sir, this is not the first occasion upon which I have found that notice upon the table of the House. It is not four years ago that an identical notice was placed on the table, the object then being to propose, if we resolved ourselves into a Committee of the whole House, that the repeal of the laws which then regulated the importation of foreign corn should be passed by the House of Commons. Sir, I need not remind the House of the lengthened debates and ample discussions—of the fiery struggle that took place upon that occasion. I had the honour of voting, on every occasion when the question was brought before the House, in the minority—one not contemptible in number, though not ultimately successful in the object for which they struggled. In the majority I find the name of the hon. Gentleman who proposes the resolution now before the House. A Whig Member—a Member for a county—a Member of an ancient Whig family—a supporter of the repeal of the corn laws—one of the triumphant majority before whom we fell—after less than four years' experience, feels it to be his duty to move that the House of Commons should form itself into the same
 82 Cheers., and 83 84 85 s 86 s 87 88
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the hon. Member for the West Riding had appealed with great confidence to the result of a dissolution. Now, he wished to ask the hon. Member whether the following words attributed to him, had been or not used by him in a speech which he had made not long since in Sheffield?—
 "I am told, upon very good authority, that let a dissolution take place next year, and 90 at least out of 105 Irish Members would come up pledged to restore the corn law. Again, let the English landlords enter this unholy alliance with the bankrupt, beggarly, degraded landlords of Ireland, and become themselves equally degraded in the eyes of the world, and I mistake the temper of Yorkshiremen, if you do not make such an example of these conspirators as will make them regret the day they ever attempted it." 95 and " 96
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, the argument of the hon. Member who had just sat down amounted to this, "Wait till you are ruined, and then complain." As to the people being better clothed and fed, he flatly denied it. He would support the Motion, because he should be glad to accept of any relief for the agricultural interest from the present House of Commons. If the hon. Gentleman referred him to Scotland, he would ask him to read the speech delivered by Professor Aytoun, from Scotland, at the late meeting at the Crown and Anchor. It was a speech which he (Colonel Sibthorp) had the pleasure of hearing, and he believed the gentleman who delivered it was known for his high character and great intelligence. With regard to the proposed Committee, he thought they might as well attempt to extract blood out of a milestone as to get any relief to the agricultural interest from the present House of Commons. A dissolution of Parliament and a change of Ministry had been recommended. They had had a bad enough Ministry before; they had not a much better one now. In fact, they were altogether a precious set.
 36 Laughter
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was glad that his hon. Friend had brought this Motion forward; for he agreed with the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone, that the opinions of leaders of parties should be stated in one or other House of Parliament, rather than go forth to the public in answers to deputations and manifestoes published in the newspapers. In that House, at least, opinions could be sifted, statements answered, and assertions tested by reference to facts; and he was quite sure that by having these questions brought forward in Parliament, the public would receive a clearer impression of the true state of the case, and arrive at a juster appreciation of its merits, than when mere one-sided statements were put forth to parties, none of whom had any motive for questioning the accuracy of what was addressed to them. It was true, that latterly much light had been thrown on the views of the great party opposite from what had appeared in the public papers. They had at last come to some definite decision with respect to their opinions; and the noble Lord at the head of the party in the other House had put forward his manifesto of principles, and had unfurled the standard of protection. He was glad that it was so. Earlier in the Session hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House, had been a little chary in the expression of their convictions on this subject. It was true, that the hon. Baronet the Member for South Lincolnshire had talked of reconsidering our past legislation, to which he attributed the distress existing in some parts of the country; but the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, the great leader of the party, carefully avoided saying anything about protection in the discussion of the Motion he brought forward for transferring a large portion of the local taxation to other classes than those by whom it was at present paid—a relief, be it observed, which
 72 s s 73 s 74 Cheers, and cries of Cheers 75 76 s d s d s d Mark-Lane Express "Wheat is now worth from 4 s s "We may, however, remark that purchasers have manifested considerable caution, and that hitherto there has been little speculation in the usual acceptation of the term." s s s d s 77 78 Ironical cheers 79 l l 80 l l l 81
 COLONEL DUNNE  seconded the Motion.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he merely rose for the purpose of assuring the House that he never at any period of his life was a free trader. He denied the statement of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire that he (Colonel Dunne) ever had been a free-trader. He defied the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer or any Irish Member who might support a free-trade policy that night to say that Ireland had received the slightest benefit from free trade. They had first destroyed the manufactures of Ireland, leaving her nothing but agriculture to depend upon; and they had now also destroyed her agricultural prosperity. The test of improvement, as shown by the poor-law returns, was easily accounted for, inasmuch as many had gone to their long account, whilst many more had fled, and were flying, from destruction at home. He begged to ask Irish landlords how many acres they had thrown upon their hands, and how many acres were out of lease, by reason of the flight of the farmers from the destruction that awaited them at home? He was ever most conscientiously opposed to free trade.
 MR. REPTON  rose to move that it be read a second time that day six months. It proposed to sink Artesian wells in localities most convenient to the company, and thus drain all the springs, and ruin all the mills, without making any compensation either to millowners or landowners. The whole neighbourhood in which this company proposed to operate was against the Bill, which had been urged forward without any reference whatever of its provisions to the Board of Health. Under these circumstances, surely he need scarcely say more against it. He would, however, add that on the best authority it might be declared impracticable.
 MR. G. SANDARS  said, the hon. Member who had just sat down had made a most unreasonable and uncalled-for attack upon him: he was sure the House would listen to him whilst he replied to that attack. The hon. Gentleman had just charged him with having, through statements made in that House on a former occasion, caused a serious and uncalled-for depression in the prices of grain through the agricultural districts of the country. He really had not till now been aware of the influence he possessed; and he should still have been incredulous had
 52 s s s s 53 "There was a prospect of an abundant harvest, and if the farmers got from 45 s s 54 s s s s d s s d s d; s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s s s s s s s s s s d s s d s d s d s s d 55 s s d s "He would take 52 s d s d "That while incalculable benefit would arise to the manufacturing interests and the working classes generally from the adoption of free trade in corn, nothing was more erroneous than to suppose that the price of provisions or labour would be cheapened thereby; but the consequence would be, by continued prosperity, to provide higher rates of each." 56 s d s d s d s d s d s d s s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d 
 
 General Average. London Average. 
 March 22 38 s 1 d 42 s 5 d 
 April 5 37 s 9 d 42 s 10 d 
 April 29 37 s 10 d 42 s 2 d 
 May 13 36 s 11 d 41 s 4 d s s s s d 57 s s s s s "Stettin, April 4, 1850. "The main question is, at what price can the farmer abroad afford to sell wheat, and what does it cost the farmer at home? I am not able to judge of the latter; but so much is certain, that you cannot grow wheat as cheap in England as is the case on the Continent; and I have therefore ever been of opinion that you ought to have retained a moderate duty, of perhaps 5 s s s s 58 s s s s s s
 MR. BAILLIE  said, this was a subject of such vast importance that it ought to have engaged the attention of the Government. The Bill would affect most injuriously the rights of private individuals, and he hoped it would be rejected by the House.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had referred to an opinion of his (Mr. Wilson's) expressed in a publication issued in 1840, and in referring to that the hon. Member had told the House, that in that year he (Mr. Wilson) had mentioned the price of 52 s d s d s s s 59 s s s d s d s s s d s 60 Renewed cries of 
 
 Outdoor Paupers. Indoor Paupers. Total. 
 1847 729,000 179,000 908,000 
 1848 824,000 169,000 993,000 
 1849 784,000 159,000 943,000 
 1850 748,000 142,000 894,000 61 s l l l 62 l l l l 63 s d s d s d s d s s 64
 MR. HERRIES  said, he would occupy the House only a short time. The present debate, as far as it had gone, was undoubtedly fertile in admissions on all sides tending to the hope that the House would ultimately come to some common agreement on this important subject. One hon. Member (Mr. Hastie) stated if the present state of things continued for three years longer, he would become a protectionist, and agree to a duty on foreign corn. The hon. Member for Shrewsbury (Mr. Slaney) made a remarkable statement, that had he been consulted on the repeal of the corn laws, he would have advocated a protective duty, because he considered it was justified by reason of the special burdens borne by the agricultural interest, and that if the present state of things continued, he was of opinion that protection must be given. Why, this was the very essence of protection, for the hon. Member was both retrospectively and prospectively in favour of that policy. It was much to be regretted that it had not
 65 s s 66 l 67 68 s s 69 l 70 71
 MR. PLUMPTRE  said, that in these trying times for the owners and occupiers of land, the chief consolation held out to them was a series of prophecies that things would get better rather than worse. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Paisley had also indulged in prophecy, and had told them that there was no reason to fear that America could export wheat to this country under 45 s 37 38
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, he was in a dilemma as to the Bill, having presented petitions in its favour, signed by 35,000 of his constituents; yet he was aware that the landowners and millowners opposed it, and that it was a scheme condemned by the Board of Health, and which had been thrown out by the House of Lords last Session. Upon the whole, however, he was of opinion that it had better be referred to a Committee, and there considered with the other Water Bills which might be read a second time. He was astonished that the Government had not informed the House of their intentions as to the supply of water in the metropolis; and he appealed to the right hon. Home Secretary to do so, especially as the Water Bills had been postponed, at his suggestion, to await the report of the Board of Health on the subject. He begged also to ask if there were any truth in a rumour which had reached his ears, that the Government, if the Interments Bill were not agreed to in its present form, intended to take no trouble on the subject of the supply of water.
 MR. COBDEN  said, he would not delay the House more than a few minutes; and he must confess at once, that he felt himself labouring under that sort of mental illusion which seemed to be shared with him by hon. Gentlemen opposite, for he was not sure that he understood the definitions of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He endeavoured to follow the hon. Gentleman, with some experience too of the question, and some practice in following a debate; and he would try and put clearly before the House what the hon. Gentleman said with regard to the principles which he now advanced in that House. The hon. Gentleman began by saying that the policy pursued with regard to their legislation in matters of trade in 1846, was quite different from that which had been pursued previously; that in 1842 the principle which they followed was one of reciprocity. Now he could not allow the hon. Gentleman to occupy that ground, for since 1823, when Mr. Huskisson commenced the policy of free trade by reducing the duty on ribbons, gloves, and silks—when free trade was popular in high quarters whilst they were only dealing with articles of French luxury—from that period to the present time, with the exception of a conditional clause in the navigation laws, there was not a single stipulation for reciprocity in any measure of commercial legislation which had become law in this country. But the hon. Gentleman, starting from that point, led them on to the ground which he professed to occupy, namely, that he was a free-trader if they could have reciprocity with foreign countries. Now the hon. Gentleman's definitions of protection and free trade differed in some respects from those of the right hon. Member for Stamford—and would not harmonise with those put forward by
 89 90 91 s s s 92 93 Crien of 94
 MR. SLANEY  confessed he thought the country had gone on too fast in that matter, and believed it would have been better to have commenced with a low fixed duty. On the ground of justice, he thought the agricultural portion of the community, paying as they did a greater amount of local taxation than any other, were entitled to be relieved to the extent of that burden. And he thought any honest Committee of that House would concede so much to them, and he should feel disposed to leave to such a Committee the duty of deciding that matter. But the question was widely different when, after a long struggle, the duty on corn was removed, and now resolved itself into this whether or not they ought to resume that which was called a protective system? Into that he would not consent then to enter; but if it was an investigation to see how an equivalent could be given to the land for its exclusive burdens, which some hon. Gentlemen denied existed, he would be in favour of such a proposition. However, they were bound to let the trial they entered upon take its course; but he would not be in favour of encouraging the agricultural interest to tell their tenants that there was no hope for them in their future exertions. It was his impression that if the brought to bear those energies which, as Englishmen, they never could want, they would bring back that prosperity once more, which would not only be beneficial to themselves, but to all the community. The present evils under which the agricultural interests laboured, were caused, as he conceived, by the large importation of foreign corn into this country, the result of an unprecedented large production last year. When before had they such extensive importations from France or Belgium? And in those countries the agricultural interests were in a similar position of depres-
 39
 MR. MITCHELL  perfectly agreed with the hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat, that the House ought not to legislate for any one particular interest, but for the general interest of the country, and more especially for the interests of the operative classes. It had been affirmed that the wages of the agricultural and manufacturing labourers had fallen in proportion to the reduction in the price of bread; but he believed it could be shown that, since the introduction of the system of free trade, the consumption of bread had increased one-third. How, then, could wages have decreased in proportion to the price of bread if there had been an increase of one-third in the consumption of that necessary of life? There could be no doubt that the facility of importation of corn had caused prices to fall; and he was satisfied that, by the lowering of price, the operative population had been placed in far more favour able circumstances than those in which they had lived before the recent measures of legislation were enacted. It was those measures which had kept this country quiet for the last three years, and had conducted them in peace through all the commotions that had agitated and disturbed almost every other portion of Europe. It was said that free trade had induced the farmers to sacrifice their property; but it was his opinion that the farmers had submitted to much lower prices than they had really any occasion to do; and this he attributed in a great measure, if not altogether, to
 50 s s s s s s s s s 51 s s
 SIR B. HALL  did not intend to occupy the time of the House; but it was utterly impossible for him to avoid taking the opportunity of calling their attention to the circumstances in which they were placed with reference to the very serious subject under their consideration. If it were possible to suppose that any person, not a Member of the House, could come in that evening and ask what was the subject under discussion, and he told that it was the great question of the corn laws, about which so much had been heard out of the House, would he not be struck with some degree of astonishment at the very little interest that was taken upon the subject within its walls? And that same stranger—whom it was impossible to suppose could be present—might very naturally have asked on which side sat the protectionists; while he might drawn his own conclusion that they sat on the right hand instead of the left of the Speaker, because the majority had certainly throughout the evening been on that (the right side of the
 45 46 pari passu Laughter 47
 SIR G. GREY  said, there was not the slightest foundation for the rumour to which the hon. and gallant Gentleman had alluded, and of which he (Sir G. Grey) now heard for the first time. The question of the water supply to the metropolis had been referred to the Board of Health, and he had every reason to believe that the Board had devoted their best attention to its consideration; but it was a subject of great magnitude, and involved many conflicting interests, and had no doubt occupied much more time than had been anticipated. Some time before Easter the Board intimated that they hoped soon to make their report, and suggested the expediency with reference not to public interests alone but to the interests of the promoters of these Water Bills, that they should not be allowed to proceed until after a given time; and accordingly on his Motion an order was made that the second reading of these Bills should not proceed until after Easter. About two or three weeks ago that embargo having ceased, some of these Bills were read a second time; the reference to the Select Committee, however, being deferred until the report of the Board of Health should be on the table. He had offered no opposition to this course, because he felt that to go on further postponing the second
 14
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  supported the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Abingdon.
 108
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  denounced this Bill as absurd in every sense of the word, and intimated his intention of moving its rejection upon the report being brought
 109
 MR. STANFORD  said, when the Bill was introduced there was a distinct under-standing that it was a permissive Bill. It was, however, subsequently found that the Bill was not a permissive but a compulsive one. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Dumfries then gave notice of a clause of a permissive nature; but that clause, so far from assuring the sanction of two-thirds of the ratepayers of boroughs or towns, with a population of, or exceeding, 10,000 persons, simply stated that the adoption of the Act should be authorised by two-thirds of the burgesses assembled by a notice not earlier than ten days. He had opposed that clause, and moved an Amendment to it, and when six o'clock, the hour of adjournment, arrived, the further progress of the Bill wag postponed till the present occasion. He would support the Bill cheerfully if the hon. Member would modify it so that its provisions should be of a permissive and not of a compulsory character. The Bill in its present state had a very insinuating title, but nothing else. Take away the title and there was no Bill at all. A more crude or ill-digested piece of legislation he never saw, and he felt convinced that it would not give satisfaction to the country.
 MR. EWART  must make exception to the manner in which the Bill had been attacked by the hon. Member for Reading, and would remind him that, if there were crude, crotchetty, and ill-digested Bills, there were also crude, crotchetty, and ill-digested speeches. Neither did he think it redounded to the credit of the hon. Gentleman that he should mark his noviciate by making an attack upon a Member for having introduced a Bill of this sort. The hon. Gentleman had said the Bill was not maturely considered; but he begged to remind
 110
 SIR G. R. PECHELL  said, he had instructions from the town he had the honour to represent, to put in a clause to extend the provisions of the Bill to towns with local Acts. At present it was confined to corporate towns, and he saw no reason why it should not extend to large towns which were not incorporated.
 SIR G. GREY  said, there appeared to be considerable confusion with respect to the mode of proceeding with the Bill. The main question they had to determine was, whether the ratepayers had a sufficient control over the town councils. In order to give such a control, the hon. Gentleman the Member for Dumfries had proposed a clause; and to that clause the hon. Gentleman opposite, the Member for Beading, objected, and proposed an Amendment.
 111 pro formâ
 MR. HUME  was of opinion that the most important part of the Bill was that which gave a check to the ratepayers over the funds raised under the Bill, and as the new clause referred to that important point, he hoped the House would allow it to be introduced  pro formâ
 MR. STANFORD  had no intention whatever of imputing any sinister object to the hon. Member who had introduced the measure, for he entirely acquitted him of any such object. He would be the last person in the House to impute improper motives, and his own opposition arose entirely from his sense of public duty. He had no objection whatever to the course suggested by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department, and he would not, therefore, any longer persist in his Amendment.
 MR. DIVETT  rose to move, as an Amendment, that the House do resolve itself into Committee on the Bill that day six months. In his opinion it was a scandalous and an immoral Bill, and he was astonished that a man of the learning and ability of the right hon. Member for Buteshire should have been induced to take charge of such a measure. In all his Parliamentary experience he had never seen anything of the sort; and, remembering the place which the hon. and learned Gentleman represented, he could not avoid noticing the fact, that there had that evening been presented from Buteshire a petition signed by 152 of the electors against the Bill. It might truly be said that Scotland and Ireland were both against the Bill. Every one knew that great efforts were made to get up petitions in England
 112
 MR. A. J. B. HOPE  seconded the Amendment.
 SIR F. THESIGER  said, they had now arrived at that stage of the Bill at which all discussion with regard to its principles should be suspended, and they should confine themselves entirely to a consideration of its details. He mentioned this in order that his position might not be misunderstood, and that when he stated his objection to certain portions of the Bill, it might not be supposed that he was in any degree waiving the right which he had to object to its principle at some future stages, which he should most unquestionably do if an opportunity should be afforded. What he proposed to submit to the Committee was, the Amendment of which he had given notice, that marriages with a deceased wife's sister, which had been contracted since the year 1835, in direct violation of a known law, should not by this Bill be rendered valid. It would easily be observed by hon. Members who were of opinion that the law with respect to these marriages ought to be changed, that they might quite consistently vote for his Amendment, because they might be or opinion, with him, that the Act should not have the operation which the clause,
 113 l 114 115 116 117 118 119
 MR. S. WORTLEY  said, after what had passed that night previously to the division, and since, he was anxious to take the earliest opportunity in his power to explain the position of the Bill, and the bearing which the Amendment of his hon. and learned Friend would have upon it. He did not wish to advert to the language of the hon. Member for Exeter; but when the hon. Gentleman was aware that on that side of the question which he (Mr. Wortley) advocated, there were ranged some of the most eminent divines, some of the most pious men, some of the most virtuous, and, he would add, some of the most wise, both in the Legislature and among every class in the country, he thought it was hardly within the bounds of prudent language to designate a measure so advocated as an immoral and scandalous Bill. He thanked his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Abingdon for having stated publicly what he would not have alluded to himself—that not in the most remote manner, either by relationship or connexion, or even intimate friendship, had he the slightest interest in this measure. He was ready to say at once, in answer to his hon. and learned Friend, that he had no sympathy with the man who wilfully disobeyed the law; and that he had no wish to extend to him any relief; but, when his hon. and learned Friend referred to the number of cases that had occurred, and repeated the fallacy so often answered, that this was an appeal to the Legislature as a matter of compassion to the persons who had entered into these marriages, he must tell him that such was not the case. The argument was this—that there were so many who had entered into that state ignorant of the law—that there were so many who had entered it in the belief that they were contracting a valid marriage—and that there
 120 121 122 123 "James—married my sister at Paddington in 1841. She died in October, 1848. James—then married me at St. Margaret's, Westminster. My mother married my father, James—, at St. Andrew's Undershaft; my father had previously married my mother's sister."
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, as the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Abingdon had challenged the House to produce a precedent, he would offer him one. In the days of Catholic domination in this country, the marriages of priests were prohibited; but in the reign of Edward the Sixth they were legalised. During that reign, priests married in Great Britain, and had families. When the next sovereign, of unhappy memory, filled the throne, such marriages were declared illegal. But nobody could feel a reasonable doubt, that many ecclesiastics who—so to speak—had learned to marry from the example of their predecessors, must, during Mary's reign, have taken to themselves the comfort of wives under circumstances of evasion of the law, which were satisfactory to their own consciences. When Protestant sovereigns returned to the throne, he
 124
 MR. PETO , being one of the few Dissenters who were Members of that House, felt that he should fail in his duty if he did not express how deeply the millions with whom he was connected out of doors felt on this question. They felt that a question so sacred as that of marriage should be approached only on the unquestioned authority of the word of God, or as a great social and State necessity. Professing in things sacred only the word of God as their rule of action, and believing that no interdict was to be found in the Scriptures of such marriages, and knowing that when made the subject of legislation it had not been approached in that spirit in which it ought to have been affecting as it did the happiness of the whole community, they avowed that the question had not been settled to their satisfaction. Previous to the Act of 1835 there were no petitions showing that any extensive dissatisfaction with the then state of things had arisen. There were no leading articles or correspondence in the public journals, or anything that showed from the state of public feeling a necessity for legislation. On the contrary, the Bill, as introduced in 1835, was to legalise those marriages; but, in its progress through the Upper House, it was also converted into a Bill annulling those marriages in future. He considered that the religious aspect of the question had been virtually given up. There was no solid ground to rest upon: the only points mooted were the passages in Leviticus, which were in themselves extremely doubtful; and if the Hebrew nation was referred to it would be found that they held an opinion directly
 125
 MR. NAPIER  agreed with the hon. Gentleman, that if they legislated at all upon this subject, they should legislate for the welfare of the great body of the community. He found on the face of the report that almost the entire people of Ireland and of Scotland, and a large body of the people of England, were against this measure. He might, on that ground alone, ask, why were they to legislate for the benefit of a few who, from ignorance or from contempt of both human or divine laws, had contracted this relationship? With regard to Ireland, he was not acquainted with a single individual, whether a member of the Established Church, or of the Roman Catholic Church, or a Presbyterian, who had expressed an opinion in favour of this Bill. He agreed that they should legislate for the welfare of the great body of the community. Now, it was admitted in the report of the Commissioners, that almost the entire people of Scotland and Ireland, and a large portion of the people of this country, were against this measure. In fact, they were called upon to pass this Bill to carry out the objects and purposes of a few individuals. In Ireland, a great majority of the Established Church, and also the ministry of the Presbyterian Church, disapproved of these marriages. Amongst the laity of the united kingdom, said the Commissioners,
 126
 MR. COCKBURN  said, he was not disposed to follow his hon. and learned Friend who had just addressed the Committee, in addressing himself to the principle of the Bill. They were all agreed to discuss the question on the supposition that the principle of the Bill had been admitted on the second reading; and the question then was how far they could adopt the clause before the Committee. The principle being adopted, he took it the measure was to pass; and the question then was, whether they would give it a retrospective and retroactive effect. He wished to know why they should not. The hon. and learned Member for Abingdon had inveighed
 127 128
 MR. W. P. WOOD  would not argue again the principle of this Bill; but, as the right
 129 Times 130 ex post facto 131 132
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, the question was whether they would or would not accede to the views of the hon. and learned Member for Southampton, namely, to recognise in a subject of the realm the right to say that the duty of obedience to statute law must be limited by the extent to which the consciences of individuals recognised the law as binding upon them by a higher direction than that of an Act of Parliament. In other words, was Parliament prepared to abdicate its right to legislate upon this subject? They were called upon to say that if a number of persons differed upon a theological point—if they prohibited any marriage upon the propriety of which there was a difference of opinion—he begged of the House to mind the steps in the argument, first, to eliminate a theological difference of opinion'—then it was set forth the divine law was not distinct, as there was such a difference—that being so, the moral obligation to obey the law of the land ceased—that the disobedience was innocent and even laudable, because it was according to conscience; and, finally, that Parliament was bound not merely to alter the law, but to give retrospective validity to illegal acts. Where was that principle to end? They might depend upon it that the relaxation would not end here—it went much further than this measure. Did not Parliament consider that marriages came fully under their consideration? Had they not enacted that bastardy arose from neglected formalities and arbitrary regulations? Take the difference between England and Scotland. In Scotland the marriage contract was performed without going to the registrar, if the parties were desirous of living together as man and wife, and recognised each other as such. A marriage was thereby constituted, and the children born before and after marriage were legitimate. In this country it was different; and who would say that the regulations we imposed were not salutary and useful? By the principle they were asked to sanction in this clause, they were, in truth, holding out a premium for disobedience—a positive inducement to disobey the law—nay, more, pointing out to the Queen's subjects the mode in which the law could he evaded. Sanction this clause, and all that would be considered necessary was, to get a sufficient amount of money—procure some agitation
 133
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he was not going to make a speech on the subject again. He had already expressed his opinions and given his vote against going into Committee on the Bill, He, however, now considered that the question as to the principle of the measure was settled, and that they might, therefore, take it for granted that it would pass and become an Act of Parliament. The simple question was, whether the proposition of the right hon. and learned
 134
 MR. DRUMMOND  thought the Committee had involved itself in considerable difficulty by not discriminating the religious from the social part of the question. He did not understand how it was possible, if the Bill were passed, because hon. Members believed it to be according to the law of God, that they should declare the children of those who had formed these connexions illegitimate. He did not understand how they could say that such connexions were according to the law of God at one time, and not at another time. He would not; admit that the Bill was to pass and become the law of the land. If no one else did so, he should divide the House against the third reading, and take every advantage that he could to destroy the Bill in Committee. But he could not see on what; ground they could refuse to legitimiatise the children, if from this moment they sanctioned these connexions; that, he agreed, was a mere act of justice to all those who were innocent. But hon. Members had taken ground considerably too high, and when they said the religious part of the question was given up, he begged to inform them that he wholly disputed their power, right, authority, and capacity, to interpret the word of God. The will of God would remain what it was, whether they voted one way or another. They said the Church was divided on the subject. So long as the Church could express unity, her voice was unanimous in condemning those marriages. If they wanted to know what was the opinion when the law was first given, they must look to the interpretation of those who lived nearest to the time; and from that hour down to the Reformation there never was a question on the subject. Seeing the whole people of Scotland were so violently opposed to this measure as he knew them to be—looking to the similar
 135
 MR. HEALD  bore personal testimony to the fact, though the hon. Member for West Surrey might not be aware of it, that marriages of this kind had taken place for years past to a very great extent; and he also expressed a conviction that a petition which he had presented from Stockport, in favour of the Bill, signed by the mayor and 500 of the principal inhabitants of the town, correctly represented the feeling of that borough. He should therefore vote in favour of the innocent persons specially contemplated by the clause under discussion.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  denied that the concurrent judgment of recognised Christian churches was against marriages with a deceased wife's sister. Unless the Church of Scotland, which was divided into two sections, had declared itself against them, no recognised church had expressed an opinion. The Church of England, according to the statement of the hon. Member for Surrey, had no organ by which she could express an opinion, or determine any question with respect to discipline or doctrine whatsoever. The opinion of the Roman Catholic was explicit. In Ireland, where the genius of the people did not favour such marriages, whether the people were Protestant or Catholic, they did not take place; but elsewhere they were as common as among persons who were not of the Roman Catholic faith. Dr. Wiseman declared, that as Vicar-Apostolic of the Pope, he had to grant, for such marriages, hundreds and hundreds of dispensations. [Mr. DRUMMOND: Hear, hear!] So profound a canonist and theologian as the hon. Member for West Surrey knew that a dispensation could give no relief from the prohibitions of the law of God, but only from the prohibitions of the
 136
 MR. MULLINGS  called attention to the operation of the clause in cases where an estate had been left to an elder son with succession to his children, and similarly to a younger son. If the elder brother married his wife's sister, were the children of the younger son, not being born of such a marriage, to be affected by the retrospective operation of the clause?
 SIR F. THESIGER  said, that this Amendment having been lost, he would not press the others of which he had given notice.
 MR. S. WORTLEY  said, he had no objection to the Amendment, which was accordingly adopted.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, that although he had given no notice of any Amendment to the remainder of the clause—not seeing how it could be usefully done—yet he could not allow so important a point to pass altogether  sub silentio 138
 MR. F. MAULE  rose to move a proviso at the end of the clause, of which he had given notice, namely, that nothing in this Act contained should be considered to apply to Scotland. His original intention was to put this provision exactly in the same words as it stood in the Act of 1835, from the effects of which Scotland was entirely exempted; and he could not understand upon what ground a country, which was not only opposed to marriages of this description, but in which the marriages were stated not to exist, should be included in this Bill, or why a law should be forced on Scotland to which the whole people were repugnant. He trusted that the House, especially those who had a regard for the opinion of the people, would not stand by and see their opinions entirely set at nought. Let him point out what had happened, not only as to Scotland, but with respect to the whole Presbyterian persuasion. Look at the evidence taken by the commission, Whilst there were witnesses from the Church of England, from dissenting communities, and priests from the Church of Rome, not one clergyman of the Presbyterian denomination had been found to give evidence before the Committee; because it was well known that no Presbyterian minister would be found who would have the slightest doubt on the subject. A public meeting had been held in Edinburgh, and a committee had been constituted to oppose this Bill. An intrusion of a very extraordinary character was made by the paid agents of the supporters of the Bill. The meeting was not a whit the less public because the agents were not allowed to move resolutions. He hold in his hand a list of 262 persons, at the head of whom he found the name of the Lord Provost of the city of Edinburgh, and also the Principal of the University, and the representatives of the
 139 140 Confession of Faith Confession of Faith Confession of Faith Confession of Faith Confession of Faith 141 Confession of Faith 142
 MR. OSWALD  seconded the Motion; and he did so under the firm conviction that it embodied the wishes of nearly the whole people of Scotland. When the number of petitions that had been presented against the Bill, amounting to 183, with 14,000 signatures, and the other manifestations of public opinion, were considered, no doubt could remain as to the real feeling of Scotland in the matter. It had been said that it was nearly new legislation that was to be repealed; but he did not believe that was the case even in England, and it certainly was not in Scotland. Not a single judgment in a case of the kind could be found in the records of any court in Scotland, for in truth the people never thought of contracting such marriages.
 MR. S. WORTLEY , as the Member responsible for the Bill, and as the representative of a Scottish county, felt called upon to state why he could not consent to exempt Scotland from its operation. He was quite ready to admit that the opinion of a large proportion of the Scottish people was opposed to the measure, and; therefore, as a matter of personal feeling, he should have been very glad at once to have assented to the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman; but he had included Scotland in the measure as the result of strong conviction on the subject, derived alike from his own judgment and from that of others in whom he confided; and were he now to sanction the exemption required, it would be at the sacrifice of his own self-esteem, and of the esteem, moreover, of those who, however differing from him, would, he believed, do him the justice to admit that he was acting wholly from a sense of duty. The right hon. Gentleman complained that no Presbyterian ministers from Scotland had been called before the Commission. Such was quite the case; and, moreover, no evidence whatever from Scotland had been taken, and for this simple reason—that the
 143 Confession of Faith 144 Confession of Faith
 MR. COWAN  said, he had felt much difficulty as to the course he ought to pursue on this question. Last year he had felt strongly inclined to vote for the Bill of the right hon. and learned Member for Bute; but after more mature consideration, he deemed it his duty to offer to this measure his most strenuous opposition. He had come to this conclusion, because he thought that the 18th chapter of Leviticus established the fact that these marriages were contrary to the word of God, and consequently ought not to be legalised. His right hon. and learned Friend had proposed, in his Bill of last year, to give men permission to marry their wives' nieces; but he had omitted that provision from the present Bill, no doubt from a conviction of the social evils such a permission would entail. The feeling of the people of Scotland, of every religious denomination, was nearly unanimous in opposition to this Bill. He regretted that the right hon. and learned Gentleman had, on a former occasion, spoken of the  Confession of Faith Confession of Faith Profession of Faith 145
 MR. S. WORTLEY  had never used any such expression as that the  Confession of Faith Confession of Faith
 SIR F. THESIGER  wished to call attention to a statement made in a work referred to by his right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Bute, in which it appeared to him that very great misrepresentations had been made as to the law of Scotland. A letter had appeared in the  Times "It is stated, in an article on collateral affinity in the last number of the  Law Review Bankton's Institutes of the Law of Scotland 146
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, it was not usual to be addressed in the way in which the hon. and learned Gentleman had appealed to him for a professional opinion upon various points of considerable difficulty. The hon. and learned Gentleman could not be so little read in the law of his own country, nor in the law of Scotland, nor in the larger law of Europe, out of which the law of Scotland had principally originated, as not to know it had always been a question of very great difficulty to determine whether a bastard relation constituted any relation whatever. With regard to the authority of Bankton, he would inform the hon. and learned Gentleman that he was not a very high authority; and he (the Lord Advocate) had always held that when such marriages as were now the subject of discussion came to be investigated, either in the civil or criminal courts, it would turn out that the marriage contemplated in this Bill was in Scotland a lawful marriage; and he had good reason for saying that that was the opinion of an hon. baronet, than whom no person ever stood higher in the Church of Scotland—Sir H. Moncrieff. The question had not boon tried in the civil courts; and, with regard to the criminal courts, there were two statutes, which were passed in the year 1567, which affected the question. One of these statutes said that marriage should be as free as the law of God had made it; and the other, that every person who married within the degrees forbidden in the 18th chapter of Leviticus should be deemed to commit incest, and suffer death. The 18th chapter of Leviticus was therefore adopted into the law of Scotland, and the criminal courts would put their own construction upon it; on the other hand, the law of Scotland said marriage should be as free as the law of God had made it. He could only say that, after having used all diligence in the inquiry, he had come to a deliberate opinion, that these marriages were not forbidden by the law of Scotland. With regard to the particular question of exempting Scotland from the operation of the measure, if it were possible, in a case involving a question of such a crime as incest—and he could bring himself to say that what was incest upon one
 147
 SIR F. THESIGER  hoped the learned Lord would not think he had been called upon improperly. Certainly the Committee must feel obliged by the learned Lord's remarks having been elicited. He (Sir F. Thesiger) had not intended to offer an opinion of his own on a question of Scotch law. All he had done was to cite the opinion of another (Serjeant Manning), whose authority was admitted to stand very high.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he admitted all the strength of the arguments that had been used by the learned Lord Advocate, with respect to the propriety of extending to Scotland, as far as it might be practicable to do so, the legislation which was applied to England. He entirely concurred with the learned Lord that it was highly inexpedient that there should be one law for Scotland and another for England upon a subject on which it was but natural to suppose that the populations of each country, being in an equal state of civilisation, should think alike, and in respect of which it was likely that they should feel an equal degree of interest. But had they taken into consideration the feelings of the people of Scotland on this measure? That the people of Scotland were almost unanimous in their hostility to it, was a proposition from which few would have the hardihood to dissent. Why, then, should such an obnoxious enactment be thrust upon the Scottish people? Why was the House asked to make this alteration in the law? Who called for it? What was the pressing necessity which rendered it imperative on the Legislature to change the law of marriage? Was there anybody there who would press that necessity and explain
 148 149
 MR. COCKBURN  would not follow the hon. and learned Gentleman into a disquisition on the general merits of the question; but he was prepared to contend, in reference to the proposition at present under consideration, that the principle of the measure having been affirmed, it ought to be extended to Scotland as well as to England. The reason why he thought so was, that it was highly inexpedient, impolitic, and inconvenient that there should be any discrepancy between the laws of both countries on such subjects. As these marriages were unknown in Scotland, there was no practical necessity why the measure should be extended to that country; but there was the strongest possible necessity why the general principle of having the laws of both countries uniform should be recognised. It was impossible to exaggerate the amount of misery and distress which had been occasioned in numerous families by the difference at present existing between the laws of divorce in England and in Scotland. He knew an instance himself, where a man who was married in England, and went to reside in Scotland, was divorced from his wife in the Scotch court upon the plea of adultery. He came hack to England and married a second wife, and, being tried in England for bigamy, was sentenced to transportation, and sent to the hulks. The sentence was approved by the twelve Judges, and yet there was no question that, according to the law of Scotland, the judgment of divorce which had been passed upon him was in that country, at all events, a complete liberation  e vinculo matrimoniœ 150 lex loci
 MR. ROEBUCK  explained. He had not argued against extending the Bill to Scotland, but that the strong feeling of the Scotch people against it called on us to consider before we passed it at all.
 SIR G. CLERK  rose to bear his testimony to the feeling with which the Bill was regarded in the country with which he was connected. It was indeed almost unnecessary for him to do so, for the Lord Advocate admitted that it was with great pain he felt himself bound to vote for a measure so distasteful to Scotland. He must ask the House of Commons on what ground they were going to force on the people of Scotland a Bill so abhorrent to their feelings? He acknowledged the great inconvenience of differences between the laws of the two countries, and would desire to assimilate them, were it not that he was met by a principle infinitely greater than any temporal or civil inconvenience. The Scotch people were convinced such marriages were forbidden by the law of God; and, divided as they were on religious, political, and ecclesiastical questions, in that opinion they exhibited the greatest unanimity. When the people presented petitions in favour of the Bill, they were led to believe that it was merely to repeal Lord Lyndhurst's Act, and to replace the law on the same footing as before 1835. It was held in England, that though these marriages were voidable before the ecclesiastical courts, they were valid if one of the parties died before the action was brought. That never was the case in Scotland; and over since the Reformation these marriages had been expressly forbidden both by the  Coufession of Faith 151 Confession of Faith
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, it was from recollections of the many Scotch and Irish friends with whom be had been associated, that he heard with pain the constant demands for excepting first Scotland and then Ireland from Bills evincing the advancement of the age. As an Englishman he was proud to believe, that history and facts proved that England kept the lead; though he was ready to avow she owed it only to the chance of Agricola having established his normal schools in that portion of the empire. As regarded the present Motion, he would entreat English Members not to go to the division with the impression on their minds that the whole of Scotland was opposed to the Bill, and in favour of the present Motion. The people of Scotland were under strong ecclesiastical influence. He never had met with a Scotchman abroad, who did not avow that in that country the people were under an overbearing ecclesiastical power. It happened to him to have been at Edinburgh on a Sunday, and, having no other day, be visited a friend in Princes-street. They had knotty points to settle, connected with dry questions of mathematics started by Pythagoras. For the elucidation of these, it was desirable to put down some keys on the pianoforte. They were not going to play  Cosi fan Tutti La ci darem 152
 MR. F. MAULE  hoped the hon. Gentleman would not persist in his Motion. He (Mr. F. Maule) had seen no reasons why this clause should be agreed to. The Bill was altogether obnoxious to the people of Scotland, and no sister-in-law could live in the house of her deceased sister's husband if it were known that she was at liberty to marry him. The children of the widower would be thus deprived of that protection which they at present enjoyed under the conviction that any marriage between the sister-in-law and the widower would be an incestuous connexion, not only by the law of God, but also by the natural feelings of man.
 MR. SCOTT  would not press his Motion.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, the Bill proposed to effect extensive changes, and he thought it very unseemly to attempt to pass the second reading of such a measure at that hour of the morning.
 MR. KEOGH  said, he merely asked the House to affirm this principle, namely, that the ecclesiastical courts of Ireland ought to be reformed.
 MR. MONSELL  could assure the hon. Member for the University of Oxford that in Ireland the feeling was unanimous in favour of the Bill, and they were very anxious to have it passed into a law. The abuses that it proposed to correct were universally admitted. As his hon. and learned Friend had given a distinct promise that he intended to move that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee, he trusted that the hon. Baronet would not persist in his opposition to the second reading.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, the mere assertion that this was a measure of reform ought not to be sufficient to induce the House to assent to its second reading. A measure of reform might be passed in a hundred different ways; and he thought that one o'clock in the morning was not a fitting hour to discuss which of those ways was the most advisable. He therefore trusted that the hon. and learned Gentleman would not press the second reading of the Bill on that occasion.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, when this Bill was last before the House it was postponed on the application of the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin, who grounded that application on the supposition (for it amounted to no more) which he then expressed, that if certain parties in Ireland were consulted respecting it, he might feel it his duty to offer objections to it. Those parties had had ample time to consider the measure, and the result was that the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin had that night laid on the table of the House a petition from parties who would be affected by the Bill, praying that when the Bill went into Committee their interests might be considered. His hon. and learned Friend, therefore, had no opposition to offer to the second reading of the Bill, as he admitted that its principle was just; and he hoped that the hon. Baronet would consent to withdraw his opposition.
 MR. NAPIER  was bound in candour to say that many of the details of the Bill were extremely objectionable. He admitted that in many respects the jurisdiction in question required reform. He thought it was the duty of the Government to take charge of so important a measure as the present. He had no objection to offer to
 154
 MR. REYNOLDS  had read the Bill, and he felt no hesitation in saying that although some of the clauses would effect an improvement upon the administration of the law in the Prerogative Court of Ireland, he believed that other clauses would prove most prejudicial to the public interests. He could scarcely find words sufficiently strong to express his surprise that any hon. Gentleman should attempt to obtain a second reading of such a Bill at one o'clock in the morning. He found in the Bill a proposal to increase the salary of the present Judge of the Irish Prerogative Court from. 3,000 l l l l
 MR. BOUVERIE  hoped that the House would assent to the second reading of the Bill, as he believed that it would be a great improvement on the present system. He did not believe that the Government had any disposition to deal with the question, and he hoped that the hon. Gentleman would persevere with it.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  was decidedly opposed to the Bill.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  thought that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Athlone ought, in the first instance, to have moved that the administration of ecclesiastical law in Ireland be referred to a Select Committee; and after that Committee had reported to the House, he could present the present Bill for their adoption, or such a measure as might be recommended in the report of the Committee.
 SIR G. GREY  thought the hon. and learned Gentleman had taken a course which was not unusual. They were, in fact, not called upon at one o'clock in the morning—as had been alleged—to fix the salaries of the Judge in question, and officers acting under him; the question was one of detail, and could be disposed of in Committee. He had heard no objection stated to the principle of the Bill. With regard to the Government taking this matter into their hands, he must make the same reply as he had already made with regard to the English ecclesiastical courts—namely, that there did not appear to be sufficient time this Session fully to prepare a measure on so important a question. He thought that the House ought to assent to the second reading of the Bill, on the understanding that it was to be referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. GROGAN  said, there were two money clauses in the Bill, and it was therefore of importance that the Government should pay particular attention to it. Would the Government have any objection to permit the Committee to examine witnesses from Ireland who were practically acquainted with the workings of the ecclesiastical courts, if the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee?
 SIR G. GREY  said, it was for the Select Committee to say whether or not such witnesses should be examined, if the House should give them the power of summoning witnesses. He could not give any undertaking on the part of the Government to take up this measure.
 MR. KEOGH  said, he had been prevented from stating the principal provisions of the Bill by the impatience of hon. Gentlemen, who met his attempted explanation of the Bill by cries of "Move, move!" As to the proposed increase in the salary of the Judge, that, of course, would be left to the discretion of the House; but he might observe that the Bill would materially increase the labours of that functionary, as it
 156
 MR. TURNER  trusted that the House would not permit the Bill to proceed any further. The details of the measure were of the most complex character, and in them was very much involved its principle. The details could not be settled until the principle of the Bill was fully debated in the House. A measure of a comprehensive character was in preparation, for the purpose of reforming the ecclesiastical courts of England, and he thought that it would be better to postpone this Bill for Ireland until that measure was fully discussed.
 MR. REYNOLDS  then moved that the House do now adjourn.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  should, at that late hour, oppose the second reading of the Bill, and would, therefore, move that the debate be adjourned.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  did not consider it fair at that late hour (half-past one o'clock), to bring forward so important a Motion.
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  hoped the hon. Member for Athlone would press the question of second reading.
 MR. KEOGH  begged to assure the House that his object was to have the Bill referred to a Select Committee; and, such being the case, he hoped it would meet with no factious opposition at that stage.
 LORD J. MANNERS  appealed to the hon. and learned Member who had charge of the Bill whether he would persist, in the face of these Motions for adjournment, on the second reading, seeing that it would be impossible to carry his object.
 MR. KEOGH  thought that he had a peculiar claim on the House. He had not entered into a full statement of the nature of the Bill, in obedience to the wish, as he understood it, of the House; and now he considered the second reading ought to be agreed to in order that the Bill might go before a Select Committee.
 MR. F. SCOTT  objected to the Bill, as it was against the principle of uniformity of legislation.
 MR. HENLEY  considered that the Bill should be discussed, and they were asked
 157
 COLONEL RAWDON  appealed to hon. Members not to persist in their opposition to the second reading.
 MR. REYNOLDS  expressed his hope that the Spartan band over the way would persevere in dividing the House until the second reading was postponed.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that as it was impossible to prevent a very small number of Members retarding the progress of business when they had made up their minds to do so, he should recommend the hon. and learned Gentleman, in order to save time, to withdraw his Motion, and fix the second reading for To-morrow.
 MR. KEOGH  felt too much indebted to those hon. Gentlemen who had supported him not at once to accede to the advice of the right hon. Baronet.
 MR. DISRAELI  wished to know from the noble Lord the Secretary of Foreign Affairs, whether there was any objection to lay upon the table the papers relating to the recent proceedings in Greece?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER 
 158 l ad valorem
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  would lay on the table an account of the produce of each class of stamps, and that was the only document which he could say was a certain document.
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, without intending to cast the slightest censure
 106 Laughter, and
 MR. F. FRENCH  said, that there never yet was a Bill framed which could not be evaded. He believed that several cases of great hardship existed in consequence of the defective state of the law. He hoped, therefore, that the House would take a common-sense view of the case, and remedy the evil, no matter who might complain.
 SIR F. THESIGER  said, he entertained strong objections to this measure. The object of the Bill was to render policies of assurance upon lives assignable. The Committee was probably aware that policies of assurance, like what were called in law "choses in action"—namely, debts and liabilities—could not be assigned so as to enable the assignee to recover in his own name at law upon such debt or liability. Policies of assurance were practically assignable, because he was not aware that any difficulty had ever been made by assurance offices, when they were perfectly satisfied that an assignment had taken place, in paying the amount of the policy to the assignee on receiving a proper discharge. The proposal of this Bill was, however, to take policies of assurance out of the category of choses in action, to give the power of assigning such policies, and to enable the assignees to recover at law. No inconvenience had been urged as the ground for such a change in the law; and he considered that policies of assurance ought to be the last with regard to which this power of assignment ought to exist. There would not be security against gaming in policies. Not having had an opportunity of opposing the second reading, and objecting as he did to the Bill, as dangerous and impolitic, he felt it his duty to move that the Chairman do leave the chair.
 MR. ROEBUCK  asked whether they would be accommodated in the body of the House, or in the gallery opposite the Speaker's chair, which was to be substituted for the gallery that had been proposed to be erected behind the Speaker's chair?
 MR. ROEBUCK  inquired whether there had been any deviations from the plan originally submitted to the Committee by Mr. Barry?
 MR. HENLEY  wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman would object to lay on the table an account of the value of the respective stamps that had been issued; and also the calculations upon which he had arrived at his conclusions with respect to progressive duties?
 MR. HUME  asked whether it was likely, when the new House was occupied as an experiment, that it would contain one-half the number of Members?
 MR. MULLINGS  deprecated the opposition to the Bill; which he declared his experience convinced him was necessary for the purposes of justice, to prevent the enormous litigation in Chancery which now was common in cases of assignment of policies. In one case, a policy of 5,000 l l l l
 MR. B. OSBORNE  wished to ask the hon. Member for Lancaster whether it was in contemplation to take down the gallery
 103
 MR. ANSTEY  wished to know if the parties whose property had been seized or injured during those proceedings in Greece, were to be debarred by the settlement which had taken place from seeking redress?
 MR. ANSTEY  wished to know if the matter (of redress) had been originally included in the proposed stipulations?
 MR. M. GIBSON  wished to ask the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs whether the Greek question might be considered entirely settled, so that those persons who were interested in trade might have confidence in renewing their transactions? And also, whether there was a good understanding between the French and English Governments as to the mode in which the settlement had been effected?
 MR. T. GREENE  said, the new House would probably have been occupied tomorrow; but, in this intensely cold weather, he did not think hon. Gentlemen would like to submit to the experiment. The House would be occupied, experimentally, after Whitsuntide, and he thought it would be found to accommodate as many Members as the present House.
 MR. T. GREENE  had spoken of the House altogether. He could not say, from recollection, what was the precise number of Members for whom accommodation would be afforded in the body of the new House.
 MR. T. GREENE  said, it had certainly been suggested that the removal of the screen at the end of the House behind the Speaker's chair, and the carrying it back in the same manner as was done at the other end of the House, would afford the opportunity of erecting there a good gallery for the public, where they could hear and see remarkably well. Some alteration was required in consequence of its being proposed to allot the gallery at the bar end of the House to Members. Some other accommodation was, therefore, absolutely requisite for the public, but it was not thought desirable to make any alteration whatever till the new House had been temporarily occupied by Members, as it might then be ascertained what alterations would be most convenient. He wished to take this opportunity of stating that the architect had, in 1844, submitted to a Committee of the House a plan of the House agreeing with the plan upon which he had finally constructed it, and that he then gave the Committee a detailed account of the accommodation afforded in the late House of Commons and the present House, and the accommodation proposed to be afforded in the new House. It was but due to Mr. Barry to state that he proceeded with the plan then proposed in consequence of no objection having been taken by the House to his suggestions. He (Mr. Greene) also wished to correct himself upon a point on which he had misunderstood a question put to him by the hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex the other night. He had stated, in reply to the hon. and gallant Gentleman's question as to sonic ventilating apparatus erected in a courtyard, that it belonged exclusively to Mr. Barry; but he did not mean it to be understood that the ventilation of the new House of Commons was to be carried on by Mr. Barry. The commissioners at their appointment received instructions to employ Dr. Reid to arrange the ventilation of the new House of Commons and the division-lobbies; but the ventilation of the Committee-rooms and other parts of the House had been committed to Mr. Barry. He wished to be understood that Dr. Reid was intrusted exclusively with the ventilation of the new House.
 MR. T. GREENE  said, there had been a deviation, arising from the circumstance that Mr. Barry, in the plan he had submitted to the Committee, had proposed the erection of a gallery behind the Speaker's chair capable of containing 120 Members. He (Mr. Greene) thought that every one acquainted with the ordinary practice of the House, and the mode in which business was conducted, would be of opinion that a gallery for 120 Members behind the Speaker's chair would be extremely inconvenient. The commissioners had therefore felt it their duty to prevent that gallery from being erected, and the accommodation proposed by Mr. Barry had consequently been much limited.
 MR. W. FAGAN  said, that the reason he had brought in the Bill this Session was, that it had emanated from a Select Committee of the House last Session. It had passed the House, and was thrown out by the House of Lords without any observation. He had therefore renewed it, thinking it extremely necessary. He admitted that the hon. and learned Gentleman was right in saying that life policies of assurance were at present practically assignable. They were, but it was with a Chancery suit hanging round them, which might be commenced at any time. But there was one important matter connected with the subject, of which the hon. and learned Gentleman seemed to be ignorant. On all occasions, so far as his experience had gone, the insurance companies required the personal representatives of the person insured to join in the receipt with the assignee or person receiving the amount of the policy; and the consequence was, that the personal representative, who had no interest in the matter, often required to be paid a sum of money for joining in the receipt, to the detriment of the holder of the policy, who had given full value for it. But an extreme difficulty arose out of the practice, where there might he no personal representative. He knew of one case in which a sum of 3,000 l
 SIR G. GREY  was understood to decline giving  any
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he intended to furnish any data by which hon. Members might know what would be the precise gain or loss on the changes proposed to be effected? The 1 l ad valorem
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  replied, that no such stipulation had been proposed.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, it would not have been in the power of their negotiator in Greece to debar any party from seeking legal redress.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the discussions between the British Government and the Greek Government are entirely closed, so that commerce may be under no apprehension of restraint. Engagements have been undertaken by the Greek. Government which put an end to all demands on the part of the British Government. The only question remaining to be investigated is that portion of the claims relating to Don Pacifico's demands upon Portugal, and the amount payable on that account. With regard to the right hon. Gentleman's inquiry as to the understanding between the British and French Governments, of course the French Government would have preferred, as we should have preferred, that the question should have been settled by the intervention of the French negotiator. Circumstances interposed to prevent that settlement from taking place. It is well known that the French Ambassador went yesterday to Paris, in order personally to be the medium of communication between the two Governments as to these matters; but I trust nothing can arise out of these circumstances likely to disturb the friendly relations between the two countries.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  had no objection. The papers showing the course of the negotiations were at present in preparation.
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  declared it to be his intention to vote against the Bill. On the present question be considered himself to stand in that House, not as an Irish Member, but as a Member of the Imperial Parliament, and as one who was bound to look to imperial interests. Now, in his view of the case it was the interest of all Her Majesty's subjects to continue the connexion between England and Ireland as long as possible. If he were to argue this matter as one who was ready to adopt any means to gain a desired end, he should vote with the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken; but, feeling himself pledged to endeavour to preserve as long as possible, as a Member of that House, the connexion between the two portions of the united kingdom, his opinion was that he was bound to vote against this measure. As a repealer, he should not ask a greater boon than that the measure should be carried. As a Catholic, it offered him the strongest and most speedy means of getting rid of the temporalities of the Church in Ireland. But they were now dealing with a subject which was neither an Irish nor an English subject. They were dealing with a matter with which, in his opinion, they were not thoroughly acquainted. They were not aware of the inherent love of the people of Ireland for any institution which had been long established amongst them. After this Bill had passed, the question would be, not repeal, but separation. It would be no mock rebellion, no mock insurrection—12 policemen with a few fellows before them in a farmyard—but it would be likely to unite the people against the Government—to bring the people into collision with the law. The object of Mr. O'Connell always was to keep peace and good faith between the two countries; and it was because he (Mr. M. O'Connell) was anxious to do the same that he should oppose this Bill.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  was of opinion that the majority in Ireland, both in Members and people, would be found to be decidedly in favour of the Bill. He hoped that they would not have a repetition of those vexatious divisions which had taken place on the previous night after twelve o'clock. He hoped that the opponents of the measure would see that they could not effect any real object by entering into such petty contests. He was very much surprised to hear the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, in the small portion of his speech which he devoted to the question of the office of the Lord Lieutenant—[Mr. LAWLESS: The hon. Gentleman is not speaking to the question before the House.] There could be no doubt that he was perfectly in order. The hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, in that small portion of his speech which he had devoted to the question before the House, coquetted in a strange manner with the Gentlemen on that (the Opposition) side of the House who were opposed to this abolition. He (Mr. M. J. O'Connell) held in his hand a volume of  Hansard 230
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  thereupon moved that the House do now adjourn.
 The O'GORMAN MAHON , although he was prepared to vote against the Bill, yet could not support the present Motion. He trusted his hon. Friend would withdraw it, or else he would place him and several of his hon. Friends under the necessity of retiring from the House without voting, for he would not be a party to a factious opposition to the introduction of this Bill.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  begged to remind the House that there were several Gentlemen whose opinions were valued in Ireland who had not yet had an opportunity of delivering them.
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  consented to withdraw his Motion.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, he had already Stated to the hon. Gentleman privately
 236
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that similar returns to that moved for had been acceded to with regard to the stations at Malta and the Tagus; and as it could not be sup posed that other Powers were not acquainted with the amount of force employed, it was absolutely puerile to make the public service the pretence for refusal. The House had a right to know on all occasions where our ships were, what were their number, and what they were doing; and it was simply because matters connected with foreign policy were all managed by some hocus pocus at the Foreign Office that this country often found itself in quarrels, from which it had great difficulty in extricating itself.
 MR. HUME  was afraid that the refusal to accede to the Motion would create mystery where there ought to be none. The right hon. Gentleman said he would take upon himself the responsibility. What responsibility? The ships were gone.
 Mr. COBDEN  said, that he wanted the return simply as a record, and his Motion had no reference whatever to our present relations with France. He thought good might come out of the fact that the fleet had been employed in collecting a debt of about 8,000 l
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, he must object to the whole return.
 MR. COBDEN  said, that as there was, he believed, a majority on the Treasury bench, it would be useless for him to divide.
 MR. LAWLESS  said, the question had not been fairly discussed, and he therefore proposed the adjournment of the debate; and he did so for three or four brief reasons: first, because neither the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, nor the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge, had taken part in the debate, and were not then in the House; and as both of these right hon. Gentlemen had spoken on the subject on previous occasions, it was of the utmost importance to the people of Ireland that before the debate concluded they should express their opinions on this Bill. Another reason was, that the right hon. Gentleman the representative of the city of Dublin had not had a fair hearing. As he (Mr. Lawless) was anxious that the representatives of Ireland should have an opportunity of fairly meeting the question, he hoped that
 229
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the opinion of the House had been very clearly expressed against the adjournment. His object in proposing that the Bill should be brought in before the Whitsuntide holydays, was that the Bill might go to Ireland in a printed shape, that time might he had for its consideration, and then that the House should come to the discussion of the Bill on the second reading, after opportunity had been given to the constituents of hon. Members to express their opinions upon it. But if hon. Gentlemen persisted in their Motions for adjournment, he (Lord J. Russell) should not lose the opportunity which those hon. Gentlemen, he thought, gave him of showing the nature of the opposition which was offered to the introduction of the Bill. The people of Ireland would see that if a very considerable time were not given them before the second reading was moved for considering the details of the Bill, it was not the fault of the Government, but of those hon. Members. With this declaration he would not object to the adjournment of the House; but if hon. Gentlemen moved the adjournment, he (Lord J. Russell) would close with that Motion, and would accept it.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  hoped the House would not object to going into Committee merely for the purpose of taking such votes as the exigencies of public business required.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, in answer to the first question, he had to state that by Orders in Council of the 5th of August, 1845, and the 26th of May, 1846, a sum amounting to 2,500 l
 LORD J. RUSSELL : There has been no order sent recalling the Marquess of Normanby, and I trust no such order will be necessary. The hon. Member for Montrose has suggested that the Committee of
 169
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I did not suggest that the Motion for going into Committee of Supply on Thursday should be made the occasion of a regular debate on the subject; but simply that it would afford the opportunity for any question that might be considered expedient by Members. As to the papers, they are too voluminous to he prepared in so short a time.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  begged to state, in reply, that the Ecclesiastical Commissioners had received in 1844 a return containing a revision of the incomes of the several bishops, and there was no objection that the data upon which that return and revision were founded should be given the hon. Baronet. He believed that no such particular account could be furnished as the hon. Baronet sought for; but in the next Session of Parliament a further report from the Ecclesiastical Commissioners would be presented.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, I rise to make a proposal to the House on a subject of the greatest importance, not only to the administration of Ireland, but to the future welfare of the united kingdom. Before, however, I enter upon the immediate subject of the Motion I have to make, I wish to clear away two misapprehensions which have been sedulously circulated upon the subject of that Motion. The one is, that there is an intention to follow up this measure now, or in a short time, by the removal of the courts of law from Dublin to London. I can only say that there never was the slightest foundation for such a supposition, and that we never had in contemplation a measure which we think would be injurious to Ireland, and to the administration of justice in that country. A second rumour, which has been spread through the means of an anonymous publication, is, that the determination to which the Government have come in making this proposal is one which has been very recently adopted, and has arisen from the proceedings which took place some months ago in Ireland. With regard to that report, I have to say, that it is totally without foundation; that, in fact, the Members of the present Government have for a very long time had in contemplation the measure I now have to propose, and that when Lord Clarendon went to Ireland, he went there on a distinct understanding with me that the office of Lord Lieutenant would—if Parliament should concur with us—be totally abolished; and that, whether that abolition should take place within a few
 172 Hardtwicke Papers "True concern for preserving the public peace. Heartily desirous of the union. No less desirous to make it entire and complete. Not at all perfect while two political administrations subsist. The advantage of Scotland is to have the same easy access to the prince; to be under the immediate personal care of the prince; and not to owe their protection and countenance to any subordinate institution. This was my argument at the union. Will not prevaricate. Worse state after the union, if a distinct administration continue. Now no Parliament to resort to in Scotland. The marks of distinction will continue." 173 "Mr. Addington must not think that the King-will unnecessarily take up his time with letters; but, at the outset of our business, it would be highly wrong to have anything omitted that occurs. The more the King reflects on the conversation of last night and the proposed arrangements, the more he approves of them. But he blames himself in having omitted to mention the natural, nay, necessary, return of the Marquess Cornwallis from Ireland. He well knows many have thought the office of Lord Lieutenant should altogether cease on such an event. The King's opinion is, clearly, that perhaps hereafter that may be proper, but that at present it is necessary to fill up that office with a person that shall clearly understand that the union has closed the reign of Irish jobs that he is a kind of President or the Council there; and that the civil patronage may be open to his recommendation, but must entirely be decided in England. Earl Chatham, if he can be persuaded, is the man whose honour, rectitude of mind, and firmness, is best calculated for that station, particularly from his love for the military profession, to which he is again returned." 174 175 176 Bradshaw's Rail-may Guide; 177 178 179 180 181 182 183 184
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, all that I can at present state to the hon. Member is, that General La Hitte, the Minister of Foreign Affairs to the French Republic,
 167
 LORD J. RUSSELL : M. Drouyn de Lhuys did not communicate a copy of the despatch to my noble Friend; neither did my noble Friend nor any Member of the Government have a copy of it.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : There are two ordinary modes of communicating such notes; one is to road them to the Foreign Minister, giving no copy, the other is to read them and to leave a copy with the Minister. The former course was the course taken by the French Ambassador. Following, I presume, the orders he had received from his Government, and with no sort of intention of discourtesy, he read the letter in question to my noble Friend, but communicated no copy of it; and my noble Friend, in his statement to the House yesterday, gave what was his impression of the case.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : No doubt the French Ambassador read to my noble Friend the despatch he had received, accompanying it at the same time with such observations as he thought proper to make. A very long interview took place.
 LORD NAAS  put it to hon. Members opposite whether the course they were pursuing was either creditable to themselves, or likely to be beneficial to the public. He had intended to express his opinions to-night; but, being anxious that the Bill should go to Ireland and be discussed during the Whitsuntide holydays, he should reserve what he had to say respecting the Bill until the second reading. The Motion for leave to bring in a Bill was never refused, except under very extraordinary circumstances. It had been said that this Bill had been brought in by surprise; but the House would remember that almost before Easter—[An Hon. MEMBER: Before Easter?] Yes, before Easter, the noble Lord at the head of the Government gave notice of his intention to bring in a Bill providing not only for the abolition of the Lord Lieutenancy of Ireland, but also for the appointment of a fourth Secretary of State. He had heard that proposal very much discussed in Ireland during the Easter recess, and it was therefore hardly fair to say that sufficient notice had not been given of the intention of the Government to propose this measure.
 MR. DISRAELI : I wish to put a question to Her Majesty's Ministers. It having been officially announced that the Ambassador of the French Republic has been recalled from the Court of St. James's, and that his recall was occasioned by conduct on the part of the British Government, supposed to be derogatory to the honour of the French Republic, I wish to know whether Her Majesty's Ministers deem it expedient to afford any communication to the House explaining the causes of an incident of such grave import?
 MR. DISRAELI : It would be very convenient if, meantime, the House could be put in possession of the papers on the subject.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the Motion before the House is for leave to bring in a Bill to provide for the abolition of the office of Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, and for the appointment of a fourth Secretary of State; and the House must, doubtlessly, be aware that, during the interesting and prolonged discussion which has taken place, no observation has been made upon the second object of the Bill. I am far from wishing to treat with disrespect its first object; and if I do not allude to it at length, it is because it has received considerable attention from hon. Gentlemen well qualified to give an opinion upon a subject naturally very interesting to them—I mean the Members connected with the sister kingdom. Generally speaking, I must say that, with reference to the office of Lord Lieutenant, I should feel disposed to defer to the feelings of Irish Members; but I am sorry to say that upon this, as upon every other occasion, it is extremely difficult to ascertain what are the feelings of the Irish Members. If I had the good fortune to be an Irish Member, I should not hesitate as to the course which I should adopt. I cannot pretend to have given very deep consideration to the question. It is true I have heard, as many hon. Gentlemen have no doubt heard, what the popular opinion is upon the subject; and I admit, no matter what might have been my opinion upon the question as a matter of sentiment, that I had a vague idea that there were important political reasons for the abolition of the office. This was my impression until I heard the address of the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown. That impression, however, has been completely removed by his address. I listened to the speech with the utmost attention, and it appeared to me that no one ever more successfully demolished the proposition which he presented than did the noble Lord. He said there were great political reasons which influenced him. He said, "The measure which I am going to propose is a measure for the abolition, in the first place, of the Lord Lieutenancy of Ireland. Ireland is extremely tranquil—particularly well governed—and there is an individual who is Lord Lieutenant of that country, and who is the most successful governor that ever flourished, and I am
 219 220 221 l 222 223 224 225 226
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, this was nothing more nor less than a job. Believing, as he did, that instead of lessening the expense, notwithstanding what the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said, it was only another measure of dangerous reform—where it would end God only knew—he should support the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Meath. He did not think the measure had been sufficiently discussed. Though he was sure everybody would be gratified if Her Gracious Majesty should visit that country, he was convinced that the present system was more likely to benefit Ireland.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  would support the hon. Member for Montrose, for he had nothing to do with courtesy, and was adverse to going into Committee of Supply at that hour of the night. Many things in the estimates required to be strictly looked after, and, among others, he wished for some information about the sum expended on royal palaces. He read in the  Times l 235
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that certain charges were outstanding which it was desirable should be paid forthwith. He had not the slightest wish to avoid a discussion on the subject; but he hoped the hon. Gentleman would put off the Motion of which he had given notice relating to it till Friday next, when he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) should be glad that the discussion should take place, as much misapprehension at present prevailed respecting this matter.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  would certainly not attempt to follow the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire into that field into which he had invited the House to enter, because he was desirous that the debate of the evening should have a practical conclusion, and that they would not separate before they gave the noble Lord at the head of the Government permission to introduce the Bill, so that it might at once be printed and circulated throughout Ireland, whereby the inhabitants of that country would have an opportunity of becoming acquainted with its provisions at the earliest opportunity. He rose for the purpose of correcting an impression which the speech of the hon. Gentleman opposite the Member for Buckinghamshire might convey as to the economy of the proposed measure. Now, it was not in any way whatsoever on account of economy that his noble Friend had submitted this measure to the consideration of the House; he introduced the measure believing that it would tend to the good government of Ireland. But the lively imagination of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, the light of which they often admired, had certainly led him into the strangest notions of economy that ever were heard of; because, if the hon. Gentleman had paid the slightest attention to the estimates which were on the table of the House, he must have seen that the result of the measure, in all probability, must be to save the country a considerable portion of the expense of a great establishment. And what was the position of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire? Why he said, "You are going to abolish the office of Lord Lieutenant and the offices connected therewith, and for those offices you propose to substitute a Secretaryship of State, which substitution must entail a large additional expense on the country;" and the hon. Gentleman went on to say that, in his opinion, the expenses attendant on the new office would be about 100,000 l l 228 l l l l l l l l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was very desirable that a few votes should be taken that night, to enable them to carry on the public service.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, in the last fifty years there had been no measure introduced into that House which would have such an effect on the destinies of Ireland as this measure would; and he thought it was but reasonable that every Irish Member should have an opportunity of expressing his sentiments upon it. Therefore, he should support the Motion for an adjournment. Almost all previous organic changes in the country had been ushered in by a notification in the Speech of Her Majesty at the beginning of the Session; but no such notification was given in this instance. It was true that reports were spread that it was the intention to abolish the office; but seeing that no Bill was introduced in an earlier period of the Session, people began to think it would not be introduced; and it was owing to that, he believed, that there was so much apathy on the subject in Ireland.
 COLONEL DUNNE  denied that the noble Lord had any right to charge the Irish Members with offering a factious opposition to the Bill. He had not given them time to consider the measure, and express their sentiments upon it. The custom was, when organic changes were to be proposed, to give notice of them in the Queen's Speech. The details of the Bill were wholly indifferent to the Irish people. The question with them was not whether a
 232
 MR. GRATTAN  said, the speech of the noble Lord at the head of the Government was without argument, without solidity, without point, and without anything to characterise it as the production of a great man and a great Minister. He (Mr. Grattan) rose to raise his voice to preserve the remnant of Irish dignity and nationality. He had not joined the Manchester school, and he should not take any lessons from the financial reformers. The noble Lord said, there was to be a Secretary of State for Ireland; but what was his next sentence? That he was not to be confined to Irish business. The noble Lord said, that the representatives of royalty in Ireland had been bearded; but he seemed to have forgotten that in England they had not only bearded, but cut off the head of royalty. He liked to approach royalty, he
 185 Monsieur, on ne lorgne pas le Roi 186 Giraldus Cambrensis "The union is to make no change in the establishment of your viceregal court, which will distinguish and adorn your society, and which will remain in all its splendour. It will continue to draw within its circle from all parts of the king dom the rank, the fashion; it will give employment to your manufactures, and secure a supply of the luxuries as well as of the comforts of, life." 187 "That we cannot forbear expressing our gratitude at His Majesty's appointment of the Duke of Portland to the government of this kingdom; that we are convinced that his representation was faithful (alluding to the representations which the Duke of Portland and Mr. Fitzpatrick had made to the English Court); and that a free people and an uncorrupt Parliament will unite to give a constitutional Chief Governor decided support." 188 l l l l ad libitum 189 Punch 190 l l 191 l l l l "Jacet ingens littore truncus Avulsumque humeris caput." "Quid Crassos, quid Pompeios evertit et illum Ad sua qui domitos deduxit flagra Quirites." 192
 MR. REYNOLDS  trusted, as the representative of the city of Dublin, he should be excused for throwing himself on the indulgence of the House, and, above all, as so many allusions had been made to him. It was the habit of the late Mr. O'Connell, during the heyday of his political glory, in addressing his countrymen at any large public meeting, to say, "This is a great day for Ireland." The hon. Member for Montrose might on that occasion say, "This is a great night with me." Although the noble Lord at the head of the Government had introduced the Bill, yet any merits or demerits to which it was entitled, should be assigned to the hon. Member for Montrose. If it was intended to deprive the kingdom of Ireland of a resident Viceroy, it was entirely due to the exertions of his hon. Friend. He found in the annals of that House that in May, 1823, his hon. Friend brought forward a Motion for the abolition of the office of Lord Lieutenant of Ireland; but on that occasion, not receiving much support, he withdrew his Motion. In the month of May, 1830, he repeated his experiment, and divided the House; but his Motion for an address to the Crown for the removal of the Lord Lieutenant was lost, 115 voting for it, and 229 against it. On looking over the list of the minority, he was happy to find only four Irish Members voting with him; on the present occasion he found several Irish Members cheered the noble Lord. The hon. Member for the city of Cork (Mr. Fagan), pursuing the course which was followed by the Members for that place when Ireland was robbed of its domestic legislature, was one of the supporters of this measure. The hon. Member said, that if the people of Cork and Dublin were adverse to the proposition, he should doubt his own judgment, and vote with them; and added, that he was satisfied that the people of Ireland were favourable to it; he did not stop there, but boldly asserted in that House that the people of Dublin were favourable to it. He (Mr. Reynolds) thought that he was a better authority on the point than his hon. Friend, and to this assertion he would venture to give the flattest contradiction. His hon. Friend did not seem
 212 Hansard "The hon. Member for Limerick had mentioned the embarrassments which, he said, arose from the state of the government in Ireland. He did not
 213 "He would not detain the House by entering more largely into the subject, which had perhaps already been sufficiently argued. He would merely say, however, that the House ought, in deference to the feelings of the people of Ireland, who were interested in retaining the administration of an officer of the Crown of such rank as the Lord Lieutenant, and of keeping amongst them gentlemen of such wealth as those who are generally appointed to fill that office, out of deference to the people of Ireland, the House ought to reject the Motion of the hon. Member for Aberdeen." "The noble Lord had stated that such a change as the Motion of the hon. Member contemplated, would be very unsatisfactory to the people of Ireland. He (Lord J. Russell) had had occasion to consider in former years whether it were advisa-
 214 215 l l l l l l l l 216 l 217 Nation Pater Ave 218
 MR. ROEBUCK : I am sure the noble Lord does not desire that there should be
 168
 MR. HUME  considered that the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire had not formed a correct impression of the Bill. The House ought to be jealous of any appointment of a new department; but the hon. Member forgot there was a Secretary for Ireland with a large establishment, which the Bill would materially lessen, and the only difference was, that the new Secretary would, with great propriety, have a seat in the Cabinet. If Ireland became in course of time as quiet as Scotland, her affairs might be managed by the Secretary for the Home Department. One of the main effects of this measure would be to remove those abuses which arose from governing Ireland as a colony. The Bill would create an additional Secretary of State, who might be consulted on all occasions as to the administration of Irish affairs; and that feature of the Bill induced him to believe that the measure would work well. Let any man look to the state of Ireland for the last fifty years, and he would find that a great portion of her evils were attributable to the focus of faction in Dublin Castle. He did not believe that this Bill had been introduced with the view of increasing the patronage of the Government; on the contrary, it appeared to him that it would effect a very great and a very proper reduction in the expenditure of the country. For one, he begged to tender his thanks to the noble Lord for having introduced this measure, which he considered to be one step towards the redress of those grievances of which Ireland had such just reasons to complain. He agreed that it was only one step, which should be followed quickly by many others in the same direction. He sincerely trusted that every one of those institutions of which Englishmen were proud, and to which they attributed the properity of England, would be extended to Ireland. Ireland expected such extension, and the Legislature was bound to fulfil her expectations. No Irishman in that House had regretted more deeply than himself the misgovernment of Ireland, and it had ever been his desire to remedy her grievances. He had frequently introduced practical measures to remedy the abuses by which Ireland's prosperity was prevented. As long as the domination of the Established Church was permitted to exist, Ireland need not hope to become a prosperous
 227
 MR. HUME  would always object to voting money after Twelve o'clock.
 MR. HUME  objected to their doing so at that hour (One o'clock).
 Mr. B. OSBORNE  asked in what manner the latter sum was to be applied?
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, he could not help admiring the extravasated genius of the hon. and learned Member for Meath, as exhibited in his opposition to the Bill; nor could he refrain from congratulating the Lord Mayor of Dublin, on his having
 203 204 205 "Whereupon the multitude being brayed as it were in a mortar, with sword, famine, and pestilence together, submitted themselves to the English Government with demonstrations of joy and comfort." "He contracted such debts in England, his friends were forced to leave Ireland at his mercy. He has sank his fortune by endeavouring to ruin one kingdom, and hath raised it by going far to ruin another. He has gained 45,000 l "This was the man who made his entry into Dublin, seated on a triumphal car drawn by public credulity, on one side fallacious hope, on the other many-mouthed profession; a figure with two faces—one turned to the treasury, the other presented to the people, with a double tongue speaking contradictory languages." "I believe that if that sink of corruption, that hot-bed of sycophancy, Dublin Castle, as a vice-royal institute, be removed from Ireland, Orangemen and Roman Catholics, Whigs, and Tories, will see the folly of their divisions, and unite for the good of their common country." 206 l "We are so far from having a king to reside among us, that even the Viceroy is generally absent tour-fifths of his time in the Government." "The people are scarcely settled with a representative of the Crown before intelligence arrived they were to part with him, and that another was appointed in his stead. This circumstance is sufficient to make them have a very poor opinion of British councils, and to produce a belief they were guided by caprice and whim." 207 Dublin Evening Mail: "If the festivities of Dublin Castle are to continue to be conducted as they were at the late St. Patrick's ball, it were better the viceroyalty it-self were abolished than to suffer the indecorums exhibited on that occasion to be engrafted on the social system of private life. If, however, the extinction of the viceregal office be thought too strong a measure of remedy, we would at least recommend that the closing ball of the season be given upon an anniversary less under the peculiar influence of our national saint, than St. Patrick's day. We are most unwilling to advert to a topic so ungracious; but pressed by so many curious revelations as encumber our table, and urged by the serious remonstrances of the truly polite and accomplished circle of fashion which still lingers round the castle with a view to sustain the dignity of the viceregal court, we cannot but say that public decency requires the extensive and rigid reform of a festivity which of late has degenerated into a saturnalian revel. We shall not be more explicit; but we trust that on the recurrence of the festival the incidents of the night will not require an announcement from the chamberlain's office, that 'stretchers have been provided for the accommodation of the ladies.'" 208 l 209 Fantoccini Nation: "The appeal of Dublin to the provinces in favour of Lord Lieutenancy has obtained no support except in Sligo. Kilkenny, Drogheda, and Limerick refused. In the centre of Dublin only twenty-four inhabitants of Post-office Ward attended an anti-abolition meeting. At meeting of custom-house board only twelve persons attended." 210
 Mr. C. ANSTEY : Perhaps I may be permitted to ask if, in consequence of what has occurred, the Marquess of Normanby may be expected in this country?
 MR. TAYLOR  was also anxious to address the House on the introduction of this Bill, and he should vote against the introduction of the measure. But he could not support the Motion for adjournment.
 MR. W. FAGAN , though he was in the habit of acting in political matters according to the dictates of his own judgment, would candidly confess that if there were a general expression of opinion in Ireland against the measure of the noble Lord—nay, more, if the people of Dublin had exhibited any very decided hostility against it, he would act in that case against his own judgment, and oppose the Bill; for it was a principle in politics with him, that the people are generally right—that they are seldom wrong, and never very long wrong. But he perceived in Ireland no such very general expression of sentiment against the abolition of the office of Lord Lieutenant; and, even in Dublin, with a population of over 300,000 inhabitants, the feeling must indeed be languid, when the only petition produced there was the one presented that evening by the Lord Mayor of Dublin, having only ten thousand signatures. He, therefore, felt himself at liberty to adopt the course his judgment suggested, and support the measure of the noble Lord. He agreed in opinion with the noble Lord, that in either of two cases—whether the people of Ireland were desirous of a real and complete union with this country, and of trying the experiment once more whether an English Parliament could legislate with justice for a people of different race, religion, and character; or whether, on the other hand, they still clung to the hope; of having a domestic legislature for the
 197 198 199 200 l 201 Wealth of Nations "It was necessary that there should be some emblem of royal authority kept up amongst them as a sort of relief from the painful feelings of subjugated men." "The people had suffered so much injustice from local Irish government that they never would place confidence in it; and if you wish them to change that feeling—if you are desirous of trying yourselves how you may succeed in winning their confidence, you must abolish the Lord Lieutenancy." 202
 SIR B. HALL  asked whether the noble Lord had any account of the rents from various sources which the dignitaries of the Church derived, or whether he knew upon what data the larger sees had been reduced, and money had been paid over to the poorer sees? He was anxious to ascertain what really was the property of the
 171
 SIR B. HALL  begged to ask the noble Lord the First Lord of the Treasury certain questions of which he had given him notice. It appeared from a paper he hold in his hand, containing the cases determined by the Judges in the matter of appeals against the assessed taxes, that in 1842 the Bishop of Exeter left his palace, and in 1844 refused to pay the assessed taxes, in consequence of his absence from his episcopal residence. This fact in itself proved that the bishop had not resided at the palace from 1842. The questions he wished to ask were these:
 
 1. It appearing by the second report of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, page 11, that on the 5th August, 1845, and the 26th May, 1846, sums amounting to 3,000 l 170 2. Whether the Ecclesiastical Commissioners had, or have since, received full and particular accounts of the property belonging to the several sees, the mode in which such property is leased, the date of the several leases, the fines and rents received by the archbishop or bishop, and the names of the parties to whom leases have been granted? 3. As it appears by the return of incomes made in 1845, that the net income of the Bishop of London was reduced from 14,510 l s d l s l s d l s d 4. when the Ecclesiastical Commissioners purpose making any report of their proceedings, no report having been made for three years?
 MR. GROGAN  begged to give his cordial support to the views of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Meath; and the fact of his doing so ought to be a proof to the noble Lord, who unfortunately was not present, that the evil to result from this measure was not felt alone by one party, but that it was the universal opinion that it would inflict a great injury on the city of Dublin. He regretted that on this occasion not a single Cabinet Minister was on the Treasury bench. [ Mr. Fox Maule, amidst loud cheers, took off his hat and hawed to the hon. and learned Member 193 194 Memoirs of Lord Castlereagh: "Thirdly, though our Parliament will meet in England, there will be always a court in the capital; and, therefore, so far as the amusements of polished life are concerned, there will be no increase of inducements to resort to the great capital of the nation." 195 196
 SIR JOHN WALSH : But though the Foreign Secretary had not formally had an actual copy of the despatch placed in his hands, still he was in full possession of all its contents.
 SIR JOHN WALSH : Sir, it is matter of public notoriety that in the statement relating to this subject which took place in the French Legislative Assembly, General La Hitte read to the Assembly the despatch recalling M. Drouyn de Lhuys, and detailing the reasons for that recall. At the end of the despatch, M. Drouyn de Lhuys is directed to communicate a copy of it to Lord Palmerston; I should like to know whether that despatch was so communicated, and whether it was in the hands of the noble Viscount when he yesterday answered the question put to him by the right hon. Member for Manchester?
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  could not give his assent to the measure which the noble Lord had introduced, and thought that the loss of the Lord Lieutenant would be very injurious to Ireland. The noble Lord, however, had thought it necessary to promise them the visits of Her Majesty as some compensation for that loss; but he (Sir L. O'Brien) was afraid, that when Her Majesty found herself at the Phoenix Park, She would very soon grow tired of that residence, and remain there but a short time; and that would be but a small compensation for the loss of a permanent court. He thought the Government would be among the first to feel the inconvenience which would be occasioned by the loss of this office. The Secretary of England would be obliged to depend for information on the statements of persons who came to his office in Downing-street; whereas, under the present arrangement, every inquiry could be carried on on the spot. He was
 211
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  hoped the noble Lord would persevere in going on with the public business, were it only out of consideration for those Gentlemen who came from a great distance, and who otherwise would be detained in town in consequence of the Session being protracted until the summer was nearly over.
 VISCOUNT MAHON  had only one observation to offer at this stage of the discussion of these affairs. He simply rose to complain, or, more properly speaking, to lament the great delay which had taken place in the production of the documents necessary for the understanding of this case. This morning those papers were not delivered with the Parliamentary papers. In his own case they had not been delivered at half-past three, when he left home; but he had been told that at some time between that hour and the present moment, a certain number of copies had been sent to Members. He was willing to hope that the noble Lord at the head of Foreign Affairs had used all despatch and expedition in having the documents prepared; but, in the absence of those documents, he did not think this question could be discussed. He therefore entered his protest against being drawn into a discussion upon this question when the documents upon which his opinion must practically be founded were not yet fairly in the hands of Members.
 MR. DRUMMOND : Sir. I am of opinion that the statement made by the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs on a former evening, which has not been interpreted by some persons as it ought to have been, has now been satisfactorily explained. It further appears to me that the noble Lord did nothing but his duty in making that statement in the terms which he used. There is, however, much truth in the old saying that when a man is determined either to marry or to fight, it is very difficult to prevent him. I wish I did not see such a pugnacious spirit—such a desperate desire to fight, on the part of Her Majesty's Ministers. It is true that many cases may arise in which it would be impossible to put up altogether with an insult from a weaker Power; but I remember perfectly well the great Mr. Grattan observing, upon some occasion—I think it was when Sir F. Burdett was committed to the Tower—
 "Every one sides with the weaker party. You may sometimes sec a little deformed dwarf kicking the shins of a great giant of a fellow, and when the giant, very properly, boxes his ears, all the bystanders sympathise with the dwarf by calling out 'Well done, little one.'" carle blanche 256 from the benches usually occupied by the "financial reformers" and "friends of peace
 MR. MOFFATT  said, there was one class of persons interested whose present position had not been taken into account, namely, the colonial producers. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer said, the colonial producer was protected as against the foreign producer by a differential duty of 2½ d 279
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said: The town I represent, grinds coffee for half the West Riding of Yorkshire. I have no doubt we put chicory into it; I hope we do not put brickdust. But there was always one resource. Any man who had an idiosyncrasy for unmixed coffee, might buy it in the berry. On another point too, he should be happy to abate the anxiety of the hon. and learned Mover. He might depend on it, that if coffee at 6 d d d
 CAPTAIN HARRIS : I rise. Sir, for the purpose of calling the attention of the Government to the importance of making provision, by legal enactment, for speedily and effectually manning her Majesty's fleet in the event of a war. Nothing, Sir, but a very strong sense of duty would induce me to bring this subject before the House—a firm conviction, arrived at after mature deliberation, that whatever inconvenience may arise from its being debated, is more than counterbalanced by the manifest peril to which the country would be exposed on a war breaking out, with the exsiting traditions and enactments, which are not only inefficient, but prejudicial to the objects which they profess to attain. I need not dwell on the paramount importance of securing resources to send a powerful fleet to sea on a declaration of war. Upon the rapidity with which that fleet could be equipped, upon the efficiency of its organisation, might depend the issue of the struggle; nay, not only a triumph on foreign shores, but the safety of our own from insult and invasion. What would be the exigencies of the Navy in the event of a war? Mr. Ward, in his evidence before the Committee on the Navy Estimates,
 280 l 281 282 s d
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  cheerfully admitted that his hon. and gallant Friend had brought forward the subject in a fair and candid spirit; but he could, at the same time, assure him that not only the present but preceding Boards of Admiralty had taken it up in the same spirit as he had introduced it. He was further proud to say, that owing to the improved arrangements in the naval service, the number of desertions were daily decreasing, and were now so few that the smallness of the number was really wonderful, compared with the desertions of a former period. With respect to the mode of manning the Navy, he assured his hon. Friend that the present Board of Admiralty, as well as preceding boards, had taken the greatest pains to have a reserve in hand, and that that reserve could be made use of whenever the Government thought proper. With respect
 285
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, he ought perhaps to apologise for the absence of his right hon. Friends and Colleagues on that occasion, but they were certainly not aware that this question would have been brought forward. With reference to this return itself, he apprehended that the gravamen of the complaint made by the hon. and learned Member for Newark was, that the expense of the printing was not included in it. [Mr. STUART: And the stationery.] The printing and stationery. [Mr. STUART: And the clerks.] Well, if the expense of the clerks was omitted, it certainly would imply some incorrectness in the return. With respect to the stationery, there was not a separate account kept of it as regarded each department of the public service, but an estimate was made every year of the probable quantity that would be required by each. With reference to the printing, he could not but admit that it was a heavy expense; but he was informed that regulations had been issued by the Treasury, in conjunction with the Home Office, for putting these matters, as regarded the printing at all events, on a better and more economical footing. Perhaps, when the miscellaneous estimates should be brought forward, the hon. and learned Member would introduce this subject again, and then those of his Colleagues to whom the subject more particularly related would be there to give such explanations as might be required.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, that the Votes that would be proposed would include, in the total amount of each, the original as well as the supplemental estimates. He should now propose that there be granted to Her Majesty the sum of 883,999 l
 SIR F. T. BARING  regretted that the hon. Member for Montrose had not been aware of the firm intention of Government to bring on the Navy Estimates that night, and consequently was not present; but, at the same time, the hon. Member must have been quite aware of the course Government intended to pursue respecting them. He could assure the House he did not find it very agreeable to bring on the estimates the first day after the holidays; but any one present at five o'clock could not say there was not an ample attendance of hon. Members. It was scarcely fair, in talking of a large expenditure, to omit to state that a reduction of 390,000 l l Waterwitch
 MR. FITZROY  asked on what ground so large a reduction was estimated in the cost of coal. He also wished to know whether any steps had been taken for the speedy coaling of our steamers. The subject was one of great importance, and had been under the consideration of the former board, and he hoped to hear some method was in view for obviating the difficulties of providing steamers with fuel in cases of pressing urgency.
 SIR F. T. BARING  explained that the reduction was caused by the decreased consumption at the different yards, and by the coal being contracted for at lower prices. The mode of fuelling had also caused a reduction, and it was hoped some further improvement might be made on the present method.
 SIR. F. T. BARING  said, that the utility of the docks at Keyham had been so fully discussed it was hardly necessary for him to enter upon the question again. Though the Committee had expressed a doubt as to the propriety of commencing the works at all, they thought it would be inexpedient and unwise, having already expended such large sums, not to complete them; and, as far as his recollection served him, they recommended that the works should go forward gradually; and, with reference to the engagements of Government, that recommendation had been strictly followed, and it would be very unwise to stop works which would be useful in case of war, and to throw away upwards of 500,000 l
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, that not one farthing was taken on this vote for factories or machinery, or for anything beyond the basins; and that nothing would be done in respect to factories or machinery without the subject again coming before the House.
 MR. M'GREGOR  was disposed to take the same view of the subject as the Government. He was of opinion that the docks at Deptford, Sheerness, and New-porthaven might be dispensed with, and that the requirements of the country might be satisfactorily met by there being four docks only, one at Woolwich, another at Chatham, a third at Portsmouth, and a fourth at Devonport. He would support the present vote, inasmuch as it was in-intended to defray the expense of works which were in progress of completion.
 SIR F. T. BARING  stated, that Government were not now about to make any demand for factory building. It was not his practice to state in one year what he intended to do in the next. The factories which the Government at present possessed were capable of meeting the demands upon them; therefore nothing would be done with the factories this year, and nothing whatever done until after the matter came regularly under the notice of Parlirment.
 MR. CORRY  reminded the Committee that the factories existed not for the construction but the repair of steam vessels. It was essential for the safety of the country that the steam navy should have facilities of repair at certain intervals along the coast, when they could not enter either the Thames or the Mersey without inconvenience and loss.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  said, if the hon. Member for the West Riding looked at the expense to which the country was subjected during the last war by contracts for building ships, he might perhaps come to
 294
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, the money was required for paying the bounty or head money given for the capture of pirates. He could give the House details of all the particular transactions relating to the capture of pirates, but as the accounts had appeared fully in the newspapers, he thought it was scarcely necessary now to go into them.
 MR. DRUMMOND  was not able to say why the Government repealed the statute; but when the hon. Member for the West Riding asked for proof of these Bornean pirates being really such, it was enough to say, let him look for any record of voyages or travels, printed or in manuscript, that called them anything else. Yet now we were to be told they were only innocent free-traders. They dealt in men and women to be sure; and their last act of trade, before they were attacked by Sir J. Brooke, was, that they seized upon a body of persons who were really trading, and put them all to death. It was true they carried on war among themselves; the tribes upon the coast were of different nation and religion from those in the interior, who were able to trade, but these pirates would not let them. What was the proof of their being pirates? The judgment of every competent court; and the House of Commons was not fitted to set aside the judgment of the courts in Singapore and elsewhere. Because Sir J. Brooke was carrying on most successfully and meritoriously a most thriving colony, which a certain person wanted to turn into a matter for his own aggrandisement, taking shares and making Sir J. Brooke a joint jobber with him, that man had been an anonymous slanderer of Sir J. Brooke for the last three years, and that was the truth of the matter. As to our having no right to attack persons unless they were pirates against our commerce, why then did we send Lord Exmouth out some years ago against pirates who never touched any person sailing under an English flag? He (Mr. Drummond) hoped there would be an opportunity hereafter, as was promised, of going into the matter fully, when Sir J. Brooke's salary should be before the House.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, that it was very probable that the depredations of those pirates extended over 300 miles, because they had large deep rivers, along which they sailed.
 MR. COBDBN  said, that Labuan was at the extremity of the island, and Sarawak was at the north-west coast, and a person must go by sea to get there. He was not going to let the hon. Gentleman off that way.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, that the speeches of the hon. Members for Manchester and the West Riding conveyed a certain amount of censure on the gallant officers engaged in the expedition; and he should be glad to know whether these gallant officers, who had been executing a disagreeable and painful duty, deserved to be stigmatised? He thought there existed considerable misunderstanding in the minds of hon. Gentlemen as to how the reward was estimated. By the operation of a certain Act of Parliament a certain sum of money was allowed as head money. That Act rendered it necessary that the applicants should go before a court of justice and prove that the parties with whom they had been engaged were pirates, and therefore in every case before money was paid, the parties were bound and required to have a decision of a court of justice that those against whom they acted were pirates. He thought the House could not have better security than that; and, in his opinion, a court of justice, after hearing evidence in a case, was much more likely to be a sufficient tribunal than that House. Now, it so happened that in the first application which occurred, they had a report of what took place on the occasion. Sir C. Rawlinson, who tried the case, said
 301
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, that the ships engaged were sent specifically for that purpose. As to the parties attacked, he should say he did not exactly remember the words of the order; but his impression was, that the hon. Member for the West Riding had mistaken it.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  wished to bring the Committee to the point before them. They had really no discretion in the case, because there was a positive and imperative Act of Parliament, which said that after it had been adjudged that pirates had been destroyed, a certain payment was to be made. Sir C. Rawlinson had decided that these pirates were pirates. There was thus a judgment  in rem
 An HON. MEMBER  stated the case of a relative of his own, who served on the coast of Borneo, and who was attacked by those very people who were described by the hon. Member for the West Riding as innocent of piracy.
 MR. M'GREGOR  said, that if he had sufficient confidence in the judgment of the Court of Singapore, he should support the vote, but because he had not, he should oppose it. The ships belonging to his own constituents were as much exposed to piracy in the East as those of any other port; yet he would defy any one to bring
 304
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  scarcely expected, after such statements as those made by the hon. Member for Newport, that the vote would have been opposed; least of all did he expect that the friends of peace would charge any person in that House with having received with acclamation those statements, as wanting Christian feeling, and as the rewarders of murder. He deprecated such attacks as unworthy of the character which that House ought to maintain. Gentlemen might dispute the fact of pirates existing in those seas; but he believed the brother of a Member of that House—the brother of the hon. Member for Crickdale—had lost his life during the last eight months by an attack of these pirates. The rewards they proposed to give were not for the murder of 5,000 pirates, but for the protection of millions of the human race.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  still remained unconvinced that any English vessel or subject had been molested by these so-called pirates. He would go further and say, he believed there was not a jury in the land that would not return upon their oaths that there had been no such thing. They were manifestly petty tribes warring upon one another after their own way. He did not find any tangible attempt to state the name of any vessel or individual that had been attacked, and therefore he did not believe that any such thing had taken place. He did not think the hon. Member for Newport saw all the inferences that would be drawn from his own statement. He wished the hon. Member would repeat his statement, as it had been imperfectly heard. Since he declined, he (Colonel Thompson) would only request that he would stop him the moment he stated anything incorrectly. He believed he heard the hon. Member say, he knew an instance where a British frigate, in 1816, captured two vessel swhich were considered
 305
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was desirable that he should put an end to this measure at once, and perhaps the best course to adopt was, to move that the Chairman should leave the chair. Nothing could be so objectionable as a system of drawbacks; the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth had availed himself of every opportunity to do away with them, and though a few still remained they should not reintroduce a system that had led to great inconvenience. The total number of registered vessels was 30,000, the number registered at Lloyd's 10,000, and therefore the number to which the measure could possibly apply was one-third only of the vessels existing in this kingdom; and by far the greater proportion of the vessels surveyed and registered at Lloyd's, were vessels to which this measure would be no boon at all. It
 308
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the arguments used by the right hon. Gentleman now were as different as could possibly be from those resorted to when the subject was first introduced. What were his arguments to-night? They rested on a series of false analogies. He had referred to the timber used in mines and railways, as though they stood on the same footing as shipbuilding; whereas nothing could be more dissimilar. The sole ground on which the hon. Member for Bridport rested his Motion was, that having subjected the British shipowner to competition with foreign shipping, you ought to remove all impediments which prevented him from entering fairly into the contest. Now, vessels employed in the coasting trade were not exposed to this competition, and therefore did not come within the principle. The ground on which the Motion rested was, that, contrary to the policy pursued in
 309
 MR. MITCHELL  reminded the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, that in his speech on the budget he distinctly pledged himself to agree to this drawback if it could be done without loss to the revenue, as a majority of the House had voted for the principle. With respect to the objection urged against the measure, that it would necessarily be a partial one, he did not think such would be the case, as every one of the owners of the 30,000 ships might, according to his plan, upon payment of a fee to the surveyor of one pound, send in his claim for the allowance of the drawback. It was quite true that there were only eleven ports where surveyors were appointed by Lloyd's solely; but he had yet to learn that the other surveyors were not trustworthy. Again, the right hon. Gentleman said, that it would be impossible to distinguish the class of timber of which a vessel was built; but in opposition to this, he had letters in his hand from some of the most eminent wood-brokers in London, assuring him that no man conversant with the trade would find the least difficulty in the matter. He had also a letter to the same effect from Mr. W. Smith, of Newcastle, whom he bad no hesitation in calling one of the first shipbuilders in the world. It was all very well to hint at a revision of the timber duties; but knowing the numerous claimants by whom a Chancellor of the Exchequer was always beset, he was not disposed to trust the claims of the unfortunate shipbuilders to the chance of a remission next year.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained, that what he had stated in his speech, to which reference had been made, was, that as there appeared to be a very strong feeling in the House in favour of allowing the drawback, the question should certainly receive his consideration, although he was decidedly opposed to resorting back to the old system of drawbacks.
 MR. WYLD  contended that the claims
 310
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  supported the Motion of the hon. Member for Bridport on the ground that under the new navigation laws any amount of foreign timber knocked together in the shape of a ship escaped the duty, while the raw article, which would give employment to our artisans, was subject to a heavy duty. There could be no difficulty in ascertaining the quantity and quality of the timber used in vessels, for their classification at Lloyd's depended upon this circumstance.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that in reference to the question put by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Wiltshire, he was hound to state, in justice to Sir J. Brooke, that the imputation cast upon him as to trading, was one to which his friends were in a position to give the most positive contradiction. Sir J. Brooke applied to him (the Attorney General), not professionally, but as a private friend, to advise him as to his moving for a criminal information against the parties who had published the report, in order that he might have an opportunity of explaining the whole of his conduct; and Sir J. Brooke refrained from taking that step entirely upon his (the Attorney General's) advice. He (the Attorney General) there fore took upon himself the whole responsility of Sir J. Brooke having so acted. He (the Attorney General) thought that as Sir J. Brooke was a public man, whilst there was a possibility of such a charge being made against him in the House of Commons, it was his duty to wait till that opportunity was afforded for giving a contradiction to it.
 ADMIRAL BOWLES  defended not only the basins but the factories; as, without them, the Government would have no place to repair and refit its steam navy. It was of vital importance to England, as a maritime power, that there should be a steam basin at Plymouth.
 MR. SMYTHE : Sir, I should not now trespass upon the attention of the House if it did not appear to me that there were statements in the explanation given tonight by the noble Lord at the head of Foreign Affairs not entirely countenanced by the statements in the papers laid upon the table of the National Assembly of France. For instance, I understood the noble Lord to say that Baron Gros had withdrawn from the negotiation. Now, there is a despatch laid before the National Assembly, in which Baron Gros, on the 24th of April, distinctly intimated to Mr. Wyse that he had not withdrawn from the mediation; his words were (alluding to the original stipulation that coercive measures should be resumed without further orders, "in case he should declare that he gave up the  rôle rôle entente cordiale 253 254 igneœ indoles 255
 MR. S. HERBERT  had always imagined that piracy was a crime against the law of nations; and he did not know that it was necessary, in order to justify any nation in repressing piracy, that the persons who had been the victims of that crime should belong to that nation. But the hon. Member for the West Riding was so horrified at the crime which had been committed by a British officer when in pursuit of pirates, that he was not content that the victims of these pirates should have been perhaps some Portuguese crew; his humanity would not be satisfied unless the crew of an English ship had fallen victims to the atrocities of those piratical tribes. The whole opposition to the vote was founded upon misapprehension. If they thought the whole of these proceedings to have been unjust, they should either appeal (if it were possible) from the decision of the Court of Admiralty at Singapore, or move an Address to the Crown for the removal of Sir C. Rawlinson, for having made an unjust decision. But if neither of these steps were taken, then, in common justice, they could not refuse to allot to the officers the amount of the prize money which the Act of Parliament awarded him. But, dismissing that part of the case, he wished
 306 l
 LORD D. STUART  observed that the vote had increased enormously, for last year it was only 20,000 l
 LORD J. MANNERS  concluded that the hon. Member for the West Riding must be ignorant that any judgment had been given in this case; for when the Attorney General pointed out that such was the case, the hon. Member asked in an audible voice, "Where is that judgment?" The hon. Member for Manchester had ventured, because those on his side of the House had cheered the interesting statement
 303
 LORD J. MANNERS  said, that as it had been announced that the hen. Member for Montrose would divide, on some future occasion, upon the Motion to which they were just about to assent, it would perhaps be better not to oppose the vote now.
 LORD J. MANNERS  wished the Committee to observe, that the hon. Member for the West Riding asserted in the first place that those people had been unjustly put to death against whom Sir C. Rawlinson had pronounced judgment, and then he asked them to look upon Captain Aaron Smith as a pirate because he was tried and acquitted.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, the speech we have just heard is one of the greatest proofs that could have been given of the wisdom of the advice of the noble Lord the Member for Hertford, that it would be well not to debate this question until hon. Members had had time to peruse the contents of the papers on this subject; for, certainly, if the hon. Gentleman who has just spoken had had a glimpse of the contents of those papers, he could not have fallen into the series of errors which have characterised his speech. The hon. Gentleman expresses his wonder that my noble Friend made no reference to the convention
 265 266 267 268
 Mr. DISRAELI  was anxious to express his concurrence in the objections taken by the right hon. Baronet to the course proposed by the hon. Member for the West Riding. He did not agree with that hon. Member that it was inexpedient to proceed with important business on the first day Parliament met after a recess. His opinion was that, if it were understood that important business would be brought on, the attendance of Members would be more numerous, and it was no greater hardship upon one more than upon another. He regretted the absence of the hon. Member for Montrose, which was the more remarkable, perhaps, because it was so rare an occurrence. In the absence of that hon. Member, his supporters ought not to post-pose the Motion of which he had given notice, because there was now a possibility of its being carried, which there would not be if the financial reformers were all present.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I would recommend the House not to ratify, by too assenting a cheer, the suggestion of the noble Lord the Member for Hertford, that we should not presume to give any opinion upon foreign transactions in this House until the papers having relation to them have been laid upon the table. I remember some little time ago, when the affairs of Italy caused considerable excitement even in the House of Commons, a feeling of equal delicacy induced the House to postpone a discussion, and to withhold an opinion upon some of the most important transactions of modern history, until the papers on the subject were laid before them. At the end of the Session, or, I believe, after the prorogation of Parliament, these papers appeared in the shape of three folio volumes; and I venture to say, if hon. Gentlemen who read those three volumes, and digested and mastered their contents, walked into the lobby of this House, we should sec the smallest minority ever found in that chamber. Sir, I believe there is no popular assembly in Europe that less willingly obtrudes itself in discussions connected with our diplomatic relations than the House of Commons. I am sure that no Government, in England, has been more tenderly treated by the House of Commons in that respect than Her Majesty's present Government. But exactly in proportion as that wise reserve prevails among us, do I think we have a right to expect, on the part of the Government of the day, a becoming frankness. It is an understood condition of the compact between the Government and the Opposition on this subject, that if the latter does not provoke discussions which might injure important negotiations, the former shall evince when necessary a proportionate frankness. Sir, the speech of the noble Lord the Secretary of State, to-night, has been described as an able and masterly statement; but, for the life of me, I cannot understand why it should not have been made a week ago; for the noble Lord has said nothing which he might not have said the day before the adjournment. If the beneficial consequences the noble Lord contemplates are to flow, I think it matter of regret that even a week should have been lost in making a statement which might as well have been made then as now, and which, according to the silent expectations of hon. Gentlemen opposite, is calculated to remove all those inconveniences we have observed and lamented. Now, Sir, I
 258 259 260 261 262 "General do la Hitte read me a despatch which he had communicated when he had first received it from M. Drouyn de Lhuys, of the date of the 3rd of March, in which he states himself to have discussed the point with your Lordship, and to have obtained your complete assent to the condition there required by the French Government, that in case of any difference of opinion between Mr. Wyse and Baron Gros as to the terms to be proposed to the Greek Government, hostile proceedings should not be recommenced until a further reference had been made for instructions to London and Paris." "in case of any differences of opinion between Mr. Wyse and Baron Gros as to the terms to be proposed to the Greek Government, hostile proceedings should not be recommenced until a reference has been made for further instructions from London and Paris." 263 "I was unable either to admit or deny that M. Drouyn de Lhuys had rightly understood your Lordship to assent to this condition on the part of the French Government, having had no direct communication with you since that date, on this particular point; but I am hound to state that snch has been the impression here; and from General do la Hitte's constant language, I do not believe that he would have continued the good offices of France had he believed that they could have had the termination they have now received." 264
 MR. HAWES  said, that from all the information he possessed, his belief was directly opposed to the report that Sir J. Brooke was engaged in any mercantile undertaking whatever. Indeed, he believed, on the contrary, that it was because Sir J. Brooke had abstained from entering into mercantile speculations, that he obtained the enmity of those by whom he was once admired.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that it was seldom he agreed with or supported Her Majesty's Ministers; but upon the present occasion he could not but do so. However, after what had fallen from the hon. Member for the West Riding, he did not expect that either the case made out by the First Lord of the Admiralty, or that by the hon. Member for Newport, would satisfy either the hon. Member for the West Riding, or his man Friday, the hon. Member for Manchester. He did not know how many innocent free-traders might have been amongst those pirates. There might have been a great number. But it was high time that that mistaken out-of-doors feeling of humanity for pirates should be put a stop to. There was cruelty enough practised by the free-traders at home to those unfortunate persons who were in their employ, and they should begin by putting a stop to that.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  was very glad his hon. and learned Friend had drawn the attention of the House to the subject. He (Colonel Sibthorp) had moved for the production of the return referred to; but he confessed that, now it was on the table, it was very difficult to know what really was the expense of these commissions. He did not suppose that this and other returns were made out wilfully incorrect, but it was evident that there was great carelessness in not showing the House and the public what expenses really were incurred. He bad no doubt as to other commissions being asked for, which would cause a great public expenditure, if his hon. Friends and himself
 287
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  did not propose to deny the facts stated by the hon. and learned Gentleman. There was no doubt about the fact that the consumption of coffee had fallen off, as well as the revenue derived from it, and that chicory, and perhaps other articles, were mixed with coffee. But there was still a further question—whether the falling-off in the consumption of coffee was owing to its mixture with chicory. Of that he had very great doubts. Several other articles had fallen off in consumption as well as coffee. There was another remarkable circumstance. The price of ordinary tea consumed by the great body of the population had been reduced in price to the amount of 1 s 274 Caveat emptor 275 s s d l l 276 277
 MR. CARDWELL  said, without asking the Government to adopt the course proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Youghal, there could be no doubt that the present state of the coffee trade might very properly form the subject of discussion in that House. Seeing that the consumption had decreased since 1848 from nearly 10,000,000 lbs. to 7,5000,000 lbs., it was not surprising that the coffee trade should feel anxious to represent their case to the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer. The right hon. Gentleman had observed that no memorials had been presented from the consumers, and that  caveat emptor s s d s d 278
 COLONEL DUNNE  believed what had recently occurred would not have the effect of altering our relations with Greece, nor cause any misunderstanding with France. With respect to the possession of the islands of Cervi and Sapienza, he had been connected with the commission, appointed twelve years ago, in separating Greece from Turkey, and was well aware that those islands were considered part of the Ionian Islands, and that the Government of Greece had no claim whatever upon them.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  read a return, moved for by the hon. Member for Montrose, in which it was stated that eight and twenty piracies on British vessels had been
 307
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that it must be matter of regret to observe that every particular case of suffering, cruelty, and atrocity mentioned by the hon. Gentleman had been received with great cheering and laughter by hon. Gentlemen opposite. Now the statements of the hon. Gentleman appeared to have no hearing whatever on the question before the House,
 299 l l l l l 300
 MR. BRIGHT  wished to call the attention of his hon. Friend the Member for Southwark to the circumstance that 120,000 l 293
 MR. J. STUART  said, that he had given a notice to call the attention of the House to the return (No. 669), of 1848, of the number of Commissions of Inquiry appointed since 1830, and the expense of each. No doubt the hon. and gallant Member who moved for the return, intended that it should afford authentic information, not only of the commissions, but of the expenses of those commissions. The order of the House required, not only that the expenses generally should be stated, but all incidental matters, such as the members, the officers, and clerks. It appeared by this return that no fewer than ninety-one Commissions of Inquiry had been issued by the successive Governments of this country between 1830 and 1848. It appeared, moreover, that, according to this return, the expense to the country of these Commissions of Inquiry had been above 638,000 l l 286 l l l l l l l l l
 MR. COBDEN  said, that his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose (who was absent) had given notice of an Amendment on this vote, which he presumed he would move on some future stage of the estimates. He (Mr. Cobden) thought that the practice of appointing the first day after an adjournment of the House for going into these Votes was not only on inconvenient
 288
 MR. COBDEN  said, that the Government ought to confine themselves to the repair, and not engage in the construction of boilers. He thought, that as they had now steam basins, docks, and factories, which would enable them to repair between 100,000 and 200,000 horse power, and the total horse power of the steam navy did not reach anything like that extent, they had made pretty good provision already for a time of war. The Select Committee had been told by persons connected with the public dockyards that boilers could be made in those establishments at less cost than by private persons. The mode of taking stock pursued by these public servants, however, differed widely from that adopted by private individuals, for the former made no account of the interest of money, wear and tear of machinery, or the cost of the plant and establishment. He considered that the boilers required for the public service could be obtained from private individuals at less expense than they could be manufactured in the public establishments, and he therefore thought the Government ought not to continue the manufacture.
 MR. COBDEN  objected to the proposal to lay out 150,000 l l l l l 292 l
 MR. COBDEN  knew something of Captain Aaron Smith, who had himself been a most atrocious pirate. If a Committee were appointed to inquire, evidence could easily be brought forward to prove what the conduct of that man had been in the case of the  Cambria
 MR. COBDEN  said, he blamed the service, not that they had done these deeds, but for having done them without order.
 302
 MR. COBDEN  said, there was another reason why they should defer the question. It was a question that referred to the destruction of 5,000 human beings, and for which they were called upon to pay 100,000 l l
 MR. COBDEN  said, the estimate contained an item of 100,000 l
 MR. COBDEN  expressed his desire to have some information with respect to the pirates, in order to ascertain whether they were really pirates. He doubted very much whether this demand for head money was legal, because he believed the Act for the supression of piracy did not apply to the present description of cases. The best proof of this was to be found in the circumstance that the first Act of the Government in the present Session was to repeal the existing law which authorised the payment of head-money. He would like the Committee to consider for a moment the circumstances under which this money was demanded. A gentleman named Brooke, who was sometimes styled Rajah Brooke, became possessed, by means which he
 295 battue l 296 l
 MR. COBDEN  said, the hon. Member
 297 l l l l
 MR. ANSTEY  would not press his Motion to a division, being satisfied with the discussion which had taken place.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, that on bringing forward the subject which he had now again the honour to move, he last year had pointed out that there were three
 269 l l 270 l l l l 271 272 l 273
 MR. PLOWDEN  said, that having been for sometime in China, and having some acquaintance with the subject under discussion, he hoped the House would allow him to make a few remarks. He had been in the China sea in the year 1809 or 1810, and at that time a piratical fleet infested the whole southern coast, and spread dismay in every quarter. They did not confine their atrocities to the Chinese, for they attacked English and American vessels. One of the most trifling punishments which they inflicted was to tie the hands of their victims together, and pass a rope through them, and haul them up the mast. He went on board Her Majesty's frigate the  Dædalus 298 Alceste Samarang
 MR. PLOWDEN  said, his statement was impugned because it referred to days gone by; but the very same kind of transactions were occurring at the present day. Gentlemen opposite had a meeting some six or eight weeks ago to discuss these questions; but he thought they would always on these occasions be the better by having Captain Aaron Smith among them.
 SIR G. PECHELL  thought that at least this vote ought, under the circumstances, to be postponed; and fully agreed in the remarks of the hon. Member for the West Riding. With respect to the vote itself, various ways had been pointed out for the reduction of our expenditure, whether in the Naval or any other department. The hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side would not admit that the Army and Navy should be exposed to a reduction such as was comprised in the financial plans of the hon. Member for the West Riding; but if not, let them, then, see whether the efficiency of the Navy could not be kept up consistently with the reduction of votes like this. There was a large class of vessels now kept in ordinary at considerable expense; he meant the class of vessels from 28 to 44 guns, which would be of no use in any future war, and ought to be put up to auction, and got rid of. But if they still preferred to keep these ships in ordinary, at so great an expense, at all events they might reduce the expense and cheapen the system of caulking them. As to the cost of building ships, too, there was no comparison between the cost of building in our dockyards and in private yards. For example, the  Waterwitch l l l 289
 SIR JOHN WALSH : Sir, as it was in consequence of a question which I addressed to the noble Lord opposite that some doubts were raised, I believe, respecting the tenor of the reply of the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs to the question of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester, perhaps I may be allowed shortly to advert to the explanation the noble Lord has now given. I would premise that no one has a greater sense of the value of relations of amity between France and this country than I have, and that, therefore, no one can be more ready to make full and ample allowance for the motives to which the noble Lord has adverted—for his desire to put away anything that might have a tendency to disturb those friendly relations, and to leave it perfectly open to the French Government to adopt language on the other side of the water which may be most favourable to the maintenance of those relations. At the same time, giving full weight to those considerations, I may be permitted to observe, that it does appear to me, upon the facts the noble Lord has stated, that he strained very much the statement that he made upon that occasion. The noble Lord, in making that reply to the right hon. Member for Manchester, that he trusted nothing would occur to disturb the friendly relations between this country and France, was at that moment in possession of the despatch of General Lahitte to M. Drouyn de Lhuys; and that despatch, I think it is important for us to recollect, was communicated to the noble Lord, not, indeed, in writing—a copy of it was not given to him—but, if I am not mistaken, was communicated to the noble Lord formally and officially, as a direct communication from the French Government. It was not communicated to him privately and confidentially, in the course of conversation, among a variety of other matter, merely as intimating the opinion of M. Drouyn de Lhuys, and his wish to apprise the noble Lord of the feeling existing in Paris on the course the noble Lord had pursued. It was an official communication from the head of the French Government. It does appear to me that it was scarcely acting with ingenuousness towards
 249 250 251
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said: Seeing the noble Lord at the head of the Government in his place, I rise to put a question to him as to the course of business this evening. I thought I understood him on Friday, though I am not always quite happy in catching his intentions or meaning; but I thought he intimated that he proposed to fix the Committee on Supply for this evening instead of a later day, in order to afford an opportunity for explanation or discussion with respect to the state of our foreign relations. I wish now to know, did that arrangement refer to an explanation to be furnished by the Government, or was it with a view to giving hon. Gentlemen at this side of the House an opportunity of raising a discussion, if they should think proper—was it for the latter purpose, or with a view to a voluntary statement from the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, as to the extraordinary complications in which our foreign relations are placed?
 MR. PETO  said, that all he was anxious about was, that the Government would promise not to begin the factories for steam machinery until circumstances had proved them to be actually necessary.
 MR. PETO  agreed that the works ought not to be stopped altogether, and he recommended that the vote now proposed should be granted, which would effect the most useful part of the plan, and then the works might be stopped. But in respect to the factories for building and repairing steam machinery, he really thought the Government ought to pause before proceeding with that portion of the design, for they could be at once better and more cheaply supplied by the great engine manufacturers on the Clyde and the Thames.
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  said, that as a Member of the Committee on the Naval Estimates, he felt it his duty to object to the part of the vote which referred to Keyham docks. The expense of those works had been going on increasing year after year, and the Committee had agreed they ought not to have been undertaken. There was now a proposal to give 120,000 l l l "That a sum, not exceeding 199, 839 l 291
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  said, that, as he understood the First Lord of the Admiralty to say that nothing would be done with regard to the factory buildings till the subject was brought under the consideration of Parliament next year, he would not press the Amendment.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : It is my intention to make a statement this evening upon the subject to which the hon. Baronet has adverted, especially in reference to what passed upon a former occasion.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said: Sir. I feel from what passed on a former occasion in this House, more especially with reference to the answer which I then felt it my duty to give to my right hon. Friend the Member for Manchester, that it is due both to myself and to the House that some further explanation should be given. My right hon. Friend on Thursday last asked me, if I remember rightly, amongst others, one question, whether there existed a perfectly good understanding between the Government of France and the Government of England in regard to the affairs of Greece? I stated, as far as I remember, that the French Ambassador had left London the day before; that he had been charged by Her Majesty's Government with explanations to be given to the Government
 238 239 240 241 in statu quo; "If the Greek Government will send the sums which I think are just amounts of compensation to the persons for whom particular fixed sums have been required, and for the losses of Mr. Finlay, and of Mr. Pacifico, so far as his furniture and household goods are concerned; if the Greek Government will send 180,000 drachmas, accompanied by a letter stating that amount to be in full satisfaction of all claims mentioned in my note of January 17, except the claims of Mr. Pacifico for losses resulting from the destruction of his documents, I will"— statu quo Fantome; "I have notified to the Greek Government that I am no longer in official communication with them, and therefore I cannot make this proposal officially." 242 status quo 243 Fantome; "As to the questions that are to be examined in these conferences, they shall be those which shall not implicate in principle the denial of the English claims." "Told me, as I have had the honour of informing you, that the mediation will comprise the questions which do not implicate in principle the negation of the demands of the Cabinet of London. Thus it is laid down in principle that an indemnity is due to Mr. Finlay and Mr. Pacifico. It remains to settle what shall be the amount of that indemnity." "The following is an answer to these two questions:—Mr. Wyse is authorised at present to accept of an arrangement based on the following
 244 "2. The transmission of a letter to Mr. Wyse, expressing regret for the arrest of an officer of the  Fantome "According to a letter from Mr. Green (the Consul at Athens) dated March 19, it would appear that M. Gros, on the faith of his correspondence from Paris, is persuaded that in case he himself should declare that his good offices have failed, and that he expects no result from their continuance, Admiral Parker would not have recourse to coercive measures without new orders from his Government. That is completely erroneous, and it is of great importance to rectify, in that respect, the opinion of our negotiator. In such hypothesis the coercive measures would resume their course  ipso facto 245 246 l l l 247 248
 LORD SEYMOUR  did not suppose that any one could wish to leave the marble arch where it now was. He might state that the removal of the arch would cost about 4,000 l l &c., l l
 MR. DRUMMOND  asked whether it had been ascertained that the Queen's state coach could go through the arch? He very much doubted it. Then he thought 10,000 l
 MR. V. SMITH  was as anxious as any one to see the arch in a proper place, but he thought estimates more explicit should be laid before them, so that they might be able to know what the enclosure was to cost, and what the removal of the arch. There was a sum of 650 l
 SIR G. GREY  said, the houses in which
 321
 COLONEL SALWEY  said, it was perfectly well known that these poor men were not in a situation to go to law with such a body as the dean and canons of Windsor. But he would prove his point. Henry VIII. by his will granted lands and tenements of the value of 600. a year, on certain conditions. On the death of that monarch, various steps were taken by the Privy Council, and on the 4th of August, 1567, a deed was executed to declare the trusts. Now, he begged the House to remark that in the reign of Queen Mary the funds were devoted to the purpose for which they were intended, for out of the revenue thirteen houses were built, which the knights resided in at the present day.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  hoped the Mover: would go to a division. His conviction was, that the matter ought to be looked into; and he bespoke the attention of both military and naval men to the subject. It was a contest between poor knights and ecclesiastics; and the great fish were swallowing the little.
 LORD SEYMOUR  hoped his hon. and gallant Friend would consider what would be the effect of his Motion, if carried. Parliament had no power to compel the Dean and Chapter of Windsor to repair the houses; and if Parliament refused the vote, the consequence would he that the houses would not he repaired at all.
 SIR DE L. EVANS  believed the institution of the Knights of Windsor was originally a good one; but, like many other ancient institutions, its design had been much neglected, and appointments made too much a matter of patronage. The present Government were attending to it in a much better spirit than had previously
 322
 MR. COBDEN  said, he saw a charge of 850 l l l
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, that the furniture alluded to was for the official rooms, and that the 850 l
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he was informed that other expenses had been incurred in the improvements of Buckingham Palace which were paid for by the department of Woods and Forests, besides those which were sanctioned by the House. He wished to know whether that was the case?
 MR. HAYTER  said, he believed the gallant Colonel was entirely misinformed. He did not apprehend that there was any sum of money whatever expended on Buckingham Palace, except what was voted by that House. The Commissioners of Woods and Forests undoubtedly took care of the royal parks, but they had nothing at all to do with Buckingham Palace.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP : Oh, oh! but if a garden is attached to a house, it is part of the house. Everything that was connected
 323
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, it was intended to remove it to the centre mall in St. James's Park, nearly opposite Stafford-house. The public would have the same access to the garden which it was proposed to make as they now had to the park.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, it was not competent to the hon. and gallant Member to move the postponement of the vote. He could only negative it.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, that the people's attention was directed to this point—we had been for some time past spending throe millions of money to make a House of Commons, which, after all, we had not got. It might be very true, as had been stated, that the House of Commons originally made choice of the style of architecture adopted in the building; but it seemed very extraordinary that none of the intelligent gentlemen composing the commission to whom the architect's plan was referred, seeing a blank space to represent the interior of the House of Commons, should ever have thought of ascertaining that it would hold the persons for whose accommodation it was destined. There was no difficulty in determining the point. The commissioners had only to take the fattest Member they could find, and multiply him by 658. [Sir W. CLAY: The House would then have been too largo.] Then the commissioners might have taken a spare Member, and if he had been in the House he would have had no objection to serve as the model himself. Here was a gentleman who was called the best architect the country possessed, aided by several intelligent Lords and Gentlemen, and, after all, they had not built a house fit for its object. It was a great absurdity. He had no doubt that Mr. Barry had considerable difficulties to contend with, and it was not fair to lay all the blame on him; but it was useless to disguise the fact—make what alterations you please, you must at last knock down
 341 1.
 VISCOUNT MAHON  did not feel himself entitled to make any statement on behalf of the Fine Arts Commission, to which reference had been made; but, as a member of that Commission, he wished to offer to the Committee a few remarks on this subject. The hon. and gallant Member for Westminster had stated his opinion that of the many distinguished men whoso names appeared on the Commission very few took an active part in the proceedings of the board, and that probably all the work was done by the Secretary, or by one or two active persons who co-operated with him. He (Lord Mahon) could assure the hon. and gallant Member that he was altogether in error on that point. The hon. and gallant Member need not, however, take this assurance merely on his (Viscount Mahon's) authority. The meetings of the Commissioners were regularly mentioned in the public papers, and the names of the members who attended were given; and if
 354
 VISCOUNT MAHON  said, the matter stood thus: The Commissioners designed to erect a certain but a smaller number of statues. In the first instance, they appointed a Committee to consider the names of those persons who might justly claim such an honour, and the Committee sent in a very extensive list of persons who had been distinguished in the history of this country, or for their attainments in science and literature. That, however, was merely a table for selection, and the number of statues actually sanctioned by the Commission, independently of the statues for the niches in the House of Lords, if he remembered rightly, did not exceed eighteen. The hon. Gentleman had, therefore, mistaken the general list for subsequent selection for the list for actual execution. With regard to the pictures which it was proposed to place in the Peers' refreshment room, the Commissioners had felt that in an undertaking for the promotion of British art, they would but inadequately consult the interests of that art if they did not accord a place to the distinguished genius of Mr. Edwin Landseer. That gentleman was so eminent in his own branch of art, that the Commissioners felt it incumbent upon them to find some place where his productions might be placed, and he was commissioned to paint three pictures. The hon. and gallant Member for
 355 356
 MR. M.O'CONNELL  looked on the item as an omen that Government were getting ashamed of their Bill; but if they meant to do away with the Lord Lieutenancy, why pay 452 l
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  could only hope any proposition to withdraw the hospital would be met in the same way as a similar proposal seventeen years ago.
 MR. P. WOOD  asked when the House might expect the long-promised report of the Commission appointed three or four years ago to consider the question of a registry for England?
 SIR G. GREY  had been in hopes that the report would have been presented long-ago; but the Commissioners having been engaged in preparing it, he expected that it would at an early period be put in possession of the House.
 MR. DRUMMOND  would take that opportunity of stating the course which he intended to pursue with regard to the Real Property Transfer Bill, which stood for the second reading that night. He had brought forward a similar Bill last year, but was recommended to withdraw it till the report of the Commission was laid on
 365
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, the opinion in Ireland as to the value of the hon. and learned Gentleman's law reforms was very different from that expressed by the hon. Member who had spoken. A Member of that House, whom he did not see in his place, told him that the substitution which was proposed for the present simple mode of registration in Ireland, was one of the most complicated and difficult description, which he doubted if the hon. and learned Solicitor General understood himself. He referred to the operation of the Incumbered Estates Act, and said that there was no such thing as property now recognised in Ireland—that there had not been such a court in Ireland for the last 700 years. He would not, however, oppose the Bill.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  deprecated the system of dragging in the working of the Incumbered Estates Bill on the discussion of a question like the present; but as it had been done, he wished to refer to a statement made a few nights ago by the hon. Member for Roscommon, to the effect that the Commissioners had sold land as belonging to one estate, which actually formed part of another. The circumstances were these: The ancestors of the gentleman whose estate was sold had leased the adjoining estate, and had confused the boundaries between them. The Commissioners, therefore, in selling the estate, had sold it subject to the proper boundaries being afterwards ascertained; so that, in point of fact, they had not sold any part of the adjoining estate.
 MR. DRUMMOND  objected to trying the whole Maynooth question by a side vote; neither would he consent to the purchase of new buildings under the pretence of repairing the old.
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO  could never understand why Mr. Barry had been loft without any control. Even at the eleventh hour those buildings might be placed under the superintendence of the Ordnance Department, or of the Woods and Forests. An expenditure much in excess of the estimates was usual where there were underground works; but there was no instance in which the original expense of such a building as the new Houses of Parliament had exceeded the estimate three times.
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO  thought the House should insist upon knowing what the whole
 333
 MR. F. MAULE , in reply, said, an impression had gone abroad that it was intended to withdraw the establishment at Kilmainham; but the fact was that no decision had been come to. The Committee had directed their attention to the subject, and had inquired if all the purposes of the establishment might not be answered by Chelsea Hospital; but, as yet, they had only taken evidence, had formed no opinion, and had made no communication to Government. After they had reported, it would be for Government to adopt their recommendation, if it was thought fit.
 MR. S. HERBERT  thought, that though there might be a technical objection to the proposal of the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Middlesex;, that the vote should be postponed, yet the Government of itself might postpone the vote for further consideration. Of course, no one wished to see the marble arch remain in its present position; but he would much sooner see it remain there
 327
 LORD C. HAMILTON  said, that when the commission was first established, it was not understood that the New Houses of Parliament were to be galleries for pictures and statues. The whole proceedings connected with the erection of the New Houses had been marked by the most disgraceful bungling, and an utter absence of everything like management. At first it was a question whether 200,000 l l l l 358
 LORD C. HAMILTON  wished very much that the noble Lord would tell them whether it was in consequence of Lord Minto's advice that the kingdom of Sardinia had twice broken through solemn treaties, and twice had marched her armies into the dominions of Austria? Had those aggressions, which had been attended with the most disastrous consequences to Sardinia, so that her capital would have been hostilely occupied but for the clemency and liberality of the assailed party, been in accordance with Lord Minto's advice? If so, the present condition of Sardinia certainly depended more on the forbearance of Austria, than on any efforts of the noble Lord's policy.
 LORD J. MANNERS  inquired if they were to have a vote of 1,200 l
 LORD J. MANNERS  should not object to the vote if it were for  bonâ fide
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  said, that the House having heard from the hon. Member for Lancaster a statement of the capacity of the New House of Commons, it might be interesting for them to know what were the resolutions of the Committee of 1835 with reference to this question. That Committee stated that in their opinion the body of the House should contain sitting room not for 277 Members, but for from 420 to 460 Members—that adequate accommodation for the remainder should be provided in the side galleries—that, in addition to a gallery behind the Speaker's chair, there should be one at the lower end of the House large enough to accommodate not 120 but 200 strangers—and that retiring rooms should also be provided for strangers to occupy when the galleries were cleared. Where these imaginary retiring rooms were he did not know. The Committee also recommended that accommodation
 346 l l l
 MR. B. COCHRANE  said, he could not allow one Supply night to pass without expressing to the House the conviction which had been impressed upon him during his recent stay abroad of the universal feeling of hostility with which this country was now regarded in every part of the
 316 317 318
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  asked whether the country was in a fit state to enter into all the extensive alterations proposed? He thought it was not; but the Chancellor of the Exchequer having got a surplus, seemed to be so flush of money that he did not know how to expend it.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  inquired whether the stone used in the new buildings was already in a state in which it ought not to be?
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  believed it would be admitted that their ancestors transacted better and more important business in the Old Houses of Parliament than was transacted in the present, or was likely to be transacted in the New Houses. He was aware there existed a feeling out of doors that many portions of the New Houses were in a crumbling condition already, owing to the quality of stone used in their construction. He hoped that, if untrue, that report would be contradicted. They had already paid a large sum of money, more than four times the original estimate: and he hoped the House would be informed as to how much more would be required to complete them, as also when they could obtain possession of them.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that the vote for public works in Ireland was 18,093 l l s
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  wanted to know if Dublin Castle could not be conveniently sold to the highest bidder?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Such sum as might be necessary every year; this year it was 1,240 l s
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, in reference to the first interrogatory of the hon. and gallant Gentleman, that no matter what might become of the Bill at present on the table of the House for the abolition of the Lord Lieutenancy, it was at all events certain that the Castle would be occupied during the
 362
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained. It was true that the road from Holyhead to Shrewsbury had ceased to be the main line of communication between Dublin and London, and he admitted it was objectionable that the expense of keeping it in repair should be defrayed out of the public funds. He would, therefore, direct his early attention to the matter, with a view to see whether it might not be possible to introduce some improved arrangement for the future; but in the mean time it was desirable that the present vote should be agreed to, in order that certain liabilities might be discharged which had been incurred under the Act.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that his hon. and gallant Friend had admitted that the present was a fit opportunity for encouraging the fine arts; and he would remind the House that this matter had been already considered and settled. With the sanction of both Houses of Parliament this Commission was appointed, and he must say, with all deference to the House of Commons, that they would make a very bad committee of taste. What had passed to-night convinced him that they were the worst possible body to select or to superintend the execution of works of taste. He thought that the arrangement made two years ago was the best arrangement that could be made under the circumstances, and he disclaimed the expression of any opinion on what had been done. The House, however, would forgive him for saying that a selection made by them would not be likely to load to a satisfactory result. On the question of the sum to be allotted for the purposes of decoration, the Treasury was supreme, and not the Commissioners; but the distribution of a sum of 4,000 l 351
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was not easy to please so many masters. He denied that either the present Government or the present House of Commons was responsible for the expenditure, which was sanctioned fifteen years ago. He considered himself as being responsible only for the expenditure which had taken place since he became Chancellor of the Exchequer. He repeated what he had said before, that the greater portion of the expense which had been complained of had been sanctioned previous to the appointment of the Palace Commissioners—an appointment which was strongly advocated by the hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex, and unanimously approved of by the House. No allegation had been made of want of control over the expenditure since that appointment; and it was rather hard, therefore, that because there was a want of control before, although there had been none since, they should visit these Commissioners with censure which they did not deserve. With regard to what the hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex had said about the temporary buildings, he did not think that the expense was at all extravagant.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought everybody admitted that the arch ought to be removed. In fact, it must go; it could not remain any longer whore it was; therefore, they must decide where it was to go to. Several proposals had been made on the subject; and, among others, that of the noble Lord the Member for Falkirk had been brought forward; but his was a scheme which necessarily involved a great expenditure. They would require to remove the house of Sir John Guest, a portion of the chapel in Spring-gardens, and take off a considerable corner of Messrs. Drummond's banking-house, together with other buildings, so that the outlay would come to be very great if the plan of the noble Lord were adopted. It was certainly very desirable that any scheme of this kind should be well considered. They were, he confessed, too much in the habit of doing these things in haste, and considering them afterwards; and he thought, therefore, that great care should be taken to place the arch in the host possible position. He wished to say, also, that in the proposal he had made, the arch and the ornamental grounds must go
 328
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could assure his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Middlesex that, so far from being desirous of avoiding explanations on this subject, he was exceedingly glad that an opportunity had been afforded him to make the explanation which he intended to make; because, unfortunately, considerable misunderstanding existed in the minds of some hon. Gentlemen on the subject—at least of those who had not paid that attention to it which had been paid by the hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex. He hoped, however, that the explanation which he was about to give, would at least tend to remove that misunderstanding, and that the necessity for so constant a repetition of this subject in the House might be removed. The hon. and gallant Gentleman had stated how long ago it was since the fire took place which destroyed the old Houses of Parliament, and that Mr. Barry had expressed his hope that in about six years the new Houses of Parliament might be rebuilt. The answer which Mr. Barry had to make on that point was, that justice had not been done to him by the House, inasmuch as they had not furnished him with the money necessary to enable him to proceed with the speed which he desired in the erection of the Houses. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was very far from saying that the control of the House in that erection was at all times of a satisfactory character; but he did think that, since the time when the Commission was appointed by the House about two years ago, an adequate control had been exercised as to the erecting of the new building. But the House must remember this, that, after all, it was the House of Commons that was mainly responsible for the great expenditure which had been incurred. It was a Committee of the two Houses of Parliament which decided upon certain plans which were to be adopted. They
 334 l l l l l 335 l l l l l l. l 336 l l l l l l l 337 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the House had better agree to this vote in the first instance, and receive the explanation which he had to offer when the next vote was proposed.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER 
 326 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, his right hen. Friend was in error when he supposed that if ground was given in the one case, it would be withdrawn in the other. No ground would be withdrawn at all except that which was to be surrounded by the iron palisade in front of the palace. All the rest would be open to the public.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  hoped he should be able to satisfy the hon. and gallant Gentleman as to what was intended, and that the proposal was one which the House ought to agree to. Every one would agree that it would never do to leave the arch where it was. The question had been mooted as to the site to which it should be removed, and various suggestions had been made. The last proposal was one which would contribute very much to the pleasure and amusement of the great body of the people. It was, that the arch should be moved down the park, nearly opposite to the entrance into the stableyard, to stand across the centre mall in the park, so as to form an approach to the palace. It would stand across the portion of the mall through which the Queen drove when going towards Whitehall. Then it was proposed to remove the
 324 325
 The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER  said, it had hitherto been his duty to resist every proposition of this kind, and he must admit that, in many cases, it had been a painful duty. On the present occasion, however, he had no great scruple in opposing the Motion of the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House. The hon. Gentleman had truly and correctly anticipated the answer which he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was prepared to give to his speech and Motion. He had felt it his duty to resist the reduction of what were called the taxes on knowledge, and the taxes on air and light; and he could not now sacrifice the revenue derivable from the object of the hon. Gentleman's Motion by abandoning the additional 10 per cent which he sought to abolish. The imposts of which the hon. Gentleman complained, namely, the assessed taxes, were the most unobjectionable species of taxation, and the 10 per cent amounted to 290,000 l 314 l
 COLONEL DUNNE  protested against sums being lavished upon objects of national vanity, while the hospitals of Dublin were to be robbed of the trifling sum they had hitherto received. He appealed to the hon. and gallant Member for Armagh, and every Irish Member, whether they could vote for such an appropriation of public money. Much as they were in Ireland called blunderers, he did not think they would there have erected a hall for a particular purpose, and then find out, when it was built, that it would not bold the 650 Members who were to assemble in it.
 COLONEL DUNNE  assured his hon. and gallant Friend that he never supposed that he wished to rob the hospitals: be had the sincerest regard for his hon. Friend.
 COLONEL DUNNE  wished to know what was to be done with Dublin Castle. He found that under the present vote was comprised an item of 4,000 l
 MR. BANKES  had heard the House of Commons blamed for many wasteful experiments. The root of the evil lay in the resolution to build an immense edifice merely because the chamber occupied by the Commons had been burnt down. The Lords had the complaisance to give up their chamber to the use of the Commons, and to rest contented with inferior accommodation.
 345
 MR. BANKES  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had especially avoided the 10 per cent on the window tax, a matter that did not exclusively concern the rich. It was a subject that had excited public feeling very much; and, if some concession were made on that point, the public would receive it as an earnest of the intention of the Government to act with good faith in this matter, and as affording some hope that the whole of that odious tax would be eventually removed. He quite differed from the Chancellor of the Exchequer in considering the Motion now before them as one that merely affected the rich; on the contrary, he maintained that it very deeply affected the humbler classes of the community. One of the great advantages arising from the luxuries of the rich was, that they gave employment to the poor. Now, these taxes deprived many persons of bread who otherwise might be employed as servants. The Chancellor of the Exchequer said he should not take into account the circumstances under which the additional 10 per cent was imposed; but surely the House would not sanction such a position. It was only imposed for a temporary purpose, and to make good a temporary deficiency. The Government now had its command a surplus, and the earliest opportunity should be taken to do that which was nothing more than an observance of good faith. At a future time, if a Chancellor of the Exchequer were to come forward and say that he wanted to impose an additional duty merely for a temporary purpose, the House would surely remember what they had that night heard from the right hen. Gentleman. Even upon sanitary grounds he thought the necessity for relieving the country from the window tax was most pressing. The right hon. Gentleman had a surplus, and seemed resolved to keep it; but he would not succeed in showing that the people who bore
 315 l l
 MR. REPTON  said, that no repairs were now going on in the old buildings at Maynooth.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, two questions were before them—one, as to the formation of ornamental flower gardens, and the other as to the position of the arch; and he must say, that notwithstanding the explanation just given by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, it was difficult to ascertain the hearing of these different questions—what ground, for example, was to be given in one direction, and what ground was to be withdrawn in another. He thought, therefore, it would be satisfactory to have a plan of the arrangements made out, in order that the House might be able sufficiently to understand them. He should have some doubts as to the propriety of placing the arch in the centre of the mall; but as to the flower gardens, they would, no doubt, be a source of great enjoyment, and he did not at present see that there could be any objection to their construction.
 COLONEL SALWEY  attributed the largo
 343
 MR. ALDERMAN HUMPHERY  advised his hon. Friend to have a body of the metropolitan police seated in the New House; the capacity of the New Coal Exchange had been so tested.
 MR. ALDERMAN HUMPHERY  had complained of the New House from the commencement, but his remonstrances had been scouted. Each lobby would not contain more than 150 persons, and if 250 went,
 344
 COLONEL RAWDON  said, it was most unjust to him to let it go forth to Ireland that he wished to rob the hospitals of Dublin to lavish the money on the refreshment room of the House of Lords. There was no hon. Member more anxious for the prosperity of those establishments.
 COLONEL RAWDON  thought that House was of all places the least suitable for a discussion on the fine arts. He might state, however, that he had been a Member of the Committee of that House which originated the commission that had been referred to, and one of their principal subjects of consideration was how far the erection of the New Houses might be made the means of promoting the fine arts in
 357
 MR. STANFORD  wished to know whether the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster made his objections from economical views? With regard to the fine arts, he was sure that hardly any hon. Member could be found who would not admit, that before the Commission had been appointed in connexion with the building of the Houses of Parliament, the school of historic art had been always wanting. In a valuable little work, called the  Fine Arts Almanak, dilettante l 352
 MR. B. OSBORNE  thought that whatever might be the effect of this debate in the House, it would he certain to produce one effect out of it, and that was, to show that in the management of their own affairs they were totally incompetent. What was the history of this debate? The Chancellor of the Exchequer had defended the share which the Government had had in the building; the Commissioner appointed by that House had defended the Commissioners; the hon. Member for Bedford had eulogised the ventilation; the hon. Baronet the Member for the Tower Hamlets had eulogised Mr. Barry, and had told them that they might think themselves lucky in having employed him, because posterity would unadoubtedly regard this as the finest building in the world; and last of all came the hon. Member for Andover, and said, that this great country ought not to complain if they were cheated out of double the amount of the original estimate. With respect to what had fallen from the hon. Baronet the Member for the Tower Hamlets, he begged to say that it would afford little consolation to hon. Gentlemen who were being starved to death in the committee rooms, or to those who would hereafter be cramped to death in a House which could only accommodate 270 Members on the ground-floor—it would, he said, be little satisfaction to them to be told that posterity would regard it as the finest building in the world. He was surprised that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in his defence, had given the go-by to what be had said about the extravagant expense which was incurred for temporary buildings to supply the place of the official residences which Mr. Barry, in 1842, promised should be completed in eighteen months. It appeared, too, from a return issued in 1849, that whereas the sum originally agreed to be paid by way of commission to the architect was 25,000 l l 348
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, the noble Lord told them that the Commissioners had selected the least unsuitable situation they could find for Mr. Edwin Landseer's pictures. They were, however, to be put into a dark room, resembling the cabin of a ship, where they could not be seen for two hours any day in the year. He (Mr. Osborne) denied altogether that the New Houses of Parliament were built for the purpose of encouraging the fine arts. It was very well for Gentlemen to tell them that they were to encourage the fine arts by giving large sums of money to artists at the top of their profession; but he challenged any one to show that the fine arts had been encouraged by such means. He objected, however, to the pictures of Mr. Edwin Landseer, who was at the top of his profession not only in this country but in the world, being placed in the cabin to which it was proposed to consign them. It was very well for some nineteen noble Lords and  dilettanti
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, he observed an item of 58 l
 MR. B. OSBORNE  thought that was a very good reason why they should be included no longer. As it was a matter of principle, he would suggest that the sum of 58 l
 MR. B. OSBORNE  considered that it should be given at once.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, that he wished to make some observations generally on the building of the two Houses of Parliament; and he would either do so on this vote or on the next, which required a grant to defray the expense of the works at the "New Palace," as it was called, but which he should always call the two Houses of Parliament. If hon. Members were anxious to preserve their character as men of business, it was time they should insist upon knowing who was responsible for the expenditure of the different sums of money which had been advanced from time to time on account of the works at the Now Houses of Parliament. The Old Houses of Parliament were burnt down in October 1834. Since that period a great many Committees had sat on the subject of building the New Houses; and he wished to draw the attention of the House for a short time to what had hitherto been the result of their labours. He was, however, sorry to see so beggarly an account of financial reformers on the benches around him when a subject on which they might save a large sum of money was under consideration. He was glad, however, to observe the hon. Member for the West Riding in his place; but his hon. Friend the Member for Manchester was absent, as if he took no interest in the question. The first Committee which sat was appointed
 329 l l "We have to request that you will not consider the estimate as altered by Mr. Barry, as having received our sanction; but it has been drawn up by him, as far as possible, in accordance with the directions of the House of Commons." l l 330 l l l l 331 l Hansard 332 l l Hansard's Debates
 MR. B. OSBORNE  wished to know whether the sum put down for the removal of the arch and putting it up again included the whole charge? The Committee ought to understand that first and last this arch had cost the country 120,000 l l l
 MR. B. OSBORNE  thought, seeing the sum now proposed was only a part of the expenditure to be incurred, that the vote should be deferred till an estimate of the whole outlay was laid before the House. He would therefore move that this vote be postponed.
 MR. B. OSBORNE , in that case, would move that the vote be negatived.
 MR. COBDEN  thought that great good would come of the discussion raised on the question, inasmuch as the responsibility—which had long been a debated question—had now been fixed on the House. He feared much that the total expenditure would one day be revived and brought as an indictment against that House and the
 342 l
 MR. COBDEN  thought that the sooner
 361
 MR. COBDEN  called attention to the fact, that there was comprised under this vote one item of 12,000 l
 MR. T. GREENE  replied that the number on the floor was 277, the number in the present House being 296. The number in the gallery of the New House was 133, and with an addition of 66 would amount to 199.
 MR. T. GREENE  replied, that in the New House, with the recent modifications, the number of sittings for Members was 446; in the present House with the galleries the number was 456; in the Old House there were only 387 sittings for Members.
 MR. T. GREENE  had not separate returns. Supposing the gallery behind the Speaker's chair allotted to strangers, that would hold 120. The present Speaker's gallery held 44, and the strangers' gallery, 70.
 MR. T. GREENE  observed, that a battalion of Guards had been marched into the present House when it had to be tested. He hoped the worthy Alderman would attend in his place if an experiment were made to test the capacity of the New House.
 MR. GREENE  was not aware that there was any reason whatever to complain of the stone. There might be a stone here and there defective; but, as a whole, the stone was in a very satisfactory state. The Geological Society had adopted the same stone for their own building.
 MR. T. GREENE  said, he did not wish to relieve Mr. Barry from any of the responsibility attaching to him. At the same time he conceived they were bound to undertake their own share of the responsibility. As regarded the accommodation of the New House of Commons, finding that it was not sufficient, Mr. Barry had erected a gallery for Members behind the Speaker's chair, which being disapproved of, he had removed it again, though it was constructed to accommodate 120 Members. The next extension of accommodation was tried on the floor of the House, on either
 339
 CAPTAIN TAYLOR  hoped Government would give some intimation of what was to be done with Kilmainham.
 MR. BLACKSTONE  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal the increase of ten per cent on the assessed taxes. He did not think the Motion, if carried, would embarrass the Chancellor of the Exchequer, or alter his financial arrangements. In bringing forward the proposition for this increase of ten per cent, the right hon. Gentleman's predecessor had stated that the national expenditure was 49,432,000 l l l l l l l l 
 
 The National Income £52,786,500 
 Expenditure 50,533,652 
 Surplus £2,251,848 312 
 
 Income £52,916,918 
 Expenditure 50,378,418 
 Surplus £2,538,500 l 
 
 Great Britain. Ireland. 
 Male servants 101,848 98,742 
 Female 678,451 252,155 l l l l l l l 
 
 THE TAX ON CARRIAGES. 
 Above Two Wheels. Two-wheeled ditto. 
 1842 £464,592 £140,067 
 1843 442,850 123,972 
 1844 428,904 118,878 
 1845 424,077 112,410 
 1846 420,127 167,773 l l l l l l l l l 313 
 
 NUMBER OF TWO-WHEELED CARRIAGES. 
 For which duty was paid. Exemption claimed. 
 1842 £35,182 £25,743 
 1846 27,177 32,766 l l
 MR. CUBITT  said, there appeared to be three subjects on which dissatisfaction was felt—namely, expenditure, time, and space. On the first point it had been said that the foundation was known before the estimate was presented. That observation was applicable only to the foundation of the river wall. As regarded the great mass of building, no one could tell what cost the foundation would involve. It was easy enough to estimate the expense of an ordinary style of building; but this was a description of building with respect to which architects could not have had much experience. The drawings laid before the contractors could convey no idea of the expense subsequently incurred. There was no drawing which would give a correct notion of the expense of the florid and ornate style followed by the architect; and from what he (Mr. Cubitt) had seen, he must say that if he had attempted to make an estimate from the drawings, it would not have covered the expense of the building when finished. As one who had some regard for his country, and who felt some pride in having a seat in that House, he thought the country had done well when erecting a structure which would probably last for centuries, in making it as good a work of art as could possibly be made. In his opinion, there was no building in Europe, whether ancient or modern, which could compete with that which was deservedly termed the New Palace of Westminster; and a country which could spend between fifty and sixty millions annually, should not, for such a purpose, grudge an expenditure of two or three hundred
 347
 MR. HAYTER : It was 1,114 l
 MR. HAYTER  said, that the Act of the 8th and 9th of Victoria, cap. 8, directed that the Commissioners of Public Works in Ireland should cause the buildings of the College of Maynooth to he kept in repair; but that Act did not provide any means whereby the expenses of those repairs were to be defrayed; a vote for that purpose, therefore, became necessary every year.
 MR. HAYTER  said, the building to which the hon. Member referred was a small church in one of the worst localities in Dublin. It was attended by the military in the neighbourhood, and the repairs had always been included in the estimates.
 MR. HAYTER  explained that the duty of keeping the road in repair devolved by Act of Parliament on the Commissioners; and, as they had no funds out of which to defray the expense of such an undertaking, they had no alternative but to apply to that House for an estimate.
 MR. HAYTER  again referred to the Act of Parliament in consequence of which the vote was proposed, and repeated that it was for the repair of old buildings.
 MR. HAYTER  could not allow it to be supposed that the Commissioners of Public Works would he guilty of such a gross breach of duty as to obtain money for one purpose and apply it to another.
 Sir B. HALL  said, that what his hen. and gallant Friend the Member for Westminster generally objected to was not the appropriation of 4,000 l l l Laughter 353 l l l
 Sir B. HALL  wished to know what number the body of the House and galleries would contain?
 SIR B. HALL  wished to know what number of Members could be accommodated in the New Houses, first in the body of the House, next in the side galleries, then in the gallery opposite the Speaker's chair: also the accommodation for the public as compared with that in the present House, and the accommodation for Peers.
 SIR B. HALL  said, there certainly was an impression on the public mind that the Houses of Parliament were to have been completed for not much more than 700,000 l l l l l l 338
 SIR DE L. EVANS  explained that he had said that the erection of these statues was recommended in reports laid before the House by the Commissioners; but, while some of those reports were the reports of the Commissioners themselves, others did not come directly from them, although under their authority.
 SIR DE L. EVANS  wished to call the attention of the House to the expenditure which had been incurred in consequence of the recommendations of the Commissioners on the Fine Arts. When he looked over the names of the twenty Commissioners, he felt something like awe in venturing to find any fault with their decisions; and if he thought that the majority, or anything like the majority, of the Commissioners were aware of what had taken place, he should hardly dare to say a word. Probably, however, in this case, as in others, one or two active persons, or the Secretary, did the work of the Commission, and
 349 l l l l l l l l 350 "If the buildings of the Houses of Parliament are meant for the fine arts, Mr. Barry may be correct in his observation; but I consider that the Houses of Parliament are built for no such purpose, and that though the fine arts ought to be called in for the purpose of embellishing them, no necessary architectural arrangements should be altered upon their account." l
 SIR DE L. EVANS  did not, by the proposition which he had made, intend to cast any reflection on the Commission of the Fine Arts, or on the distinguished artist who had been named. He objected to the
 359
 MR. GROGAN  begged to ask if the Castle of Dublin was to be maintained as an occasional residence for Her Majesty? Imagination ran fast in Dublin, and, as persons seemed to think the Castle would be a second Hampton Court, it might be well to set the question at rest.
 SIR G. GREY  replied, that he had no certain information on the point, but it was clear that it would be necessary the State apartments should be kept up, as, in case Her Majesty visited Ireland, the only reception rooms were in the Castle.
 SIR G. PECHELL  supported the Motion. The House had already smashed the windows by the vote agreed to a few weeks ago; he hoped, however, that they would sooner or later reconsider their decision, for the window tax operated most unfavourably on building, as well as on human health.
 SIR H. VERNEY  said, that the impression left on his mind by serving on the first Committee on this subject, after the destruction of the former House, was that it was important for the transaction of business that the House should not be too large. If it accommodated conveniently from 150 to 250 Members, and could admit a crowded House with some sacrifice of convenience, that would be better than a very large building in which the small average number of Members attending the House would be comparatively lost; but he rose only for one purpose, to urge the Committee to admit no more delay in completing the House. The more delay that took place, the more experiments would be tried; the more expense incurred, the more especially of that expense to which he had a peculiar aversion, that for temporary accommodation. He addressed himself to this subject with great freedom, because he, together with the hon. Member for Montrose, had exerted himself perseveringly in this Committee to obtain a different site for the Houses of Parliament, as well as another style of architecture. He could not sit down without expressing his concurrence in the observations of the hon. Member for Marylebone, with reference to the good ventilation of the present House. Those who had sat in the old one would recollect how very bad its atmosphere frequently was.
 SIR J. TROLLOPE  concurred in this opinion. He could see no reason why the road in question should be treated differently from the Great Northern road, or any other highway in the country. The expense of repairing it ought to be defrayed from local charges.
 SIR W. CLAY  thought the hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex had hardly made sufficient allowance for the great difficulties with which Mr. Barry had had to contend. All who had dabbled in bricks and mortar knew how hard a matter it was to keep within original estimates. If this was difficult when only one employer was to be consulted, how much more so must it be when there were a thousand, every individual of whom was at liberty to make suggestions and raise objections? It must be remembered that Mr. Barry had to deal with one of the largest buildings in the world, devoted to various purposes, and with respect to which he had scarcely any experience to guide him. After all that had been said, he believed the event would prove that Mr. Barry had solved the difficulty, and they would find themselves in a very comfortable and certainly a very handsome house, though he did not believe it could be more comfortable than the one in which they now sat. It was impossible to attempt an adequate defence of Mr. Barry, because that would involve the necessity of going through minute details to which the House would never listen; but the account furnished at the beginning of 1849 appeared to him to contain his complete defence. One cause of the increase of expense was the enormous cost of the foundations, and another the arrangements for ventilation. He quite agreed with the hon. Member for Marylebone that there never was a better ventilated chamber than the one in which they now sat; and any one who remembered the deadly atmosphere of the old House on a crowded night, must feel grateful to Dr. Reid. Perhaps, however, it was a mistake to give him coordinate power with Mr. Barry in making the arrangements. With respect to the alterations, they had been approved by the Committee; and the explanation of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer showed how slight they had been since
 340
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  wished to know what spot had been selected to which to remove the marble arch.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I will not follow the hon. Gentleman into all the topics on which he has touched on a Motion for going into a Committee of Supply. I can only say that what I have just heard from the hon. Gentleman leads me in some degree to alter an opinion very prevalent in this country, and which I have entertained, that it is desirable English gentlemen should travel abroad in order fully to understand foreign affairs. It certainly appears to me that the hon. Gentleman was quite as good a judge of our foreign affairs before he went abroad. I only wish to deny totally the assertions he has so broadly and deeply made with respect to the effect of Lord Minto's mission to Italy. The hon. Gentleman having been abroad has not had time to read the papers at home—[Mr. B. COCHRANE: I have read them all]—and I can only recommend him, if he has any leisure time to spare, to read the blue books which have been produced respecting Italy. [Mr. B. COCHRANE: I have read the whole of them.] Then I am sorry that the hon. Gentleman has so misspent his time, that these documents make so little impression on his mind. The mission of Lord Minto was neither intended
 319
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : So far from the aggressions of Sardinia on the Lombard territory of Austria having been the result of any advice of Her Majesty's Government, the papers prove that this Government remonstrated repeatedly, in the strongest possible manner, against those proceedings.
 MR. COWPER  said, the lowering of the bed of the river, and other improvements, would create a great surplus of pure river water, which the clause in question would empower the company to sell. It was in no respect a Bill for supplying the metropolis with water, like the Henley Bill, or the Watford Bill, to which reference had been made. The money received for the sale of the water would be applied to the improvement of the navigation. No ground whatever had been shown for interfering with the regular course pursued with private Bills. Should this Bill be carried in its present form, it would not at all interfere with any measures which the Sanitary Commissioners might adopt for the water supply of the metropolis.
 MR. LASCELLES  brought up Her Majesty's gracious Answer to the Address presented by this House on the Birth of a Prince:—
 "I thank you sincerely for your dutiful and affectionate Address; and I receive with much satisfaction your Congratulations on the Birth of another Prince, and the assurance of the interest you take in My domestic happiness."
 MR. GLYN  entered into a defence of the proceedings of the London and North Western Company. He wished the House to understand that the London and North Western Company were not the promoters of the present Bill. The Bill had originated with the Chester and Holyhead Company, in the full belief that unless the leasing to the London and North Western was sanctioned, or unless Government came forward with assistance, it would be impossible to complete that great undertaking. He could assure the House it was not his desire or wish to see the Bill pass in its present form, for he thought it would be more advantageous to the London and North Western Company to have existing arrangements between the two companies remain in their present state. He objected to the insertion of the clause, as it had been sanctioned by the Committee on  ex parte
 MR. SLANEY  said, that this clause had been recommended by the Committee. He hoped it would be adopted. As for the stopping of the express trains, he was authorised to say the opposers of the Bill were ready to give up that point.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  supported the clause. It had been unanimously inserted by the Committee, and had been expunged by an accident: if the House was not disposed to reinsert it, he thought they at least ought not to reject the proposition of the hon. Mover, and refer the question to the Railway Commissioners.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, in such a case as this, where one railway ran into another,
 386
 MR. SHEIL  wished Shrewsbury to be in close communication with Dublin, and apprehended that, if the clause were rejected, and the London and North Western Company were left to its own ideas of self-interest, the communication might be intercepted. The Committee had sanctioned the clause, and he should abide by it.
 MR. C. VILLIERS  said, the Shrewsbury line had authorised him to agree to a proviso referring to the Railway Commissioners, not, indeed, as erroneously stated by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford, the regulation of the traffic, but the settlement of such points of difference as might arise between the two companies.
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  said, he had before this had experience of the manner in which the larger companies were prone to oppress the smaller; and the London and North Western Company had actually made it a stipulation of their amalgamation with another company that all facilities should be withdrawn from the Shrewsbury and Birmingham line. The Earl of Dalhousie's scheme for giving the great companies the power of supplying the smaller lines had been rejected, on the ground of its interfering with competition; but if the House desired to retain a rag or shred of competition in this case, it must protect the Shrewsbury Company by inserting this clause.
 SIR C. DOUGLAS  wished to know whether the Committee who had sanctioned the clause were aware that it was in contravention of other decisions of Committees.
 CAPTAIN DUNCOMBE  said, between conflicting decisions they had endeavoured
 387
 MR. ROCHE  said, the right hon. Member for Dungarvon had supported the clause for the sake of communication between Shrewsbury and Dublin. He (Mr. Roche) opposed it for the sake of communication between London and Dublin. The Chester and Holyhead Company were unable to carry on their line without the advance of 500,000 l
 MR. T. EGERTON  said, he believed the Bill of the hon. Member for Stoke had been brought in because the London and North Western Company would not make some fair concessions to the South Staffordshire Company (of which the hon. Member was chairman), and had been withdrawn because, under that compulsion, the London and North Western Company had conceded what they had before refused.
 MR. G. H. CAVENDISH  proposed, as a compromise, that the clause should be withdrawn, if the Chester and Holyhead Company would give up its leasing powers.
 MR. JACKSON  acceded to this proposition, and declared that, if the Bill was not passed and acted on (as it could not be if the clause were agreed to), there would be no chance of the Chester and Holyhead Company completing their line.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  was in the receipt of information showing that his constituents, not by their own wrong, but by the occasion of a wrong inflicted on them, were 20 per cent better oft' now than they had been under protection. He considered himself, therefore, entitled to ask to be set off against the hon. Member.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, his hon. Friend the Member for Stirlingshire had very properly excepted the salaries of the First and junior Lords of the Treasury and the Chancellor of the Exchequer from his Motion, because the salaries of those higher officers were now now under the consideration of a Select Committee. He thought, however, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer was bound to pledge himself to adopt the decision of that Committee, whatever it might be, and whatever reduction they might recommend in the salaries upon which the right hon. Gentleman and his Colleagues had fattened.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  would not enter into the question whether Her Majesty's Ministers had grown fat or lean since their accession to office. But if the Committee upstairs should recommend a reduction of the salaries paid to high political officers, those salaries would be reduced from that time.
 MR. HUME  should not be disposed to agree to a reduction of 10 per cent in the salaries of the forty-five junior and other clerks, who were now in the receipt of from 90 l l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  agreed with his hon. Friend, that the true principle of reduction in the Treasury was rather a reduction of numbers than of salaries. A reduction of 5,800 l
 MR. M'GREGOR  believed that at the Treasury, as well as at the Board of Trade, there were too few messengers, instead of being a superabundance.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the hon. Member who introduced the Motion could see from the manner in which it was received what were its chances of success. There were two circumstances which made any proposition coming from his side of the House, on the subject of economy in the public expenditure, not likely to be very successful. One was the existence of the Committee which was sitting on the subject, and another was the existence of the Reform Financial Association. As long as those two bodies were at work, it was not probable any economical proposition from the Opposition side of the House would be successful. He should therefore recommend his hon. Friend to withdraw his Motion.
 MR. FORBES  said, that his hon. Friend had stated what he believed to be a melancholy truth, and as it was of no use to divide the House, he would withdraw the Motion.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  hoped that the financial reformers would never, without great consideration, agree to any Motion for a reduction in the expenditure coming from the Opposition side of the House, which was prefaced by the assertion that the proposition was founded on the sufferings of the country arising out of the recent changes in our commercial legislation. The financial reformers were always ready to contend that the people were a great
 393
 MR. HUME  protested against the doctrine of the hon. and gallant Colonel. He (Mr. Hume) would support a proposal for economy coming from any side of the House. The only question at present before them was, whether the salaries given were more than was necessary, considering the amount of business done.
 MR. COBDEN  said, he was anxious that the country should exactly understand the difference between the financial reformers and the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire and those who followed him. He was anxious that no mistake should exist on the point. The proposition of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Stirlingshire was this, that the country ought no longer to continue to pay the same salaries to those who were in its service as formerly, because they no longer enjoyed the blessings of the corn law. That was the proposition; and the proposition of the hon. Member for Oxfordshire—for it all originated with him—was this, that they should reduce the wages of all their public servants, whatever was their yearly salary or weekly wages, and that they should not stop till they came down to the postmen who delivered them their letters at 10 s 394
 MR. DISRAELI  said, there appeared more excitement on the side of the House of the hon. Member for the West Riding who had just sat down, than on the Opposition side. The hon. Member had assured the House of the prosperity of the country, and the great success of the commercial changes which had lately taken place. Now, although the present discussion was
 395 396
 COLONEL THOMPSON : On the contrary, they have gained a great deal, and they are in a better condition than they ever were in their lives.
 MR. DISRAELI : The hon. and gallant Member has made a sally not quite Parliamentary; but he would ask whether the constituents of the hon. and gallant Colonel had not lost by railroads? Had it not been stated the other night on the other side of the House that there was not one great town in the north of England which had not been half ruined by these railroads? And if that were not so, the House ought certainly to view with suspicion the statements made by those financial reformers. He hoped he had clearly explained the motives which had induced
 397
 MR. V. SMITH  said, he thought it would be a great misfortune if on every subject of public economy they were to recur to the questions of free trade and protection. The real point which the House had then to consider was, whether a certain sum would be an adequate payment for certain services. He did not agree with the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire that the paying power of the country had of late years become reduced; on the contrary, he thought the state of the revenue showed that it had increased. He was quite ready, however, to admit that it would be just and reasonable that the House should from time to time diminish public salaries if it should be found that a reduction had taken place in the prices of commodities. But it appeared to him that the House had not yet had sufficient experience of the effects of free trade to justify its adoption of the proposal to effect a reduction of public salaries. In his opinion, a percentage reduction of salaries would be an unfair mode of proceeding, and he had therefore voted against the proposal of the hon. Member for Oxfordshire upon that subject. But he certainly thought that there were anomalies in the salaries paid to some public officers, which required revision. He found, for instance, that the salaries of the Secretaries of the Treasury amounted to 2,500 l l 398
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Northampton had entirely misrepresented the grounds on which his hon. Friend the Member for Oxfordshire had proposed the reduction he had submitted to the House. That proposal had been supported distinctly on this ground, that as a great and permanent reduction had taken place in the cost of all consumable articles in this country, it was just and reasonable that a proportionate reduction should take place in the salaries of public officers. The amount of these salaries had been raised in the years 1801, 1810, 1812, and 1816, in consequence of increased prices; and he thought it but fair, that as a fall in prices had recently taken place, the House should accommodate salaries to the altered circumstances of the recipients, and of the country generally. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Northampton had said that his (Mr. Newdegate's) hon. Friend the Member for Oxfordshire had proposed a percentage reduction, without reference to the anomalies which existed in the amount of the different salaries, computed according to analogous cases of employment, and the labour performed. But his hon. Friend had done no such thing, He had merely proposed that there should be a reduction of salaries such as the altered circumstances of the recipients and of the country would justify, and that the cases should be taken singularly, one by one, into consideration according to their respective merits. He (Mr. Newdegate) should like to know on what principle the hon. Gentleman the Member for the West Riding based his proposals for financial reform and retrenchment. The hon. Gentleman seemed to discard the principle that the public officers should receive remuneration accommodated to the circumstances in which those officers were placed, and to the nature of the duties they had to perform. Was this the fact? The hon. Gentleman was silent; but if he rejected that principle, then he (Mr. Newdegate) should ask, on what other principle he based his proposals for retrenchment? Those proposals, it should be observed, were almost exclusively confined to our military and naval defensive establishments; and no sooner did any hon. Member on that (the Opposition) side of the House propose a reduction in the civil service, than the
 399
 VISCOUNT MAHON  said, there was a matter in connexion with this vote which seemed to him anomalous and defective, namely, the passports granted to Her Majesty's subjects about to visit foreign States.
 400 401 l s s s viséd visé visé visés 402
 MR. V. SMITH  said, that a very care-fid report bad been made by a Committee of the House of Lords upon the salaries of their officers. The Treasury ought to have put hon. Members in possession of this report, so that they might see how the money was voted.
 MR. V. SMITH  said, that if the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield were acted on, it might lead to great inconvenience to British subjects,
 404
 VISCOUNT MAHON  said, the system to which the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield referred still existed, but was leniently administered. Passports were required, but were not often asked for. The noble Lord the Foreign Secretary, however, had not met the objection of the facility of evading the expense of obtaining British passports at the Foreign Office under the present system.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, the office of the Poor Law Commission had now been established about twenty years, and he would like to know what good it had ever done. Instead of nine assistant commissioners, there were now thirteen inspectors; but, though the names differed, the nuisance remained. When the poor fell under
 410 l
 COLONEL DUNNE  wished to call the attention of the House, and of the Irish Members particularly, to the fact, that in England the amount of the salaries of the medical officers and schoolmasters and schoolmistresses attached to the poor-law were paid out of the Consolidated Fund. Such was not the case in Ireland, where the taxes pressed so grievously. No assistance of that kind was given in that country, and he would ask the House to consider whether it was not highly unjust that such should continue to be the case.
 MR. HUME  said, that he would rather have those charges withdrawn from the Consolidated Fund. He agreed, however, with the hon. and gallant Colonel that not a shilling should be charged on the Consolidated Fund in England, without a corresponding charge as far as Ireland was concerned. With regard to Scotland, he was sorry to say that such an establishment had been introduced into that country. It demoralised the people, and removed that care and prudence which were the peculiar characteristics of the Scotch character.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that he wished for a moment to make an allusion to the salaries paid to the secretaries of the Poor Law Commission. Looking at the estimates he found that the president of the Poor Law Board had 2,000 l l l l 411 l
 MR. DRUMMOND  wished to impress on the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose the necessity of having some central board of authority. There would be very much neglect if such were not the case. He was surprised to hear the hon. Gentleman say, that he regretted that the establishment of the poor-law in Scotland was injurious to that country. He hoped that there were persons in that House who had read the reports which had been made on the working of the poor-law in that country, and heard the statement made by the learned Lord Advocate on the subject last year. They would, no doubt, hold a different impression.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  remarked that, independent of salaries, the thirteen inspectors were allowed 700 l
 MR. BAINES  said, the present secretaries, with the president, were to be considered as representing the hoard of commissioners which formerly existed. The former board consisted of three commissioners at 2,000 l l l l 412
 MR. K. SEYMER  said, that the only complaint which he had to make of the inspectors was, that he did not see them often enough in the country.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that he did not think the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Poor Law Commissioner had given a satisfactory answer to either the observation made by himself or by the hon. Member for Stafford. He stated, that at present there were two secretaries and a president, who were to be considered in the place of the board; that the board formerly cost 6,000 l l l l l 413 l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that there were two secretaries, one in Parliament, the other not. The latter used to receive 2,000 l l
 MR. BRIGHT  admitted that there was some force in the remark of the right hon. Gentleman, with reference to the salary in the second case being under consideration of the Committee on Official Salaries. All gentlemen were declared efficient when their salaries were made the subject of discussion. He should not divide the House on his proposition.
 MR. J. E. DENISON  said, that the principle of allowing the poor-law inspectors a guinea a day whether they travelled or not was a bad one.
 MR. BAINES  said, that he had no difficulty in stating that it was his opinion that the guinea a day should be considered as part of the inspectors' salary.
 MR. MONSELL  reminded the House of the observation which was made by the hon. and gallant Member for Portarlington, referring to the payment of certain
 414
 SIR G. PECHELL  said, the hon. and learned Attorney General had insisted, in connexion with the Bill for extending the jurisdiction of the county court, that the judges should not have more than 1,000 l s s
 COLONEL RAWDON  complained of so much money being paid to poor-law officers out of the Consolidated Fund, while no such assistance was given to Ireland.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in 1846 it had been arranged to pay certain charges for medical officers, &c., out of the Consolidated Fund in England and Scotland, where the county police were not paid by the Government. But the cost of the constabulary in Ireland was paid out of the public Exchequer; for the year ending February last it amounted to 574,000 l l
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that the police in Ireland ought to be reckoned as a military force. The expense of the poor-law in Ireland had much increased since the arrangement made in 1846.
 SIR R. FERGUSON  reminded the Chancellor of the Exchequer that a portion of the constabulary expenses had always been borne by the Consolidated Fund. The portion borne by local taxation had never exceeded 160,000 l l
 MR. BRIGHT  did not think that Ireland was so badly used in this matter, after all, seeing that last year 62,800 l l
 MR. MONSELL  said, that supposing the grand jury system were reformed, the only saving that could be effected by that means was upon the 1,100,000 l 415 l l s s d
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  was anxious that the President of the Poor Law Board should give the House some distinct assurance as to the emoluments of inspectors. A great number of gentlemen gave their time to the administration of the poor-law, and rendered great services without remuneration. He wished to know whether, of the thirteen inspectors, each inspector was to have a clerk allowed to him? There were other inspectors who had no clerks allowed to them. There were the inspectors of factories, and there was scarcely a union in England where they were not obliged to employ clerks for Parliamentary returns. He did not know what was the duty of inspectors, which should require them to keep a clerk. He wished the right hon. Gentleman to state what was the fixed amount of salary which he would in future recommend, and whether he intended to discontinue all allowance for travelling expenses? There was one inspector for every four counties, and therefore the expenses of travelling were quite unnecessary.
 MR. V. SMITH  said, that the poor-law was admirably managed in Scotland, and Sir M. O'Neile received only 1,200 l
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE : In addition to the general duties of visiting and inspecting buildings, there were now a number of workhouses in the course of erection, and his duties became very much increased. The building of workhouses was undertaken in this country by the board of guardians, who employed their own architect; In Ireland it was undertaken by a person in the employment of the commission.
 MR. ALDERMAN COPELAND  supported the Motion. It was quite impossible that taxation could go on on the present system, and the Government ought to apply their minds to the question whether the property of the country should pay the taxation.
 SIR R. PRICE  said, that the question was whether the board was too large for the purposes for which it was intended. In his opinion, the poor-law would be of little use if they in any degree diminished the power of the board in London. They should have a hoard of supervision to keep every part of the country under control until one general system was adopted. He bore his testimony in favour of the present law, and in favour of the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the establishment, believing that he was doing his duty beneficially to the country, and with honour to himself. Although he did not say that it might not be possible to reduce the number of inspectors, he said that the House was not thoroughly conversant with the subject, and the board in London would be weakened if they took away a large part of its establishment.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the increase of the number of inspectors was founded on the recommendation of the Committee, which went fully into the whole administration of the poor-law. They reported that the number of inspectors was insufficient to enable the central board to exercise that supervision which was indispensable to the due administration of the law. Government had proposed the limit at twelve, but the hon. Member for Somersetshire had said that it was indiscreet to fix the limit at twelve, thinking that a larger number might be necessary for the due administration of the law.
 MR. BRIGHT  would not consent to vote for the proposition unless they had some more information on the subject. He thought that it was quite within the bounds of probability that thirteen inspectors
 417
 MR. ALDERMAN COPELAND  said, he had been assured that in the borough which he had the honour to represent, for every shilling spent in the maintenance of the poor, another shilling was spent in maintaining the executive.
 MR. BAINES  said, that with regard to the number of inspectors all he could say was, that when the question came under discussion in 1847—there having been nine up to that time—Parliament came to the conclusion that that number was insufficient. The next proposition went to increasing the number to twelve, and a clause was introduced making that the limit; but it was the opinion of the House that the limit of twelve should be struck out, lest circumstances might at a future day require a greater number. When his predecessor (Mr. Buller) came into office, he considered maturely the question of the number of inspectors, and when examined before the Committee, gave it as his deliberate opinion that less than thirteen would not be sufficient. On his responsibility he made the number thirteen; and everything that had occurred to him (Mr. Baines) during the year and a half he had been in office, had led him to believe that thirteen was the proper number. But he confessed he was not surprised that this Motion should come from the hon. Member, because a short time since a petition had come up from Leominster for the reduction of the expenditure at Somerset House; and about a week after, the board was obliged to consider a plan, emanating from the guardians of that union, by which the salaries of all its officers were to be reduced 20 per cent, in consequence of the reduction in the prices of agricultural produce. The board, although anxious at all times to treat the recommendations of boards of guardians with respect, had declined to agree to that proposal, alleging that the salaries had not been raised with the rise in provisions, and that until the present state of things had become permanent, it would not be expedient to do anything calculated to interfere with the efficient working of the poor-law. They had given that opinion, and hence the present Motion.
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  was not disposed
 418 l
 MR. BAINES  could not exactly say at the moment how many auditors there were, but the salaries varied from 250 l l l l
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  objected to the number and expense of the auditors. The expense of railway audit, which was so intricate, was only about one-fourth that of the poor-law. He moved that the sum be reduced by 8,000?., which would leave sufficient to pay ten auditors 500 l
 MR. BAINES  said, that recently a great deal of additional duty had been imposed upon the auditors, who were not at all overpaid. The salaries of some were only 250 l l
 MR. ALDERMAN COPELAND  hoped that his hon. Friend would not divide the Committee, but still thought that the subject required investigation.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, that the number of auditors had been the same ever since he had been on the Poor Law Board. [Mr. Alderman SIDNEY: How many are there?] Could not say exactly how many.
 MR. BAINES  would undertake to let the hon. Member know by note to-morrow morning the exact number.
 MR. W. MILES  suggested that in future the estimates should be accompanied by a statement of the number of auditors, their salaries, and services. He must say, however, that they were a most useful and
 419
 MR. HUME  would support the Motion, on the understanding that the payment of the auditors should be thrown on the unions, and that each union should pay for its own auditors.
 MR. ALDERMAN COPELAND  felt assured that, in that case, the accounts of each union would be audited for 50 l
 MR. SLANEY  would oppose the Motion on the ground of economy, to which he considered the auditors contributed in a large degree. He believed that the executive only cost 20 per cent on the outlay for the poor,
 MR. BAINES  said, that the hon. Alderman would find in the appendix to the estimates all the information he required respecting the districts, the salaries, and the number of auditors. The whole number of auditors was fifty, their salaries varied from 90 l l l
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, that he should nevertheless divide, because, with only six auditors in Ireland, he did not see what was wanted in England with fifty.
 MR. BRIGHT  thought the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Commissioner satisfactory. The hon. Alderman had said he would undertake to audit each union for 50 l l
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, hon. Members opposite gave a very singular support to Her Majesty's Ministers in that House on these questions, which contrasted very oddly with their reform and retrenchment speeches on the hustings. But wherever there was honey there would be found bees—or rather drones. The conduct of hon. Gentlemen opposite showed them to be, as far as the principles of economy were concerned, mere shams and shadows. Every day he passed through the streets of the metropolis he met persons who cautioned him to beware of the traps of the free-traders, who would, he hoped, some
 420
 MR. W. MILES  said, with regard to the item of 35,000 l
 MR. BAINES  regretted that not having had notice of the question, he was not in a position to answer it; and he was not aware that exactly the same sum had been voted since 1846. The right hon. Baronet who introduced the change in 1846 did it with a view of improving the character of the schools, and it was then proposed that the schoolmasters and schoolmistresses should be paid out of the Consolidated Fund. The highest salary given was 60 l l l
 MR. W. MILES  said, it really did seem to him that on such a vote as this they should have the fullest information. When the salaries were adjusted, those schoolmasters and schoolmistresses who were inefficient, he presumed would be discharged. He wished to know whether that had been done, and whether the education of the poor was conducted in an efficient and proper manner? It was only with this view that he put the question.
 MR. BAINES  could answer that that had been the case within the last two years. Of course these improvements were gradual. There was a constant course of improvement now proceeding.
 MR. ALDERMAN COPELAND  thought that in the absence of information it was his duty to move that the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 MR. LAW  hoped his hon. Friend would not take the sense of the House upon that question, because, though it might be the furthest from his intention, it might seem to amount to a censure on the right hon. President of the Poor Law Commission, of whose labours the House had the highest
 421
 MR. W. MILES  agreed entirely with what had been said by the hon. and learned Gentleman. It was not his intention to object to this vote, but he wished to get some information. As the right hon. Gentleman was not able to give it, but still said improvements were going on in the character of the schools, that to him (Mr. Miles) was perfectly satisfactory, and he could only say that the sum of 35,000 l
 MR. ALDERMAN COPELAND  withdrew his Amendment.
 MR. V. SMITH  said, this vote ought not, in his opinion, to appear in the miscellaneous estimates. The Committee which sat on those estimates in 1848 had declared that the expenses might fairly be defrayed out of the funds at the disposal of the Commission. On the 15th of March, 1844, the Commission, in a reply addressed to a communication from the Treasury, agreed to throw on the property entrusted to them such portion of the salary and expenses as might be considered to be immediately connected with its possession and management; and as all the proceedings connected with the Commission had to do cither with the possession or the management of the property, that was virtually a consent to defray the entire cost of management. Since the report of the Committee of 1848 was made, the Ecclesiastical Commission had not been exhibited in such a light before the public as to justify the present demand. The time was come when they might very fairly ask the Commissioners to take this expense upon themselves. His only reason for not opposing the vote was, that there was a Bill pending with regard to the Ecclesiastical Commission, and that it was not desirable to raise the question involved ill that Bill on that occasion. It was desirable, however, that the House should have some information with respect to the Bill to which he referred.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he believed it was the universal practice for no Mint prosecution for felony to be instituted without his sanction. All the cases were laid before him, the circumstances deposed to, together with the character and description of the witnesses by whom they were supported. And inasmuch as it was of the utmost importance, in cases of this kind, to carry public opinion with them, as well as to punish the offenders, all the circumstances underwent a very careful consideration.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the Government did not connive at there being no prosecution. It had been the practice so long as he had been in office not to throw the weight of the Government prosecution into cases of a doubtful character; still, if the parties who had suffered, chose to prosecute, it was competent for them to do so. It was a mistake to suppose that the Government, or any other person, had withdrawn the witnesses in the case referred to by the last speaker. During the time he had been in office there had not been a single acquittal on a charge for felony; and he believed the case was the same with the misdemeanours. It was of the utmost importance for the public to know that the Government did not lightly undertake these prosecutions. Other people might do as they pleased; if a prosecutor thought he had a good ease, there was nothing to prevent him bringing it before the court in the usual way.
 MR. A. HOPE  protested against the
 425
 MR. LAW  said, that unless the practice had been totally altered within the last
 424
 MR. LAW  said, the subject of the Mint prosecutions was well deserving the attention of the Government officers. The Mint stood in a different position, in some respects, from other bodies. If the magistrates recommended prosecutions, the officers of the Mint, on their own responsibility, either took that course or abstained from it. If they came into court without sufficient evidence, the court had no means of disallowing the expenses, as in ordinary cases; for as the costs of the prosecutions were defrayed by Government, the court had nothing to do with it. Thus, the Mint was in a position to refrain from prosecuting with impunity in cases where they ought to prosecute, and they might prosecute in cases where they ought not, and still be sure of their expenses.
 MR. LAW  said, his observations did not apply to the prosecutions for felony; in none of the cases under the superintendence of the hon. and learned Gentleman had there been anything approaching to irregularly. He spoke of the ordinary cases of misdemeanour, uttering counterfeit coins—though the same offence became felony on its second commission. He had had upwards of twenty years' experience of these cases—he had been one of the counsel to the Mint some years ago, and though these cases had been better conducted of late years, he must say he had seen a great deal which he did not like. He spoke of the discretion which was ordinarily reposed, not in the Solicitor to the Mint, but in a person who was no solicitor at all, or even his clerk, the third party being the person who usually exercised this discretion.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  considered that this was one of the most gross jobs that ever was practised by any Government. By Lord Monteagle's appointment to the office of Comptroller General, the noble Lord got what he (Col. Sibthorp) called something comfortable to pop into. When the noble Lord was appointed, a notorious defalcation took place with regard to the Exchequer bills; and he (Col. Sibthorp) moved for the number of days the noble Lord was in his office, and where he was when he was not in his office. He thought he had done some good; for since he had moved for those annual returns the noble Lord was to be found more in his office, and they should have more returns, they might depend upon it. He had made the noble Lord work for his pay. They had there a sum of 6,576 l l l
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  proposed that the salary of the Chief Secretary for Ireland should be reduced from 5,500 l l
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, the records were at present in a worse state than they were forty years since. Many of these estimates consisted of "miscellaneous and "contingencies," so that he was utterly at a loss to understand what such general terms meant.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had stated, at an early period of the Session, that it was his intention to ask a vote to erect a building for keeping the records on the Crown estate. He trusted, therefore, that the House would agree; to the vote then before it.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was understood to say the subject was under consideration.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Committee on Miscellaneous Estimates expressed a hope that the accounts and expenditure of the House of Lords would be submitted to a searching revision by a Committee of that House. This revision was going on, and he should therefore oppose the Motion.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the expenditure of the House of Lords was in process of progressive reduction. The cause of the increase in the vote this year was, that during the last few years there had been a balance of money received from fees, which was partly unexpended last year, and which was available for reducing this demand upon the Treasury. This balance having been expended last year, a greater proportion of the salaries and expenses of the House of Lords had to be met by the vote now before the House.
 MR. MOWATT  said, if that clause was struck out, he would withdraw his opposition.
 MR. MOWATT  would move, that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. He did so for this reason—all the  bonâ fide 388
 MR. G. H. MOORE  said, he rose for the purpose of putting a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland, of which he had already given notice. On the 6th of April, four pauper children applied for and obtained admission into the Newry workhouse. When asked by the board what religion they professed, they replied that they were Roman Catholics. But it was almost impossible to believe that, after that plain avowal, the board put the religion of those children to the vote, and decided that they were Presbyterians—and that they should be treated as Presbyterians in the workhouse. One of these children, whose conscience the guardians thus cruelly ignored, was sixteen years old, according to her own statement: the guardians, he believed, had decided her to be fourteen. She was at all events arrived at the age of discretion. She might be hanged or transported if she had committed a crime at that age; and if the law hold a person of that age to; be responsible for his acts, it must be taken for granted that she had some notion of religious matters. A few days after the extraordinary decision of the board, she brought a charge against the matron of the workhouse, for dragging her, against her earnest entreaties and protests, into a Presbyterian place of worship. The case was inquired into before the board of guardians, and they decided that they had already voted that the girl was a Presbyterian, and that the matron was perfectly justified in dragging her to a Presbyterian I place of worship. As these proceedings on the part of the board appeared to be of a most extraordinary character, he should wish to be informed whether the right hon. Gentleman had inquired into the matter?
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the Bill appeared to have come before the House under false pretences. Only a majority of two in a meeting of fifty trustees had agreed to promote this Bill; and of those present fifteen were  ex officio 389
 MR. BRIGHT  had a word to say with reference to these inspectors. He said it somehow happened that whenever a Home Secretary was appointed, a relative of his went down to inspect the factories of Lancashire. The inspectors were probably very respectable, but they knew little of factories, and though they might allow infringements of the law sometimes to go unpunished, yet, in other cases, their ignorance caused parties to be unnecessarily interfered with. He could furnish details of the blunders they had made, but he would forbear from troubling the Committee at that late hour. He thought men who understood their business should be appointed to the office, and that the relatives of Cabinet Ministers ought not to be selected.
 MR. ROEBUCK  hoped the noble Lord would not answer that question. The person who travelled with a British passport travelled under the protection of the British flag, which guaranteed him a character. Now, he wished to ask, was that protection and that character to be obtained for half-a-crown, or a crown, or even two guineas? He advised the noble Secretary opposite not to place the British passport in the hands of every man who had money to command it. He (Mr. Roebuck) wished to see the system abolished altogether, and that the English nation would set the example to the rest of Europe, by declaring she would grant no more passports. England should proclaim the non-necessity of them, and declare that every man who travelled did so under the safeguard of the law, and that wherever he went, as a subject of England, the power of the law protected him, so that he consequently required no passport. They were not necessary, for the rogue and the evil-designed could ever have one. Throughout the thirty republics of America there was no passport; and he thought the same system should be adopted in England. Therefore, in his opinion, the noble Lord ought not to answer the question of the hon. Member for Montrose, because the fewer passports he gave the better.
 MR. ROEBUCK  wished to know whether there was any passport between this country and Belgium?
 MR. ROEBUCK  understood that English messengers travelled much more slowly than foreign messengers; and that they generally arrived two days later than any other. The cause of that was, that the English messenger was paid a certain mileage, and instead of travelling like other couriers, on horseback, he travelled in a carrriage. Instead of going, like a Spanish or French messenger, to Madrid or Athens on horseback, be went in a carriage, and travelled like a gentleman, instead of travelling as a courier. If that could be done away with it would be a good thing.
 MR. ROEBUCK  had no doubt of the truth of the noble Lord's statement; still
 406
 MR. HUME  begged to call the attention of the noble Lord to the charge of 22,000 l
 MR. HUME  replied, that the House had at present no proof of this searching investigation.
 MR. HUME  proposed to reduce the vote by 32,400 l "That a sum, not exceeding 59,900 l
 MR. HUME  objected to the vote, upon the ground that these inspectors unnecessarily interfered with the owners of factories.
 MR. HUME  did not think it was consistent with the dignity of England that her subjects should travel under foreign passports. He remembered travelling on the Continent some years ago, and he was the only person out of a party of twenty-
 403
 MR. HUME  thought the hon. and gallant Member might with great propriety have struck off the assistant comptroller. [Colonel SIBTHORP: Oh, no, he is the better man of the two.] They could not remove the Comptroller, for the appointment was under Act of Parliament; but he considered that evils arose from the appointment of the assistant comptroller. By that means it had been made a sinecure office, and there should be no office now where duties were not done. There was a chief clerk at 900 l l 408
 MR. HUME  asked how it was that 1,345 l
 MR. HUME  asked if this change could be made without an Act of Parliament. If not, the sooner it was introduced the better.
 MR. HUME  wished to know when the changes recommended by the Mint Commission, now a twelvemonth ago, would take effect? The public expected some fruit to arise from that inquiry.
 MR. HUME  said, he found there was a considerable increase in the amount proposed to be voted as salaries and expenses of the House of Lords. Last year it was 21,900 l l l l
 MR. COBDEN  said, his experience of the Foreign Office passports showed him that they were not superior or better in any way to the passports given by the Consuls. He had tried both, and, whilst having to pay 2 l s
 MR. SHEIL  said, that in consequence of the report made by the Mint Commission, the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Government had directed their attention to the subject; and the result was that a representation had been made to the moneyers and assayers, intimating that their relation to the Mint was to undergo a very speedy and considerable change. The Committee would not expect him to go into the details of the change, but no time would be lost in carrying it into effect.
 MR. SHEIL  replied, that with respect to the florin he had already upon a former occasion stated the reason why the issue of that coin was suspended. It was intended to issue the florin in another shape, with those additions which public opinion seemed to demand. With respect to the smaller coin to which the hon. Gentleman had alluded, in consequence of communications he had had from the hon. Gentleman, and also from the hon. Member for Westminster, he had given directions that a large quantity be coined.
 MR. SHEIL  said, the Government had decided on the nature of the changes, and one was that the body called the moneyers were to be deprived of what they called their privileges; and, therefore, whether the business was in future conducted by open contract or otherwise, there would be a great saving of the public expenditure.
 MR. SHEIL  said, the course which was pursued in all prosecutions was this: The evidence was laid before the Solicitor to the Mint. He roughly investigated that evidence, and he then appeared before the board to obtain their sanction to the prosecutions. No criminal was ever brought to trial without the sanction of the board. It would be found, upon inquiry, that there was hardly any instance—he believed not one—of a prosecution having failed. A change had been recently effected, by which the Solicitor to the Mint had been got rid of, and the whole of the business transferred to the Solicitor to the Treasury, whose salary was 800 l
 MR. SHEIL  said, that unless he was very much mistaken indeed, there had been no instance of failure.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, the complaint was, not that there were too many, but too few prosecutions. In the papers that morning a ease had appeared of a notorious smasher being placed before the magistrates on Saturday; and immediately on his being arraigned at the bar, it was intimated by the clerk of the Solicitor to the Mint that no prosecution would take place. The magistrates had, however, determined to hear the case, and had found sufficient evidence on which to commit him for trial. This was no uncommon occurrence in the city of London. At several recent sessions, when the Mint refused to prosecute, the magistrate committed the prisoners, who bad afterwards received sentence of transportation. The complaint was that the Government should by their officers connive at these cases.
 MR. THORNELY  asked the Master of the Mint whether he had made arrangements for an increased issue of florins, and also whether it was intended to issue more of the small coin called threepenny pieces, a coin which he understood had been found to be exceedingly convenient?
 MAJOR BERESFORD  contended that the objection to the one clause was the best reason for allowing the Bill to go before a Select Committee. He denied that it was a Bill for regulating the water supply; its great object was the improvement of the navigation.
 MAJOR BERESFORD  said, that only one out of the forty-seven clauses of the Bill related to the supply of water.
 MR. ALDERMAS COPELAND  said, his complaint was not of the Attorney General, but of the Solicitor to the Mint exercising his own discretion whether to prosecute or not. These cases occurred to the extent of a thousand in a year.
 MR. ALDERMAN COPELAND  complained that magistrates had day by day persons brought before them for passing base coin, and they found that the Solicitor to the Mint alone was the arbitrator as to whether a prosecution should take place or not. Generally speaking it was not respectable tradesmen who were the sufferers, but the poor. Nine times out of ten the sellers of fruit in the streets of the metropolis were the sufferers by this base coin. Last week a case occurred before a Colleague of his, in which the Solicitor to the Mint refused, under any circumstances, to prosecute a party for passing base coin. In many eases where the Solicitor to the Mint had refused, the City had prosecuted, and to conviction. This was not a power which
 422 s d
 SIR B. HALL  agreed with his right hon. Friend that the House should be informed when the Bill would be proceeded with. They should have as little to do with the Commissioners as the Commissioners desired to have to do with them. Three years had elapsed since the Commissioners had made any report. From the moment that the hon. Member for Cockermouth, in 1847, made any observations on the mode in which the Commission was managed, the Commissioners had declined making,
 409 l l
 SIR G. GREY  said, that with regard to the Bill which had been referred to, he could assure the House that there was not the slightest intention on the part of the Government not to proceed with it. Whether they should do so or not on Monday next, must depend on the state of public business. As the subject of the Ecclesiastical Commission had arisen, he was quite willing that the vote should be postponed until after the Bill had been discussed. With respect to the returns referred to by the hon. Member for Marylebone, he must say they were returns with which the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, as such, had nothing whatever to do; they were to be obtained by the bishops from the clergy of their respective dioceses.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that one vacancy had occurred since he had been Home Secretary, and that he had consolidated the offices rather than appoint a relative or any other person.
 SIR G. GREY  said, the item of "contingencies" covered a variety of miscellaneous expenses which it was impossible to state in detail. In the charges for the offices of the several Secretaries of State, and every other public department, a similar item occurred. Among the expenses defrayed under this head were the salaries of extra clerks, the payment for occasional assistance in the offices, and other charges.
 SIR J. DUKE , as one of the trustees, said, he should support the Bill. He denied that so large a number of  ex officio
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  objected to the amount charged in this vote for "contingencies." The charge under that head in the Chief Secretary's office alone was 2,701 l l
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  saw no valid reason for opposing the second reading of this Bill. While improving the navigation of the Lee, it would give a better supply of water to the metropolis.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  had made some inquiry into the matter, and the only information of an official character which had
 390
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  replied that these gentlemen, besides their duties as librarians, were employed to arrange and index the despatches and records of the office; and that the present staff, so far from being excessive, was inadequate to the duties to be performed.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he certainly had a very good reason for not answering the question of his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, as he was not able to do so; but he could say that a very small number of passports had been granted at the Foreign Office. As to the question of his right hon. Friend the Member for Northampton, there had been no communication made by Her Majesty's Government to any foreign Government in regard to this matter, which peculiarly belonged to their own internal regulations. He did not know of any ground upon which we should be justified in asking any foreign Government to dispense with regulations which they adopted for their own internal purposes; but certainly, some time ago, there was reason to think that the French Government was going to reconsider these arrangements. He had not heard that they had carried that intention into effect, nor had he heard that any other Government had any intention of abolishing the system of passports.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that both at home and abroad considerable reductions had been recently made in the amount of travelling charges for messsengers and couriers.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  believed that passports continued to be given.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, it very often happened that it was of great advantage to the public service that the messenger should have someone with him. The messenger never allowed the bags containing the despatches to be out of his possession, and yet his presence was necessary at different places in order to show his passports, to hire horses, and so forth. It would be very difficult for him to do this and to carry his bags with him. It was therefore very convenient and useful to have some person with him. He did not believe that the British messengers were slower travellers than the messengers of other countries. They were required to state the time of their arrival at, and of their departure from, every place; and his impression was that the opinion of the hon. and learned Gentleman was not founded upon a true state of facts.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  could assure the hon. and learned Gentleman that he was misinformed when he said that the British messengers were at all less expeditious than the messengers of other countries. They always went by railway when that mode of travelling was available, otherwise they travelled in carriages. It was impossible they could carry their bags containing despatches on horseback. As a proof of the zeal with which these messengers rendered their services to the Government of this country, he would mention an instance in which a gentleman (for they were gentlemen) performed his duty on an occasion when it was required that he should make an extraordinary effort. One of the Queen's messengers, Colonel Townley, in order to carry a despatch of very considerable importance from the Foreign Office to Constantinople at the time when a question was pending between Russia and Turkey, was three days and three nights in the saddle without quitting it, and performed that journey in the worst weather and under the greatest possible difficulties. This showed that these servants of the public were willing to perform, and capable of performing duties, when required of them, which one would think it was almost impossible that any human being would be able to go through. He was glad at having this opportunity of doing justice to that excellent courier whose great exertions he had mentioned, and whose zeal had not been surpassed by any person employed in that department of the public service.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, it was quite true, as his noble Friend had remarked, that there was an anomaly in the present system of arrangement regarding passports, and that the sum paid to the Foreign Office was higher than that required by any Foreign Minister residing here, if, indeed, the latter charged any fee at all. But his noble Friend must know that the sum charged for passports at the Foreign Office consisted partly of the stamp duty and partly of the fee which was paid into the aggregate fee fund, out of which the expenses of the offices of the three Secretaries of State were paid. If the charge at the Foreign Office was smaller, it would probably happen that a larger number of persons would seek passports there; but the consequence would be, that a greater number of clerks would be required there; indeed, a considerable addition would be needed to the present staff there, which was already inadequate to the performance of the duties at present imposed on it. Thus the adoption of the plan would interfere materially with the transaction of other more important business, and would increase the expense of the establishment. And even as to the convenience of individuals, he was not sure that it would be productive of any very material advantage. No British subject who at present went abroad was in want of a passport. He could obtain them from the Belgian, French, or Spanish Embassies when travelling to those countries, and exchange them abroad for British passports upon easy terms. A British passport might be easily obtained in Paris, and, considering the great number of British subjects who travelled only short distances on the Continent, he could not see any great improvement in the change proposed. Seeing, therefore, that the plan suggested by his noble Friend would occasion considerable additional expense in the establishment over which he presided; that there was not room there for more than the present number of clerks; and that no practical inconvenience existed—he did not think it would be desirable to alter the present system.
 MR. BOUVERIE : I beg, Sir, also to ask, in case of the vacancy of the Great Seal, whether there will be a distinct understanding with regard to the officers (whose appointments are in the gift of the Keeper of the Great Seal, and whose fees and emoluments were reported upon by the Committee upon Fees in Courts of Law and Equity last year) that their appointments will be made on the express condition that the tenure and existence of their offices, as well as their fees and emoluments, shall be subject to the review and determination of Parliament?
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, in answer to the question put to me by the hon. Gentlemen, I have to state, with very great regret, that the Lord Chancellor has found the state of his health to be such that it will not be possible for him to continue the performance of those duties which he has discharged with such credit to himself and advantage to the country. I have to state, therefore, that as soon as the Lord Chancellor shall have given his judgment on various cases which have been under his consideration, he will feel himself called upon to resign the Great Seal. I have further to state, that in filling up the office, I shall have it understood that any person taking the Great Seal shall have to take it subject to any regulation which Parliament may adopt on the report of the Committee. With respect to the fees of any officer appointed by the Lord Chancellor, which should become vacant when the Lord Chancellor resigns the Great Seal, persons shall be appointed with fees and salaries subject to the determination of Parliament. With regard to the further question the hon. Member has asked, as to the separation of the judicial and political functions of the Lord Chancellor, I can only say it is a subject which has engaged the attention of Her Majesty's Government. It is, however, a question of very considerable difficulty. I have no doubt, myself, that the object is one very desirable to attain, and I trust we may be able to propose a measure to Parliament on the subject. But, considering the nature of the office—considering how closely connected it has been with the political history of this country—how much it has been connected with our
 433
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I think that any person accepting the Great Seal must take it subject to the decision of Parliament with respect to the amount of the pension. At the same time, without saying that 5,000 l
 MR. STAFFORD  rose to move his Amendment—to substitute the words
 440 l l l s s l l s 441 Earl Grey Earl Grey 442 Lady Kennaway New Liverpool Inconstant "They do not appear to be so suitable a selection as those by the  Roman Emperor Inconstant 443 444 445
 MR. HAWES  regarded the question which had been brought under their notice by the hon. Member for East Somersetshire as one of very great interest, and he should be sorry to say one word that might appear to detract from its importance. Nothing could be of greater importance, to the Australian colonies especially, than maintaining towards them a careful regard for the proper distribution of the sexes; and he believed many social evils would have been avoided if years ago more attention had been paid to this subject. But he was bound to say, that in all these general views of benevolence there were some limits that could never be passed—limits that must especially be considered by the House of Commons, and which it would be his duty now to point out. He understood that the hon. Gentleman sought for no grant of public money, and he also understood him to state that the subject had attracted the attention of his noble Friend at the head of the Colonial Department. There was, therefore, very little difference between them; for the hon. Gentleman could not attach more importance to the subject than Her Majesty's Government did, and there was no indisposition on their part to give all the stimulus in their power to a wholesome system of emigration. But they must consider, first of
 446 447 Roman Emperor Inconstant "The board bog now to state to your Honour the following facts, as bearing upon the subject of orphan immigration, both from England and Ireland—1. That the demand for the orphans has sensibly diminished. 2. That the orphans by each succeeding ship have been disposed of to parties of a lower rank, and less desirable class than those preceding. 3. That there is shown by the public a decided preference for other bounty immigrants, on account of the inexperience and incapacity for household work of the orphan girls. 4. That the cost of these latter to the colony is even greater, by the recent regulations of the Commissioners, than that of the former. Under these circumstances, the board cannot but look forward with some degree of anxiety to the responsibility of disposing of those orphan girls who may be at present on their passage, and of those who will have been embarked before any communication can be made to the Government at home, and they would venture to suggest that it would be expedient to suspend this branch of emigration to the Port Phillip district until the board may feel themselves justified by further experience in recommending its removal." 448 449 l l l l l l l l l 450 l l l 451
 MR. SPEAKER  intimated to the hon. Gentleman that the previous question could not be then moved, as there was already before the House an Amendment to the original question.
 MR. W. PATTEN  rose to ask a question respecting the salary of the Lord Chancellor, of which he had given notice. It appeared by the public prints that it was likely there would be a vacancy in the office of Lord Chancellor, and he had been directed, therefore, by the Committee on Salaries, to ask whether Government intended, in filling up the vacancy, to render the appointment subject to any decision which they might make on the recommendation of the Committee when their report should be before the House? It had been thought possible, in considering the subject of the office and the nature of its duties, that it might come into discussion whether it might not be advisable to recommend a separation of the judicial and political offices of the Lord Chancellor; and he wished also to ask whether, in filling up
 432
 MR. HUME  asked if the retiring pension of 5,000 l
 MR. HUME  felt himself in the same situation as his hon. Friend. He had always opposed the Motion, and had always been in a minority. But as there was nothing on the paper for Wednesday he would have no objection to take a holiday himself.
 MR. SLANEY  hoped his hon. Friend would always find himself in a minority upon similar occasions.
 MAJOR BERESFORD  said, that he believed there could be no opposition to the Motion of which he had given notice, as there was not a single Order of the Day or a single Motion set down for Wednesday. Whether that was owing to the desire of hon. Members to enjoy the pleasure and recreation of the day, or from a prophetic fear that a House would not be made, he could not say, but this much was certain that, there being no business set down in the paper, they might fairly ask for a holiday. It would also be the 29th day of May, which was usually considered a holiday. So that upon every view of the matter he could see no reason for objection to the Motion. A right hon. Gentleman, who had been so constantly and indefatigably attentive to his duties as the Speaker,
 431
 MR. MONSELL  said, he was happy to hear that the grievance of which he had had reason to complain two or three times during the last Session, had been redressed. It would, however, be a great advantage if Irish emigrants were allowed to start from the ports of their own country instead of being obliged to come to some English port. One of the difficulties would be got rid of if the hon. Member for East Somersetshire would amend his Motion by leaving out altogether the words "to Australia." He could not understand upon what principle the hon. Gentleman should wish to send the emigrants to whom his Motion referred, to Australia. He thought there was a colony that must occupy a considerable portion of public attention, the colony of Natal, on account of the events that were taking place there, and the necessity there would be, in consequence of the short cotton crop in America this year, of encouraging emigration to a colony which produced cotton; but his principal reason for rising was to call attention to the necessity of promoting the emigration of females from the Irish workhouses. In Cork union there were 563 males and 954 females between the ages of 15 and 40 who had been there more than one year; and every one who knew anything of Ireland
 452
 MR. W. S. CRAWFORD  said, that he had always opposed the Motion. He did not think it creditable to the House to suspend public business for the purpose of attending a race upon the Derby day. He had, he was sorry to say, upon other occasions very inefficiently opposed the Motion. Upon the present, there being no business set down for Wednesday, he would not divide the House against it. But he wished to enter his protest against it. He believed the reason why no orders had been set down for the Derby day was, that it was considered a hopeless case to attempt to oppose the Motion.
 SIR B. HALL  wished to ask the right hon. Home Secretary a question in reference to the ecclesiastical courts, and the returns which were ordered by the House a month ago. He was informed that a young lady of interesting appearance and prepossessing manners, had the honour of holding the office of registrar of one of the ecclesiastical courts in this country. He did not wish to impugn the morality of the dignitary who appointed that young lady; indeed, she had held the office ever since she was five years of age; but having heard that very few, if any, of the returns so ordered had been sent in, he begged to inquire whether it was likely that the returns would soon be ready to be laid on the table, in order that it might be seen whether there were any more female officials in the ecclesiastical courts?
 SIR G. GREY  had had no notice with regard to this statement, and was totally uninformed with respect to it. The hon. Member wished to know whether there were "any more female officials" in these courts; he (Sir G. Grey) was not aware that there was one. As to the returns, he would repeat what he had stated on the previous night, that the collection of the particulars required from the several dioceses must take time; he was not aware whether any of the returns had come in, but would inquire.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that as a wish had been expressed on the part of many hon. Members to make a trial of the New House of Parliament, and as he learnt that the weather was now favourable for such trial, he proposed that the House should hold a morning sitting in the new chamber on Thursday. He did not propose that their sitting should be prolonged, and therefore proposed to take the Elections (Ireland) Bill, which he thought would probably take only a short time. He proposed that the House should reassemble in their present chamber at Five o'clock on the same day.
 MR. W. MILES  presented a petition from the board of guardians of the union of Berwick-upon-Tweed, praying the House to adopt some measure to promote the emigration of young females to the colonies. He believed that the comfort, and in some cases the subsistence, of the poorer classes depended upon the speedy settlement of the question whether or no emigration was to depend solely upon the fund derived from the sale of Crown lands in Australia, or whether the Government would come forward and support the fund by an annual grant, and thus benefit the colony and confer a great advantage on the mother country, where, on account of the competition, both foreign and domestic, a large portion of the population are sinking to a famine level. He could never contemplate our possessions in America, Australia, and New Zealand, so fertile a soil, and so congenial
 434 "Carcoar.—Domestic servants, particularly female servants, are in request; they are not to be had at any wages. Liverpool.—Female house-servants are in great demand; they are not procurable in the district. Campbeltown.—Farm and domestic servants, male and female, are in urgent demand. Broulee.—Female servants-of-all-work are in request. Queenbeyan.—Domestic servants of all descriptions are much required in this district. Tumut.—The operations of the settlers are completely paralysed for want of labour; children from 8 years of ago to 16 are engaged at wages from 12 l l 435 l 436 "It is a frequent remark of visitors to workhouse schools that the girls present a very superior appearance to the hoys; while the former are healthy-looking and well-grown, the latter are comparatively stunted in growth, less healthy in look, and altogether of an inferior physical development. I was long puzzled to account for this difference, as the treatment of both is very similar; but I am now persuaded that it is owing to the want of appropriate industrial work for the boys. In general there is no difficulty in finding abundant suitable employment for the girls; and though a considerable part of it, such as sewing, is sedentary, the female constitution seems to suffer far less from confinement than the other sex, and in washing, scouring, bedmaking, &c., there is always much of that sort of work most conducive to health." "The girls usually sew and knit, frequently do house-work, and more rarely bake, wash, and cut out linen." "The industrial training of the girls is better provided for, as the making and mending of the clothing and linen of the house afford them a constant and appropriate occupation. They are always employed for two hours of the afternoon in knitting and sewing, and become in some places accomplished needlewomen. They always make their own beds, sweep and wash their own floors, and generally also those of a great part of the workhouse. They help to serve the dinner for the house, and the elder girls assist in the kitchen and wait upon the master and matron, preparatory to being placed in service. In some of the larger and best-regulated workhouses they even possess a separate laundry." 437 438 l 439 l l l l l l s l
 MR. BERNAL  would not oppose the Motion; but he hoped the hon. Member was not prepared to say that no preliminary inquiry should take place in the case of private Bills. He would ask how it
 457
 MR. SLANEY  considered that it was unnecessary that private Acts should be obtained whenever a town required to be improved or waterworks established, and such Acts should be done away with. At any rate why should not a single Act for all these purposes be passed at the end of every Session, on the principle of the Enclosure Acts?
 MR. HEADLAM  said, that his constituents had suffered much by this Act, which had been most prejudicial last Session to a Bill with respect to the conservancy of the Tyne. The preliminary inquiries were always unsatisfactory, and as regarded opposed Bills the Act was most unreasonable.
 MR. HUME  could only attribute the opinion formed by the hon. Member to his ignorance of the Act. The opinion of persons best qualified to judge on the subject had been taken before two Committees. The preliminary inquiries were a great advantage to the progress of private business.
 SIR G. GREY  said, there could be no objection to the appointment of the Committee, and therefore perhaps it would be better to agree to the Motion, and reserve all statements until a future occasion.
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  hoped that the Government would consent to limit the discretion of the Executive to the addition of quarter-sessions towns. If some such rule were not adopted, a door would be opened for the worst species of favouritism in counties that might be contested. The rule which he suggested was an obvious and a fair one; and without some limitation he must vote against the clause.
 MR. FREWEN , having a notice on the Paper of a clause to effect the same object by means of a petition from the grand jury-assembled at assizes, must oppose the hon. and learned Attorney General's clause. He said that the grand juries in Ireland performed the same fiscal business at assizes that the magistrates did at quarter--sessions in England; and as one object of the Bill was to assimilate the laws of the two countries as much as possible, his clause would create a power more analogous to that existing in England than the hon. and learned Attorney General's would. He contended that the Grand Jury Act worked well in Ireland.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  begged to differ from the hon. Gentleman. He did not think that the grand-jury system worked well in Ireland. But he should oppose the hon. and learned Attorney General's clause, because he thought it would be very had to trust to a petition from Irish justices. He thought that the object would be better attained
 461
 SIR G. GREY  said, the clause had been drawn up in consequence of several recommendations received by Government, and only carried out a principle which had worked in England with perfect success. The additional polling places could not be established unless by an Order in Council, and an efficient check and control over the magistrates would be exercised by the Lord Lieutenant, or by the new Secretary, and by the Government. Besides, it was open to any hon. Member to state objections to any polling place, which the Government would take into consideration. The effect of this clause was to give the initiative to the justices; but the Privy Council had the control. It was intended to make the law the same as in England; and the alterations in the clause were only such as to suit the circumstances of Ireland.
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  had the strongest possible objection to the principle of leaving such power in the hands of the magistracy. In political questions the magistrates did not possess the confidence of the majority of the people. It would not mend the evil to give a power of controling the magistrates to the Lord Lieutenant, or to the Irish Secretary, for they might all be partisans alike.
 LORD NAAS  denied the statement of the hon. Member that the Irish magistracy did not enjoy the confidence of the people; on the contrary, he had never heard one expression of dissatisfaction among the people with respect to any magisterial decision.
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  could only say that the noble Lord was very happy in his experience. He had nothing to say against the magistrates, but he knew that almost all over the country they had not the confidence of the people. He was averse to giving the power proposed by the clause to the magistrates, and doubly so to giving it to the grand jury, who were the essence of the magistrates.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that the Bill for appointing additional polling places in Ireland had been before the House for two years, and during all that time none of those direful dangers that were now apprehended from this clause had ever been thought of. Not a word of apprehension
 462
 MR. SCULLY  opposed the giving of the power into the hands of the magistrates, who were always found in opposition to the opinions of the people, especially in the south of Ireland. There was no occasion to thrust in the clause at present. Let them wait for a year or two, and see how the Act worked. It would then be time enough, and easy enough, to introduce such a clause, if necessary.
 MR. STAFFORD  defended the clause, and thought that the justices of the peace in Ireland might be safely intrusted with the power of fixing the polling places upon petition to the Lord Lieutenant. He was surprised to find such an indisposition among hon. Gentlemen opposite to intrust powers such as these to Irish gentlemen. If a man embarked his fortune in the colonies, or if he bought an estate in Scotland, he might then be trusted; but let him approach the fatal shore of Ireland, and hon. Members opposite would intrust him with as little as possible of the influence which belonged to his station. The gentry of Ireland were anxious to do their duty, and to atone for the past. Let the House, therefore, treat them, as much as they could, as belonging to a common empire, as subjects of the same Sovereign, and admit them to equal powers, equal responsibilities, and an equal administration.
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  considered the clause to be objectionable for many reasons. Political feelings were frequently strong among the magistracy of Ireland, and the clause might lead to the recommendation or otherwise of polling places for political purposes.
 MR. HUME  said, the distance of the polling places might be so great as to hinder the exercise of the franchise, and he saw no danger in leaving it to the magistrates to recommend additional polling places where required. He did not gee
 463
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  would support the clause now brought forward by the Government as a great improvement upon the original clause.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, the object had been to embody the English system in the Bill, as was stated in the former debate. He had uniformly insisted on the principle of having the polling places so regulated as might be most convenient to the great body of voters; and in so doing,
 464
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, their position was this—they had put in the scedule of the Bill such polling places as they thought from their present knowledge would be fit and proper for the purpose; but, lest hereafter what they had done should be found imperfect, it was proposed to place in other hands, namely, that of the magistrates, the power of continuing from time to time the work which Parliament had begun. His hon. and learned Friend the Member for Dundalk proposed that there should be a limitation in the powers given to the magistrates, and the limitation was that the additional polling places named should be quarter-sessions towns. This he considered a very obvious and just proposition, therefore he would give it his decided support.
 COLONEL DUNNE  opposed the Amendment, which he deemed wholly unnecessary, and regretted that such proposals should be brought forward merely for the sake of a little mock popularity.
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  would give his support to the proposition of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Dundalk. It might be all very well for the hon. and gallant Member to defend the magistrates of Ireland; but all he could say was, that up to the present hour that body continued to act on all political questions in opposition to the feelings of the people of Ireland. He would mention, as one instance, that 800 magistrates had signed a memorial censuring the present Government, and censuring the Earl of Clarendon for the dismissal of Mr. Beers, who had sat as a judge on his own case. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland had said, "I will give you this clause, because it is in the English Reform Act." Now, there was no analogy in the case; but whenever anything could be found to act against Ireland, she was sure to have the benefit of it. If this close assimilation were to exist, why should not the right hon. Gentleman give Ireland a 40 s 465
 SIR DE L. EVANS  had heard no reason why the list of towns from which additional polling places should be selected should not be made out and added to the schedules of the Bill. The places at present appointed in the schedules were all quarter-sessions towns. Why then should not the future be limited to quarter-sessions towns also? There ought to be some limitation. It was absurd to say that the magistracy of Ireland possessed the political confidence of the public. If it were so, why were stipendiary magistrates appointed by Government in Ireland, and not in England? What reason could be assigned by the Government for it, but that the justices had not the confidence of the people.
 Mr. S. CRAWFORD  would support the limitation. In the schedule of the Bill the polling places laid down were quarter-sessions towns; and he thought they should not give power to the magistrates to go beyond the principle of the Bill.
 SIR G. GREY  could not but think that the apprehensions of those who were afraid of gross partiality on the part of the magistrates were unfounded. He did not think that any practical purpose would be effected by the proposition of the hon. Member for Roscommon. If his proposition were agreed to, there might be a petition
 466
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, he had many years ago expressed his views on the subject of Sabbath observance, in a manner that would make it be considered an act of either hypocrisy or cowardice on his part were he to decline to state his sentiments now with equal plainness. The noble Lord began by stating that he would decline all theological argument, that he would make no theological statements; and then all he said was this—that all Scripture, all churches, all sects, were unanimous on the question of the Sabbath. He (Colonel Thompson), however, must declare that while Christianity and not Judaism was the religion of the great majority of this country, there must be a great multitude of men—silent, perhaps—not wishing to put forth their ideas with force or violence, or even energy—who believed that the observance of the Sabbath according to the Jewish law, was not only not ordered, but prohibited to Christians. The great Author of Christianity himself was exposed to imputations on this head; and the like would probably not fail to be thrown out against his humblest follower. The Author of Christianity himself opposed the prevailing notions on the subject of Sabbath observance; and another, second only to him, the Apostle Paul, styled  par excellence 480 Vendredi Belache 481 par le moyen d'une petite canule 482 l 483
 MR. ELLIOT — from, the gallery opposite the Speaker's chair
 MR. ELLIOT : Sir, I don't know whether
 460
 LORD ASHLEY , after presenting a petition signed by 31,000 inhabitants of Manchester, praying for the total abolition of Sunday labour in the Post Office, said that if the question he had to submit to the House had no other claim to their consideration than the deep and extensive interest which had been manifested in it by the whole of their constituents in different parts of the kingdom, it would deserve their most respectful attention. No other object had ever excited a deeper attention, or had created a more intense sentiment in the public mind. This feeling had been evinced in public meetings, by memorials and deputations to the Government, and by petitions to Parliament. This feeling was not confined to any one class or profession, or to any one order or rank of society; it pervaded the very highest and the very lowest grades of the community; it was felt by labourers, artisans, tradesmen, merchants, bankers, capitalists, and persons of all descriptions. This feeling also, he was happy to say, was not confined to any one form of theological or political opinion. It prevailed with equal force in the smallest agricultural districts as well as in the largest manufacturing towns and cities. It was a question which might be argued upon a very much higher ground. It might be argued upon its religious character—upon the justice of the case to the parties concerned, and upon its deep importance to the whole community. He hoped its discussion would be conducted in a sober and friendly spirit, suited alike to the character of the assembly by whom the discussion was carried on, and the importance of the subject itself. For his part, he would studiously refrain from uttering anything which should in the least degree excite anger or provoke opposition. On the contrary, he must begin by expressing his thanks to Her Majesty's Government and to the Post Office authorities for what they had already done. They had conferred
 467 468 469 "As regards collection and delivery, London is already in the state proposed, and though the delivery of Sunday in provincial towns is probably the heaviest in the week, still there could be no insuperable obstacle to placing any other town, where the inhabitants in general so desired it, in a similar position." "The former—that is, suspension of collection and delivery—might be adopted without detriment
 470 "With respect to the total suspension of all delivery on Sunday, it is obvious that the measure would be a great boon to the servants of the Post Office, and, if the public mind is prepared to acquiesce in such a proposition, we do not perceive that it is liable to any objection on the part of the Post Office." "The operation of such a measure would be most unequal, being comparatively harmless with respect to all towns situated within 200 to 250 miles of London, but acting with increased severity upon the interests of all towns situated beyond that limit." 471 "That an Address be presented to Her Majesty praying that measures might be taken for the extension of the system of rest on the Sabbath in the London Post Office to the provinces, and that the collection and delivery of letters should entirely cease on that day in all parts of the kingdom—[the word 'collection' was a technical term, and did not mean the dropping of letters into the box, but the sorting and the arrangement]—and also that Her Majesty would call inquiry to be made as to how far, without injury to the public service, the transmission of mails on the Lord's day should entirely cease." 472 473 Heaven's Antidote to the Curse of Labour? "It is not enough that a race of rational beings should be dealt with on the mercenary principles adopted with respect to our beasts of burden. Man's twofold nature—his nobler capabilities—his elevation as a moral agent—his soul, resplendent even in its ruins—challenge a loftier recognition of his claims than is due to the more drudges of creation. To calculate the daily ravages committed upon the loins, the muscles, and the limbs of labour, and to dole out the minimum amount of rest and nutriment that will suffice to repair these damages—to barely maintain the equilibrium of functional waste and supply at the smallest possible sacrifice of their services—is to embrute
 474 "The Sabbath, as a day of relaxation and refreshment, should be esteemed piously by the working classes in particular. The statesman, the merchant, the manufacturer, and even the tradesman, can often escape the duties or emancipate themselves from the thrall of business; and, vanishing from their respective engagements, may embark for foreign travel, and luxuriate awhile in some invigorating clime; or, wandering up and down our own fair isle in search of health, may halt at spots rich in historic interest, and in memorials of ancient fame, or may visit the wonderteeming cities and towns reared by modern enterprise; or else, if wearied with the excitement of such scenes, may turn aside, for a season, to the margin of the ocean, and there inhale health and gladness from its bracing breezes; refresh their bodies in its living waters: and soothe the irritation of their feelings with the music of its murmurings. But not so the poor workiug man. He cannot go beyond his tether. He can rarely cast off his collar. From morning's dawn to evening's close, and often into the deep shadows of the night—through scenes of sorrow and tribulation, and the incipient stages of disease—his necessities chain him to his post. Condemned, like Sisyphus of old, to cell the stone of labour up the steep acclivity of life, which, on having neared the summit, rebounds to its starting point again—he finds himself, after the disbursement of his scanty wages,
 475 vox populi vox Dei
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he had stated on a former occasion, when the hon. Gentleman was not present, that the question of ministers' money was under the consideration of the Government, and that there was a plan by which it was hoped that the grievance would be remedied. The Government intended to Introduce a measure on the subject, and he had no hesitation in saying that it would not be later than the commencement of the next Session when that measure would be proposed.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, in introducing the subject of the oaths to be taken by Jews, it is not my intention to make any statement at present. I do not think the House will object to give me leave to bring in a Bill on the subject, seeing that it has twice passed a Bill on the same subject, and appointed a Committee to inquire into the present state of the law. What I propose is, that there shall be a Committee of the whole House, and that leave be given to me to bring in the Bill; and on moving the second reading of that Bill, I will state the reasons on which it is grounded, and why I think it is desirable to legislate upon the subject. There is so much uncertainty with regard to the law, that some persons think it will be a matter for consideration whether persons professing the Jewish religion cannot come to the table on as good grounds as persons belonging to the Society of Friends; I am decidedly of opinion it would not he right that that course should be taken. It is most desirable that both Houses of Parliament should have an opportunity of discussing the question, and considering in all its bearings what were the intentions of the present oath of abjuration, and the course to be taken; and it is to give full consideration to the subject that I shall move for leave to bring in a Bill to regulate the mode of administering the oath of abjuration. I move now—
 488 "That this House will immediately resolve itself into a Committee, to take into consideration the mode of administering the Oath of Abjuration to persons professing the Jewish Religion."
 LORD J. RUSSELL  had no objection to the adjournment of the debate to Monday next, for he admitted that in the absence of the other Members for the Universities it was not right to proceed with it at that moment; but at the same time he did not at all see that he was bound to postpone Government business for the purpose of the resumption of that debate. After the hon. Member who brought forward the Motion was informed of the intentions of the Government, he did not wish to persevere in it, and was ready to withdraw it. That being the case, he was not bound to find an occasion for the discussion of the question; but the right hon. Gentleman could discuss the question on some other Motion. He thought the course should be to appoint this debate for some day when the proceedings of independent Members would have precedence of the orders of the day, and not ask the Government to give up one of their nights for the purpose. If that course were taken, he should have no objection to the postponement of the debate.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Oh, no: I don't promise to postpone the Commission; but I am not making extraordinary speed with it. I agree on those terms to the adjournment of debate to Monday next.
 MR. COWAN  seconded the Motion.
 MR. FREWEN  said, that the House had not formally declared, as yet, that at its rising it would adjourn to the old House. They ought to be informed whether they were to adjourn to meet in the old House at five o'clock, and whether they were then to be counted, as a mistake upon that head might cause no House to be made in the evening.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  assumed that the Bill which the noble Lord proposed to introduce would raise the same question as to the Christian character of that House as the Bill discussed on a former occasion. He had not the least wish to detain the House by provoking discussion at the present moment; but he must express his regret, after the strong proof which the noble Lord had just had of the religious feeling of this country—a feeling not lightly to be tampered with—that he should think fit to disregard the satisfaction with which the decision of the Upper House had been received. He would merely conclude by warning the public that they were about again to see introduced into that House a question the discussion of which every one who felt deeply upon such subjects must lament. It was most lamentable that there should be a doubt as to the propriety of retaining the Christian character of that House; and, humble Member as he was, he gave notice that when the noble Lord proposed the second reading, he would move that it he read a second time that day six months, in the full confidence that he would be supported by the same deep feeling, to the existence of which the division that had just taken place bore convincing testimony.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that there was a public Bill specially set down for third reading at twelve o'clock that day. Hon. Members should therefore wait until five o'clock, and put their questions then.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that, at its rising, the House would adjourn until five o'clock. At that hour it would assemble again in the old House, and be counted as usual.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the right hon. Gentleman should put his question and give his notice at five o'clock. The Order of the Day could not be moved before that hour.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  could assure his noble Friend and the House, that in opposing the Motion he was fully sensible of the deep feeling entertained by many persons upon this subject, and should be exceedingly sorry to be supposed, from any word that he should say, to differ at all from the view the noble Lord had expressed of the value of the Sabbathday. But this Motion went but a very small way towards carrying that view into effect. If the object were that no labour should be performed on the Sabbath, a very different Motion would be required; because, even as to persons employed in
 476 477 478 479
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  was exceedingly glad to find that they were secured from the necessity of entering into one of those unpleasant discussions that generally took place on this subject. He always thought it was a question that should have been taken up by the Government, and was ready to admit there were a great many circumstances connected with ministers' money that ought to be remedied. He sincerely hoped that this long-disputed question would be brought to a satisfactory arrangement.
 MR. MOORE  said, that it was impossible as yet to form a judgment as to the capacity of the building for transmitting sound. No doubt hon. Members scarcely heard a word of what was going forward; but it should be recollected that they had been doing only private business, which no one ever attended to in the old House except those who were immediately interested, and therefore they should not judge of the House nor condemn it too hastily.
 MR. MUNTZ  wished to know, was the present trial to be the only one? Because, whilst every one was speaking to his neighbour as loud as he pleased, debating the novelty of their position, and hon. Members were moving about to all parts of the House, it would be quite impossible to judge whether it was easy or difficult to hear in it. He would beg to suggest that they should have a regular long debate in it upon some important subject before they came to any decision upon its merits, or offered any suggestions as to alterations.
 MR. MUNTZ  was glad that the noble Lord had altered the latter part of his Motion as it stood on the paper; because, although he was anxious to prevent the delivery of letters on Sunday, he had no wish to stop the transmission of mails on that day. Much had been said about the hardship to which post-office officials were subjected under the present system; but the system was productive of great inconvenience to private individuals also. For his part, he was quite tired of reading and writing letters on Sunday. If all persons were placed on the same footing, no injury could arise to any one from the abolition of the Sunday delivery. Take his word for it, that, if the noble Lord's proposition were carried into effect throughout the kingdom, everybody would rejoice at it after a fortnight's experience. It was farcical to pretend that the delivery of letters on a Sunday was a matter of essential importance to every petty provincial town,
 484
 MR. HEYWOOD  replied, that it was not his intention to press the continuance of the debate, as he was satisfied with the letters of the noble Lord at the head of the Government to the chancellors of the universities, which had been lately published. The noble Lord had stated in those letters the object of the Royal Commission to be, to inquire into the state of the revenues of the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge—into the provisions of the statutes by which their several colleges were
 458
 MR. PLUMPTRE  said, it appeared to him that the hon. and gallant Member entertained the opinion that the observance of the Sabbath was not of perpetual obligation. From this opinion he begged to differ. The hon. and gallant Member seemed also to regard the exercise of the Christian religion on the Sabbath as a severe and bitter service, and that he wished to be exempted from it. He (Mr. Plumptre) did not sympathise in such feelings. He deemed the exercise of religion a high privilege as well as a high duty, and that they involved a high reward. As well might the command, "Thou shalt commit no murder," or "Thou shalt not steal," be regarded as not of perpetual obligation, as to say that the obligation to observe the Sabbath departed with the Jewish law. The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated that the proposition of the noble Lord did not go far enough; and he instanced the cases of policemen, excisemen, the coast guard, and custom-house officers, all of whom were required to labour on the Sunday. The distinction, however, in the cases was this: labour in the Post Office was not absolutely necessary—in the other cases it was.
 MR. PLUMPTRE  would second the proposal of his hon. Friend. He protested against the measure in any shape, and against the Christian character of the House being altered, and would take every opportunity of giving his decided opposition to the measure.
 " Resolved
 MR. HUME  begged to remind the noble Lord that ministers' money was also collected in Edinburgh and Montrose, and hoped that relief would also he afforded to the parties affected by it.
 MR. HUME  hoped the noble Lord would not postpone the issuing of the Commission. He believed the proceeding was perfectly constitutional. He hoped the Government would persevere, and that the public would have the benefit to be derived from that inquiry.
 MR. HUME  said, that there ought to be an examination at the bar of the House, in order to test the power of hearing in it thoroughly. And there was no person whom it would be more proper to examine than Mr. Barry himself; they would then have an opportunity of judging whether he could make himself heard.
 MR. FORSTER  denied that the petitions presented in favour of the noble Lord's proposition expressed the opinion of the more intelligent portion of the community. To show that such petitions were got up, he instanced a case when, a petition having been presented purporting to be from a borough of 15,000 inhabitants, and signed in some instances by persons whoso names he did not recognise, a counter petition was sent to him for presentation signed by the magistrates and all the principal traders and shopkeepers of the place. He hoped the independent Members of that House would have the courage, as he believed they had the inclination, to oppose the Motion.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  begged to ask a question of the Chief Commissioner for the building of the New Houses of Parliament, that being the most fitting opportunity for putting it. It was, whether he would then state to the House what were the precise alterations suggested by the Commissioners with reference to taking down the strangers' gallery, and pulling down the wall behind the reporters' gallery?
 MR. B. OSBORNE  wished to know whether he was to understand that all hon. Members were invited to send in their suggestions to the Commissioners?
 MR. T. GREENE  said, that if hon. Members did so, the Commissioners would be very willing to attend to them.
 MR. T. GREENE  said, that at the present moment there were no suggestions made by the Commissioners, either to Mr. Barry or himself. They were anxious that hon. Members should try the House, and then make any suggestions which they might think proper. Now, that they had had the opportunity of trying it, they would be better able to form a judgment as to the accommodation which it afforded, and how they could make themselves heard in it, and they could now suggest such alterations or amendments as they might think it needed.
 MR. T. GREENE  said, that the Commissioners would take every opportunity possible of attending to any suggestions that might be made to them. But there was one observation of the hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex which he wished to set him right concerning. He (Mr. Greene) was not the Chief Commissioner; Sir John Burgoyne was the chairman of the Commission, and might therefore be styled the Chief Commissioner. He himself stood only third on the list.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Will you postpone the Commission?
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that when he gave notice of his intention to move the postponement of the adjourned debate, he did so in the belief, which he shared with
 489 490 491
 MR. GLADSTONE  suggested that, in that case, the Order of the Day should be read at once, for the purpose of adjourning the debate until Monday next; and he would give notice that he would ask the noble Lord on Monday, whether it was his intention to appoint a day for the discussion of the subject, seeing that he had a notice on the Paper of his intention to move that the question be adjourned for three months.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that seeing the hon. Member for North Lancashire in his place, he begged to ask him what his intentions were with regard to the adjourned debate (upon the English and Irish Universities), which stood upon the Orders of the Day for that night, but which it was certain could not come on?
 MR. W. FAGAN  having presented several petitions from Cork against Ministers' Money, proceeded to express his regret that he had not been in his place when the
 486
 SIR G. GREY  said, that, by general consent, the House could meet again in the New House on any future day.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that a report on the subject had lately been presented to the House, and he considered it was expedient that they should have ample time to consider its recommendations, and give their opinions upon it.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, that after having spoken on the question of free trade from cart, and cask, and bench, and hustings, and tribune, and pulpit, he did not wish to be charged with inconsistency in the vote he intended to give. He was therefore desirous of explaining, that though free-traders laid down the doctrine that the way to make a commercial gain was to buy in the cheapest and sell in the dearest market, they never extended their doctrine to questions where the creation or maintenance of immorality was concerned. To give an illustration—somewhat rude—of his meaning, he did not suppose that any hon. Member, in his anxiety for cheap goods, would go into that part of the metropolis called Field-lane in search of a silk handkerchief; because it was notoriously a receptacle for stolen goods. So in like manner, there was nothing in free trade to prevent him from voting for a duty on slave-grown sugar, if a moral benefit would result. But he must take the opportunity to make the most decided opposition to anything under the title of apprenticeships. In the years 1808, 1809, 1810, he was Governor of Sierra Leone, where the system of what was called apprenticeship had been introduced, and it was a mere system of collusion, and nothing but slavery under another name. Now, if even in Sierra Leone it was impossible to prevent this collusion, how much more so would it be in the West Indian colonies? If anything of the kind was attempted, it would merely open the way for a system of imposition and a wasteful expenditure of public money. On the coast of Africa, too, the effect of purchasing apprentices would be exactly the same as of purchasing slaves. The kings and chiefs in Africa would find no difference in a name, and they would carry on wars under one title with as great glee as the other. The pretence, too, that it was to be done for the sake of the religious advantages to be conferred on the transported African, was nothing but what we had heard of before. All that was very old, and was thought to have been disposed of sixty years ago in the debates on the original slave trade. Believing that free trade did not imply the support of immorality,
 545
 VISCOUNT PALMEESTON : Sir, it has seldom fallen to my lot to witness a debate conducted on the one side with more curious inconsistencies and with a greater series of contradictions. My hon. Friend who introduced this Motion proposed it on the ground of humanity, and as a mode of getting rid of the slave trade; but scarcely had his arguments fallen on our ears when the debate took another turn, and from that time his Motion has been chiefly supported on the ground of protection—a principle which I believe my hon. Friend had not himself intended to advocate. Almost the only example of consistency which we have witnessed in the course of this debate, is that consistency of talent and ability which have been displayed by the hon. Member who has for the first time spoken on this question, and who has proved himself to be the consistent representative of that father whom we have so often heard with admiration within these walls. The right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, has, I think, crowned the example of inconsistency in this debate. Whether the limited scope of my capacity
 589 590 591 592
 MR. GRANTLEY BERKELEY  was anxious to state that he would give his full concurrence to the Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for South Essex. He could not, however, join in the eulogy which he passed on the Government for having done so much to put down the slave trade, because the admittance of slave-grown sugar subverted all which they had done before. The hon. Gentleman said that the West Indies were in a more pros perous state. This he totally denied. British Guiana was more than three-fourths abandoned, and production in that colony was in a state of stagnation. Governor Barkly, upon the same subject, in his evidence before the Committee, observed that the population were on the verge of degradation, in consequence of the decrease in the amount of wages. As a further proof of the state of property in British Guiana—he spoke from personal knowledge—an estate, which formerly produced 10,000 l l 546 547 "Will you proceed with your statement with respect to the King of Dahomey?—When I visited the King, he gave me to understand that he and his army were at all times ready to fight the Queen of England's enemies, and to do anything that the English Government wished him, except doing away with the slave trade; the king is willing also to permit Englishmen to form plantations in his country. "You have stated that the King of Dahomey is anxious to be on good terms with the Queen of England; what could we give him as an equivalent for that 300,000 dollars which he derives annually
 548 l "If in these razzias the King of Dahomey takes 8,000 slaves, how comes it that he only sells 3,000; what becomes of the other 5,000?—The other 5,000 are kept for his troops. "He distributes his plunder amongst his captains and the troops for them to sell?—Yes. "Then he keeps 3,000 to himself?—He keeps 3,000, or perhaps more. "Is this slave hunt in his own territory?—No, it is not; they go to war on the different tribes around his dominions. "Is there any declaration of war beforehand, or do they march where they will?—They march where they will, generally concealing the object, and the position which they are going to take up, so as to surprise the villages and towns. "And your impression is, that the greater number of the slaves are therefore furnished by those slave-hunt wars?—Certainly," "Is any resistance made to those slave hunts, which you described as being regularly conducted for two or three months every year; is any resistance made to them by the chiefs?—No; they are overpowered with the force which the King of Dahomey sends against them He has, upon one or two occasions, produced me models of the different forts that his female troops have captured. He has not so many female troops as he has male, and it is those in whom he places the greatest confidence. "Who are engaged in his array?—Yes, there are nearly 8,000 of them. I was present at a review of 8,000 women. "Do they fight better than the men?—Very much, I was amazed at the fortifications that they stormed, and regularly carried by storm, of which they had models. "Are they protected by armour?—From the wrist up to the elbow. "What weapons do they carry?—Muskets and swords. "Are they foot soldiers or horse?—All foot. "Does the King himself command in chief upon the occasion of those raids?—Occasionally. "He sends out his captains and generals at all times?—Yes, his captains and generals. "Are they women?—They are women, those attached to the female part of his army. Of course, he has male troops also. "Do you know the proportion between the female troops and the others?—There were more male than female. There are 8,000 female. He requested that Her Majesty would kindly make him a present of 3,000 war caps for his female troops, and She very kindly sent them to him." "Did you get any light upon the reason for having that female army from the King of Dahomey?—He gave me to understand that he could place greater confidence in them; that he kept them only around his person; that in all his castles (he had three) there was never a man allowed to enter; they were what he called his body guard. 549 "Were they regularly trained as soldiers?—Yes. "Of what age "were they?—All young women; not one beyond 35. "After that, do they quit the service, and marry? He pensioned them off, and took care of them; he said he was bound to take care of thorn after they were of no use. "Were they allowed to marry whilst in his service?—No. "Were they pressed into the service?—No; all voluntary. "Natives of his own country?—Yes; remarkably fine women, standing five foot eight, nine, and ten."
 LORD J. CHICHESTER  said, that he and several hon. Members who had intended to vote against the grant to May-nooth were prevented from doing so in consequence of the wire of the bell attached to the room in which they were waiting being broken, and their not being aware that the division was about to take place. He wished, therefore, to ask the right hon. Gentlemen in the chair whether the votes of those hon. Members ought not to be allowed?
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Members
 598
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was not surprised that the hon. Baronet who had just resumed his seat, commenced the observations which he addressed to the House by avowing that he should support the Motion, though it fell far short of the principles which he laid down; and though the views of his hon. Friend who had brought the Motion before the House were as different from the views of the hon. Baronet as it was possible to conceive. No man who knew his hon. Friend doubted his assurance that he brought forward no party Motion, and that he was influenced only by the great principle of discouraging in every possible way the slave trade and slavery. But the Motion of his hon. Friend came far short of the principle which he had avowed. His hon. Friend had now reduced his Motion to express an opinion that colonial sugar should not be exposed to unrestricted competition with that produced in foreign slave-trading countries. Where the principle was to be found that enabled his hon. Friend to draw the distinction between those slaves brought across the Atlantic, and those brought from Virginia to Carolina, and worked in sugar plantations there, he was at a loss to know. His hon. Friend did not profess to deal with sugar produced by slave labour in those countries which were not slave trading. His hon. Friend said, he who bought slave-grown sugar was as guilty as he who bought the slave. Then was not he who bought slave-grown coffee as guilty as he who bought slave-grown sugar? And where the hon. Member for Droitwich drew the distinction between slave-grown sugar and slave-grown coffee, passed his (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) comprehension. He was afraid that his hon. Friend must feel that, upon his own principles, he, too, was
 574 575 576 577 578 579 "How long that time should be, your Lordship will understand that I cannot say. If there be no protection, the cultivation of sugar will be given up further In Grenada, and it will dwindle in all the Windward Islands, excepting Barbadoes." Times "Labour was abundant and cheap, and the  Trinidadian 580
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that an explanation of this vote had been given every year. He had no reason to expect that any question would have arisen on the subject, or he should not have brought it forward at that late hour of the night.
 MR. J. WILSON  had spoken of the quantity of slave-grown sugar taken for home consumption with free-labour sugar. He had never alluded to the quantity imported, because it was often imported for the purpose of being re-exported to the Continent.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, that his hon. Friend who had opened the discussion, and the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had placed the question before the House, on very plain and candid grounds; they said that the colonists were in no way indisposed to compete with free labour in any part of the world, and the only thing they had to fear was to compete with slave-grown sugar. Two years only had elapsed since the question was before the House, and there had then been a lengthened inquiry into the position
 550 d 551 d l l s 552 d 553 s l l 554 555 s d s d 556 557 558 559 560 561 l l "On the future prospects of the planter I shall say but little, since this subject has been publicly inquired into in England. I shall confine myself to recording the opinion I already gave in general terms on the 26th February, 1848, supported by the information which I have collected and transmitted, that the cost of making sugar from free labour is greatly beyond the cost of making it by slave labour—that sugar cultivation cannot yet withstand competition on equal terms with slave-labour, and that freedom requires to be nursed with protection." d d 562 563 564 Cries 565 l l l
 MR. PLUMPTRE  understood that the 30,000 l l l
 MR. HUME  said, he fully agreed in the terms of this Motion—that it was unjust and impolitic to expose the free-grown sugar of the British colonies and possessions abroad to unrestricted competition with the sugar of foreign slave-trading countries. For many years he had felt that this was unjust, and had urged the House to take measures for enabling our free labour in the West Indies to compete with slave labour elsewhere. He was not one who could be accused of inconsistency, for from the moment when emancipation was proposed in 1832, he had always maintained the opinion which he now supported. The colonies could not exist without labour; yet it had been the policy of this country to compel them to compete with slave labour, but to refuse them that supply of labour by which alone they could so compete. He had the authority of some individuals having great interest in the West Indies to state broadly that they did not want protection. They thought it unjust to throw on the people of England an increased price for an article of so much importance. Though having property in the West Indies, those who had looked most correctly at the matter did not think, after what the Government had done, and after the sacrifices that had been made, that England ought to be longer subjected to protection in their favour. That protection recently amounted to about four millions a year; and they were of opinion that no such tax was necessary, and that that was not the way to put down the slave trade. Could free labour be fairly brought into competition, the produce would be cheaper than that of slave labour. There was no other mode of putting an end to the slave trade; the whole united fleets of England, France, and America, if employed on the African coast, could not prevent the smuggling of slaves
 539 "That it is expedient to adopt effectual and decisive measures for meliorating the condition of the slave population in His Majesty's colonies. "That, through a determined and persevering, but at the same time judicious and temperate enforcement of such measures, this House looks forward to a progressive improvement in the character of the slave population, such as may prepare them for a participation in those civil rights and privileges which are enjoyed by other classes of His Majesty's subjects, That this House is anxious for the accomplishment of this purpose, at the earliest period that shall be compatible with the well-being of the slaves themselves, with the safety of the colonies, and with a fair and equitable consideration of the interests of private property." 540 l 541 542 "With respect to the labouring population, formerly slaves, but now perfectly free, and more independent than the same class in other free countries, I venture to say, that in no country in the world can the labouring population be more abundantly provided with the necessaries and comforts of life, more at their ease, or more secure from oppression, than in Jamaica; and I may add that ministers of the gospel, for their religious instruction, and schools for the education of their children, are established in all parts of the island, with a tendency to constant increase, although the present reduction of the missionary schools is a temporary drawback. I turn from the cheerless prospects of the future to a more pleasing feature in the present order of things. The thriving condition of the peasantry is very striking and gratifying. I do not suppose that any peasantry in the world have so many comforts or so much independence and enjoyment. Marriage is general amongst them. Their morals, are, I understand, much improved, and their sobriety is remarkable." "If I were not convinced that the unhappy Africans are benefited by the transfer to this colony, I should not so urgently press the continuance of Her Majesty Government to immigration; thus the African's condition must here he improved, as the men of their own colour are in a high state of civilisation. Religious instruction administered in fifty-seven places of public worship; each parish has at least two schools, and each missionary has a school at his own residence, (fee. A day's task is understood to be seven hours, and the average rate of agricultural wages 5–12ths of a dollar." "There were thirty-five day and fourteen Sunday schools, but now increased to fifty or sixty schools. The soil of Trinidad is a rich marl, and were there a sufficiency of labour, every British market might be amply supplied with sugar from this one island. Hence, foreign sugars would be excluded, and the slave trade, as it refers to Great Britain, would be practically discouraged. It is, therefore, my deliberate conviction that the people would gain an accession to their religious privileges by quitting any part of the Western Africa for the island of Trinidad." 543
 MR. MANGLES  wished briefly to state the reasons which induced him to vote as he would do on the present occasion, which were founded chiefly on his sense of the injustice with which the West Indies had been treated. He agreed in every word which had fallen from his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose. He conceived it was the bounden duty of the Government, when the emancipation of the slaves took place, not to permit the introduction of free labour under a species of restriction, but to have done everything in their power to promote it. He maintained that free labour was always cheaper than slave labour; but if they confined the market of labour as they did in the West Indies—if they prevented the West Indian planter from procuring free labour where he could find it, they were doing all in their power to verify and prolong that condition of things which the Anti-Slavery Society were in the habit of describing. He had been in India when the proposition for the immigration of Hill Coolies into the West Indies had been made, and he remembered the outcry which had been made at the period—an outcry to which he had been always opposed. And he maintained if that system had been carried out under proper regulations, it would have been productive of great good. But the Government at home had been influenced by the solicitations and the representations of a party who had described the system as only a species of slavery in disguise, and it had accordingly been put a stop to. He had some difficulty, he confessed, in coming to a conclusion as to the course which he would take on the present occasion, until he saw a manifesto put forth by a society to which allusion had been made that night, and which the hon. Baronet the
 544
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, the hon. Gentleman the Member for South Essex, from motives for which his name, quite independently of his character, is a sufficient guarantee, has invited the House to resume the consideration of a question the difficulties of which increase with every step we take. In 1848, the last period at which this subject was opened up, we had before us the question—not whether we ought to maintain the settlement of 1846, because that settlement its authors proposed themselves to abandon—but whether we ought to introduce a fixed system of protection on the one hand, or adopt on the other a scale of duties which was proposed by the Government, and provided a progressive descent in the differential duties—at first indeed a very slight
 581 582 583 s s s 584 s 585 l l l l 586 l l l l l 587 l 588
 MR. W. EVANS  seconded the Motion. It was not without difficulty and some pain that he felt it his duty to take a course which might embarrass the present Ministry, and he was desirous of avoiding any course which might afford the slightest opportunity to hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House to substitute a system of protection for the present system of free trade. But he thought that this particular subject stood quite distinctly by itself. The slave trade had no resemblance to any of the trades carried on by this country. He confessed that the vote which he was about to record that night in favour of the present Motion, would be inconsistent with the course which he had taken when the Sugar Bill was discussed in that House; but he conceived that when his opinion of a measure had become altered by its operation and effects, it was his bounden duty not to be ashamed openly to confess his error. And he might add, that if his present was inconsistent with his past conduct on this subject, it was not influenced by any interested motive. From the different accounts which he had heard from time to time from our sugar-growing colonies, he felt convinced that, if the present differential duties on sugar were reduced, it would be utterly impossible for them to continue the cultivation of their estates; and thus, whilst the owners of those estates would be reduced to poverty, those natives of Africa whom they at present employed, and in whose behalf this country had acted so noble a part a few
 538
 MR. FORBES  objected to the new grant of 18,093 l l l
 SIR E. N. BUXTON , in reply, said, he would not detain the House at that late hour with any lengthened remarks. He felt very grateful to the Government generally for the measures it had adopted to
 593
 SIR E. N. BUXTON  said, it was with great diffidence and a great feeling of his own inefficiency that he brought forward so great and important a question before the House of Commons. But feeling as he did that this question was of great importance to our West India colonies, and as it seemed to him of still greater importance to the interests of humanity, he had ventured to throw himself on the kindness of the House. He must say at the beginning that he brought forward this question in no spirit of hostility to Her Majesty's Ministers. If he were to turn to the men who had done most to promote the interests of humanity so far as the slave trade was concerned, he should turn to those Gentlemen who now occupied the seats below him. And he must return his thanks to them on this occasion for what
 529 s s 530 "At the present moment, indeed, with reduced wages and increased prices of produce, sugar cultivation must again become remunerative, and for a time, at least, the abandonment of estates be arrested. But I cannot help feeling apprehensive at the same time that any fresh attempt to reduce wages at a crisis like this in the history of the negro, might turn the scale against industry and civilisation, and in favour of a bare subsistence and comparative barbarism; and yet such an attempt will become inevitable under the present Sugar Bill, unless the restoration of commercial prosperity on the Continent, or other causes, combine to sustain the adventitious improvement in the demand for sugar which the failure of the crop this year in Cuba has, providentially for the British colonies, occasioned." l "I do not feel it (the importance of excluding slave-grown sugar) the less strongly, now that I have seen a Large portion of our own West Indian colonies. In some of these colonies the depression is truly serious to all classes, and will, I fear, should the low prices of sugar rule during the present year, lead to a considerable diminution of the cultivation of that staple. Although there remains much in which the Christian must rejoice in the change from slavery to freedom, the Sugar Act has in no small degree contributed to despoil
 531 s d l s s d "The planters are actively intent on the promotion of their interests. They are proceeding with unremitting assiduity to obtain the best machinery and carry on their business under the best systems they can learn. Meanwhile the Government is also aiding them, by going on with equal pace in promoting the prosperity of the island. Coals are not only admitted free of duty, but the vessels bringing them are admitted at a reduced tonnage duty. Public works on all sides are wisely carried on. New roads and bridges are in course of construction in every direction, and railroad companies encouraged and supported. Harbours are improved, and opened to trade, so that both internal and coasting communications are facilitated." 532 533 l l l l 534 535 536 "That the admission of slave-grown sugar for consumption in this country has tended, by greatly increasing the demand for that description of produce, so to stimulate the African slave trade as to render any effectual check more difficult of attainment than at any former period." 537
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  said, he approached the subject with undiminished sympathy for the sufferings inflicted on our colonies, and with undiminished indignation at the extent of the discredit which, in his opinion, had been thrown upon the national character by the policy which had been pursued for the last few years towards the West India colonies. He wished to give his most decided and cordial support to the Motion before the House. He agreed with what had fallen from the hon. Member for Lynn, who had addressed the House with so much ability, in the opinion that this was not a party question; and he would say that if the Motion were not carried, it would be entirely the result of that unhappy state of parties in the House to which their legislation had for so long a period been sacrificed. If the Motion of the hon. Baronet were carried, he should feel it his duty to move for a Committee of the whole House to take into consideration the Sugar Duties Act of 1848. The Motion, as it at present stood, came before the House in an incomplete shape; it was merely an abstract resolution, declaring it unjust and impolitic to expose the sugar of our own colonies to unrestricted competition with the sugar of slave-trading countries, and did not state in what manner that competition was to be prevented from being carried on. In the Amendment which he had intended to bring forward, he had adverted to the distinction made by his right hon. Friend the Member for Tamworth between foreign free-grown and foreign slave-grown sugar. But Her Majesty's present Government, when out of power, had pledged themselves so strongly to their view of the effects of the "favoured nation" clause, that they were obliged to adopt it when
 568 s d s s 569 Gazette s d s d s d s d s 570 s d s d s d s d
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  felt that this was a point, nevertheless, which required their attention. In 1831 the West Indian colonies exported 205,000 tons of sugar; in 1848 the quantity had diminished to 139,000 tons; and in 1849 the produce was 142,000 tons. The hon. Member for Westbury estimated the crop for 1850 at 135,000 tons; but he (Sir J. Pakington) did not believe that it would exceed 112,000 tons. On the other hand, he found that in Cuba the average crop, up to 1845, amounted to 84,000 tons, while in the four years from 1846 to 1849, the exports had risen up to 176,000 tons. The exports from Brazil, in the four years from 1842 to 1845 had been, on the average, 69,720 tons; but in the four years from 1846 to 1849 the figures were reversed, and the exports amounted to 96,000 tons. He would now call the attention of the House to the condition in which the West India colonies now were. In an able pamphlet, published within the last few days, his hon. Friend behind him, the Member for Lynn, spoke thus of British Guiana:—" I was prepared for desolation, but not for what I saw. The whole land was strewn with ruins of houses and mills, and those not old, but now buildings." This was the account which his
 571 l l l 572 573
 MR. HUTT  said, that he had listened with great attention and pleasure to the very eloquent speech just delivered by the hon. Member, but so differed with him in the view which he took upon the subject, that it was his intention to vote against the Motion of the hon. Baronet the Member for South Essex. The regulation and settlement of the sugar duties were forced
 566 567
 MR. T. BUNCOMBE  said, he was sorry to say that he had only a feeble voice to raise in opposition to this measure. He could not find a provision in the Bill which deserved the support of the House, with the single exception of the provision that the dead should no longer be buried among the living. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department thought he might save time by not referring the Bill to a Select Committee; but he (Mr. Buncombe) felt persuaded that the right hon. Gentleman would save time by so doing. He believed that the recommendations of a Select Committee which should have been impartially chosen, and which should have carefully considered the subject, would be respectfully received on all sides of the House; and after such recommendations should have been submitted to them, he, for one, should not oppose any Motion for their immediately proceeding to legislate in the matter. He understood that hon. Gentlemen had the other night attached great importance to petitions presented on the subject of Sunday labour in the Post Office, and that, in Consequence of those petitions, the House had decided on addressing the Crown for a cessation of such labour. Now, he would venture to say that of all the impositions ever practised on that House, those petitions were the greatest. He believed that the great majority of the people of this country were opposed to that address. But how stood the facts in the present instance? If petitions were to sway the votes of hon. Members, they certainly ought not to adopt that measure. Then, again, where, he would ask, was the metropolitan Member who had stood up and said that he was for "the Bill, the whole Bill, and nothing but the Bill?" Why, there was not one; and he certainly should be surprised to hear anything so contrary to the opinion of the people of the metropolis. The noble Lord at the head of the Government was, he supposed, an exception in favour of the Bill; but the Corporation of London, or, at all events, the Court of Common Council, were opposed to the measure, and that court had lately passed a resolution praying that the City might be exempt from the operation of the Bill. He would tell the country Gentlemen that, if that measure were to pass
 685
 COLONEL THOMPSON  presented four petitions from inhabitants of Lambeth in favour of the Metropolitan Interments Bill. On a point important to the right of petition, he begged to state that, finding the four petitions word for word the same, and with only about seventy signatures to each, he had been struck with the appearance of a collusive attempt to swell the number of petitions; but on inquiry he found the petitioners had acted under the impression that by a new rule of the House it was prohibited to paste one sheet of paper to another in a petition. He had seen a petition understood to contain a million and a half of signatures, and such a rule would imply dividing it into 20,000 petitions, with each a repetition of the substance. Believing this to be unfounded, he would, if no contradiction was given from the chair, communicate the same to the petitioners and the public.
 SIR. R. PEEL  thought the argument of the hon. Alderman was one which rather showed the impolicy than otherwise of sending the Bill to a Select Committee. The question of centralisation was no doubt a very important one. There were certain duties exercised by the parochial authorities in the city of London which it was proposed by the Bill should be taken into the hands of Government; but surely that was a question so important that it ought to be decided by the whole House. He had every respect for the corporation of the city of London; but at the same time there were points of local management on which some persons ventured to take a different opinion from them. Take, for example, the question of the removal of Smithfield-market. Speaking generally, the corporation of the city of London must be presumed best qualified to judge of local affairs; yet that was a point on which many persons ventured to take a different opinion from them. The Bill before the House had been read a second time, and the question now was, whether they should go into Committee, or send it before a Select Committee upstairs. If the Bill was sent to a Select Committee, everybody must admit that it would be one of the most extraordinary cases of extramural interment ever heard of; and therefore he thought it would better to dispose of it rather within than without the walls of that House.
 SIR. W. CLAY  thought no reason had been given for additional inquiry before a Select Committee. On the contrary, the discussion proved plainly that the question was one better suited to that House than to a Select Committee.
 MR. FITZROY  thought the hon. Member for Bodmin had to thank himself for the interruption he had experienced, by not having confined himself to the question before the House.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, that as the Amendment of the hon. Member for Finsbury was to expunge the second clause, it could not be taken before the others, which were amendments on that clause. The latter, therefore, should be taken first.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, that he had a great many objections to make to almost every clause in this Bill. Two years ago they had had a Bill about the health of towns, a Bill, if possible, containing worse provisions than this Bill. However, it turned out that the bad Bill was entirely changed, and made much better. They must watch this Bill very narrowly; it had come in a very bad Bill, but he hoped they might amend, so that it might go out a very good one.
 MR. FITZROY  said, the parishes were perfectly aware that their machinery might require to be regulated by the general Board of Health; but they were anxious to have the conducting of the interments in their own hands, being confident in their ability to provide the necessary funds without seriously burdening the ratepayers. But they felt it a great grievance that the Commissioners should have the power of directly taxing the ratepayers instead of their own officers, in whom they had confidence. They believed that funds administered by those who had no interest in them were invariably administered at greater expense than when placed in responsible hands. The Commissioners of Sewers were a notorious instance of this fact. After the most mature consideration of the question, he felt bound to vote for the Amendment.
 MR. MOFFATT  thought the clause should be expunged altogether, and moved that it be struck out.
 MR. DRUMMOND  asked whether the hon. Gentleman would have the burial ground ploughed up and sown, because if it was not consecrated there was no reason why they should not do so.
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY  said, that the hon. Member for Westminster was mistaken in saying that the Church of England was the only intolerant Church—if intolerant was the proper word to use—in this matter; because there was another great body of Christians who required consecration, and valued none but their own.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, the most valued point about the Church of England's rite of consecration, was the security it was supposed to give against seeing the bones of our relatives scattered about the country through the agency of bone-mills. This security was a civil right, and as such should be equally given to the Catholic, the Dissenter, and the heretic of every degree. His object was now to ask whether this security was to be given?
 MAJORBERESFORD  would put it to the hon. and learned Gentleman's conscience whether he acted as an honest and independent Member, or whether he appeared there under uncertain colours; and if he was returned as a Conservative, whether he had acted on Conservative principles, or whether he had not made set speeches in favour of Ministerial measures which he was told would come with considerable force from that side of the House? With regard to this Committee, the vested interests of Ireland were not represented at all, but the solicitors were represented in the person of Mr. Sadleir. The Lord Primate of Ireland, who had a vested interest, was not represented. He (Major Beresford) was induced, under false pretences, to consent to the second reading of the Bill the other night. The hon. and learned Member for Athlone said, he had
 713
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, if this were only a question as to whether Mr. Goulburn should be a Member of this
 712
 LORD ASHLEY  said, that the duties and obligations of the existing companies were to be transferred by the Bill to the new board, who, he thought, were likely to discharge those duties with as much benefit and credit as any irresponsible heard of directors.
 LORD ASHLEY  said, it was not one cemetery but several that it was proposed to establish, and that they would be found at greater distances as the population kept increasing.
 LORD ASHLEY  said, that the hon. Member for Montrose had said, that it was desirable that some explanation should be given as to the amount of expense to be incurred. He thought he might safely say, that no expense whatever would be thrown on Marylebone or any of the parishes in the metropolis. A power was certainly given in some of the latter clauses of the Bill to levy a penny rate, but that power was given to the board to enable them to raise a sufficient security for the sums required to be laid out in the purchase of grounds, &c. The repayment of the principal and interest would be provided for by the funds received for the use of these grounds; and he had no doubt that all these transactions would be carried on without the slightest burden, direct or indirect, being thrown on the metropolitan parishes. The estimated receipts from the burial grounds, supposing the number interred in the course of the year to reach the usual average, 52,000 persons, would more than pay all expenses. The rate was simply a nominal security, and no demand would be made on any of the metropolitan parishes on account of this Bill. An hon. Member had expressed some distrust of the measure on the ground that it had originated with the Bishop of London and Mr. Chadwick. With regard to the Bishop of London, he could state that the Bill was all arranged and drawn up before his opinion was asked; in no way did the right rev. Prelate interfere. With regard to Mr. Chadwick, he was hound to bear testimony to the valuable and important services he had rendered to the public interest. He regarded that gentleman as one of the most diligent, most intelligent, and most assiduous servants the Crown ever possessed. He was perfectly astonished at Mr. Chadwick's powers of labour. Not only did that gentleman discharge the duties which fell to his share, but he looked out for other work. The Board of Health had a great desire, if possible, to carry out the parochial system to its full extent; but that after a long and anxious inquiry, they had come to the conclusion that the parochial system, as at present existing in London, was altogether inadequate to the performance of the duties which must be discharged in carrying the Act into operation. They found that if the parishes were to attempt to carry out the Act singly, they would be far too weak
 699 700
 LORD ASHLEY  said, that the responsibility of the board—its principal members sitting in Parliament—would be more direct than it could be made by any parochial arrangement.
 LORD D. STUART  advised his hon. Friend not to withdraw his Motion for adjournment. If the House was not in a temper to listen to the discussion, it was better to adjourn the discussion till another day, when hon. Gentlemen might be prepared to listen with patience and deliberation, He really thought it not decent that this Bill, which was so important to the interests of the inhabitants of the me tropolis, should be discussed in this man-
 691
 LORD D. STUART , in seconding the Motion, said this was one of the most important Bills that had come before the House for a long time. It affected the health and pockets of all the inhabitants of the metropolis. Some such measure had been long and loudly demanded; and the Government were now compelled to turn their attention to the matter. He was not opposed to the principle of the Bill. He thought interment in large towns might properly be regulated by law, for the sake of the health of the inhabitants; and on this ground he had not opposed the second reading of the Bill. But its details violated many principles to which he was attached in a most unconstitutional way. Centralisation, now too much in fashion, and which threatened to overturn many of our institutions, would be increased and extended by the Bill before the House. It looked as though the whole business of the country would soon be transacted by boards and commissions. Government had taken advantage of the public demand for legislation on this subject to introduce a Bill which would place a vast amount of patronage in their hands. There was to be at least one paid commissioner. The object in view might have been accomplished just as well without violating the constitutional principles of self-government and liberty. The board to be appointed by the Government would have great and unusual powers. They would be authorised to appoint a whole army of officers, from commissioners down to sextons and gravediggers, who would all be in the pay of the Government. The board would also have power to shut up cemeteries in the town, or to allow them to continue open as they thought proper. They were also to appoint places of sepulture out of towti, and to decide on the price to be paid for the ground; to give orders as to the conduct of interments; and to regulate the amount of fees to be taken. This latter provision was most objectionable. A Bill containing such clauses ought to be looked at with the utmost jealousy. Parochial management was entirely done away with, and all authority given to these paid officials. Why not have allowed the metropolitan parishes, either separately or in union, to have regulated these matters?
 679 onus probandi 680
 LORD D. STUART  said, all he had heard recently in the debate had confirmed him in the opinion that the best course was that which the Government had rejected, namely, to refer the Bill to a Select Committee. All the defenders of the Bill proceeded on the ground that what they all wished could not be carried out in any other way than that proposed; but he believed that by a union of parishes, it might be secured quite as effectually and at less expense. The expense of management alone in the case of the commission of
 705 l l
 LORD D. STUART  said, that time had not been allowed to consult those who were interested in the measure.
 LORD D. STUART  wished to know if persons not belonging to the Church of England would have the privilege of consecrating any portion of the ground according to the rites of their own faith.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he had not perused the pamphlet in question. No case had been laid before the Government on which they could ask the opinion of the law officers of the Crown as to whether these practices had an illegal and criminal character; and without such a case, detailing all the circumstances, it was impossible to place the matter before the law officers. The hon. Gentleman's last question was of so large a character, that he feared it would be impossible to give a satisfactory answer. He conceived that any measure which tended to improve the condition of the people in Ireland would have the effect of checking these evictions; and into the details of such measures be, of course, could not then enter. It was matter of regret that the hon. Gentleman, in placing the notice of his question on the paper, should have added to it the expression of an opinion that these evictions "appear to provoke the retaliatory perpetration of agrarian crime." He very
 677
 LORD J. RUSSELL  did not think the remedy prescribed by the hon. Member for Manchester for preventing the noise arising from conversation in the House would be effectual. There might be one or two Members belonging to the Government sitting at the bottom of the House who might have joined in the expression of the general impatience, but he (Lord J. Russell) believed that if those hon. Members had been entirely silent and completely dumb the impatience of the House would have been manifested to almost quite as great a degree. He had not perceived that there had been on this Bill any extraordinary impatience evinced, or what was more than usual when a division was expected at that particular hour of the evening. It was not for him to say what the reason could be. But when a division was expected, whatever might be the question, between half-past seven and eight o'clock, there certainly was a sort of impatience shown by hon. Members which was not usual at any other period of the evening. After this explanation he hoped the hon. Gentleman the Member for Bodmin would go on with his speech. When the question under discussion was concerning the interment of the dead of the metropolis, it would not be creditable at that hour of the evening to adjourn the debate.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  rejoiced to see his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury again in his place, though he certainly found himself under the necessity of not concurring with his hon. Friend in the conclusions to which he had come on the present occasion. The question before them really was, whether it was desirable, to refer the Bill for preventing intramural interments to a Select Committee. His hon. Friend said that if they did so they would have before them a number of witnesses, all of whom would have plans to propose, and suggestions to make, and objections to urge, and that after all those plans, and suggestions, and objections had been made, they would have to be fully considered by
 686
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that all the opposers of the clause seemed to have fallen into two errors: first, that our parishes had been for the last 300 years in the practice of burying the dead; and, secondly, that the proposed board would be irresponsible. He had always understood that if a pauper died in a workhouse, the parish had to take care he should be decently interred; but as to parishes having any general control over the burial of all persons, he need not say it was a power they had never exercised, and one which could only be conferred on them now by an Act of Parliament. Therefore the whole of the declarations they had heard about self-government fell to the ground, and the parishes had no more claim to exercise that power than they had to say to the Admiralty, "We can build ships better than you, and ought to build them exclusively." It was admitted, without a dissentient voice, that interments in that great metropolis and in the thickly-inhabited suburbs should no longer take place, because the burial of the dead was a cause of disease and mortality among the living. It being necessary to alter that system, let the House consider in whose hands they could best place the power of carrying the alteration into effect. If they could obtain a better body than the Board of Health, they would be wise to give it that power; but let them not run away
 702 703 l l
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  said, the hon. Member for Finsbury had asked whether any metropolitan Member would support the whole Bill, and nothing but the Bill. He was not a metropolitan Member, but he was something like it, and he would say he was not prepared to support the whole Bill, but he would vote against the Motion of the hon. Member for Bodmin. There had been a number of petitions in favour the Bill. Several deputations had waited on the Secretary of State for the Home Department respecting it, and he did not know that any persons had directly condemned the principle of the Bill. He could not consent to send this Bill to a Select Committee, for he felt that it materially affected the working classes. He certainly could not consent to devote the Bill to that species of extramural interment which the hon. Gentleman proposed, and which had been so well remarked upon by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth.
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  said, that no person could say that the cemetery companies were taken by surprise.
 MR. D'EYNCOURT  regretted that Government should oppose the Bill going before a Select Committee. He highly approved the object of the Bill, but disapproved the mode in which it was proposed to carry it out. He thought parishes should take the duty laid down in the Bill upon themselves; it would be more in accordance with the spirit of our institutions, and opposed to the centralising course so much pursued by the Government. The Amendments in the Bill having only been made known on Friday, he had not yet had an opportunity of learning the opinions of his constitutents regarding them.
 MR. D'EYNCOURT  hoped that every facility would be given to the parishes by providing burial grounds in their immediate neighbourhood, so that the families of deceased persons might have an opportunity of being present at the interments. In the borough which he represented there were large tracts of land in the immediate neighbourhood which might be available for the purpose of burial grounds.
 MR. LUSHINGTON  would support the Motion of the hon. Member for Bodmin. The principle of the measure was never discussed. Any discussion that took place occurred when the Bill was in Committee  pro formâ,
 MR. LUSHINGTON  objected to the distinction that was made between Christians in this clause. For himself, he laid no stress on the rite of consecration, he-cause he did not find it enjoined in any part of the New Testament; yet he respected the feelings of others on this head. He considered that this clause contained a great act of national intolerance. On the Continent, in Ireland, and in India, all Christians might be buried in consecrated ground; but provision was made by this clause for the separations of the members of the Church of England from all others. It was disgraceful to perpetuate distinctions of that kind beyond the grave. It appeared that they were the only intolerant set of Christiana in the world.
 MR. MOWATT  believed that all parties were agreed as to the necessity of bringing to a close as soon as possible the present deplorable system of burying the dead among the living. When, however, the noble Lord said that those who admitted the necessity for a change should adopt the proposed means of effecting it, he must say that the necessity for vesting such vast powers in a body to be wholly irresponsible had not been established. He regretted the necessity for opposing a Bill having such an object; but he considered the measure to involve a principle which, if sanctioned, would form a dangerous precedent. The Government having postponed action in this matter last Session, now presented an objectionable measure, saying, "Take this or none." It was unfair to say that those who opposed the measure were favourers of the evil it was designed to remedy. The onus lay on the Government of showing that such arbitrary powers were necessary for the accomplishment of the object. Was there no other mode of effecting this great object than the appointment of an irresponsible body? The measure would probably lead to the ratepayers being called upon, not merely for a penny in the pound annually, but for five or six pennies. [Lord J. RUSSELL: The Commissioners could not, under the provisions of the Bill, take more than a penny.] But could any one doubt that the principle being sanctioned, if an application were made for extended powers next year, it would be acceded to? His grand objection to the Bill was, that it was opposed to the principle which he believed to be one of the chief sources of this country's prosperity—namely, that those who levied the rates should be responsible to those who paid them. Ad-
 704
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  then moved that Mr. Goulburn be substituted for Sir J. Young.
 MR. LACY  rose, pursuant to notice, to move that the Bill he referred to a Select Committee. This office, he said, devolved upon him, as he had proposed a general scheme of sepulture throughout the country before the Government measure was brought in; but he was not desirous of poaching over what might be considered the ground of the metropolitan members. He thought the Bill was so impracticable, so unjust on many parties, that it involved so large a waste of money (no less than 700,000 l
 MR. WYLD  said, he had moved the adjournment of the debate, because he thought he was entitled to be heard, and for this reason that there was no debate on the second reading of the Bill, and the
 692 50,309 l l
 MR. WYLD  said, that he would bow with the utmost deference to any rebuke that might proceed from the Speaker, but protested against the language used towards him by the hon. Member for Lewes.
 MR. WYLD  said, that the metropolis did not object to the extramural system. However, out of the two millions of population, he ventured to say that 800,000 adults were opposed to the measure. He was in favour of a Select Committee. The question was, whether the Board of Health or the citizens should have the management of their own affairs. He should conclude by moving that the House do then adjourn.
 MR. WYLD  said, that the parishes had been blamed for not conducting their interments properly, but they had been impeded in their efforts by all kinds of obstructions from both the civil and ecclesiastical law. The parish of St. Martin's, for instance, had had great difficulty in establishing an additional burial ground; and, at present, an expense of 15 l l 706
 MR. BRIGHT  did not intend to say a word on the question before the House, but he should protest against the mode in which matters, important matters, of that kind were treated by the House. The other evening, when the question of the Post Office was discussed, the Members who took part early in the debate were attempted to be hooted down by some hon. Gentlemen who preferred at the time go-
 690 pointing to the seats about the Bar
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the hon. and learned
 711
 MR. MASTERMAN  regretted that he felt himself compelled to oppose the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary, but as his belief was the Bill would be better con-
 684
 COLONEL RAWDON  did not rise to add to the warmth of the debate—but to say that the interests of the Primate were surely represented in the Committee, seeing that it included two Members of Universities.
 MR. HUME  considered it would be unfair to strike off Mr. Sadleir's name, he being a Roman Catholic, seeing that already the Catholics were in a minority on the Committee.
 MR. HUME  suggested that words should be introduced declaring that no cemeteries should be built within a certain distance of those in existence at present.
 MR. HUME  withdrew his Amendment.
 MR. HUME  had intended to vote for the Motion that the House go into Committee, and took great blame to himself that he had not, up to that moment, looked more narrowly into its clauses. Had he examined it, he would never have allowed the Bill to be read a second time without recording his vote against it. He had long since recommended extramural interments, and was the first to move for a return of the number of burials in metropolitan churchyards; but to a measure so arbitrary and so unconstitutional he would never assent. Was that House prepared to appoint three honourable Members—the noble Lord and two others—and to delegate to that Board perpetual powers? ["No, no!"] But he said, yes. And what were they to do? They were to provide burial ground for 50,000 to 60,000 interments annually; and they might purchase ground wherever they pleased, and they were to invest the money without check or control, except from the Treasury; nay, more, they were to have
 688
 MR. HUME  wished to know what the expense of this board was to be. He was opposed to taking away the power from the parochial authorities. No one was more desirous that burial places should be provided at a distance from the metropolis than he was, but he could not trust this board. And what necessity was there to make the board perpetual?
 MR. HUME  said, that if it should be shown that the parish of Marylebone, or any other parish, would not provide sufficient accommodation for extramural interment, the appointment of a central board might be justified, but not otherwise. Referring to Mr. Chadwick, he said he knew no one who had been a more useful public servant; no one had taken so much pains to establish a system for reducing the charges on funerals; and this Bill proposed to carry out such a reduction. But why should the power be wholly centred in one board? How was the cost of the land to be defrayed except by fees or parochial rates? Was it likely that 85 parishes would all submit to have their contracts entered into by one board, when the circumstances of each were so different? After the example of the power given to the Lord Chancellor of compensating the six clerks, he must object to any board of three persons having the power to pay fees or compensation to clergymen, and others, beyond the duration of their lives. He would suggest that this Bill should simply prohibit interments within a certain distance, three years being allowed to make the arrangements, and that each parish should be required and empowered to conduct its own interments.
 MR. HUME  wished to know what salary the second commissioner was to receive.
 MR. HUME  said, he should move the omission of the words "either within or" from the clause, the effect of which was to allow the continuance of the existing nuisances arising from burial grounds.
 MR. HUME  asked if there would be any objection to introduce a proviso that the board should only interfere in the event of the parishes neglecting for three years to make the required arrangements?
 MR. HUME  said, that St. John's Wood was such a district some years ago; now it was filled with a dense population, and the burial grounds there were as great a nuisance as those in the heart of the metropolis. It was only tampering with the evil to remove the burial places to the outskirts, as the population would soon enclose them.
 MR. NAPIER : Then he should take an early opportunity of bringing the matter forward.
 MR. NAPIER : But he can be proceeded against for public misconduct.
 MR. NAPIER  begged to ask the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department whether the Executive Government has directed any proceedings to be taken in reference to the coroner of the county of Armagh, in consequence of the publication of the letter in the  Times
 MR.NAPIER  said, he wished to have the name of Mr. Goulburn substituted for
 MR. NAPIER  said, the hon. and learned Member for Athlone stated that he (Mr. Napier) consented to the Committee. He did consent to put on the Solicitor General for Ireland, provided the hon. and learned Gentleman would show him the other six names; but he declined, and then the arrangement broke off.
 MR. P. SCROPE  wished to ask the First Lord of the Treasury whether he had yet taken the opinion of the law officers of the Crown as to the alleged illegality and criminal character, at common law, of wholesale clearances, or depopulation, as now largely carried on in Ireland; I and, if not, whether the Government intend to recommend to Parliament any measure for the purpose of checking such practices, which inflict the most fearful sufferings on numbers of Her Majesty's subjects, and appear to provoke the retaliatory perpetration of agrarian crime. Accounts continued to reach this country daily of these dreadful evictions still going on. He wished to ask whether the noble Lord had seen the publication of Mr. Mackay, a barrister of some eminence, proving the illegality and criminality of this system of depopulation?
 MR. P. SCROPE : I hag to disclaim that imputation; but, if the noble Lord will give me the opportunity, I will prove the fact.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  thought the principle of the Bill laudable, and one well to be commended; for no one could read the report of the Sanitary Commission without seeing that the comfort, the well-being, the morals, and—what was of greater importance—the health of the population, was at stake. There were two points involved in it—the health, and, what was of greater importance, the morals of the people. [ A laugh 682 l
 MR. B. OSBORNE  would ask his hon. Friend the Member for Bodmin to withdraw his Motion for an adjournment; believing, as he did, that if they were now to divide on the main question they would get a majority.
 MR. SLANEY  said, the two great objections urged against the Bill were, that it was unnecessarily expensive, and that it was unconstitutional. In his opinion, it was neither the one nor the other. He denied that there would be any interference with rates. Had burial fees ever been paid from parochial rates? So great a change could not be carried out without the appointment of a Commission. As regarded the constitutional objection, he would observe, that they would have the noble Lord the Member for Bath in the House to answer any question which might be put to him. Some hon. Members might say, "Why not have the elective principle?" [Mr. M.GIBSON: The municipal.] He believed that if the municipal bodies were assembled for such a purpose, there would be as much wrangling amongst them as in a convocation. As a Commissioner of the Board of Health he had visited many of the humblest and most wretched portions of the metropolis; and what he had seen had led him to feel how great was the necessity for improved parochial management. The dwellings of the rich might be attended to, but those of the poor were almost entirely neglected. He wished before he sat down to say a kind word with regard to a class of persons who were out of spirits in reference to this Bill—the undertakers. Power was given in the Bill to make contracts; and the undertakers were, of course, very likely parties to share in those contracts. He would be sorry to see the interests of that body injured by the sudden change; but their experience, knowledge, and capital rendered it probable that they would be employed. At all events, the Bill was necessary for the health and comfort of the poorer classes.
 MR. LENNARD  wished that the power which this clause proposed to give to the Bishop of London of withdrawing the licence from a chaplain after his appointment should be expunged from the clause. He did not think that any necessity existed for increasing thus unreasonably the power of the bishops at the expense of the clergy.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  wished to draw the attention of the Committee to the unfair position in which he was placed as regarded some amendments of which he had
 693 pro formâ pro formâ, 694
 MR. M. GIBSON  said, that this was a question of very great importance, and that the Bill now before the House was felt to be the first of a series of measures; in fact, it was looked upon as a model Bill. With regard to this clause, he thought that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State must admit that it was very defective, even on the grounds which he himself set forth, because even supposing that a central body was admitted to be desirable, and that parochial management was not adapted to the regulation of the many districts to be created by this Bill, it did not therefore follow that they were to have a corporation, the members of which were to be nominated by the Crown, who should be totally irresponsible to the ratepayers and the public. He was of opinion that a close corporation, appointed by the Crown, for the purpose of levying taxes, and spending the money independently of the sanction of the public, was not to be defended. He thought that there might be a central supervision, but it should be responsible to the ratepayers and the public.
 MR. M. GIBSON  inquired what power the ratepayers would have of checking the expenditure of the central board, that board having authority to levy rates?
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  was at a loss to know by what power of reasoning two gentlemen and one paid officer should be presumed to be equal to the ialent and industry of the community at large. There were many persons equally as capable of forming a judgment as Mr. Chadwick. It was stated in the report that 700,000 l l l
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, the corporation of London felt grateful to the Government for undertaking the question of sanitary reform as regarded the principle of the measure; but if asked whether they would prefer to undergo the evils of the existing system, or to accept the measure then before the House, he doubted not they would prefer the chances and risks of the existing system. The corporation of London had got the credit of being able to manage their own affairs, and of knowing as well what belonged to their condition as any other number of gentlemen no matter whether they sat in Gwydyr House, or in the Treasury Chambers. Why should Government thrust upon them a measure calculated to take from them the control of their own affairs? He hoped from the opposition raised to the Bill the Government would see the hopelessness of endeavouring to press it. He was in favour of referring the measure to a Select Committee, because he believed it would have the effect of removing much opposition that at present existed. He besought the House not to treat the measure as an unimportant one; and, as it had been introduced for the good of the public, to at least show some little regard for the wishes of that public
 687
 MR. WAKLEY  said, he attended there with his hon. Colleague that evening, much to their own injury, at the request of their constituents, who considered many of the provisions of the Bill most obnoxious, to oppose this measure. They believed it contained enactments the most arbitrary and unconstitutional, and that it involved a principle which that House, in modern times and enlightened constituencies, had
 689
 MR. WAKLEY  said, the difficulties in providing for extramural sepulture had always arisen from the ecclesiastical influence which was at work, whereby the parishes had been prevented carrying out the necessary reforms. It was too bad that these parties should now have the first Consideration, He wished to know the minimum distance to which it was proposed to carry bodies.
 MAJOR BERESFORD  said, the Committee was composed of thirteen Irish Gentlemen, one English and one Scotch Member, and it was not therefore asking too much to have a second English Gentleman placed on it. He denied the statement that property to any such amount as represented by the hon. and learned Gentleman as passing through the court belonged to Roman Catholics. He considered it most unfair that religion should be dragged into the question, and he repudiated the insinuation. He could not avoid remarking that hon. Members who generally supported Government, sat occasionally on that (the Opposition side of the House) and consequently could not avoid listening to the conversation that might be going on. The old and honourable rules of the House were violated, and when they chose Committees from that (the Opposition) side of the House, they chose Gentlemen who were supporters of the Government through thick and thin.
 MAJOR BERESFORD  opposed the constitution of the Committee, inasmuch as nine out of the fifteen Members who composed it were constant supporters of Her Majesty's Ministers, and the remaining six were Members of the Opposition. He opposed the Bill, therefore, on his own behalf, as well as on the part of the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin.
 MR. KEOGH  said, that though he agreed to have the Bill referred to a Select Committee, he certainly had no idea that that Committee should be left to the choosing of the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for North Essex. The hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin objected to some Gentlemen on the Committee, and he was not then present to sustain his objection. But perhaps the hon. and gallant Gentleman objected to the Committee because a Roman Catholic Gentleman had been appointed on it, and because that Roman Catholic interests were to be disposed of to a great extent by the Bill. Now to show the composition of the Committee he (Mr. Keogh) begged to say he nominated nine Protestant and five Roman Catholic Gentlemen on it; and therefore he did not think it deserved condemnation.
 MR. KEOGH  said, he should be quite ready to substitute the name of Mr. Goulburn for Mr. Gladstone. [Major BERESFORD: No!] Well, he did not expect that any suggestion that was reasonable would be acceded to by the hon. and gallant Member.
 MR. KEOGH  said, the Bill was intended to improve the Prerogative Court of Ireland, through which property to the amount of five millions a year passed, and half of which at least was that of Roman Catholics.
 MR. KEOGH  said, it was perfectly true that he had taken his seat on the Opposition side of the House without taking out a patent from the hon. and gallant Member for North Essex; but that was nothing new, for he had been accustomed to sit on that side of the House, having been returned as a Catholic and a Conservative.
 MR. MACKENZIE  thought those opposed to the measure should have something to say to the formation of the Committee as well as the hon. and learned Gentleman. All he required was a fair Committee to discuss the question in a candid spirit; and if the hon. and learned Gentleman would consent to the substitution of the name proposed by the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin, he (Mr. Mackenzie) would have no objection.
 MR. MACKINNON  said, that about six years ago he brought in a Bill laying down the principle that each parish or union of parishes might carry out the
 696
 MR. M'CULLAGH  said, the majority ought to use their power with some forbearance. He must say this was not the decision of the Committee respected in the House.
 SIR B. HALL  said, that many persons had relatives interred in these cemeteries, and had acquired rights in them. He thought that their feelings should be consulted before the Government struck any bargain with the proprietors of cemeteries.
 SIR B. HALL  thought the statements made by the hon. Member who had just sat down were most extraordinary inasmuch as he supported the principle of centralisation, though he admitted that it produced a great many evils. The statement, too, which had been made by the right hon. Secretary of State was most unsatisfactory. The hon. Member for Montrose had asked what would be the expense and the operations of the Commission? To this no answer was given, but that in the year 1853 the matter would come before Parliament for revision, and that then it would be left to their option to continue the board or not. They all knew very well what promises of that kind were. The same thing was held out when the income tax was passed; but since that they never heard of it. Once they established a board of that kind and appointed officers, it would be impossible to get rid of them, as they would be able to engender work for themselves, and would induce the Secretary of State to continue the commission. The real question was not whether they should appoint a central board for a limited period or not, but it was whether they should take from the metropolitan districts and the parochial boards all power of interfering in the matter. He (Sir B. Hall) represented three parishes which paid taxes to the amount of 2,000,000 l 7,0001 697 d d d d
 SIR B. HALL  said, during the twenty years he had sat in that House, he had hardly ever seen more impatience than had been manifested on this Bill. It was his anxious desire to have expressed himself more fully on the subject, but in deference to the feeling of the House he refrained. But if they were come to this, that matters of this description were not to be freely considered and discussed, and that though they did not bring forward any extraneous matter they were not to be listened to, he thought they had better declare at once, when matters of this sort were to be brought forward, that they would adjourn till after dinner.
 SIR B. HALL  said, the metropolitan Members had been told by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, that if they voted for the Bill going before a Select Committee, they would perhaps throw over the Bill for the Session, and thus postpone for another year the great principle they were all so desirous to carry out; but would that be the fault of the metropolitan Members? The Bill was mentioned in the Speech from the Throne, was brought in on the 15th of April, and read a second time on the 22nd of April, and now it was proposed to go into Committee on the 3rd of June. Were any of the Members of that House to blame for the delay which had thus taken place? He would tell the noble Lord at the head of the Government why the Bill was not referred to a Select Committee. It was because it would have been necessary to place on the Committee a great number of the metropolitan Members, and there were not two out of the sixteen who sat for the metropolis who would have agreed to a measure of this kind. It was a measure that went, in fact, to abolish the whole of the local self-government that now distinguished the metropolitan parishes, so far as burial places were concerned. There were two persons in the metropolis of whom the inhabitants entertained great suspicions, and these were the Bishop of London, as regarded ecclesiastical matters, and Mr. Chadwick, as regarded sanitary measures. Through the one they were in danger of having fixed upon them fees in perpetuity to pay the clergy; and the other was establishing a board, of which he was the prime mover, and of which perhaps he would hereafter be the head. He would not now go into the details of the Bill. It was his intention to support the proposal for sending it before a Select Committee, and when the time came for considering the details, he hoped that both as regarded the payment of fees in perpetuity, and the board, they would be rejected by a majority of that House.
 SIR DE L. EVANS  said, that he would support the Motion of the hon. Member for Bodmin, on the ground that sufficient time was not allowed for the consideration of the measure. All they asked was a few days' delay, and it was but just to the inhabitants of this great metropolis that this delay should be granted. With regard to the inhabitants of the city of Westminster, it was only that day that an
 683
 SIR DE L. EVANS  considered the rebuke of the hon. Gentleman to have been perfectly undeserved. He hoped for the sake of the respectability and decency of their proceedings, that his hon. Friend would persist in his Motion for an adjournment of the debate,
 SIR Dr L. EVANS  asked whether re-
 701 Id
 MR. GROGAN  then moved Mr. Goulbuni's name in the place of Mr. Monsell's.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that no new power was given to the bishop. He had now the power of withdrawing the licence from curates. The only variation made by this clause was that the board empowered to remove the chaplain, even though the bishop should not withdraw his licence.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the clause introduced nothing new. The General Cemetery Bill indeed contained a more stringent clause for separate burial.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that this clause had been before the House for six weeks, and the only change made in it was one giving the companies increased protection.
 Sir G. GREY  said, that he had no objection to the clause being struck out, but he knew that the cemetery companies themselves were anxious that it should not
 708
 SIR G. GREY  recommended an arrangement in private as to the formation of the Committee.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that if the interpretation clause was referred to, it would be seen that, by the word consecration was meant, consecration according to the rites of the Church of England and Ireland.
 SIR G. GREY  replied that it would be found to be secured.
 SIR. G. GREY  was sorry that the question of religion had been introduced. He should be sorry to vote against the name of Mr. Goulburn. If any arrangement could be made, he should be glad; but, after what had been stated, he could not vote against Mr. Sadleir.
 SIR G. GREY  said, he could remove the misapprehension that existed with regard to the perpetual existence of the board. It was necessary in order to enable the board to hold property to constitute them a corporation, but that could only be during the continuance of the Board of Health. When he introduced the Bill, he stated that the Board of Health, unless renewed by Parliament, would expire in 1853. The subject must necessarily come under the consideration of Parliament again before that period elapsed, and if it were requisite to take away these powers. Parliament could take them away. As regarded the expenses of the board, it consisted now of three members. One was paid, and it was proposed that another paid member should be added to it for the purposes of this Bill, and that officers should be appointed. A great deal had been said about the principle of centralisation, and that it would be quite enough to pass a short Bill to prevent future interments in the metropolis, and that it would be sufficient to give the parish authorities power. But without a central power the parish officers might refuse to carry the Act into execution; and if they were to go to law with them to compel them, there might be a delay of two or three years. And then look at the number of parishes in London, and each parish was to have its separate burial ground. ["No!"] Then if they had to make voluntary arrangements,  per se, 695
 SIR G. GREY  said, there were two questions now before the House. One was that the Speaker leave the chair for the House to go into Committee of the whole House, to consider the clauses of this Bill in detail; and the other was an Amendment that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee. Now he could not help thinking that the House ought at once to adopt one of these courses, instead of allowing itself to be led, with the Speaker in the chair, into an irregular discussion that could not be carried on satisfactorily until the clauses in detail were under consideration. He felt it his duty to oppose the proposition for referring the Bill to a Select Committee, because the measure had been fully considered and canvassed in the metropolis, and he believed its provisions were fully understood. The House would be able, in a Committee of the whole House, to consider the clauses one by one in their regular order. But the noble Lord asked for an explanation of some of the clauses before being asked to agree to them. That was a perfectly reasonable request; and when the Committee came to the particular clauses in rotation, he (Sir G. Grey) would be prepared to give any explanation of their purport or effect that might be required. Delay in bringing the Bill forward had been also complained of. Now, it would have been defeating the object of the measure, if, before they were in possession of the valuable report of the Board of Health, the Government had precipitately laid on the table of the House a Bill framed irrespective of the recommendations of that report. After the Bill was read a second time, he had felt it his duty to receive the suggestions of par-
 681
 SIR G. GREY  said, that what he had meant to convey was, that the coroner not being a Government officer—although that did not altogether exempt him from proceedings against him—yet he could not be proceeded against in that character.
 SIR G. GREY  said, the Government had not taken any steps, in consequence
 676
 Sir Gr. GREY  said, that the greater the distance the heavier would be the expense; and the effect of the Amendment would be to preclude the board from adopting any site, however eligible, within the district comprised in the schedule.
 SIR G. GREY  said, the only effect of this would be to postpone the operation of the Bill for three years.
 SIR G. GREY  opposed the omission of the words, on the ground that there were many eligible sites in open places yet within the metropolitan districts, which might he advantageously selected by the heard as burial grounds.
 SIR G. GREY  said, the salary of the chief commissioner was 1,500 l
 SIR W. CLAY  said, that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester had put this question in its true light. It was a question as to the best mode of constituting a central board. There were eighty-seven parishes comprehended in the metropolitan districts, and he wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman meant to say that each of these parishes should send a representative to the central board; if so, he must say that there could not be a more ineffective body. If, however, the central body was to be composed of three or four members, he could not see how they could possibly be made to represent so many districts. The fact was, that they had a great and difficult work before them. The right hon. Gentleman could not object to centralisation more strongly than he did; but he must say that in this
 698
 SIR W. CLAY  said, that this clause Lore very hardly upon the proprietors of cemeteries, because it allowed the board a period of two years, within which they could purchase their cemeteries. Before that time, however, the board might form new cemeteries contiguous to the old ones, which would, of course, depreciate their value; and they might then compel a sale when thus depreciated. He, therefore, thought that the board, if they desired to purchase any of these cemeteries, should be obliged to do so within five or six months, instead of two years.
 VISCOUNT PALMBRSTON  had thought the hon. Gentleman was disposed, the other day, to censure the conduct of the Government for pressing any claim of that kind. But he must be well aware that the case of a loan was different from that of injuries sustained by British subjects. The loan had been granted by three Powers jointly and in common, and, though each had a separate portion, it was the result of a treaty to which all three were parties. Therefore he did not conceive that any of the three Powers could press beyond a certain point its claim for that loan, without making it the subject of previous consultation with the other two Powers.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  seconded the Motion. He regretted that the circumstances of Dublin had been gradually deteriorating since 1832, the citizens being overpowered by reason of the pressure of local rates; and he therefore hoped the Government would accede to the proposition for a Select Committee.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, if ever there was a subject fairly investigated, by several Committees, on several occasions, it was the subject then before them. If any hon. Gentleman required information on the matter, he had
 723
 MR. FREWEN , in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said, its object was simply to extend to Ireland an Act which had worked well for twelve years in this country. The expense of ejectments would he saved in the removal of squatters.
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  said, that he should support the measure if it conferred any benefit on the resident landlords of Ireland. With regard to the statement of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Stroud, he begged to say that it was not an Irish landlord who brought the ejectments that he had spoken of. They were brought on behalf of a London Insurance Company. He hoped the hon. Member for Stroud would bear that in his recollection when he referred to Irish landlords. He should vote against the measure.
 MR. HATCHELL  said, that the court of quarter - sessions gave the landlords ample power to get back lands which had been overheld. He should, therefore, support the Amendment. It was proposed by this measure to give the power to the bench of magistrates. He did not think that a new tribunal was wanted, and this time it would be very inexpedient to create such a tribunal. He did not wish to say anything disrespectful of the magistracy in Ireland, but it was better that they should not be called upon to decide in cases in which they themselves or their friends might be interested.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, that there were not such facilities for evicting tenants as the hon. and learned Gentleman seemed to suppose, because a year's notice was requisite. The difficulty and expense of the present process was one of the main causes of the ejectments which had taken place, and been complained of, and he believed that the passing of a more summary mode of ejectment would be beneficial, not only to the landlords, but to the tenants.
 MR. MONSELL  said, that this Bill applied to a great body of the tenantry of Ireland, and it would scarcely lead to peace or confidence if such powers were given to the magistracy of Ireland, however pure and well disposed to discharge their duties they might be.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that the only ejectment that could he brought was an ejectment in the title, which was a sufficiently expensive process. It was not the landlord, but the poor-law for which the hon. Member for Stroud voted to-night, that caused these ejectments. He believed that some such measure as that proposed was necessary, but he would not pledge himself to all its details.
 LORD NAAS  thought that it would put an end to some of the distressing scenes which accompanied ejectments in Ireland if a more summary process existed. He was not prepared, however, to give the power to the magistrates of deciding upon cases to the amount of 20 l
 MR. ROCHE  hoped the Government would not now, or at any future period, support a measure founded on the principle of this Bill. The power of ejectment existed in the assistant barrister's court, and he did not think that there was any necessity for another tribunal.
 MR. GROGAN  admitted the necessity of having a more speedy and effectual law
 755
 MR. SADLEIR  said, there was not a single clause in the Bill of the hon. Member for Sussex that would meet the grievance which existed in Ireland. The great evil in that country was, that no landlord could obtain possession of his property from a trespasser without going through the whole process of ejectment; and this Bill did not in any way remedy that evil. He cordially joined with the noble Lord the Member for Kildare in imploring the Government to take the subject into their hands, and to legislate effectually upon it.
 MR. ST. GEORGE  suggested that the simple fact of a tenant owing one year's rent should be sufficient to cause eviction.
 MR. NAPIER  hoped the hon. Member for East Sussex would not press the second reading of the Bill. No good reason had been assigned for the extension of the provisions of the Act of the 1st and 2nd of Victoria, cap. 74, to Ireland.
 MR. FREWEN  said, that as the Solicitor General for Ireland was opposed to the Bill, and as Her Majesty's Ministers appeared also to be against it, he would not trouble the House by dividing upon the Question.
 MR. O'FLAHBRTY  observed, the hon. Baronet might have a chance hereafter of proving what he stated with respect to the Roman Catholic clergy. From what he (Mr. 0'Flaherty) knew of that body, he could not think those assertions were true. He would support the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Roscommon in which he agreed generally, though he would not take away the power of outdoor relief altogether. The House ought to do something to prevent the total destruction of Irish property.
 LORD NAAS , in rising to second the resolutions, said, that he was prepared to admit, to the fullest amount, the improvement that had taken place in Ireland with regard to the working of the poor-law. He rejoiced in that change, and was willing to give every praise to those through whose exertions that beneficial change had been effected. But still he was bound to say that the state of the laws relating to the relief of the poor was far from being satisfactory to the people of that country. He must remind the House that the improvement manifest in some respects was the result more of a comparative mitigation of misery than an absolute return to prosperity The mere assuaging of almost
 735 "There was a desperate attempt made to force us to give outdoor relief promiscuously as of old, and a pressure was kept up for some weeks—six or seven—of the most embarrassing nature. The applicants in one week amounted to two thousand, or near that number; and they were so far taught their work, that they accepted the house almost universally when offered as a test; and though we all felt that at least nine-tenths were not in want, it was impossible from out of the list of ragged (and sometimes even painted) applicants, to discriminate the really distressed. We gave Way; but the commissioners very wisely and sensibly refused to give outdoor relief. They saw more clearly at a distance than we did. Their answer was excellent. They would send us money to fit up more workhouses, but not to give outdoor relief. This stopped the imposture, and in three electoral divisions we have stopped outdoor relief, by ordering in the paupers on outdoor relief—doing one electoral division at a time, so that no combination could be got up. Now, we have every board day a number of imposture cases of illness to get outdoor relief; and
 736 
 
 RETURN of the Amount of Debts, Claims, and Liabilities (exclusive of those owing to Government), against each of those Thirty-nine Unions;— 
 At the commencement of the month in which elected board of guardians was dissolved £134,152 0 0 
 Commencement of month in which administration by paid guardians terminated 258,635 0 0 
 Increase of debts, claims, and liabilities during the administration of paid guardians £124,483 0 0 737 "There have been instances, in the past year, where some females of the worst class who had left the house, again obtained admission, for the purpose (as was ascertained) of inducing young girls to leave the workhouse, to follow their own wicked course of life." "It has been often reported to me by the relieving officers of Waterford that young females have been induced by some of the bad characters in the house to leave, for the purpose of going on the town. I have no doubt that this has frequently occurred; but the evil consequences of contamination by such society cannot be denied. In former years the evil was not so great as at present, the majority of the inmates being of the lowest class, but of late a very different class have unfortunately been obliged to avail themselves of the shelter of the workhouse; and it is now melancholy to see persons who had been in comfortable circumstances obliged to associate with the refuse of society. I fear this will increase." "If the destruction of all self-respect and decency were the end professed and aimed at, more effectual means for that purpose could not
 738 l l 
 
 The Grand Jury Rate for Ireland was £1,149,898 
 The Poor Rate was 316,025 
 Total £1,465,923 
 
 The Grand Jury Rate was £1,241,854 
 The Poor Rate 1,835,310 
 Total £3,077,164 739 s d., s d s d., 
 
 The Poor Rates amounted to £6,180,765 
 Highways and County Rates to 1,750,000 
 Total £7,930,765 s d l s d s d
 MR. B. COCHRANE  begged to ask what course the noble Lord proposed to take with reference to the Greek loan; and whether he proposed, in making a claim on that account, to take into consideration the great losses the Greek revenue had sustained from the policy the noble Lord had adopted towards that country.
 MR. F. FRENCH  rose to bring forward the resolutions of which he bad given notice with respect to the Irish Poor Law. He knew the subject was distasteful to the House in consequence of the apparently fruitless character of the numerous discussions which had already taken place. The frequency and insufficiency of advances of money by way of loan, the effect of which must be to diminish the employing capital of the country—the consciousness of English Members that, with the best intentions, Ireland had suffered much ill treatment at their hands—the apathy amongst the Irish Members, resulting from despair at the disregard of their many and various suggestions—rendered all parties more inclined to trust to time and chance to unravel the difficulty, than to apply their minds to its thorough comprehension, with a view to remedy it. The poor-law, on its introduction, was intended to ameliorate the condition of the Irish population. It was the object of the Government that that amelioration should be called into effect by means of the resources of Ireland; and it was also the object not alone of the Government, but of the Members representing English constituencies, that no further claim for the support of the Irish people should be made on the funds of this country. In each and all of these particulars this Bill had been a total and complete failure. He had opposed the present poor-law, and said it would be as useless in ordinary years as it would be inefficient in times of famine, and would tend to demoralise the people, and absorb, without any
 724 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 725 l l l "That it is the opinion of this House that no permanent system for the relief of the poor of Ireland can be carried out safely and beneficially to receivers and ratepayers, without a return to the principle of the original poor-law of 1838, by the strict application of indoor relief to all classes of paupers." 726 "They could not recommend outdoor relief, a system which offered bounties to the improvident, and which, if introduced, would bring all down to one level, and the whole of Ireland would soon have to lean on Great Britain for support." "Thoroughly convinced of the sound policy of the Legislature in prohibiting all relief, except in the workhouse, the Commissioners cannot, in any way, sanction or encourage an application to Parliament, having for its object the abandonment of that resolution." "States his conviction, that without a stringent workhouse test, the property of Ireland cannot bear the poor-law." He says, "There is a power of expansion in the present law as regards relief to tile ablebodied, which is most mischievous; the application of the strict workhouse test affords the only possible mode of escape from the confiscation of a large portion of the landed property of Ireland: this is my confident opinion, derived from a long experience of the administration both in England and Ireland." He goes on to say, "The barrier once broken down, the flood of pauperism must inevitably overwhelm the whole property of the locality in which outdoor relief is attainable—Parliament ought to retrace its steps." "That, with the cessation of the exceptional case of famine, the practice of outdoor relief ought to cease, otherwise I do not think Ireland would be safe. I do not think the United Kingdom would be safe if the practice was continued beyond the exceptional case." 727 "When relief was authorised to be given to widows, multitudes represented themselves as widows who were not; it relief was to be given with respect to a certain number of children, children were hired to create a right under this order." "That amongst the most clamorous for outdoor relief in Kilrush were persons who were found to have large sums of money in their possession: single and deserted women applied for relief as widows, with children borrowed for the occasion: the absence of truth and honesty is most lamentable, and quite as painful to contemplate as their physical destitution." "Its effect is to demoralise the people: there is robbery, wilful perjury; and every vice that can be imagined follow in its train. I am firmly convinced the workhouse test is the sole salvation of the country." 728 "The introduction of outdoor relief into Ireland would be a most disastrous measure, however guarded the law might be—however trustworthy and intelligent the administration, it would in a few years absorb all the surplus produce of the soil, and deteriorate the condition of those persons for whose benefit it was introduced." s d "The health of the people is not maintained—their physical strength is weakened—their mental capacity is lowered—their moral character degraded. Many families are suffering extreme distress, who, three years since, enjoyed the comforts and refinements of life, and administered to the necessities of those around them. The flood of pauperism is evidently more and more engulphing one class after another, rising higher and higher in its effects on society, until it threatens to swallow all ranks and classes within its fatal vortex. The sinking condition of the parties hitherto contributing to the relief of distress, applies to every class; and Mr. Bewly declares he cannot see any other than that the condition of the country will continue rapidly to grow worse." "Under the administration of outdoor relief
 729 "I have seen men unstricken by disease, sink by the agonising death of famine into a premature grave; I have seen the strong and the stalwart labourer, the prop of his family, beaten down by weakness and paralysed from long and bitter days of famine; I have seen a mother and child, the aged and the young, alike withering off the earth from sheer hunger, in the face of this mis-named hollow and miserably inefficient poor-law." "This union is valued at 21,000 l d s s d., s l s s s "With respect to the Ballymoe division there was a 3 s d s s d l s d 730 l l s d 
 
 Listowel—in one year from £5,472 to £12,881 
 Ballinrobe 3,232 8,507 
 Castlebar 3,876 8,791 
 Clifden 564 6,898 
 Galway 7,492 12,315 
 Newcastle 4,986 10,206 
 Scariff 5,998 11,603 
 Tuam 4,064 11,368 
 Kilrush 2,170 12,834 
 Innistymon 1,030 12,992 
 Ballina 2,438 21,444 731 l "That the present system of the administration of the Poor Law in Ireland is unnecessarily extravagant, unsuited to the diminished resources of that country, and tends considerably to the demoralisation of the people." 
 
 In 1849 the Poor Rate was £2,177,693, divided thus— Indoor Relief £797,294 
 Outdoor 679,604 
 Establishment charges 700,752 
 Number Relieved Indoor 932,284 
 Outdoor 1,210,482 
 
 In 1846, the Expenditure was £435,000 
 1847, 803,684 
 1848, 1,835,310 
 1849, 2,177,693 732 
 
 In 1848, to £242,677 
 1849, to 310,660 d "That it is unjust to throw on one species of property, and that the most suffering, the entire support of the poor in Ireland." l., 733 "That where the ratepayers of any district within an electoral division voluntarily undertake to support a number of poor, to an amount of a fair proportion between the value of such district, and the number of poor and valuation of the electoral division, and fulfil such undertaking to the satisfaction of the guardians and the Poor Law Commissioners, they shall be exempt from any other rate than that for the charges of the union establishment." Edinburgh Review "Although much of the distress of Ireland arises from famine as a primary cause—yet its formidable intensity—its extension, and the risk of its perpetuation, are occasioned mainly by ill-considered, though well-intended laws. In a country where real property constituted even in the most prosperous times 13–20ths of the national wealth, such property has been depreciated from 60 to 40 per cent, whilst taxation has increased in a still more alarming ratio. In a country where house property is lamentably deficient—rates thrown exclusively en the landowner, even in cases in which no rents are paid—has produced
 734
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that his right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland had stated that this subject had already been repeatedly debated. He admitted this to be the case, but the importance of the matter fully justified him in again bringing it before the House. He had marked the perfect indifference with which this
 743 l l 744 l l l l l l 745
 MR. BAILLIE  rose, pursuant to notice, to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs a question with reference to the papers lately presented to Parliament relating to the affairs of Greece. It appeared from those papers that Her Majesty's Government had assumed the right to demand satisfaction, or rather compensation, for any damage or injury sustained by British subjects either from riots or rebellions in the countries in which they might be residing, without reference to the laws or the legal tribunals of those countries. It also
 717
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, the real question was, how the poor could be most efficiently supported consistently with the safety of the ratepayer. Under the Act, which declared that no relief should be given except within the walls of the workhouse, there was no protection for the lives of the poor, hundreds and thousands of them perished every year, until the Act of 1847 was enacted, it having become manifest that no alternative remained other than the adoption, in certain cases and to a certain extent, of outdoor relief. There was the question, too, whether, even under ordinary circumstances, outdoor relief was
 747 748 l l 749 750
 MR. C. ANSTEY  wished to know if the Government would lay on the table copies of the memorials from certain clerks in the Post Office, addressed to the Postmaster General, on the subject of Sabbath labour; and whether it was true that the office of chief clerk in the money-order office having recently fallen vacant, each of the clerks in the order of seniority had had an offer of the vacant office, on condition of admitting that the statements in the memorials referred to were false, and that on their declining to do so, the office had been given to the clerk of the money-order department in Edinburgh, who ranked considerably lower than the clerks that had been passed over, and who had been decided by Lord Lonsdale as an improper person to be promoted out of his turn?
 MR. C. ANSTEY  wished to know if the principle of seniority and rotation had not, down to the present time, regulated promotions of this kind?
 MR. M. GIBSON  asked when was the decision come to to compensate the Austrian ship on the part of the English Government?
 MR. HAYTER  said, he could most distinctly state that that had not been the practice. The evidence taken before the Select Committee on the miscellaneous estimates, from the heads of three or four departments, showed that officers were frequently transferred from one department to another; that the rule of promotion was not ordinary rotation; but that the head of the department selected the persons whom he judged most fit for the duties they were called on to perform.
 MR. HAYTER  said, it was undoubtedly true that the gentleman appointed to the vacant situation in the money-order office had been placed over the head of another party. The Postmaster General considered that, in appointing to the head of a department, he was bound to look out for the person most competent to discharge the duty. He had, therefore, passed by, as he was justified in doing, the principle of rotation, and had selected the person who, on all grounds, from his meritorious services and efficiency, was most entitled to fill the office. He was not aware of any application being made to the clerks, calling upon them to make any such statement as the hon. and learned Gentleman had referred to. He believed the report to be totally unfounded. The officer appointed had been selected solely on account of his eminent efficiency and capacity for discharging the duties of the office. He was wholly unknown to the Postmaster General except by his merit. He had been employed in the money-order office in Dublin; thence he was promoted, by the predecessor of the present Postmaster General, to Edinburgh; and having discharged his duties there very efficiently, he was now removed to London. There was no objection on the part of the Post Office to lay before the House the memorials and correspondence referred to; but unless it was intended to make that House a court of appeal with respect to the appointments in all
 721
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  said, that the first resolution called upon the House to return to the strict application of the principle of indoor relief. The law of 1838 was called a law for the relief of the poor, but it prohibited outdoor relief under whatever circumstances of distress. Now his opinion was, that any poor-law which pro-
 746
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had given them a very fair specimen of the ridiculous stories and misrepresentations which were told every day about Ireland and the poor-law. For instance, he told the House of 136 poor people, who had only two feet square—the hon. Gentleman ought to have given the number of cubic feet—to live in. Were they to believe such a story? Any one would know it was impossible, at all events with the race of people whom he knew to be coming for relief in that country. The hon. Gentleman had read passages from the report of a doctor, which appeared in a Parliamentary paper of that morning; but it would have been better if that doctor had gone to the board and stated the cases of which he complained. Indeed, it was his business to have done so, or to have exercised his power of redressing those evils without going to the board of guardians at all. Instead of going to the master or matron of the workhouse, he wrote an invidious report to be put in a local paper as a piece of scandal against the guardians. It was in that way the poor-law in Ireland was defeated. By those misrepresentations—by this wickedness, and by this cruelty—for in making those statements, injustice was caused to
 751 l s s d s s 752
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  explained, that he had no intention of imputing to the Roman Catholic clergy any desire to obstruct the law. He lived with them in harmony and good feeling, and did not wish to make any charge against them; but he would say they were sometimes driven too far by the circumstances under which they were placed.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, it was impossible to deny the importance of the Motion under consideration, but undoubtedly the subject was not one to which the House had shown itself in any way indifferent. A Committee had sat upon it last Session, which continued its labours for several months; and the whole of these resolutions received at that time the most ample consideration. Subsequently, also, when a Bill was brought before the House embodying certain of them, many, if not all of these subjects, were again fully debated in the House, and a decision pronounced upon them. The hon. Gentleman who had introduced the Motion had admitted that he was opposed altogether to the system of poor-laws as they existed in
 740 l s d l s d., l s d l l 741 l s d., s l l l 742 l l l l
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  thought it was about a month ago.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the hon. Gentleman has misstated, in the first place, the position and doctrine of Her Majesty's Government with regard to the matter in dispute between this country and Greece. I understood him to suppose that we have laid down the broad assertion that this Government will claim compensation for any damage or loss which British subjects may sustain in Greece or in any other country by reason of riots, disturbances, or other similar causes. Now Her Majesty's Government have laid down no such position. The principle upon which we have acted has been founded upon the particular circumstances of the particular eases to which they apply, and does not include any general proposition such as the hon. Gentleman has attributed to us. I apprehend that all cases of that sort rest upon the particular circumstances which accompany them. It is impossible to maintain that in all cases foreigners are entitled to compensation from the Government of the country in which they may have sustained injury and loss; but, on the other hand, it is equally impossible to maintain that there are not cases wherein, by the law of nations, compensation may be justly due to foreigners who have sustained injuries and losses in other countries. Vattel, who is usually considered a good authority in these matters, draws the distinction on which the one we have drawn is founded. Without troubling the House with reading the whole of the passages, he says, speaking of war, and what happens as the result of war, and what is allowable as war—
 718 "Pillage and destruction of towns, the devastation of a country, ravages, and the setting houses on fire, are measures not the less odious and detestable when put in practice from an absolute necessity." "The property of individuals should be treated in a different manner by an army than the property of an energy against whom that army is employed." "Accidents resulting inevitably from the measures of war, such as the bombardment of towns, &c, are not subject for compensation, but that when the losses are wanton or unnecessary for carrying out the operations, in those cases compensation might be demanded." 719 l
 MR. DRUMMOND  thought the hon. Gentleman the Member for Oldham, who had brought this measure forward in a speech which had met with general approbation, had received a hard measure from both sides of the House. If there were one question upon which hon. Members were more unanimous than another, it was in asserting that the State ought to undertake the education of the people. Upon a former occasion he had remarked the sad confusion which prevailed in the terms "education" and "instruction." He was glad that this distinction was recognised by the hon. Member for Oldham; and it was only remarkable that the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield had used the words "instruction" and "education" as convertible terms. They all agreed upon the substantative, but they were all fighting about the adjectives, some calling out for secular, others for biblical, or religious, or scriptural education; but still, a State education they all insisted upon having. Now, he believed that this was an impossibility. There were no two things more unlike each other than education and instruction. Instruction was putting some thing into a person, education meant drawing
 761 "Video meliora proboque." "Deteriora sequor." 762
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that there were many places behind the bar from which Members had a right to address the House, but Members could not address the House unless they spoke from the places devoted to Members.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that hon. Members sitting in the gallery, if in a place devoted to Members, had a right to be heard from it, thought it was behind the bar. The gallery was to be considered within the House.
 MR. SPEAKER  interrupted the hon. Member, and said that it appeared that on the former debate on this subject, an Amendment had been moved by the hon. Member for North Northamptonshire, which was seconded by the noble Lord the Member Arundel. After the noble Lord there was the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, then the noble Lord the Member
 792
 MR. BANKES  observed, that as the strangers' gallery was a portion of the same gallery in which hon. Members sat; might not some inconvenience arise from the difficulty of distinguishing whether it was a stranger or a Member who addressed the House?
 MR. BANKES  wished to take the opinion of Mr. Speaker on a question arising out of the construction of the House. On the occasion of their last sitting (in the new Chamber) hon. Members addressed them from the gallery, and he (Mr. Bankes) begged to ask, if it was in conformity with the rules of the House that a Member should speak from the gallery, which was considerably behind the bar of the House? He had always understood that no hon.
 756
 MR. MUNTZ  wished to ask the hon. Member for Oldham whether he intended to abandon the compulsory part of his Bill? [Mr. Fox replied in the affirmative.] He had been brought up a member of the Church of England, and never having seen reason to dissent, he could have no objection to her conducting the education of the people, if he thought that possible; but an extensive acquaintance with the working classes led him to say that it was not at all possible. The working classes were against the interference of the Church. The question then was, should these children go uneducated, or receive a certain amount of education? Having employed a vast number of men in his own time, he could say without fear of contradiction, that there was a marked distinction between those who were thoroughly and those who were partially educated; the former were so much more open to reason, and easily managed. He doubted whether any education could prevent crime. The great cause of the increase of crime was the increase of privation. Sensible as he was to the advantages of education, he should give his support to the Bill after the statement now made by the hon. Member for Oldham; and whether the present measure were carried or not, he hoped the Government would take the matter into their serious consideration.
 MR. HUME  declared, amidst much cheering and laughter, that he was not aware he had spoken before.
 MR. HUME  rose amidst loud calls for a division.
 MR. NAPIER  said, the Bill had been avowedly introduced for the purpose of submitting the principles involved in it to public opinion, and he was, therefore, anxious to meet it on this ground; and as hon. Gentlemen opposite were anxious to have an intelligent consideration of the question, hon. Members on his side claimed the right of having their views fairly and honestly put before the public; and if that were secured, he had no apprehension but that right would prevail. He had been at considerable pains in sifting the Bill, and extracting from it the real question, in order that it be fairly and honestly discussed, and he wished both sides to have a clear stage and no favour. He would state what he believed to be the principle of the Bill, and then state his objections—his only desire being to meet the case fairly on its merits, and then to leave the issue to the country. The principle, as he understood it, was this—that it is the duty of the Legislature to compel a provision for education which makes the exclusion of religion—not the omission—an essential element of its plan of combined instruction. He called on the hon. Gentleman who had moved the Bill, when he came to deal with this case in his reply, to apply himself to that specific proposition, and show from what source he derived authority to cast on the Legislature the duty of compelling a provision by a rate on the rateable property of the country for the purpose of giving to the people an education severed from religion—from which religion as a principle was excluded. The objection as to compulsion, he understood,
 778 779 780 in loco parentis 781 Sur l'Homme "In fact, the causes which influence crime are so numerous and so various that it becomes almost impossible to assign to each its degree of importance. It often occurs that causes which appear
 782 "I am not one who am likely to undervalue secular education. I mean not to boast of myself or my attainments; far be it from me—for never, when a discovery presented itself to me, never did I fail to give to God the glory, and to thank him for the power he he had given me to achieve it. With the exception of two or three of my more distinguished countrymen, there are none on this land—I say it here, simply and plainly, who surpass me in that kind of knowledge; and yet I say here, in the presence of you all, as I say it in the presence of Him who sees the heart—that all I know, and I have ever learned, is as nothing in comparison to any one chapter of Scripture." 783
 MR. C. ANSTEY  gave the Bill his cordial support, and expressed his great regret that the noble Lord the Member for Arundel should have departed from the liberal course he generally pursued, and have opposed a measure to diffuse the blessings of education. The principal objections which had been urged in the House had been founded not on the Bill before them, but on systems of education in foreign countries, and on propositions laid before foreign legislatures. It was said that the University of Paris, which had the monopoly of education, had made Frenchmen a nation of infidels; and hon. Members argued that the House should therefore reject any scheme of secular education. But the system of the Paris University was eminently religious and sectarian,
 757 758 759 760
 MR. M. GIBSON  was anxious to say a few words in explanation of the vote he was about to give, and to point out in what respect he qualified the support he was about to give the hon. Member for Oldham. Before he did so he would refer to the allusions which had been made to himself by the hon. and learned Member for the city of Oxford. That hon. and learned Gentleman came there determined to attack the Bill and those who supported it by every means in his power. Not satisfied with questioning the merits of the measure itself, he made use of those stale devices and arguments which had been used in all times against new proposals of every description. He denounced as philosophers of the new school all who supported the measure. Then he said that it was a subject of such importance that individual Members of Parliament ought not to deal with it. With regard to that position, he (Mr. Gibson) entirely differed with the hon. and learned Member.
 773 774 775 776 per se 777
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, that throughout this prolonged debate he heard nothing whatever that touched precisely the facts on which he grounded the necessity of this measure, or some measure of this description. The hon. and learned Gentleman who had just spoken could not have weighed the considerations on which he justified the expediency and necessity of the measure, or he would not have attributed to him the intention of merely wishing to raise a discussion upon an abstract principle. The hon. and learned Gentleman's speech was directed against a phantom of his own creation. He (Mr. Fox) had never proposed to exclude religion from education. He founded his attempt to do something for his fellow-countrymen, for the improvement of the instruction actually given to them, something for the extension of instruction to those now destitute of it, not on any abstract principle, but on the demonstrated necessity that something should be done. It was not his intention to demolish any existing systems of education in order to establish new ones, the absurdity of which experience had demonstrated, not merely in reference to education, but with regard to all kinds of reform whatsoever; but to ascertain how very complex and imperfect systems could be harmonised, purified and made to do a greater amount of good than they had hitherto effected. Such was the nature of his proposition, and, so far from excluding religion, it pre-eminently sought to retain the religious impulse for the diffusion of education. He appreciated quite as highly as the hon. and learned Member for the city of Oxford the results which had been produced by the religious impulse; but all religious impulses required to be watched, and more particularly as connected with education, lest what was called religion, but what should be more properly designated theology, should be made an instrument of proselytism, and lead to the perversion of education itself. The great fact on which he founded his proposition was, that after all that had been done for the extension of education in this country, it was still deplorably deficient, whilst its quality was lamentably inferior. He ventured to affirm that the principle of a theological education and the proselytism which was inseparably connected with it, had so far swamped other modes of instruction as
 784 785 786 formulœ 787 l 788 "But since the separation of philosophy in general from theology, whilst other sciences have profited largely by their independent cultivation, there has remained a timidity of speculation in ethics, a backwardness to use that liberty of reason here, which has been so beneficially adopted in other branches of knowledge. There is a sort of superstition on the subject; the demons of impiety and profaneness haunt the imagination, when we contemplate the establishment of moral obligations, independently of the revealed will of God concerning a future state of existence. Thus, both Shaftesbury and Boling-broke have shown, and I think unanswerably, that the principles of morality are founded in our nature, independently of any system of religious belief, and are, in fact, obligatory even on the atheist. But I intend, in asserting the independence of moral obligation on any religious sanction, to refer, in evidence of this position, to the indisputable instances which have appeared, of an upright tenor of life—of the duties belonging to the various relations of life—correctly performed by those who have wanted the higher inducements to right conduct, resulting from the profession of a better creed." "But the great fallacy of the day is 'the danger of separating religious from secular instruction.' A little reflection ought to have shown that this is one of the most fanciful contingencies that could be imagined. Religious and secular instruction are already separate; they are as separate and distinct as any two parts of the same whole well can be; and if they were not so they would not have different names. The task of separation is done to our hands; it is the task of uniting that remains to be performed, and care should be taken that this combination should not lead to confusion. It requires no small caution, in combining religion with anything secular, to preserve the religious element from desecration, and the secular from perversion. There is a great danger of having the forms of godliness substituted for the power thereof; let us be cautious of leading the young into the dangerous error that all religion is included in its forms. National education does not mean simply the education of the poor, for the poor do not constitute the entire nation. A truly national system must be so comprehensive as to embrace every class of society. The Church cannot undertake the direction of such a system for many reasons, but most especially for the very obvious one, that the Church is not co-extensive with the nation. Education is a question of religion, a question of morality, a question of health, a question of finance, and a question of police. To what ultimate power do we refer all questions of public morals, public health, finance, and police? Every one knows that the decision of such question is the proper function of the State, and that the State has been constituted to discharge such functions." 789 790 On the Social and Educational Condition of different Parts of Europe "Four years ago the Prussian Government made a general inquiry, and it was ascertained that of all young men in the kingdom, of 21 years old, only two in every 100 were unable to read. The average age of marriage is about 35 for men. These statistics showed that in Prussia 1 man in every 16 who married is 45 years old, while in England only 1 in every 21 is 45 years old, and nearly half of the men married every year are not older than 20 years." "In all the divisions (of each school), the moral and religious instruction shall rank first. Prayers shall commence and close all the classes. Some verses of the Holy Scriptures shall be learned every day. Every Saturday the Gospel of the following Sunday shall be recited. On the Sundays and fast-days the scholars shall be conducted to divine service. The reading books, the writing copies, the discourses and exhortations of the teacher, shall tend continually to penetrate the soul of the scholars with the feelings and principles which are the safeguards of morality, and which are proper to inspire the fear and love of God." "There is a total absence of all special instruction either in religion or morals The educational arrangements are altogether independent of any church, and the schools are managed by local committees. By the law of 1806, religious instruction is separated from all free, poor, and private schools; and no instructor must interfere as to religion. We are informed that the Bible is not read in the schools; and that Jews, Catholics, and Protestants of different opinions, are instructed together. Children are permitted to withdraw at fixed hours to attend their pastor for religious instruction; but this is not imperative, being left entirely optional to the parents. This system has now been in operation forty years. The wide diffusion of the elements of knowledge among the Dutch, harmonises well with the general character of the people. They are proverbial for their economy, prudence, and attention to business; and they probably enjoy as large an
 791
 MR. W. P. WOOD  said, he felt a very deep interest in this question, which he apprehended was after all the one great question upon which the maintenance of our happiness and the prosperity of our empire depended; and, perhaps, he had a special call to address the House, in consequence of the observations that had been offered by his hon. and learned Friend opposite, the Member for Youghal, in which he described the operations of a society with which he (Mr. Wood) had had the honour of being connected for some years, as utterly useless, and the society itself as effete. [Mr. C. ANSTEY: For this purpose, for the purpose of distributing Parliamentary grants.] Before he sat down, he thought he should convince the House of the extremely erroneous conclusions to which the hon. and learned Gentleman had arrived; but, before doing so, he was anxious to express, as every hon. Member almost, who had preceded him, had expressed, his satisfaction at the calm and temperate tone in which the subject was introduced to the House. It was a subject on which, of all others, they ought to be calm and gentle. He would endeavour, as far as possible, to follow the example of not being excited on this subject, feeling, as he did, that religion had been up to this moment the handmaid of education, yet it should not be through his lips, at all events, that such expressions should fall as that those who voted against this measure were voting in favour of the powers of hell, and that those who voted in favour of it were voting in favour of the powers of heaven. He had not even heard such an expression. Although he was glad that the hon. Member who proposed this measure disclaimed many of the idle and foolish expressions which appeared to be prevalent on this subject, yet at the close of his speech he somewhat inadvertently introduced some of those views. The hon. Gentleman read a document to the House purporting to emanate from a society of working men; and he said that he believed the feelings of the working men were not understood. He (Mr. Wood) believed them to have the average amount of intellect that the rest of mankind had; but he must beg leave to say, that the first sentence of that document convinced him it was not a working man's production. He never heard working men use such expressions as "the plastic minds and nascent judgment
 763 764 765 "We, whose names are undersigned, do subscribe annually the sums affixed to our several names for promoting Christian knowledge." "By creating catechetical schools, by raising catechetical lending libraries for the several market towns, by distributing good books, or otherwise as the society shall direct." 766 l l 767 l l l l l l 768 l l l l 769 770 771 772 "No mother's care Shielded my infant innocence with prayer."
 SIR G. GREY  said, that if the fees were not to be chargeable until after they received the sanction of Parliament, the effect would be, that the present Bill could not come into operation till next Session. The table of fees might not be ready during the present Session, and the only way then in which they could receive the sanction of Parliament would be by Act of Parliament passed next year; therefore, if the Amendment were agreed to, it would have
 857
 LORD D. STUART  observed, that there was the same objection to this clause as there was to every other clause in the Bill—it gave absolute power to the board. The Bill was supposed to be a poor man's Bill, but the clause now under consideration was assuredly a rich man's clause.
 LORD ASHLEY  denied that it was a rich man's Bill. At present the expense of a faculty was very great, and by the Bill power was given to the board to do that for poor persons at a small expense which they could not at present effect otherwise than at great cost.
 SIR B. HALL  desired attention to this, that the question of fees had now been raised, and he thought the House ought to be placed in such a position as that they should know what the fees were likely to be. What they wanted to know was, the probable expense of removing a dead body from any parish in the metropolis to an extramural cemetery.
 LORD ASHLEY  thought that any statement on the subject of fees had better be postponed till they reached the next clause.
 MR. ROEBUCK  begged to remind the Committee that a fee for a faculty was usually paid under the influence of very painful feelings, and he hoped—nay he had no doubt—that the clergy did not desire to tax the people for seeking to relieve the severity of those feelings; but as to the public he had no difficulty whatever in saying that there were many very serious reasons why the public should not be taxed on account of faculties. The feelings which induced surviving relations to desire the removal of dead bodies certainly did sometimes exist, but they were, on the whole, rare. It seemed to him that the general rule should be to allow "the tree to remain where it fell;" the removal of dead bodies was, generally speaking, objectionable, and there certainly was no reason why the clergy should levy a tax on account of it. He was of opinion that the maximum fee might be put into the Bill then.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that if so it must, under present circumstances, be high, and he certainly should be unwilling to see a high rate charged to persons of small means.
 MR. ROEBUCK  maintained that the fee ought to be extremely small, but that general words might be introduced into the Bill, imposing all the proper expenses
 858
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  thought it would be much better to do away with the faculty altogether. It was idle to talk of removing bodies from metropolitan burial places; they might not he for three weeks at a time in the places where they had been deposited. How could it be otherwise, when 8,000 were buried in one acre, when 136 were all that it could fairly be made to contain? It was under such circumstances a mockery to require that people should ask and pay for the consent of the incumbent.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that not a farthing of the fees would go to the clergy.
 MR. ROEBUCK  was willing that there should be a fee for burials and removals, but he would stop there and give nothing for consents.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the burial ground was the freehold of the incumbent, and his consent in law was necessary.
 The CHAIRMAN  called the attention of the hon. Member for Reading to the circumstance that his Amendment applied to the 20th clause of the reprinted Bill.
 MR. STANFORD  said, he perceived it was so, and would for the present withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. ROEBUCK  wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman would dispense with the consent of the incumbent?
 SIR G. GREY  repeated that he could not consent to any proposal which would interfere with the incumbents' right of freehold in consecrated ground.
 SIR G. GREY  had no particular objection to such an Amendment, because the words which followed, "or other person having the control or care of any church, &c.," would be sufficient to insure the object in view, namely, the consent of those having the right of freehold.
 MR. ROEBUCK  might as well state at once that it was his intention afterwards to move the omission of these words also, and to propose the insertion of the words "with the consent of the Board of Health."
 SIR G. GREY , after the explanation just given by the hon. and learned Member, would object to the Amendment, for the reasons he had before given.
 MR. MACKINNON  asked how, in the event of a measure like the present being extended to Manchester and other large towns, the Board of Health in London could be consulted about the removal of dead bodies?
 SIR G. GREY , with reference to the question of fees, thought words might be inserted in the next clause to the effect that the incumbent should have no fees, though he still would have the privilege of giving his consent or withholding it.
 MR. STANFORD  said, the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield proposed to take the fee from the incumbent and give it to the Board of Health, an irresponsible body, which that hon. and learned Gentleman would, in other circumstances, have exerted all his logical acuteness and power of invective to denounce. But, because it gave him an opportunity of taking something from the clergy, he was ready to give the advantage to this irresponsible board.
 MR. ROEBUCK  would appeal to the House whether that was a fair conclusion from what he had said. He understood that the fees provided by the Bill were to go into a fund from which the claims of the present incumbents were to be paid; and he thought that all sums, even those got by the removal of bodies, would be put into that fund, and appropriated to the purpose he had just stated. There were persons who had a captious desire to find fault, but whose power and capacity for doing so did not equal their wishes.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, the hon. Member for Reading, who had made an observation regarding the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, had certainly not shown much acuteness himself that night, for he had moved an Amendment on the 19th clause, which it turned out should have been made on the 20th, and now he had made a speech which should have been made on a totally different clause also.
 MR. SADLEIR  thought the Board of Health should be the responsible party. Respecting the remark made by the hon. Member for Lymington, if the provisions of the Bill were extended to other large towns, of course no one would purpose that in that case the consent should be with the Board of Health. The power would then be given to some other body.
 MR. LACY  thought a certain amount should be paid by way of fine for the removal of bodies. The public health might be endangered if every man were to take
 860
 MR. AGLIONBY  thought the hon. Gentleman need be under very little alarm on that point. He was mistaken in supposing that anybody would rush into the churchyard to carry off his wife.
 LORD ASHLEY  said, in the Cemeteries Companies Bill there was no scale of charges, nor any system of cheek or control on the amount of the fees. However, there was this distinction to be observed, and it was a distinction of great importance as to the framing of the Bill, that here they had no view whatever of profit, and their object was that the fees should be constructed on a scale which was just sufficient to meet the necessary expenses, and no more. It was not required that there should be any profit whatever on which to declare a dividend. In comparing the fees of the existing cemeteries with those proposed under this Bill, he found that the fee of the existing cemeteries for the grave of a pauper, including the burial service, and the digging of the grave, and everything, in short, except that which belonged to the undertaker, was 9 s s l s d l s d l s l s d l 861
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, the noble Lord was misinformed with respect to the charges of cemeteries. In the first place, the noble Lord stated that the charge for a pauper was 9 s
 LORD ASHLEY : We are not talking about churchyards. I am comparing these fees with the demands of cemetery companies, not with churchyards.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, 7 s s s d s l s d l s l s l s l
 MR. ROEBUCK  wished to know why there should be this regulation of fees. The noble Lord said they did not want a dividend, but merely wanted to pay their expenses. The expenses, he supposed, were first for the salaries of the existing incumbents of parishes, and there was also the expenses of management. [Lord ASHLEY: The purchase of land.] Purchase of land undoubtedly. But the expense of burying a rich man was the same as the expense of burying a pauper. The area in which the body lay was the same for a pauper as for a prince. Why not charge 7 s
 MR. STANFORD  rose to move the Amendment of which he had given notice. Profit not being the object of the board, did not, in his opinion, constitute a sufficient guarantee against improvident expenditure and extravagant charges, and of this the conduct of the Sewers Commission afforded a sufficient example. What did the noble Lord mean by saying that Parliament would have a controlling power over the proceedings of the board? A report would be laid on the table every year, and hon. Members might make their complaints, but the only substantial remedy would be to repeal the Act itself. It Was the duty of the Government, if they wanted the Bill to pass—and he was as anxious as any person that it should pass this Session—to have placed all these restrictions on the Bill. He hoped that hon. Members would support him in the Amendment which he now moved, namely—
 "To add, in page 1, line 12 of the Clause, these words, 'such Fees or Sums having been first submitted to, and authorised by, Parliament."
 SIR B. HALL  wished to call the noble Lord's attention to the charges made at St. John's Wood burying ground, which was remarkably well conducted. There the charges were—for the clergyman and use of the ground, 4 s d s d s s d s l s 863 s
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the hon. Baronet had, in his innocence, made an extraordinary discovery that extramural interment was more expensive than intramural. He took the maximum charge fixed on by the noble Lord, and then selected a churchyard where the charges were cheaper than any other about London. [Sir B. HALL: It is only half-a-crown at St. Pancras.] He was at a loss to know how the matter was to be accomplished for a less sum than that suggested by the noble Lord, unless an application was to be made to the Treasury for some of the public funds in support of the movement.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  did not know what fee was to be exacted for removing the body of the noble Lord the hon. Member for Bath from the Opposition to the Treasury bench. [ Lord Ashley, for the convenience of discussion, was occupying a seat amongst the Ministers 864 Laughter l l s l
 LORD ASHLEY  said, if there were profits they should be applied to the reduction of the fees. The seven shillings he had already stated would include charges for religious services, digging the grave, and every thing except the conveyance of the bodies. The expenses for religious services very considerably increased the cost of burial. Abney-park had been referred to, but no religious services were ever performed there unless specially required.
 SIR DE. L. EVANS  said, this was a compulsory measure, and it was very desirable that a schedule of the fees should be attached to the Bill. The noble Lord had merely told the House what he hoped would be the minimum charges. That was very vague. The best way to remove the objections to the measure was to prepare a scale of fees. If they were to remain undefined, the measure should be limited to three years or some other particular period.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, the public expected not only the observance of greater decency in the system to be pursued under this measure, but that the interments should be much more economical. This was the gist of the matter, and it should be stated with accuracy. If parishes were to be compelled to pay seven shillings for the interment of every pauper, it would make a great difference in their poor-rates.
 MR. WAKLEY  thought it a duty which the Government owed to the House, that the clause should be postponed, and a schedule of fees prepared such as could substantially be adopted. The Committee were proceeding upon insufficient data; they had not the materials to warrant them in coming to a positive conclusion. The statements made relative to the cost of burials in various cemeteries were correct; and he had no doubt the cost was equally low in others. The noble Lord the Member for Bath said, he hoped the cost would not exceed 1 l s 865
 The CHAIRMAN  said, that the hon. Member for Reading must withdraw his Amendment before that of the hon. Member for Finsbury could be nut.
 MR. STANFORD  said, that he wished to withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. ROEBUCK  believed that some misapprehension existed with respect to the Bill, and that the effect would be to make burials less expensive than at present, but for different reasons than had been assigned. There were expenses attendant on matters regulated by this Bill, the grave and all the ceremonies of interment. But there were also the expenses of the undertaker. These the community felt to be heavy and expensive, and not the charges for burial ground and cost of services at the grave. By the regulations of the 27th clause, he hoped a much cheaper mode of conducting funerals would be established, and the public expectation be satisfied. The expenditure would be reduced one-half.
 SIR B. HALL  asked whether, in addition to the 25 s s d
 SIR G. GREY  thought his noble Friend had stated very distinctly that the maximum charge of 25 s s d s
 MR. AGLIONBY  was favourable to the Bill, but thought the Committee had not sufficient data on which to come to a conclusion that should be satisfactory to the public. Statistical information had been procured, from which a schedule of fees might be prepared, to be brought forward at another stage of the Bill. Some estimate of the expense attending the board ought to be furnished.
 MR. LACY  said, that in the scheme of the Board of Health the estimate of expenditure was 112,000 l
 SIR G. GREY  saw no advantage in the postponement of the clause, as some schedule must be fixed in the first instance. The first cost would be great—he hoped not greater than was anticipated; and the fees, on which the hon. Member for Middlesex calculated so much, would come in very slowly.
 MR. WYLD  said, that at present every parishioner had a common-law right to interment in the parish churchyard or burial ground. Applying this to paupers, it would be seen that a very large additional cost would be imposed on the parishes—probably not less than 18,000 l
 MR. B. OSBORNE  thought the Committee should know whore the Board of Health proposed to purchase land.
 LORD ASHLEY  said, the board not being yet properly constituted under this Act, could not take any step for the purchase of land. They were not bound to confine their selection to one or two plots of ground. The probability was, that for some months to come they would be obliged to make use of some of the existing cemeteries. As to other spots in the neighbourhood of London, though the hoard had directed their attention to some, they had not decided on any.
 MR. D'EYNCOURT  urged the postponement of the Bill until the schedule was prepared.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  wished to ask the noble Lord the Member for Bath if Erith had not been selected as one of the places for metropolitan interments; also, whether steamers were not to be employed to carry the bodies down the river to the place known as "The Happy Land?" He considered the noble Lord's former answers as so uncandid, that he was obliged to ask thus particularly.
 LORD ASHLEY  said, he should be much obliged to the hon. Gentleman if he would point out anything which had been uncandid in his answers. It was perfectly true that the Board of Health had thought of "The Happy Land," as it was called; the ground at Erith had been the subject of consideration, as well as other places; and an inspection of that and other sites had been directed, but nothing further.
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  could not understand this extraordinary jealousy of the present Bill and the Board of Health. The great point was to put a stop to intramural burials. With regard to the
 867
 LORD D. STUART  said, the Committee was about to agree to a clause of which they knew nothing at all. They did not even know of whom the Board of Health consisted. The noble Lord the Member for Bath, a man of sanguine temperament, hoped the expense would not be very great; but, like other framers of estimates, it was very probable he might be deceived in his calculations. From the statistics which had been given of Marylebone, it was evident that scheme would be much better carried out by the several parishes; otherwise one would be paying for the expenses of another, and great discontent would be the result. That was a very good reason why the clause should be postponed. He hoped his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury would persevere in his Motion.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that his noble Friend's speech divided itself into two parts. In the first he stated that it was impossible to give a correct estimate; and in the second he said that the Government were bound to give a very accurate estimate of the cost of burials. With regard to the Motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury, it meant that they were to remain content with the present system. ["No, no!"] If that were not the meaning of it, then there was no reason for postponing the clause. If they were to continue the practice which was so shocking to their feelings, of casting only a small covering of earth over the dead body, no doubt a very small fee might be sufficient. But if they determined on putting an end to that practice, and that the burials should take place at a distance from the metropolis, there must be some means of paying the expenses of the interments. The Board of Health could in some respects cause a diminution of the expenses of interments, but still there was a large expense to be incurred in the purchase of ground, and there was the cost of the funeral service. These expenses must be provided for in some way or other. One way was, by voting a large amount of the public money.
 868
 MR. ROEBUCK  thought that the question of fees could not be left in better hands than those proposed by the noble Lord.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  asked whether the solution of the difficulty was not in the fact, that there was a subsequent clause, 69, which provided that an annual report and abstract of the accounts should be laid before Parliament?
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that the Bill required a table of the fees to be publicly exhibited, so that there would be no necessity for waiting till a report was made to Parliament.
 MR. SADLEIR  said, that he would resist the Amendment, the practical effect of which would be to postpone the operation of the Bill, to the principle of which he
 869 l
 LORD J. RUSSELL  proposed the addition of the words, "with the approbation of one of Her Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State."
 MR. WAKLEY  supported the Amendment, and begged of the noble Lord to adopt it.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, it seemed to him impossible to lay down any fixed rule of fees, seeing that there must necessarily be a great diversity of charges.
 SIR B. HALL  inquired of whom the board was to be composed; the salaries, if any, to be paid; the officers; and what the expenses of the board were likely to be?
 SIR G. GREY  replied, that the board would consist of Lords Seymour and Ashley as unpaid commissioners, with Mr. Chadwick as paid commissioner. It was also contemplated to add a second paid commissioner.
 LORD D. STUART  wished for some explanations as to the wording of the clause.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that as regarded the present clause, they were in danger in running in the opposite extreme, that of economy. At present houses clustered round all the graveyards; but by the present clause all graves should be made 200 yards distant from any house. The result would be, that, taking 200 yards on every side from the grave, they would be com-
 870
 LORD ASHLEY  observed, that they had been called to account by several scientific gentlemen for limiting the belt of ground to 200 yards, inasmuch as the gases arising from decomposition were most injurious, and also the quality of the water in the various localities should be preserved from contamination. In his opinion 200 yards were the very minimum that could be named.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that 200 yards had been provided for by the Cemetery Act.
 MR. BRIGHT  did not sec why 200 yards should be imported into this Bill because it was in the Cemetery Act. He hoped the clause would be allowed to stand over for the present, in order that the proper parties might be consulted on the subject, and then, if the 200 yards should be considered necessary, of course he should withdraw his opposition to the clause. He warned the Government against implicitly taking and relying upon the opinion of scientific men, inasmuch as that class of persons would very probably involve the metropolis in immense expense.
 MR. STANFORD  asked whether it was in contemplation to distinguish the different trades and employments?
 MR. G. C. LEWIS  said, it was proposed to obtain the same particulars as were obtained by the last census.
 LORD GALWAY  asked on what day would the census be taken in 1851?
 MR. G. C. LEWIS  replied, on the 9th of June, as before.
 LORD GALWAY  said, that as a very great number of foreigners would probably be in London at that time, care must be taken not to include them in the census.
 MR. ELLIOT  rose to move the Amendment of which he had given notice, and stated that the great alarm which was felt by the operatives as well as the owners of factories in the part of the country with which he was more immediately connected, rendered it necessary that he should request the House to grant him their indulgence for a short time whilst he endeavoured to put before them the position in which all parties connected with these factories would be placed should the Bill now before the House pass into a law. He had presented a number of petitions against this Bill from the operatives in the several factories in the town of Hawick and Innerleithen, as well as from their masters. He had also presented that evening a petition from thirty-four millowners in the counties of Roxburgh, Berwickshire, Selkirkshire, and Peebles. The operatives stated—and he wished the House to know that this was a statement in the truth of which all concurred, however much they might be opposed to the system of relay
 824 "I may give, as an example of this mode of working by shifts, a case I met with in one of the mills working upon this plan, which I inspected on the 8th of March. Gut of 335 young persons and women there employed, I found 213 who began work at 6 o'clock in the morning, and were at work in the mill as late as half-past 7 in the evening. They had, of course, their hour-and-a-half for meals, as required by the Act, and, besides that, they were sent out of the mill, some
 825 826 "It has been plausibly set forth by some persons that there would be great advantages to trade were the mills to be enabled by relays to work thirteen or fourteen hours a day. No one doubts that the longer manufacturing machinery can be kept in motion, the greater will be the produce; and if it could be kept going all the twenty-four hours of each day, without compromising the physical and moral health of the human beings by which it is worked, no one would dream of interfering with it. But the far greater proportion of mills cannot work without the aid of children, or of young persons or women; and the Legislature has decided that such persons shall be protected against the temptations held out to them by the capitalists to work in a manner that is inconsistent with a sound healthy state of the population, morally and physically—that is the whole of the question." 827 828
 MR. ELLIOT  said, he had not made the statement solely with reference to Scotland. If the right hon. Gentleman would allow him to introduce a clause exempting the district he had referred to, he would be most happy to take the suggestion and withdraw the clause he had now proposed.
 MR. ELLIOT  begged the House would permit him to explain the circumstance to which the hon. Member for Macclesfield had referred. He was sorry to again obtrude himself upon the House; but, after the charge brought against him by the hon. Member, he felt he might without impropriety appeal to the justice of the House for a hearing. He felt satisfied he was too well known in that House by a large number of its Members to admit of its being believed that he was capable of coming before them upon false pretences. He would now state what had occurred. It was true that a counter-petition had been got up in Hawick, purporting to be signed by the workpeople in the mills, and other inhabitants, and containing allegations such as the hon. Member had referred to, and further stating that the workpeople in Hawick were suffering the most heartrending privations—hundreds being compelled to be in attendance in or about the mills fifteen hours a-day, which, with the time for going and coming, made sixteen hours out of the twenty-four. This petitition was forwarded for presentation to the noble Lord the Member for Bath, and was made over by that noble Lord to the noble Lord the Member for Dumfriesshire, by whom it was presented to the House. Having had some communication with the noble Lord the Member for Dumfriesshire on the subject of this petition, and considering it a matter of importance that Members of Parliament should not be led to make statements to the House founded upon false representations, he (Mr. Elliot) stated to the noble Lord that he was determined to ascertain the truth, on whichever side it might lie, and proposed to the noble Lord to go down to Scotland by the same night's train, that they might there, on the spot, make such inquiries as would lead to an exhibition of the truth. That he (Mr. Elliot) had no more means than the noble Lord of knowing which statement was true, except the confidence he felt in those from whom he
 839 840 841
 LORD ASHLEY  was desirous of supplying what he conceived to be an omission in this clause. By the existing law, young children were not to work more than a certain number of hours, but no limit was fixed within which those hours should be; it would therefore be possible to employ children coming within that Act at any hour; although by the present Bill it was proposed that "young persons and females" should not be employed before six o'clock in the morning, or after six in the evening. If the Amendment he had to propose were not adopted, the effect would be that there would exist two Factory Bills. By the present law a child might commence work at half-past five o'clock in the morning, although, by this Bill, an adult would not go to work till six. Then, again, by the Act to which he was referring, a child might be kept on the premises till half-past eight in the evening, although an adult, under the provisions of the Bill before the Committee, would leave the premises at 6. This disparity of the law would operate very prejudicially; and to obviate the evil he should propose that the words "no child" be inserted before the words "no young person," the effect of which would be to make the law uniform in its application to all young people and females.
 LORD ASHLEY : Sir, there is one observation which I wish to make with reference to something which has fallen from the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, and I shall never again touch upon the subject. He says, that the factory operatives are now deserted by one who was once their champion. Now, I never considered myself as their champion; but I
 833 "While we cannot approve of any abridgment of our present lawful rights, or give our sanction to any mutilation of privileges we possess, we are at the same time too fully satisfied of the honesty, zeal, and self-devotion of Lord Ashley to imagine for one moment that his Lordship has deserted the interests of those whose welfare he has had so long at heart." "And whose well-being he has so perseveringly promoted—and are convinced that his concurrence with the Government proposition is best calculated to insure the present safety of the Bill, and its future permanency." 834
 LORD ASHLEY  said, that his Bill did not contemplate any limitation of labour to the hour of six in the afternoon. He wished to know if children of tender years should not be permitted to enjoy the same indulgence as adult women. A great number of millowners were in favour of that course. [Sir G. GREY: Only one or two.] He was in possession of a letter from a most respectable and influential millowner in Manchester, in which he sincerely wished success to his (Lord Ashley's) exertions, and stated that public opinion condemned the coercion of children to labour at hours in which adults were free.
 LORD ASHLEY  said, that in consequence of the position in which he had been placed by the result of the division which had just taken place, he should consider himself altogether relieved from the obligations which he had entered into with respect to this Bill. He certainly could not consider the decision which had just been come to by the Committee a final one, and upon the first opportunity which might arise he should feel it his duty to restate the claims of those parties to whom his Amendment referred.
 LORD ASHLEY  said, that he was only anxious to guard himself so far, that he would not be under any further obligations with respect to the compromise entered into by him, and that he should feel himself at perfect liberty to act as he considered best in the matter.
 MR. E. B. DENISON , as the representative of the largest number of operatives in the kingdom, wished to say one or two words. He merely rose to do an act of justice to the noble Lord the Member for Bath, because he thought he was somewhat unfairly attacked by the hon. Member for Halifax, when he accused him of having deserted those by whom he had stood so long and so steadily. The working people would rather have had a Ten Hours Bill, without alteration; but he believed that they were most grateful to the noble Lord for what he had done in time past, and that they would feel equally grateful to him for the course he had taken on the present occasion in doing his best to accomplish the settlement of a vexed and difficult question. He thought he had acted wisely in accepting a compromise; and he believed the operatives of Yorkshire would feel as grateful to him for the remainder of their lives as they had hitherto done. He should certainly vote on the present occasion in support of the Bill.
 MR. MUNTZ  said, supposing the object to be to limit the employment of the men to ten hours and a half, would his hon. Friend the Member for Manchester say that they worked for that period? There was a great difference between the ages of thirteen and eight. Was it right to require children to work as they did, or would any man like his own children to work so long? He contended that there was no occasion to work children to death before they were half grown. His hon.
 852 bonâ fide
 MR. AGLIONBY  considered that it became the Legislature to secure to the working classes that which it had undertaken to give them. With regard to the Amendment of the noble Lord, it had appeared to him (Mr. Aglionby) that the omission of "children" from the Bill was an inadvertence, but he was sorry to find from what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary that it was intentional.
 MR. AGLIONBY  deprecated the attempt that was now made to repeal altogether the Act of 1847. He regretted that he was obliged to assent to the proposition of the Government, for he should have much preferred to give to the operatives the entire benefit of the Act of 1847. He acknowledged their full right to the Ten Hours Bill, but it would be most unwise in them to insist on those rights to the full extent. The hon. Member for Halifax had taken occasion to find fault with the noble Lord the Member for Bath on account of the course which he had taken; but he (Mr. Aglionby) believed that it was the only course by which the intentions of the Legislature could at all be carried out. The hon. Member for Halifax might be a friend to the operatives; but he did not think he was acting in the most prudent manner for them in opposing all compromise. Whatever measure the Government passed, required to be carried out in good feeling by both the masters and operatives. It was of the utmost importance to both that the question should be speedily settled. He looked upon the Amendment as an attempt to retrace their steps, and therefore it should have all the opposition in his power.
 MR. EDWARDS : Having the honour to represent one of the most populous and important districts in the West Riding, and
 831 832
 MR. EDWARDS : I certainly laboured under the same impression as the hon. Member for Cockermouth, and am quite surprised to find that this Motion of the noble Lord the Member for Bath has become necessary; for I had been led to believe that the omission of the word "children" was entirely occidental, and was to be remedied by the Government. I hold in my hand
 848 Times "When the Government scheme came out, there was no provision made that children should be allowed to leave the factory at six o'clock in the evening. He mentioned that matter to Lord Ashley, who brought it under the consideration of Sir George Grey. Sir George Grey, at first, considered the alteration unnecessary, but eventually gave way, and promised to introduce a provision in his amendment, by which children should be placed on the same footing as females and young persons. By this means, the labour in factories would be limited to the hours between 6 A.M. and 6 P.M."
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, he had lived in a manufacturing district, and had observed that there was no greater characteristic of such a district than the large number of children. He considered it was of great advantage to the families to have a demand for the labour of their children, and that it was not injurious to the health of those
 855
 MR. BRIGHT , in explanation, said the firm to which his hon. Friend alluded had neither broken the law nor evaded it. When they were summoned to appear before the magistrates of Manchester, the prosecution was, he believed, in every case unsuccessful, and finally their view of the law was held to be correct. No man, therefore, had a right to say that they had either broken the law or evaded it. His hon. Friend now said that the object was to prevent the men and the machinery from being worked more than ten hours and a half. That object was not stated in 1847, and therefore the course pursued was neither fair nor candid.
 MR. BRIGHT  did not think the question was clearly placed before the Committee either by the noble Lord the Member for Bath, or by the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary. The House should bear in mind that legislation for children under 13 years was different from that which regulated the labour of persons above that age. At present a boy or girl under 13 years could be employed only six and a half hours each day. But if they chose to work only three days in the week, they could work ten hours each day. 3If they chose to commence so early as not to work after one o'clock in the day, they could work seven hours per day, or forty-two hours per week; and that referred to all factories with the exception of silk, in which a child of 11 years might work ten hours. The object was twofold: first, to allow of their being educated, having three hours per day to devote to mental improvement; and, secondly, to allow them to work by relays. These children would not be employed for six and a half and seven hours, if not employed under the system of relays in the morning and afternoon. Now, what was
 849 850 851
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he was sorry that a question of this magnitude had the misfortune of being discussed at a time when Members did not like to pay any attention to a subject which required investigation and thought. But depend upon it this question was well worthy of being discussed and understood by the House. He was not then going to enter upon the general question of the Bill of 1847, but would confine himself strictly to the Motion before the House. The Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Roxburghshire involved this question—not whether young persons and women were to be worked for more than ten hours a day, but whether in carrying out this system it was to be made imperative on all adults, and even on machinery, that they should not work for more than ten hours. The hon. Member for Roxburghshire proposed a plan by which they might obtain all the objects which the House had ever proposed to itself—that was to say, the limitation of the hours of labour for children and women of any age to ten hours, without absolutely restricting the labour of adults and machinery to the same number of hours. Every Member of that House would admit that if the object of Parliament could be attained with regard to children and women, without putting an end to the working of adults and machinery at the expiration of ten hours, it would be worth while to attend to any proposition for that purpose, and not to prevent it by law. It was clear that the hon. Member for Salford did not at all understand the proposition, for he assumed that under this system persons were to commence working at half-past five o'clock, and that they might be required to be at work at half-past eight on the same day. That was no part of the system proposed by the hon. Member for Roxburghshire, nor was it absolutely necessary in the working by relays as now practised in different parts of the country. The right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary would bear him out in saying that he had had submitted to him several plans under which the system of relays could be put into operation without at all violating or infringing the object which the House had in view in limiting the labour of children and females to ten hours a day.
 843 l 844
 MR. FERGUS  said, that if one thing was more to be deprecated than another, it was different laws for different parts of the country. He should not only vote against any restriction of the Ten Hours Act, but under any circumstances he should vote against the proposition of the hon. Member for Roxburghshire. He regretted that the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary should have given the sanction of his name and the Government
 830
 Mr. TRELAWNY  said, it appeared to him that there was a very loose habit of cheering in that House. The hon. Member for Birmingham had talked about the abstracting of an undue profit, and hon. Gentlemen opposite had cheered him vigorously. Suppose the manufacturers were
 854
 MR. WALTER  said, that the right hon. the Secretary of State for the Home Department had stated truly that the limitation of the hours of labour from six in the morning till six in the evening was not contained in the Act of 1847. The limit was only with respect to the quantity of work, and not as to the hours between which the work was to be performed. A new principle had however been introduced into the present Bill—that of the limitation of the hours for labour; and he presumed that the Motion then before the Committee was a necessary corollary from this new principle of the Bill. He considered the limitation of the hours for labour, as applied to children, to follow necessarily the limitation of the hours for labour as applied to
 853
 MR. J. WILLIAMS  wished the hon.
 838
 MR. J. WILLIAMS  assured the hon. Member for Roxburghshire he had no intention to bring any charge against him. All he meant to do was to bring to the notice of the House that a counter-petition had been presented, the allegations in which, he had been informed, were true.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, that however zealous the hon. Member for Halifax might be in the cause of the operatives, he believed that the attempt to carry out his views to the fall extent would only end in the defeat of his own intentions. He had been a supporter of the factory question before the hon. Gentleman was born; he had given his support to the factory measure of the late Sir R. Peel; but the hon. Gentleman was mistaken in supposing that that measure was a Ten Hours Bill. It was a Ten-and-a-half Hours Bill—the very Bill now proposed by the Government; and believing that this measure would confer more benefit on the working classes than any law which had ever received the sanction of the Legislature, he should give it his support. With respect to the Amendment, he believed that if the relay system were adopted, children would in many cases have to rise at half-past five
 842
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, he felt that this question must be settled by authority. His hon. Friend the Member for Manchester had quoted a letter of a respectable firm which had been the first to break the law. [Mr. BRIGHT begged pardon—that firm did not break the law.] At all events they evaded it. He was in possesion of a letter from a manufacturer—[ Cries of
 MR. BROTHERTON  trusted that the rejection of the Amendment would not have so prejudicial an effect upon the Bill as the noble Lord appeared to anticipate. He believed that the master manufacturers had entered with perfect good faith into the
 856
 MR. SLANEY  said, the question was whether or not the limitation of the hours of labour as regarded children should be within the same periods as those of young persons and women. If the hours during which they worked were co-extensive, then he should agree with the noble Lord that they were only to work seven hours during the day, or ten if they worked only three days a-week; and, therefore, why he opposed the proposal of the noble Lord was that he firmly believed it would have the effect of reducing the hours of labour in the factories to ten hours entirely, and would thereby prevent adults getting more than ten hours' wages, which would be most injurious to the great mass of the working classes in the kingdom.
 MR. M. GIBSON  said, this proposition was not included in the Ten Hours Bill, and he, for one, was taken by surprise. Seeing how completely hon. Members had failed to carry out their own intentions, he hoped the House would not give a sudden assent to this new proposition. No one complained that children were now worked for a longer period than was desirable. By adopting this suggestion the House might be reduced to the necessity of again entertaining the question in another Bill, and become involved in endless difficulties.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  supported the Amendment on the grounds of humanity. It had been his lot to see in a manufacturing town little children going to their work in the factories at five o'clock in the morning. If, therefore, the Amendment were not adopted, they might be obliged to rise at half-past four or five to get to their work by half-past five; and, if the children were obliged to go to their work half an hour before the rest of the family, the whole family must be disturbed.
 MR. W. BROWN : I rise, Sir, to support the Motion of my hon. Friend the Member for Roxburghshire, feeling desirous, as far as it is possible, to remove every restriction on adult labour. I deprecate any attempt to interfere with it by a side wind, and am quite at issue with the noble Lord the great promoter of the Ten Hours Bill as to the best means of benefiting the interests of the operative classes, and feel assured that any injury sustained by the masters must eventually fall on the men by the reduction of wages, which must now injure those who work by the piece or by contract, from the limit in time prescribed to the moving power. I see no reason to change my mind that this interference with labour will have the same bad effect on us as the edict of Nantes had upon France; probably not so suddenly, but equally sure. I cannot help looking at the deplorable situation of Bruges, Ghent, and other once flourishing manufacturing towns, which are now in a state of helpless inactivity. I am satisfied that the noble Lord the promoter of this measure has acted throughout with honesty of purpose; at the same time he is very much misinformed as to the immorality produced in manufactories, upon which he has based his argument. Misrepresentation on this head is too common. A prize essay had recently been published by the Rev. Henry Worsley, of Queen's College, Oxford, and rector of Eaton, Suffolk, on the causes of juvenile delinquency; and the whole spirit of that essay was a libel on, and in hostility to, the manufacturers. To this an answer has been published, in a letter addressed to the Lord Bishop of Manchester, by the Rev. Franklin Baker, from which I will read a few extracts:—
 "It is sad to think how these practical masses of figures in blue books spoil our romances. But it cannot be helped. Murder will out—and so will truth. Well, the fact is, then, that this wild, excited, wealthy, whirling Lancashire, is one of the most virtuous—all things considered, perhaps the most virtuous—of the counties of England. Taking for example the elapsed year of this decade (1840 to 1847), Chester, Gloucester, Worcester, Warwick, Somerset—these are the counties which carry off the palm of vice. Middlesex, of course, from its being the head-quarters of wealth, luxury, and fashion, is high on the black list. Lancashire, North Lancashire especially, is low
 835 "The Rev. J. Clay, the enlightened chaplain of the Preston House of Correction, so fully confirms this statement in his printed report for the year 1844, that I subjoin the whole paragraph which relates to it: 'The connexion between occupation and crime is an interesting and important question. I am not aware that any trade can, in itself, be considered vicious; but if one demands more attention than another, leaving the person less exposed to the temptations of idleness; or if, on the contrary, an uneducated man's occupation be such as to allow a visit to the alehouse whenever he may be inclined, the probability is greater that, in the latter case, bad habits will be formed, and criminal acts committed. For the sake of throwing such light upon the subject as may be derived from the experience of this prison, I have availed myself of the information contained in the 'Occupation Abstract' of the population returns; and have been enabled to draw up a table, intended to show the proportion of criminals supplied by each of the principal trades, &c., in Preston, Blackburn, Chorley, and Burnley. It appears that the tendency to crime in the trades enumerated, beginning with the one most productive of offence, is in the following series: 1. Grooms, coachmen, postboys, &c.; 2. Bricklayers; 3. Colliers; 4. Plasterers and slaters, &c.; 5. Labourers; 6. Painters, plumbers, &c.; 7. Machine-makers; 8. Weavers; 9. Carters, &c.; 10. Joiners; 11. Butchers; 12. Blacksmiths; 13. Calico-printers; 14. Factory hands; 15. Sawyers; 16. Masons; 17. Tailors; 18. Shoemakers; 19. Domestics (females); 20. Factory hands (females).' "The lowest proportion of crime is found in the counties which are most notorious for their largest amount of factory population; namely, Lancashire, the West Riding of Yorkshire, Derbyshire, and Nottinghamshire; whilst the most criminal are Cheshire, Staffordshire, Worcestershire, Gloucestershire, Warwickshire, and Leicestershire, on the whole more noted for dispersed and domestic manufactures. "I may also adduce the following testimony to the superior character of the factory class, from the concluding remarks of the 'Report of the Assistant Poor Law Commissioners sent to inquire into the state of the population of Stockport,' dated February 9, 1842: 'In the course of these inquiries, the general character and condition of the operatives employed in the cotton trade have been peculiarly objects of our observation. We have seen that in an ordinary state of the trade, those of the operatives who are employed (as the mass of them are) in connexion with steam-power and machinery, appear to command, by the value of their labour, the means of enjoyment of the comforts of life to an extent and degree unknown to a large portion of the population of this country; and there is little doubt that persons so circumstanced must consume, in a degree which far exceeds the proportion of their numbers, the natural produce of this and of foreign countries, thereby contributing largely to the prosperity of other classes of their countrymen, as well as to
 836 "One other fact, too, must be briefly mentioned, as significant of the beneficial tendency of the factory system. It is stated in a 'Return from 474 cotton mills in Manchester and surrounding districts, carefully prepared by the proprietors and occupiers,' that 'no less than 82¼ per cent of the whole number of factory operatives can read; while it appears from the registrar's returns for the whole of England, that about one-half of the population do not know how to write their names.' This statement may be left to make its own impression in behalf of the system which has been so much maligned." 837
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, the proposition for referring this subject to a Select Committee tended to reopen a question that had been already settled and repeatedly decided by the Legislature. So far back as Sir James Graham's Factory Act, the Legislature intended to put a stop to the system of relays. It was evident that the system (except in a few such exceptional cases as those mentioned by the hon. Member for Manchester) must generally have the effect of increasing rather than of diminishing the numbers employed, because relays were a mode by which the employer got his work done by a smaller number of hands. The Government inspectors all declared that if relays were permitted, it would be impossible to guard
 845
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  opposed the Amendment, because the unanimous feeling of the operatives of Rochdale, whom he had the honour to represent, was in favour of the Ten Hours Act; and they demanded, as an act of justice, to have the original compact implied in that measure fully and faithfully adhered to.
 MR. STANSFIELD  hoped, considering the unexpected manner in which the subject had been brought forward, that the noble Lord would not persist in his Amendment.
 SIR G. GREY  explained that what he had stated was, not that the Act of 1847 contained no limitation of the hours of labour, but that no alteration had been made by that Act with respect to the regulations affecting the labour of children as settled by the Act of 1844.
 SIR G. GREY  said, the sole object of the Government was to leave the children protected as they were by the regulations which were not touched by the Act of 1847, believing that those regulations had worked admirably, and could not be improved.
 SIR G. GREY  could not consent to the introduction of the words into the clause, because, though children worked at hours in which adults did not work, yet their work was not continuous compared with that of the adults.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that he had always understood that the noble Lord wished to introduce children into the Bill, and he had, in preparing his Amendment, done nothing in the least degree inconsistent with any previous expression of opinion upon the subject. The noble Lord had told him privately that he wished to introduce children into the Bill, and he (Sir G. Grey) had stated that he would not agree to a proposal of that kind. The noble Lord had done what he had fully expected he would have done, namely, taken the sense of the House upon the subject, and he must have known at the same time that he (Sir G. Grey) would have felt it his duty to oppose the Amendment.
 SIR G. GREY  begged to say the omission was not accidental, but that all alterations in reference to children were purposely left out of the Bill. The object of the Bill of the noble Lord the Member for Bath was to require that the labour of all young children should be continuous. Now,
 847
 SIR G. GREY  said, the Amendment was directly contrary to the whole spirit and purport of the Bill. He quite admitted that a general law of this kind might operate with some inequality in different parts of the country; but that was an objection not to this Bill only, but to all legislation on the subject. The hon. Gentleman had raised the whole question—whether there should be any legislation at all on the subject, or, at all events, whether it should apply to mills worked by water power, or to those situate in Scotland. If he thought there was a special case for exemption, the best mode would be to propose it in a separate clause, not to propose an alteration of the measure, entirely different from its object, which would have the effect of sanctioning relays
 829
 COLONEL THOMPSON  suggested that the House was bound to receive petitions, but not to print them.
 LORD D. STUART  observed that the question raised by the clause was, whether the conducting of funerals should be left to free competition, or whether authority should be given to the proposed board to intermeddle. It was no sufficient ground for abandoning the sound principles of free competition, that in certain cases advantage had been taken of relatives by undertakers. There might be instances of extortion; but no inconsiderable portion of the charges made by the undertakers consisted of charges for scarfs, &c., which went to the clergyman; and in 1842 the Bishop of London had stated before a Parliamentary Committee that a large portion of the emoluments of clergymen were derived from that source. But whether the undertakers were extortioners or not, was it right for Parliament to interfere with free competition? Why should not the people be left to protect themselves? It was by encouraging free competition that the public interest would be best promoted, and not by reducing the number of people engaged in the trade; for the effect of the clause would be to reduce the number of undertakers. The Board of Health were empowered to obtain tenders for conducting funerals; but if that board did not invite a man to make a tender, was he to be excluded from undertaking funerals? Would not the consequence be a system of favouritism and jobbing? Was there any fairness in such a proceeding? Again, it was proposed to enact that if any undertaker offered to contract for conducting funerals, and his offer was accepted, it should be open to any person to call on him to perform a funeral, and that he should be bound to perform it. But no provision was made for paying him. At present an undertaker might make inquiries relative to his customer, and might decline to execute the funeral. Under the Bill, however, those who contracted with the Board of Health would be compelled to execute a funeral when called upon, as if they had made a special contract with
 904
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  repeated the objection to the clause that, whilst it compelled undertakers who contracted to take funerals, it made no provision for their being paid. With respect to the charges of undertakers, all that the House of Commons could deem incumbent on it was to protect the defenceless; but the inquiries he had made led him to believe that the charges of undertakers were not exorbitant as regarded either the pauper class or the artisan population. In a parish with which he was intimately connected in the city of London, where formerly the undertaker was allowed, under his contract, 14 s d s l s s d
 SIR G. GREY  said, the object of the clause was to invite tenders from undertakers, to distribute the business as much as possible, and to enter into contracts with the trade to perform funerals at certain specified rates. From communications which he had himself received from members of that body, he knew that there would be many willing in the different districts to undertake to conduct funerals at a given price. If the Board of Health considered those prices reasonable they would publish them, and would state to persons who wished their relatives to be buried at that rate that Mr. So-and-So, an undertaker, had contracted with them, and would bury at that rate. That was the object of the clause, it having been deemed desirable, when the places of interment were removed to a considerable distance from the abodes of the poor, to provide, if possible, some means by which they could lessen the expense of funerals to those parties; and he believed the operation of
 905
 MR. WYLD  asked what the effect of the clause would be upon parishes? At present the great mass of the working classes employed undertakers who would give credit; but if this clause were compulsory, and the poor had not the means of paying cash for the funerals of their relatives, it would at once fall back upon the parish, who would be compelled to bear the whole expense. Was the clause to be permissive or compulsory?
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it was both permissive and compulsory—permissive, inasmuch as the public might go to any undertaker they pleased; compulsory, inasmuch as the undertakers who contracted with the Board of Health were bound to bury at the rates specified in the contract.
 MR. SADLEIR  said, that there was nothing to prevent a poor person ordering an expensive funeral, if the contract was to be on credit prices; and if, as was most likely, the undertaker gave in his prices for ready money, the consequence would be in numerous instances to prevent the poor from providing themselves for the funerals of their relations, and throwing the burden on the parishes.
 MR. BRIGHT  thought the incessant attacks which had been made upon the undertakers by the friends of this Bill, both in and out of the House, were scarcely justified. No doubt exorbitant charges were made in connexion with funerals; but were there not exorbitant charges in other trades? If every trade were to be put down because of exorbitant charges, what, he should like to know, would become of architects, lawyers, medical men, and other professions in which such charges prevailed? [Mr. WAKLEY denied that medical men charged exorbitantly.] He would withdraw the remark, then; so far as the medical profession was concerned, of which of course his hon. Friend knew much more than he did. But what he wished to say was, that the exorbitant nature of undertakers' bills arose from the foolish pride—the vanity of people in ordering expensive funerals. He saw coming down to the House that day a funeral procession, consisting of a hearse, some half-a-dozen
 906
 MR. MACKINNON  said, the sum and substance of the observations made by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down appeared to be, that much vanity was to be found in human beings, which was perceptible in various shapes, but that in persons of the hon. Gentleman's persuasion there was none; but, surely, a peculiar sort of dress, a difference of demeanor, in manners and language, might arise from vanity in those individuals by whom it was practised—quite as great vanity as might be found in the funerals of the great, to which allusion had been made. The hon. Member had stated that the Legislature had no more right to interfere with the undertakers than with architects, or with any other class of the public. He (Mr. Mackinnon) denied that, because, when a husband lost his wife, or a wife lost her husband, there was a peculiar, it might be a
 907
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY  saw no reason why the hon. Member for Manchester should attribute to vanity, or to any other improper motive, the degree of respect which in all ages every religious sect, except, as it now appeared, his own, had been in the habit of paying to the burial of the dead. It was, of course, easy to impute to vanity the trappings and display of which the hon. Gentleman spoke, just as it was easy to ridicule anything. He (the Earl of Arundel) had himself heard the strait dress and peculiar costume of the sect to which the hon. Member belonged attributed to vanity. So far from regarding as vanity the extreme anxiety which he had often witnessed in poor persons to purchase even the smallest quantity of black clothing to pay respect to the memory of their deceased relatives, he considered it as a degree of reverence highly commendable; and he believed that when the feeling of reverence for the dead totally ceased, there would be very little reverence left for the living.
 SIR H. VERNEY  entirely concurred in the remarks which had been made by the hon. Member for Manchester, and thought he had read a most useful lesson both to the House and to the public. He (Sir H. Verney) would say nothing with respect to the hon. Member's friends, the undertakers, except that after what he had said they might well exclaim, "Save us from our friends!"
 MR. T. BUNCOMBE  wished to ask the noble Lord the Member for Bath what was the reduction he expected to effect in the price of funerals? For that was the real question after all. He had seen a scale of
 908 l 909
 MR. BRIGHT  wished also to ask whether the Board of Health intended to restrict the number of undertakers, or whether every undertaker might come forward and say that he would furnish the funerals in his district according to a certain prescribed scale of fees?
 MR. WAKLEY  said, that he also fully concurred in what had fallen from the hon. Member for Manchester. Still, be believed that the fault respecting costly interments did not altogether he with the undertakers. On the contrary, that body seemed to him to have been very grossly calumniated. He had now been acting as coroner for a period of ton years, and during the whole
 911 "That the Board of Health may invite and receive tenders from furnishing ironmongers—he meant undertakers—of three years' standing in their business."
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  explained. He had not said that the apothecary was in partnership with the undertaker, but he believed that in some cases funerals had been conducted by apothecaries. His hon. Colleague had observed that the worst patient an apothecary could have was a (dead body; he (Mr. Buncombe) hoped that his hon. Colleague did not mean to extend that observation to coroners.
 SIR G. GREY  hoped the Committee would not entertain the Amendment, which,
 912
 MR. WAKLEY  would not press the Amendment; but he hoped the noble Lord the Member for Bath would give an assurance that if he continued a member of the Board of Health, he would take care that the undertakers should have the preference in making these contracts.
 SIR G. GREY  hoped that his noble Friend would give no such assurance, simply on the ground that it would be quite wrong for an individual member of a board to say in his place in Parliament what should be the decision of the board with respect to particular powers about to be conferred upon them.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that unless great precaution was exercised, the system of contract might be grossly perverted, and produce the very evils of which complaint was now made. He thought it would be best for the parish to make arrangements and contract for the interment of its own poor. Then there would be a wide competition, and cheapness would be more likely be secured. He disliked the system of classification which was adopted by the Bill. A great deal had been said about the vanity displayed by persons in the condut of their funerals; but would there not be as much vanity in having a funeral belonging to Class 1, or Class 2, or Class 3? For his part it seemed to him that this classification would act as a premium on vanity, and he must say that he felt strong objections to the clause.
 MR. COBDEN  said, it was not very often that he rose to endorse any opinion utttered by the hon. Member for North Warwick-shire, but he certainly did coincide with him on the present occasion. Complaints had been made of the ostentation of those who employed undertakers. This arose from our being a people of caste. Each caste was trying to emulate the caste above them; and, while attempting to discourage this system, the Government were, by putting into the present clause different degrees of caste, encouraging the very thing they deprecated. The clause contained a list of payments for the interment of masters and serfs, the very thing which ought to be rendered obsolete. What would be the effect of this? Why, that every one
 913
 SIR B. HALL  said, that great alarm had been excited among the tradesmen of Marylebone, in consequence of what they conceived to be the excessively high price at which an artisan was to be interred, according to the statement recently made by the noble Lord the Member for Bath. He wished to ask the noble Lord what would be the whole expense, from the time the contracting undertaker entered a house to the time the earth was thrown upon a body, for the interment of a mechanic residing in any part of London? Suppose a person died in the neighbourhood of St. Pancras, and was buried in any cemetery the noble Lord pleased, what would be the cost in such a case?
 LORD ASHLEY  said, it was quite impossible for him to answer the question at present. He could only repeat that the reduction upon existing charges would be very considerable indeed. He begged to add a word. On the previous evening the hon. Baronet had informed the Committee that the fees paid upon interments in St. John's Wood church, were only 7 s d s l s s d l s d l s
 SIR B. HALL : Was the ground fee stated by the noble Lord for parishioners or for non-parishioners?
 LORD ASHLEY : For parishioners. For non-parishioners the fee was 2 l s
 SIR B. HALL  could only say that he had received his information from the officers of the parish. There was, however, as he had since learned, an additional charge of 4 s s d s d. s d s s d s d
 SIR G. GREY  said, he did not see the necessity of placing any restriction of the kind on the Board of Health.
 MR. BRIGHT  then proposed a proviso to the effect that the Board of Health should be bound to give its sanction to undertakers other than those who had obtained contracts to undertake the performance of funerals, at the same rate as the contracting undertakers. Suppose that there were 100 undertakers, and that it was estimated forty could perform all the
 915
 SIR G. GREY  said, that there was nothing to prevent other undertakers from performing funerals at as low or lower charges than the contractors. There was nothing to prevent their entering into competition with the contractors, and they would have this advantage, that, knowing the price of the contracting undertakers, they might undersell them if they thought proper.
 MR. BRIGHT  thought the undertakers who were supposed to be in alliance with the Board of Health would possess an advantage which might operate somewhat injuriously upon others engaged in the same trade.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, if it was intended by this Bill to restrict the trade of undertakers, he thought the Committee was bound to repudiate such an obnoxious principle; for he did not see why a particular class of tradesmen in London should be debarred by Act of Parliament from that competition which existed in all other trades.
 LORD ASHLEY  said, that the object was to distribute the business as widely as possible.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  could not perceive the difference between these and any other contracts. Would not the fair and reasonable course be for the board to give information of the terms they would give for burials, according to certain specifications, and then accept the best contract that was offered?
 SIR DE L. EVANS  wished to know if the tenders were to be publicly advertised for?
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the Bill implied that they would be sought by public advertisement.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  opposed the Amendment, on the ground that if every one might come in and do the work which one man had contracted to do, there would be no contract or competition at all, and no one would enter into such a contract.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that what he wanted was the sanction of the Board of Health, if he might so express it, to all undertakers, and not to particular undertakers only, who were willing to perform these funerals. He would not divide the Committee.
 LORD D. STUART  felt the clause to be so objectionable that he must divide the Committee against it. Many attempts had been made to amend it, but all had been fruitless. The feelings of the poor ought to be considered, as well as those of the rich and great. He had on the preceding night said, and he now repeated it, this was not a poor man's Bill, for its effect would be to violate the feelings of the poor in the matter in which they were most susceptible. There were few things that poor people regarded with greater horror than the burial of their deceased relatives by charity. Surely that feeling deserved respect and consideration, yet by this clause hundreds of poor persons, who, if they had the advantage of a little credit for a funeral, might be able to proceed as they did at present—paying a small sum down, and the balance by instalments—would be forced by this clause in its present state to that resort which was the most abhorrent to their feelings—a pauper's funeral. Upon this ground he objected to the clause, and he opposed it also as being a gross and objectionable interference by the Government with the freedom of trade, and with matters in which they had no business to interfere.
 SIR G. GREY  apprehended there could be no necessity for the proviso. The removal could not take place against the will of the relatives.
 SIR W. CLAY  believed that there were persons out of doors who would be glad to have a distinct assurance that it was not to be compulsory, and that the officer was to have no power to interfere except on the expressed request of the relative or executor having charge of the funeral.
 SIR G. GREY  had not the slightest hesitation in giving the assurance, but should have thought the language of the clause made it unnecessary. It was not intended to give any power of entering a house, or removing a body, with out the consent of the executor or relatives, the parties in fact whose duty it was to see to the decent burial of the deceased.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that since the Bill was first introduced, he had inserted two amendments in this clause. Representations had been made to him that if no fee was allowed on the burial of those bodies which were interred at the expense of the union or parish, with the exception of those cases where the deceased parties had been members of the Church of England, there would be no minister in attendance to perform the service over them. He therefore proposed to insert in this clause, and again in the 38th clause, the following-words:—"And where such body is buried at the expense of any union or parish, a sum not exceeding one shilling." The only other amendment was in line 24, the effect of which would be to prevent any fee being taken in respect of the removal of a body.
 SIR B. HALL  said, that this clause and the two following ones were new ones; and before they were discussed by the Committee he wished to hear the reason of the alterations that had taken place. In the original Bill it was proposed that an average of years should be taken, upon which the compensation to the present and future incumbents should be fixed. That had been abandoned; and the proposition now was that a fee of 6 s d
 SIR G. GREY  said, he had thought that, upon the whole, this was the best mode of affording compensation. The other plan
 918 s d s d s d 919
 COLONEL THOMPSON  hoped the question of compensation would be decided simply with reference to the  status in quo
 SIR B. HALL  said, the proposition he and hon. Gentlemen who thought with him wished to place before the House was, that compensation should be given only to the existing incumbents, and not to those that came after them. Now, he wished to put the matter before the House on this broad principle, whether the people of that metropolis, those that were to come after the present generation, should pay for the interment of their relatives and friends large sums of money, and to a class of gentlemen for doing nothing. At first, in the former Bill, it was intended to give compensation in perpetuity to clergymen, as at present, on an average of five years;
 922 s d 923 s d l s d l s d l s s d l s d l s d pastor pastorum
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the hon. Ba-
 924
 SIR B. HALL  said, if the clergymen had made representations to the parochial authorities that the burial grounds were insufficient, the evils might have been remedied. But nothing of that kind had been done.
 MR. NEWDEGATE : But if these evils were notorious, representations were unnecessary, and it was the duty of the vestries, and the Members representing these boroughs, to see to their removal. He was not so conversant with the position of the London clergy in this respect as he was with that of the clergy in some other towns. In Birmingham there were cures of souls where the remuneration did not exceed 150 l 925
 MR. HUME  said, the question was, whether the burial fee was a vested right or not, and whether the incumbent had any legal title to it. He thought it had been proved that the clergy had no legal title to a fee upon interments, and he should be glad to hear the hon. and learned Attorney General say whether there was any truth in the statement that by law the claim could not be maintained. The moment that burials ceased in the present churchyards, the clergy became sinecurists so far as they were concerned, and therefore their claim to compensation could not be supported. He contended that the clergyman of a parish was bound to bury without any fee, and if he refused he was liable to punishment. He thought it was fair to give present incumbents, compensation; but he denied the justice of extending it to their successors.
 SIR DE L. EVANS  contended, in opposition to what had been said by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, that the metropolitan Members were not to be blamed for not remedying the abuses that prevailed in churchyards. The interests of the clergy, in fact, stood in the way of any effectual remedies being applied. Had the bishops applied their influence to the removal of the enormities that existed, they would have ceased long ago. As to the proposal of the hon. Members for Westminster and Marylebone, he should like to hear what was unreasonable in it. They had what was called a "perpetual annuity" in the first Bill; and, though the phrase had been ingeniously withdrawn, the reality had not. There were 52,000 burials in the metropolis annually; and, assuming that all these took place in consecrated ground, no less a sum than 17,000 l
 LORD ASHLEY  said, that he must say a few words in favour of the clergy, and in favour of the demand which they made. In the first place, he would state to the House that when the cholera existed to the
 926 l l l l l s d s d 927
 MR. HUME  wished to hear from the Attorney General what was the state of the law regarding fees?
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the authorities quoted by the hon. Member for Westminster were not at all in point. No fee could be recovered either by the common law, or the canon law, for a duty not discharged by the individual; but there was a custom for claiming a fee on account of duty performed by a party himself.
 SIR B. HALL  said, that the burial foe now charged in the parish St. Pancras was 2 s d. s d s d s d s d
 SIR G. GREY  said, he had been informed that there was a graduated scale of
 929 s d s d s
 SIR B. HALL  said, that the fee of 4 s d s d
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  thought that as the clause now stood a great number of incumbents would be losers.
 MR. HUME  asked why the House should not have before them a list of what was paid in each parish? Let an average be taken of what had been paid. Let the present incumbents have full compensation. What he objected to was a perpetual annuity to those who did no duty for the same, to which they were not entitled by law, and which tended to make the Church odious in every point of view. He wished to know whether the average was made upon the deaths or the rates, without respect to the number of deaths.
 SIR G. GREY  said, the average was made with reference to the deaths.
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  could not offer any opinion as to whether 6 s d s d
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that if the average were struck upon the whole number of burials it would come to one sum, and, if made according to the number of parishes without reference to the actual number of burials, it would come to an entirely different sum. The House, he must say, was asked to do what would bring a great amount of odium upon the clergy of London, and likewise on the measure itself; and, taking both these circumstances into account, he thought the Government would only be acting a wise part if they postponed this clause for the present with a view to its being reconsidered. The day of reckoning for the Church was not far distant, and would prove a still heavier undertaking, if, in the interim, the Government did not take the side of the people and of justice, instead of allowing themselves to be browbeaten, as he believed they now were, by the Bishop of London.
 SIR B. HALL  said, that before he divided, he wished to know if there was any objection to postpone the clause?
 SIR G. GREY  did not see what was to be gained by postponement, and declined.
 SIR B. HALL : Then I withdraw the Amendment, and move that the Chairman report progress.
 The CHAIRMAN : The hon. Baronet cannot withdraw his Amendment without the consent of the Committee.
 MR. HUME : Then, Sir, I move that you report progress.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, that the burial fees in the district with which he was acquainted were—in St. Bride's, 3 s d s s s d
 MR. HUME  said, that there ought to be a table of the fees at present charged laid before the House, and a calculation made founded upon it*.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that at the rate hon. Gentlemen were going on, discussing every line of every clause, the Bill would take six weeks to get through Committee, if every other Bill were postponed in its favour. However, he would not oppose at that hour the Motion that the Chairman should report progress, and have leave to sit again at twelve o'clock on Monday.
 MR. HUME  opposed the sitting at twelve on Monday, he having to attend a very important Committee of the House at that hour on the same day.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  did not see how it would be possible to get on with the Bill otherwise. If they left it to take its chance with the other business before the House at five o'clock, it would take the whole of the present Session to get it through Committee, unless hon. Gentlemen would give more facility to the passing of the clauses.
 SIR B. HALL  had to attend a meeting
 931
 MR. D'EYNCOURT  also opposed the sitting at twelve o'clock on Monday, he having to attend a Committee of the House at that hour.
 MR. LUSHINGTON  said, that his constituents were exceedingly disgusted with the precipitation with which the Bill was being passed through the House.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  proposed that the Committee should be adjourned to twelve o'clock on Tuesday.
 MR. BOUVERIE  opposed the sitting at twelve o'clock. He moved that the words "twelve o'clock" be struck out.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the effect of striking out those words would be, that Tuesday being a day on which Motions took precedence of Orders, the Committee would be thrown completely out. He, therefore, hoped the Motion would not be pressed.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  was not disposed to press hard on the object of the Motion; but he would second the Motion, in order to bring out some explanation on the principle of the Bill.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was afraid his hon. and gallant Friend who seconded the Motion had not been quite so attentive to his Parliamentary duties as he usually was, or he would have understood what was the object of this Bill. It was no new purpose, it was a purpose which had been sanctioned more than once by the House, and which he thought most desirable in the present
 880
 MR. SLANEY  was personally aware of the benefits which arose from the system which this Bill proposed to enforce. He considered that the Government might extend the machinery of the Bill, and thereby permit the landed interest to borrow money upon landed security. He could bear testimony to the utility and advantage which resulted from parties being enabled to obtain advances to set persons at work in their particular districts in drainage operations; and as that was the object of the present measure, it had his hearty support. There was one suggestion, however, which he wished to throw out to the Government. It happened that parties were earnestly desirous to borrow money for the sake of permanent improvements, and that other parties in the same neighbourhood were anxious to advance that money; and he thought that the Government might, under such circumstances, enable the one party to borrow, and the other to lend, by means of similar machinery to that contained in this Bill. At present, great trouble and expense were occasioned by the investigation which had to be made into the title of the borrowing party. He called upon the House to relieve the borrower from the useless perplexity of the law. There were innumerable parties ready to advance money; but the man who wanted it for the improvement of his estate and the employment of his labourers was precluded from borrowing by the absurd intricacies of the law, and he, therefore, called upon the Government to take the matter up.
 SIR J. TROLLOPE  said, in answer to the hon. Member for Tavistock, he was not aware that a single one of his hon. Friends around him had made any representation to Government on this subject, and he must say, for himself, that there were great objections to the principle of this Bill. Government was to advance money to landlords, constituting them debtors to the State, and giving Government, probably, a great influence over them. There were also many objections to the details of the Bill, which he would state when the House went into Committee. The hon. Member for Tavistock reproached landlords for
 881
 MR. HUME  said, he was opposed to all Bills of this nature, believing, as he did, that all landowners who had good security to offer would find no difficulty in obtaining money; but he had been told that in many parts of the united kingdom difficulties of that nature did exist, and he therefore could not object to the measure now. Besides, the House had already adopted the principle, and he did not think any hon. Member, after that approval, could resist the Motion for going into Committee. Still, though he did not now feel himself called upon to oppose the principle, he was bound to state that there were details in the measure which he never could agree to. For instance, it would appear that some of this money might be expended on farm buildings, or provisions, which he thought ought not to be agreed to, and, therefore, when the House got into Committee, he should endeavour to get it expunged from the Bill.
 MR. ROCHE  wished it not to go to the country that the landed interest was the only interest that had loans. They had been granted for railroads and for other purposes.
 MR. F. MACKENZIE  wished to know what arrangements were to be made as to the proportion of the money under this Bill to which Scotland would be entitled? He hoped that the present grant would be made on the same unfettered principle as the last one.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was very glad the hon. Gentleman had raised this point, because he could assure him that he did not at all wish to take from England its fair proportion. He wished to do justice to the enterprise of the Scotch proprietors, but at the same time there was a great object to be attained. It was very desirable to extend the drainage of land throughout the country, and over as wide a surface as possible. Of the last 2,000,000 l l l l l
 MR. DRUMMOND  contended, that as Scotland required draining to a greater extent than England, the proposed preference to be given to English counties in the application of the fund was inexpedient and objectionable. He hoped that some facilities would be given to small owners for the drainage of their lands, an arrangement which would be of great advantage to the labouring population, as well as to the smaller proprietary classes.
 LORD H. VANE  said, it was expedient that some measure of this kind should be passed in the present Session, because there was great distress amongst the small proprietors, and it was most desirable to afford them the means of carrying on improvements. He differed from the hon. Member for West Surrey with respect to the land improvements which were going on in the country. His conviction was that there were greater exertions than ever made to meet the difficulties of the times. He much doubted the policy of making the grant available for farm build-
 883 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  hoped that hon. Gentlemen would not discuss the principle of the Bill, but would confine themselves to the clause before the House.
 MR. K. SEYMER  said, that he had applied for a sum of 1,000 l
 MR. ELLIS  did not think there could be a better way of applying the public money than to lend it on good security for the purpose of improving and increasing the produce of land. It was much better to have two millions spent for such a purpose than that it should go to California or to South America.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  supported the Bill. Unless measures of assistance were rendered to Ireland, the country would sink deeper and deeper into a state of distress and wretchedness. He was bound to tell the House that, although he had borrowed money under the Irish Act, which he had expended in improvements on his farms, the farms themselves had been thrown upon his hands. The former holders, who had rented them at moderate rates, would not pay the increased rent which the drainage had rendered necessary, and the consequence was the land had been unoccupied for the last nine months. The fact was, farming had become unprofitable, and, unless something were immediately done to arrest the progress of destruction that was now going on, he could not answer for the consequences in Ireland. Never had so much distress been felt amongst the agricultural labourers of that country—it was impossible for them to find work anywhere; and, however useful Bills of this nature might be in a limited sphere, it was hopeless to expect general prosperity or contentment amongst the agricultural interests of the united kingdom till some extensive measure were passed for their especial relief. Without some measure of relief, the landlords in Ireland were in such a condition as not to
 884
 MR. TRELAWNY  hoped that nothing would be done, and that no further discussion would take place calculated to foment jealousies between the countries which formed the united kingdom.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that this was the clause on which perhaps the principal discussion would arise; and so far from wishing to deprecate that discussion, he was anxious that the clause should be fully discussed. Hon. Gentlemen were aware that up to the present time advances had been made for the purposes of draining only; but really all that the Government had to do was to see that there was adequate security for the money advanced. In bringing this clause under the notice of the Committee, he was bound to say that they must not only look for adequate security, but they were at the same time bound to look to the interest of other parties not now in possession of landed estates; they were bound to do justice to those who were to come after tenants for life. The most difficult case with which they had to deal would be that of the tenant for life; and he was quite ready to say that persons interested in a property where there was an estate for life ought not to be charged for improvements from which they might possibly derive no advantage whatever. Against such unfairness he trusted that the Bill would sufficiently provide. As to the probable rate of advantage, he might speak of that as being 6½ per cent; thus, if a man having land which yielded him 100 l l l s 885
 Sir J. TROLLOPE  would move that the whole of the clause be expunged from the Bill; and this, notwithstanding the advantages which followed the warping of land. In some parts of Lincolnshire and Yorkshire, the waters from the rivers being suffered to cover the land, an alluvial deposit was left when the water was drawn off, which enabled the farmers to grow wheat and potatoes in alternate years upon land that, before it was thus enriched by warping, was of very little value. This practice had been so extensively adopted on the banks of the Trent and the Ouse, that the potatoes supplied to the London market were almost exclusively grown in that part of the country. The warping of land being so beneficial might safely be left to private enterprise; and with regard to any portion of the loan being devoted to farm buildings, the objections were so numerous that he would not enter upon them. The hon. Member for West Surrey was favourable to small farms; but his successor might wish to consolidate them into larger holdings, and then what would become of these farm buildings? The country would be covered by inspectors to see if the buildings were kept in repair; and the objections urged by the Chancellor of the Eschequer were so valid, that he hoped
 886
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  would agree to expunge from the clause all reference to "warping," and "farm buildings" would then stand alone.
 MR. F. FRENCH  could not agree to leave out the word "warping" in the 4th clause, although the clause referred only to Great Britain; because, if it were struck out from this clause, he had but a small chance of seeing it retained in the 8th clause, which referred to Ireland. The process of warping was not confined to Lincolnshire and Yorkshire; it had been most advantageously introduced into Ireland. Some streams had been retained, and diverted upon land of small value, where they had left a rich alluvial deposit of two feet deep. It would be desirable, he thought, to retain the word "warping" in the clause, because it might be the means of introducing the practice in many quarters where it was at present unknown.
 MR. DRUMMOND  thought it would be far better to expunge the whole of the clause.
 SIR H. VERNEY  was in favour of retaining the clause, now that it applied solely to farm buildings. Who certified that the drainage was kept in an efficient state, and why not object to the inspection of drainage? The inspector would certify the necessity for new farm buildings, and he would see that the works were properly executed.
 MR. W. MILES  thought that the difficulty arose from the Chancellor of the Exchequer having deviated from what he himself believed to be the proper course. The advances for drainage had been found so beneficial, that Government ought to have objected to any portion of the loan being appropriated to any other purpose. The process of warping was found to be advantageous in the part of the country alluded to by his hon. Friend the Member fur South Lincolnshire, because the waters of the Humber and the Ouse left behind them a peculiarly rich deposit; but he knew of no other part of the country where the same advantages had been obtained by this practice; and if it were supposed that by constructing sluices and canals for warping elsewhere on the same plan, the same benefits would be obtained, people might be greatly mistaken. He thought
 887
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  said, that the money to be appropriated under this Act was a limited sum, and the question was, how to make the best use of it. Now, if the House determined to cm-ploy it in erecting farm buildings all over the country, they would so far limit the outlay for drainage that they would do no good with it. It would be much better for the Government to lay out a sum for arterial drainage, and leave the proprietors of laud to drain into it. It was not a becoming thing to see the landed gentry of England coming before that House  in formâ pauperis
 CAPTAIN PELHAM  approved of the omission of warping; but the question for the Committee was, whether the proposed arrangements could be practically carried out. Before advances were made for farm buildings, plans of the contemplated erections ought to be submitted to Government, and the expense ought to be strictly limited in each case. He hoped the Committee would not consent to expunge farm buildings from the clause. The operation of the Act would be somewhat complicated where reversionary interests existed; but means might be found to protect those.
 MR. RICE  said, the money could not be devoted to repairs of existing farm buildings. It must be expended in the erection of new buildings, and these would be constructed under efficient inspection.
 MR. BUCK  said, no assistance like that proposed by the present Bill would effectually remove all the difficulties under which the farmers of this country now laboured. Mere buildings alone would not extricate the farmers from the position in which they had been placed by recent legislation. There were many instances in which neither the application of capital, skill, nor labour could enable the agriculturist to meet the present fall in prices. He thought, however, it would be better to confine the object of the Bill to drain-ago alone.
 MR. SLANEY  said, that facility ought to be given for small proprietors to get a portion of these advances. Many of them did not know how the application was to be made; it would be better that it should
 888
 MR. MOODY  was of opinion that it would be improper to give the power of charging property with the erection of new buildings. He thought, generally speaking, it would be found that the erection of buildings would follow the improvement of the land.
 MR. DEEDES  thought all interests might be sufficiently protected if care were taken that good and substantial buildings were erected; for in that case they would last long enough to be of benefit to the reversioner. But, seeing the feeling of the House, he thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer should consent to withdraw the clause; and perhaps on a future occasion he might be able to urge the matter with greater force.
 MR. C. BRUCE  believed that great advantage would arise to the extensive new farms which had been brought into existence under the late Act if they were allowed to apply to the erection of buildings on those farms part of the money advanced by Government. As he believed that advances would be made in future years, he hoped that this point would then be taken into serious consideration; but in the meantime he would not insist upon the clause being retained.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had inserted the clause in the Bill for the purpose of eliciting the opinion of the House; but his own opinion coincided with that of the majority of Members who had spoken, that it would be bettor to expunge the clause altogether. He would therefore vote for the omission of the clause.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, this was a similar clause to the one that had just been struct out, only that its operations were applicable to Ire-land, and, as before, he would hear the opinion of Members before he came to a decision on the clause. It might be that the same objections did not apply to the case of Ireland as to that of the other parts of the empire.
 MR. ROCHE,  seeing that the House was inclined to assent to the clause, would move that in addition to "farm buildings," there should be inserted the words, "including buildings for the steeping, drying, and cleansing of flax, and also such machinery and apparatus for the abovementioned purposes as may come under the denomination of fixtures." In the present unfortunate state of the people of Ireland, he looked upon the proposal he had now to make as one of very great importance. Viewing the subject entirely as one of labour, he found that in Ireland the expense of cultivating an acre of corn was 2 l s d l s l l 890
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said that, considering the limited sum he had to appropriate to the purposes of drainage, he was not prepared to ox-tend assistance to other objects, especially as he found it to be the fact that in the west of Ireland persons who had used machinery for scutching flax had dispensed with it, and had adopted working by hand as a better and more economical system. With regard to granting loans for the construction of farm buildings in Ireland, he was willing, as it appeared to be the general wish of Gentlemen conńected with that country, and as there were possibly circumstances in relation to Ireland which did not exist in respect to England, to assent to that proposition.
 LORD J. KUSSELL  said: I stated formerly that my noble Friend Lord Cottenham, owing to the state of his health, was unable to continue to hold the great seal, and that consequently he had announced his intention of resigning it as soon as he had given judgment in the causes which he had already heard. I further stated that any person who might be appointed to succeed Lord Cottenham must accept office subject to any Act which Parliament may pass—whether in accordance or not with the report of the Committee on Salaries—for regulating the salary of the office. I assure the hon. and learned Gentleman that I am very sensible of the great public inconvenience that must result from putting the seal in commission at the present moment. At the same time, I had to weigh that inconvenience against the evil which, I think, would accrue if the great seal were intrusted to any individual before the Government has decided upon the course to be pursued with respect to the future duties of the Court of Chancery, the appellate jurisdiction of the House of Lords, and the administration of the functions which appertain to the Lord Chancellor as a Member of the Government. The result was, that I advised Her Majesty to put the great seal in commission; and I assure the hon. and learned Member
 898
 LORD D. STUART  thought it was very desirable and important that they should know what the rule of the House was with regard to the printing of petitions. He understood that if an hon. Member wished to found a Motion on any petition, it was the practice to allow him to move that it be printed with the Votes. The petition under discussion appeared to refer to a subject of some importance; and, as he thought it very proper that clerks in the Post Office should be enabled to state their grievances to the House, it seemed to him that the best way of allowing them to do so was to print their petition with the Votes.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the only question was whether, the hon. and learned Gentleman having presented a petition, and wished it to be printed with the Votes, it was not desirable to do what they had done in other cases, rather refer the petition to the Printing Committee than to print it at once, on the ground that it would be printed by the Committee before the hon. and learned Gentleman would have an opportunity of bringing forward the subject of it by notice. There was no doubt as to the rule. If the hon. and learned Gentleman should bring forward a Motion on the subject before the petition was printed, the House would agree to the Motion for its being printed. The only question, therefore, now was rather one of expense. It must be in the discretion of every hon. Member, whether he thought he could bring forward such a Motion as to justify him to ask for the printing of a petition.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, the hon. Member might have taken one of two courses with reference to this matter. He might now have given notice of his intention to ask some questions with respect to the Bishop of Llandaff, and there have ended, or, having given me notice privately that he meant to ask these questions, he might have made the attack on the Bishop of Llandaff of which he has just delivered himself; but, for the hon. Member to come forward and give a notice, and to avail himself of that opportunity to make an attack on a right rev. Prelate, is not quite in accordance with the fairness the House has a right to expect from one of its Members. I certainly am unable, at this moment, to give an answer applicable to all the particulars to which the hon. Member has adverted. All I can say is, if it be necessary to explain the reasons which induced me to recommend Dr. Oliphant to the Crown for the see of Llandaff, is that having heard—in common with the rest of
 901 902
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, if the hon. Gentleman's object was to have the peti-
 895
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that an inquiry had been entered into with respect to the state of the pictures in the National Gallery with a view to their better preservation, and the gentlemen appointed to conduct the inquiry had made a report on the subject. The report described the present state of the pictures, and offered suggestions for their better preservation; but its authors requested time to prosecute
 896
 MR. DISRAELI : I wish to know whether the Government has received any official information of the invasion of Cuba by a bucaniering expedition from the United States of America? I also beg to ask whether, previously to the sailing of that expedition. Government received information that it was probable such an enterprise would be undertaken, from our Minister at Washington, or from any of the other agents employed by Her Majesty in the United States; and, if so, whether the Government felt it its duty to communicate the result of such information to the Court of Madrid?
 MR. DISRAELI : But the Chairman of Public Petitions and several hon. Members opposite have even objected to the reception of such petitions.
 MR. DISRAELI  hoped the House would hesitate before they accepted the views of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He had always understood that any party who felt himself aggrieved by the conduct of a public department could appeal to that House for redress, if there was no other channel open to him; and he thought it would be exceedingly dangerous to interfere with that principle. The right of appeal, indeed, was part of the liberty of the subject.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the hon. and learned Member had a right to state the substance of his petition, and then to read its prayer.
 MR. BARNARD  hoped no limitation would be imposed upon the right of Members to present petitions, or to state the substance of them, for the present rule was a restriction of the liberty that formerly prevailed in this respect, and under which any Member might originate a discussion on the presentation of a petition.
 893
 MR. HORSMAN  said, it appeared to him the question was whether they should depart from the usual rule. Although it was a petition from clerks in a public office, yet they must remember that that was an important class, and he thought it very unwise that they should hesitate about printing the petition.
 MR. HORSMAN  said: I rise to give notice that I will next week address some questions to the noble Lord at the head of the Government respecting the Bishop of Llandaff. A memorial has been published, signed by the resident members of the Senate of the University of Cambridge, on the subject of the Royal Commission which the First Lord of the Treasury has announced that it is the intention of Her Majesty to issue for the purpose of inquiring into the state of the Universities. The first signature attached to this memorial, to which my attention has recently been drawn by the admirable reply given to it by the illustrious Person who fills the office of Chancellor to one of the Universities, is that of the Bishop of Llandaff. As this memorial professes to be signed only by resident members of the Senate, I, of course, conceived, when I saw the Bishop of Llandaff's name, that it was a mistake—that the right rev. Prelate's attention was so thoroughly engrossed by the episcopal duties of his diocese, that he had not had time to read the memorial; and that, perhaps, in a moment of impatience at having his attention diverted from spiritual concerns, he signed the paper without reflecting on the truth of the statement made at its outset. On inquiry, however, I find that although the bishop was appointed to his diocese last year, he is not resident in Wales; that he never has resided there; and that at this moment he is, as I am informed, a resident of the University of Cambridge. The first question I shall have to ask of the noble
 900
 MR. HORSMAN  had said nothing of the personal qualifications of the Bishop of Llandaff, but had asked, first, whether since his appointment he was not resident;
 903
 MR. GWYN  begged to express his thanks and those of the clergy and inhabitants of the diocese of Llandaff for the appointment of Dr. Oliphant, A more excellent appointment it was not possible to make. He was a prelate of the greatest piety, and was acquainted with the Welsh language. Having been present on an occasion when Dr. Oliphant, on laying the foundation-stone of a school, preached a sermon in Welsh, "he (Mr. Gwyn) could state that it was a sermon which every one understood, and that the country people went away expressing their admiration. It was no fault of Dr. Oliphant's that he was not resident at present; a house had been bought for him, and was in course of preparation; and it was his intention to go into residence as soon as he possibly could.
 COLONEL RAWDON  begged to put the following questions to the noble Lord at the head of the Government:—Whether the inquiry which was instituted respecting the state of the pictures in the National Gallery, with a view to their better preservation, had terminated; and, if so, would the information be given to the House? 2. Whether any proposal had been made by the Government to the Royal Academy, with a view of obtaining for the public collection of pictures the entire of the National Gallery building; and, if so, what answer had been given? 3. Whether any supplemental vote in the present Estimates would be called for to carry out the proposition? 4. Whether it was the intention of Government, before taking final steps for permanently locating the pictures on the present site, to institute an inquiry, by a Committee of this House or otherwise, in order to ascertain whether or not it would be expedient to allocate the pictures in Trafalgar-square? He wished to direct the attention of the noble Lord to the following allegations:—That it was in evidence before Committees of that House that the present building in Trafalgar-square was insufficient to its purpose as a national gallery, and unworthy of this metropolis; that half of it was not fireproof; that there was not height for placing properly works of art which were now or could be put into it; that there was no room for arrangement of schools; and that individuals were deterred therefore from, rather than invited, as they ought to be, to become contributors to our national collection.
 COLONEL RAWDON  referred to a similar case in the last Session of Parliament, on which he had consulted Mr. Speaker. It had always been in the power of the House to prevent the printing of a petition, although it was in the power of the hon. Member at any time to move it.
 MR. J. STUART  rose to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government connected with the administration of justice in the highest court in the kingdom. A few days ago the noble Lord announced the resignation of Lord Cottenham, by which the Court of Chancery was deprived of the Judge who presided over the administration of justice there, and the Cabinet of one of its most distinguished Members. The noble Lord also stated upon that occasion that a successor to Lord Cottenham was about to be appointed, who would accept that great office subject to any regulations as to salary which the Committee on Salaries now sitting might think proper to recommend. Without warning, it had been for the first time announced that day, during the sitting of the courts, that instead of an individual being appointed to preside in the Court of Chancery, and instead of the Cabinet being supplied with the aid of the greatest officer in the law, it was the inten-
 897
 MR. J. STUART  said, that was not quite the correct view of the matter. The question was not whether the House would interfere, but whether it would listen to a complaint. He understood that one ground of complaint was, that the claims of these parties had been rejected because they had refused to work on a Sunday.
 MR. W. PATTEN  thought it would be better to defer this Motion till the petition had been before the Committee on Public Petitions.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, it was considered the better plan to refer the petition to the Printing Committee, and then the Member was not put under the necessity of giving notice of a Motion which he never intended to bring forward, merely to get the petition printed.
 MR. HUME  apprehended that if the petition went upstairs it would be printed as a matter of course. If it was not, the hon. and learned Gentleman would bring forward a Motion that it be printed; but he took it for granted that in forty-eight hours the petition would be in the hands of every Member.
 MR. FORSTER  agreed with the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, that the House ought to hesitate in this matter. The House held the head of each public department responsible for all its proceedings; but if the House interfered between
 892 employés
 MR. C. ANSTEY : The clerks of the department had previously signed a document, expressive of their apology for anything that might have offended the Postmaster General, but naturally declined to declare that their memorial was false in fact, because it was, in fact, true. However, the vacancy was afterwards (contrary to the usual course of practice) filled up by a person brought from Edinburgh, who stood ten grades lower in the office than the senior clerks passed over, and who had been declared unfit on a former occasion for promotion. The hon. and learned Member, having brought up his petition, gave notice that he would bring it before the House, and he moved that it be printed "with the Votes" for that purpose.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  presented a petition from about 130 of the clerks in the Money Order Department of the Post Office, complaining of a gross grievance they had recently suffered in respect to the dispensation of patronage. It appeared that there had lately been a vacancy in the presidency of the department, to which the chief clerk was promoted, and he had stated to the senior clerk that he should recommend him to succeed him. Soon after, however, he had informed him that Mr. Rowland Hill, the Postmaster General's Secretary, would not recommend any one of the clerks to the vacancy in that department, unless they all signed a written statement to the effect that a certain memorial they had presented was untrue.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, it was his intention to bring the petition and the allegations connected with the subject, under the serious consideration of Parliament; but he thought that the petition ought to be printed, and ought to be printed soon, so that the question might come under their consideration in the most convenient shape. Unfortunately, if the House now decided against him, he should have the power and influence of the Chairman of Petitions against him; for the hon. Gentleman thought that this was not a subject on which the House ought to encourage petitioners. He (Mr. Anstey) hoped that the Motion would not be rejected, and that they should not set the first departure from what had hitherto been the practice merely because Gentlemen had the honour of being clerks in the Post Office.
 MR. THORNELY  said, that he had given no opinion whether the petition ought to be printed or not.
 MR. THORNELY  said, it was very important for the House to consider whether they would put the country to the expense of printing for parties who might consider themselves aggrieved by the conduct of their superiors, in any of the Government departments, no matter whether it were the Customs, the Excise, or the Post Office. It was for the House to consider whether or no it was right to make Parliament a court of appeal in matters like this. For his part, he did not think it was, and he therefore put it to the House if it would not be better to leave the petition to be printed in the ordinary course of business, when it had come before the Committee on Public Petitions?
 MR. THORNELY  said, it was a question for the House to consider whether the complaints of the clerks in the Post Office, in the shape of a petition, should be printed or not.
 MR. W. BROWN  considered that the House ought not to entertain such petitions.
 MR. HAYTER  said, the great inconvenience which resulted from stating the contents of petitions like this was, that they went forth to the world as if they were founded in truth. Now, so far from that being the case in this instance, he could assure the House that many statements in the petition were founded upon error. He should not properly discharge his duty if he did not say that most of those statements were founded in error.
 MR. HAYTER  rose to order, urging that the hon. Member ought not to be al-
 891
 SIR G. GREY  said, the hon. Member seemed to imply that there had been an objection to the reception of the petition; that was not so, the petition having been received, and the only question now was, whether it should be printed with the Votes. The Chairman of the Committee on Petitions had stated that it would shortly come before them, and they would have to decide whether it should be printed or not, before it was competent for the hon. Member to bring a Motion on the subject before the House. That was a practice which he (Sir G. Grey) thought it was very desirable the House should follow, and he hoped the hon. Member would abide by it on the present occasion.
 SIR R. PEEL  thought the usual practice had been, if an hon. Gentleman considered the allegations of a petition were well founded, that he would bring forward a Motion upon it, to permit the petition to be printed with the Votes; and it would be a very unwise rule to lay down, that because a petition proceeded from clerks in any office, the House would not print their petition. The question now to be considered was, not whether that House was to be constituted a court of appeal in such a case against the superior officers of any
 894
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : It is well known that a considerable time ago—I think it was about two or three months ago, or more—an expedition was understood to be preparing in the United States for the purpose of making a descent on Cuba. It is also well known that the Government of the United States issued a proclamation, forbidding the expedition, and also took measures at the time which put an end to the proposed undertaking. I received, a few days ago, a despatch from the British Minister at Washington, informing us that suddenly, and, as it appears, without the knowledge of the Government of the United States—without information obtained by them beforehand—an account reached Washington that an expedition had sailed from the southern part of the United States, for the purpose of making an attack on Cuba. First, a detachment, supposed to consist of about 2,000 men, sailed on, as far as my memory serves me, about the 6th of last month; and a further detachment of 4,000 or 5,000 followed some days after. The
 899
 MR. GRATTAN  hoped that Ministers would abandon this measure, which, according to report, was not viewed with favour by individuals in high positions connected with the Government. The Legislature had no right to pass a Bill for abolishing the office of Lord Lieutenant. The office was guaranteed to Ireland by the treaty of union between the two countries. The people of Ireland were as much entitled to have their Lord Lieutenant as the people of England were to have their Lord Chancellor. The law officers of the Crown had not attempted to answer the legal objection which was taken to the abolition of the office. That the people of Ireland were opposed to the removal of the Lord Lieutenancy was apparent from the circumstance, that whilst many petitions had been presented against the measure, not one had been presented in favour of it. It had been expected that an important petition from Dublin would that evening have been presented against the Bill by one of the Lord Mayors of that city; but it would appear that now there were two Lord Mayors of Dublin neither of them could come to London. The state of public feeling in Ireland with respect to
 1009 1010 "I fully appreciate the motives of humanity which have dictated your address, and in reply, I am at present only able to assure you that the Government in the performance of its duties can have no other desire than that justice should be administered without any degree of severity beyond that which the interest of society demands." l l 1011 1012 Viceroy Tant mieux Tant mieux 1013
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he was unwilling to give a silent vote on so important a question. He felt sure of this, that things in Ireland would never be in a satisfactory state—that Ireland never would cease to be England's difficulty—until a complete change was made both in the system of legislation and of administration in that country. [ Cheers 1015 1016
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  expected that some Member of the Government would have favoured the House with a few reasons for the necessity of passing this Bill. Failing that, however, he was driven to look at the arguments adduced on the occasion of the first reading. The main argument appeared to be, that there had been abuses connected with the office in former times, and that the parties holding it had been abused in all times. He was not there to deny that there had been injustice and maladministration by Lord Lieutenants; but the argument, if it were worth anything, went not only against all offices, but all governments also. The Bill left the Privy Council and the Lord Chancellor of Ireland to carry on the executive; so that, whilst they were going in England to separate the judicial functions of the Lord Chancellor from his Parliamentary functions, in Ireland they were going to superadd to his judicial functions the duties of the Lord Lieutenant. Another argument in favour of this Bill had been founded on a reference to Scotland. The cases, however, were not parallel; for, in the Union with Scotland, the Church of the people had been left as the established Church of the realm; whilst in Ireland the Church of the few had been made all-dominant. With all those abuses standing before their eyes, and patent to all the world, the Ministers of the Crown continued to tell the House that the cases of Ireland and of Scotland were alike. They continued to tell Parliament that the case of Scotland was a precedent that might be quoted in favour of the measure which they now proposed for removing the Lord Lieutenant from Ireland. It might be all very well for them to talk of Scotland, but they left the government of that country to Scotchmen; they never sent a spendthrift there to rule the people, nor a political adventurer. The people of Ireland never had the nomination of their own Lord Lieutenant; they, on the contrary, were obliged to take whomsoever the English Government for the time being thought proper to send. Now, in the course of the present discussion, they had heard much of the evils attendant upon, and supposed to be inseparable from, the administration of the government of Ireland by a Lord Lieutenant. But he maintained that those evils were not inseparable from the ancient
 1017 1018 l
 COLONEL DUNNE  thought that the Irish Members had derived no encouragement from the debate which should induce them to draw tighter the bonds between the two countries. On the last night of the debate, one of the Secretaries of State was left to answer the charges made by hon. Members as best he could; and this night the noble Lord, trusting to a majority in that House, and to the newspapers which vilified the motives of his opponents, had taken off his hat, and asked them to abolish the office of Viceroy of Ireland. He protested against this measure. It was fifty years since centralisation had been attempted, and during that fifty years Great Britain had attained a high pinnacle of glory. What advantage had, during the same time, accrued to Ireland, who shared in those conquests by sea and land which rendered England great? The Irish Members, being but one to five in that House, could do nothing but protest against their legislation. In the year '98, Ireland owed but nine millions and a half—she now owed one hundred and thirty-four millions and a half; and how was this incurred? By wars in acquiring those colonies by which England enriched himself. Their trade to the colonies had scarcely increased since the Union. Before that period, there were Peers and commoners residing in Dublin. One hundred Peers had residences there, and now he knew of but one, and so depreciated had house property in that city become, that some houses which had been mortgaged for 20,000 l l 1019 Economist 1020
 MR. ROEBUCK  might ask what was the real question before the House, because from the multitudinous array of arguments which had been brought forward, one could hardly believe but that they were engaged in a general debate, not only upon the measures of the present year, as regarded Ireland, but of every year since the union of the two kingdoms. It was proposed by the Bill before the House that the office of Lord Lieutenant in Ireland should cease to exist; and therefore the question before them was—whether that was an alteration which would be for the benefit of the people of Ireland? The hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin said he wished to see the Government of Ireland so like the Government of England, that nobody could distinguish the one from the other. In that case they would find in Ireland counties and boroughs governing themselves exactly as they did in England, and the same system in every respect in operation; but then the hon. and learned Gentleman desired that there should be in Dublin an officer called the Lord Lieutenant. Now, what did that Lord Lieutenant do for Ireland? He asked those who contended for the existence of that functionary, to point out, not by references to past history, but to the present state of Ireland, what benefit was conferred upon that country by his presence there? He denied that there was any hostility on the part of the English people to Ireland. Those who said there was, could not point out a single effect of legislation since the beginning of the Reformed Parliament, except one Act, in which there had been expressed any hostile feeling towards Ire-
 1021 1022
 MR. CONOLLY , in supporting the Bill, expressed a wish that the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield had, in doing the same thing, rested his arguments more on the real points of the question before the House, and indulged less in those personalities, of which, he regretted to say, he made too liberal use. He (Mr. Conolly) thought that the abolition of this office could fairly be argued on grounds of national policy; and that it was for the interest of Ireland at large that the office should be done away with. There appeared to be no real ground of opposition offered to the measure, but that of the city of Dublin; and, such being the case, he thought it was the duty of the Government to persevere with it. It was an old and acknowledged maxim, that union was strength; and it was on the principle that the union between England and Ireland was for the benefit of the imperial constitution that that union was originally promoted by Mr. Pitt. He believed, therefore, that they were only carrying out Mr. Pitt's policy in removing this last obstacle to the real union of the two kingdoms. On that ground, he supported the measure. He believed it was a measure for the benefit of Ireland, for whose welfare and future good government he considered it was of great importance that they should have in that House a responsible Irish Secrectary.
 MR. GROGAN  considered it as somewhat remarkable that on a Bill of such importance as that then before them—a Bill for the abolishing an office which had existed in Ireland for centuries—no Member of the Cabinet should, up to that moment, have addressed the House. The first person to speak in favour of it was the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, a Gentleman whose arguments were easily answered. That hon. Gentleman, and the hon. Member for Donegal, were the only persons to support the Bill. The hon. and
 1023
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the hon. Member who had just sat down seemed surprised that no Member of the Government had yet risen in defence of the measure now before the House. But the hon. Gentleman, and those who preceded him, could not, he thought, fail to perceive that the Government had taken the usual course; and that after introducing the measure,
 1024 1025 1026 1027 1028
 MR. ANSTEY  said, as he, with many other hon. Members connected with Ireland, were anxious to address the House on this subject, but who had not been fortunate enough to catch the Speaker's eye, he thought it was not too much on his part to ask for an adjournment of the debate, notwithstanding the understanding
 1029
 LORD J. RUSSELL  would not agree to an adjournment. He trusted the very useful course which had been adopted during the present Session, of abstaining as far as possible from having adjourned debates, would not be departed from in this instance, as the measure would be often under discussion in its future stages.
 MR. T. M'CULLAGH  thought it would be better at once to assent to the adjournment, as it was desirable that the people of Ireland should see that the measure had been fully discussed.
 MR. F. FRENCH  observed, that there were Members in that House, both Irish and English, whose opinions it was most desirable to have on this subject. He believed the greatest man in England, the Duke of Wellington, had not changed his opinion as to the inexpediency of such a measure as this. He believed also the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tam-worth had not changed his opinion on the subject; and it was most desirable, before they went to a division, that that right hon. Gentleman should let the House know what he thought of this measure.
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  seconded the Motion, and declared his willingness to persevere till six o'clock in the morning to gain his point. He thought Irish Members should have an opportunity of stating their opinions upon a Bill of such magnitude.
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he had given his vote for the adjournment, as he did not think it unreasonable that, considering only four hours had been appropriated to discuss the second reading of a Bill making such a great change in the internal administration of Ireland, and many Irish Gentlemen wished to declare their sentiments upon it, there should be another opportu-
 1030
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that after the division which had just been come to, he was ready to consent to the adjournment of the debate.
 SIR D. NORREYS  said, that after all the expenditure incurred, had they not produced a monstrous failure, not only as regarded the architecture, but convenience itself? Was not the new building most unsatisfactory as regarded hearing, and was it not insufficient on the score of the number of Members it would accommodate? He thought that if a Committee were appointed, one of the first questions for it to consider would be, whether Westminster-hall had not been desecrated by Mr. Barry, who was now erecting a monstrous passage to a more monstrous staircase. He agreed with the hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex in thinking that Mr. Barry was an accomplished architect, as far as one branch of the profession went; but he felt that the country had been misled by him in the adoption of a bad style of architecture.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had already stated, that in a few days a complete return would be made of all the details of the expenditure, showing what the excess of expenditure had been, and he thought the House should have an opportunity of seeing that return before they came to any decision upon this question.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  had no objection, if the forms of the House would permit it, that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose should put his Motion exactly in the manner he thought best; but he understood the hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex to say he could not consent to the Motion first made by his hon. Friend being withdrawn.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that with respect to the delivery of letters, the directions to be given by Her Majesty would be in accordance with the orders of that House, and therefore there would be no exemption with respect to the delivery of letters. With respect to the transmission of letters, the Address only proposed inquiry.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  presumed that the right hon. Gentleman referred to the transmission of letters; but what the Government wished to do was, to carry into effect the orders of that House. It was not for him to say whether any advantage would be derived from the arrangement.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex began his speech by saying that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Tamworth had not spoken to the question, and that he misled the House by referring to a question totally irrelevant; but the fact was that the right hon. Gentleman did address himself to the question, which was, whether those sums of money which were voted in Committee of Supply should likewise be consented to by the House for the purpose of certain decorations and of the fine arts as proposed by the Fine Arts Commission. Now, the hon. and gallant Gentleman did not address the House upon that question, because his speech was almost entirely on the merits of Mr. Barry and the building of the two Houses of Parliament. According to the logic of the hon. and gallant Gentleman, there ought to be a vote for the House very much diminishing the sum to
 1003 l l l 1004
 MR. SPEAKER  asked the hon. Member whether he proposed to withdraw his Motion?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was not sorry that this Amendment had been brought forward, or the statement made by the hon. Gentleman, into which he had so fully entered; but he was sorry that he should have made that statement with reference to the whole question of the New Houses, when his Motion referred to a subject totally distinct—namely, whether they were to stop the proceedings of the Fine Arts Commission? This was the sole object of the hon. Gentleman's Motion; but nevertheless he had gone into a long statement with reference to the building of the New Houses during the last 15 years. He was sorry for the sake of the House, that he should have introduced these totally distinct subjects into one debate; but he hoped that the House would not accede to the Motion which he had made. It should be remembered that the House, on the recommendation of a Committee, came to a resolution that a good opportunity of benefiting and promoting the fine arts would be found during the time of building the New Houses of Parliament. That was determined on many years ago; and it was a determination which had been acted on ever since. It was only last year that an arrangement was announced to the House,
 987 l l l 988 l l l l l l l 989 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 990 l l l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  entreated the House to wait until the return which he had promised was produced. In one of the returns laid on the table towards the end of the last Session, it was stated the total expenditure upon the New Houses up to May, 1849, was 938,000 l l
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that not one word had fallen from his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose which could justify the observation which the right hon. Baronet had just made. He protested against it; but he thought his hon. Friend wished to withdraw his Amendment in order that he might put another more consistent with the view of the House.
 MR. AGLIONBY  was quite sure that if the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield had attended to the terms of his hon. Friend's notice, which was on the Votes, he would have given the Motion his support. The question before the House was for a Committee of Inquiry, and he denied that the responsibility rested with the Government. The responsibility fell on the House, and they ought not to shrink from it. If the papers promised would give the information required, he would advise his hon. Friend to withdraw his Motion; but the information that was wanted could only be elicited by a Committee. He would ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he could tell the House, within half a million, what sums had already been paid, and what liabilities had been incurred?
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that he scarcely knew what they were going to divide upon, and that it was most preposterous in them or any Committee that they could appoint to pretend to know anything about architecture. He thought that if they had appointed one man at first to build a house for them, and had not interfered with him, they would have acted more wisely. He thought it absurd to hear one hon. Gentle man getting up and talking about arches, and another about pediments, neither knowing anything about them. Everybody seem-
 1007
 MR. HUME  said, that he should now move, as another Amendment, for the Select Committee of which he had given notice.
 MR. HUME  wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman in the chair whether he could withdraw the Motion he had already proposed, for the purpose of substituting the other of which he had given notice for the appointment of a Committee? The noble Lord at the head of Government knew that all he (Mr. Hume) wanted was to have an opportunity of taking the sense of the House as to a Committee.
 MR. HUME  said, the object of his Motion was to put an end for the present to the proceedings of the Committee of Taste. But he had also another Motion on the paper, for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into and examine the various reports, statements, and plans of the architect relative to the New Houses of Parliament. He was aware that he was undertaking an unpleasant duty in submitting these Motions to the House; but he had been requested by several Members to do so; and it was evident that if something was not done, there would be no limit to
 982 précis l l l 983 l l l l "Q. 170. What is the amount of your estimate, including everything?—724,986 l "Q. 211. You have been making an estimate of this building: have you done it yourself, or employed competent persons to do so?—I have done it myself, and employed competent persons to assist me. "Q. 217. Have the calculations been made from the plans which are upon the table?—They have. "Q. 218. The amended plans?—Yes. "Q. 272. Then are the Committee to understand that the estimates that you have given in are on that general principle that you have stated, as to the quantity and the amounts, such that you can rely upon?—Yes. "Q. 290. May I ask you, strictly speaking, what style you consider this building to be?—It is of the third syle of Gothic architecture, including the Tudor period. "Q. 404. How long would it take a person to make a detailed specification, and the working drawings, so as to enable a correct estimate to be formed of the whole building?—At least a twelvemonth. 984 "The Committee are not satisfied on the head of expense; and before any part of the building be commenced, or any vote be proposed to Parliament, there should be the most minute and accurate estimate that can be formed." l l l l 985 "We read that your predecessor, Sir C. Wren, himself laid the first stone of that superb edifice St. Paul's Cathedral, which is now the greatest monument of his genius; and I trust the same good fortune will await you. May you live to see the magnificent work now in your hands completed! St Paul's was thirty-four years in its erection; you have not occupied half that time as yet—and have made a progress which, if it had depended on yourself, would have brought the Houses of Parliament nearly to a completion; but the means of working have not been at your disposal. Tour work is to be devoted to I know not how many purposes. Sir C. Wren had to deal with men who knew what they wanted. Sir C. Wren, no doubt, received his instructions from men who knew the purposes to which the building was to be dedicated, and what was required to carry it out; but, I am sorry to say, that is not always the case with respect to the building entrusted to you. Sir C. Wren's masters were few—yours are legion. I am sorry to say, that au gust assembly which has most to do with the erection of this magnificent structure has in it a vast number of men who ask questions, make suggestions, and offer criticisms, while, at the same time, they do not know what is wanted, or, indeed, what they want themselves. It is not wonderful, then, that the architect should be impeded, and that fault should be found without any good substantial ground. And yet you have made a wonderful progress, &c. I have said the purposes to which it is to be applied are multifarious—there are wide and gorgeous palace halls, long corridors, short passages, lowly doorways, magnificent entrances, aspiring towers, groined staircases, every class of residences, porters' lodges, committee-rooms, offices, and even kitchens. As one of the Fine Arts Commissioners I have had more opportunities than, perhaps, any of his professional brethren, of seeing how cleverly and how readily Mr. Barry was able to make the suggestions he received from parties he was obliged to obey harmonise with his own conceptions, and thus preserve intact the beauty and unity of the original design. 986 l l
 MR. B. OSBORNE  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  objected to its being withdrawn.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  wished to call back the House to the real question, and hoped they would not he deluded by the "fine arts" of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, who had never delivered a speech, even when he sat on the Treasury bench, supported by a majority, in which the question was so entirely evaded. There were two points in the right hon. Baronet's speech; one of them, that the hon. Member for Montrose, in a moment of weakness, suggested that the Sergeant-at-Arms should have a house. That house had never been built to the present day; and the topic so admirably brought forward by the right hon. Baronet had as much to do with the New Houses of Parliament as St. Paul's. The other point was, that a commission had been given to Mr. Herbert to decorate one of the apartments; but, although a Commissioner of the Fine Arts, the right hon. Baronet was puzzled to know which of the rooms it was that was to be decorated. But the question before the House was not whether
 999 "Want of time experienced by all modern architects, and of that proper frame of mind to produce, with full effect, the æsthetical development of design which he was unable fully to explain." l 1000 sine die l 1001
 MR. M. GIBSON  said, he supposed, although no mention was made of the circumstance, there would be no alteration with regard to Sunday newspapers.
 MR. M. GIBSON  desired to put a question with regard to the answer to the Address. He had only heard the words "collection and transmission." [Sir G. GREY: And "delivery."] He presumed that in post-office language, the word "collection" meant bringing the letters from the branch offices. Although the collection of letters in the large towns might be put a stop to by the Government, he presumed it did not follow that letters put in the chief office would not be transmitted. He supposed there was no intention to prevent the sending letters from the principal towns on the Sunday evenings, although the collection might be stopped.
 MR. THORNELY  begged to put a question to the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown with reference to this important subject. He wished to know whether there would be any exemption in favour of the foreign correspondence of the country? Suppose a packet from America arrived at Liverpool yesterday with some ten or twenty thousand letters. Under present circumstances those letters would be sifted in the Liverpool post-office late last evening, to be sent up by the mails, and would be delivered this morning in the metropolis, containing perhaps 100,000 l 981
 SIR G. GREY  appeared at the bar, and said that the Address which had been agreed to on the subject of Sunday labour in the Post Office had been presented to Her Majesty, and the following was Her Majesty's most gracious Answer:—
 "I have received your Address, praying that the collection and delivery of Letters may in future entirely cease on Sunday in all parts of the Kingdom; and, also, that an inquiry may be made as to how far, without injury to the public service, the transmission of the Mails on the Lord's Day might be diminished, or entirely suspended; and in compliance with your request, I shall give directions accordingly."
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  supported the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montrose, and complained that no person appeared to be responsible for all the expenditure. The main ground of his supporting the Amendment was, that it would give the Committee the means of an effectual control over it. The House of Commons could not act as an executive body; all it could do was to pass good laws, and to give the means of establishing a proper control over all expenditure.
 SIR R. PEEL  thought that a useful and practical Committee might be appointed, after they had sat in the New House four or five days, to consider what further accommodation was required in it, and also the cost of any such alterations as might be deemed desirable. Such Committee could state what steps it was desirable to
 1008
 SIR R. PEEL  would assure the hon. Gentleman that his (Sir R. Peel's) omission of all reference to the circumstances under which Mr. Landseer was invited to paint certain pictures in the apartment to which the hon. Gentleman had alluded, was intentional, because he thought the House had decided on the point. He was influenced solely by a respectful feeling toward the House—that he would not call in question a decision of the House, however strongly he might feel upon it. The three artists to whom the hon. Gentleman referred, were called before the commission. The commissioners accompanied them to the apartment in question. Upon entering the apartment they found that the greater number of the panels which could be appropriated to the particular pictures were opposite to the light—and every Gentleman was aware that that was an unfavourable light for the exhibition of pictures—but there were three compartments in which the light was excellent. Those were at the end of the room, and were lighted at the side. The commissioners had a picture painted by Mr. Stanfield, one by Mr. Roberts, and one by Mr. Landseer. They were brought to the apartment—the com-
 1002
 SIR R. PEEL  said, he apprehended the practical question on which the hon. Member for Montrose intended to take the opinion of the House was the vote of 3,000 l 991 992 l 993 994 995 996 "We humbly recommend the evidence herewith presented to the House to its favourable consideration, with a view to its receiving immediate attention at the hands of the Government, in the hope that the new Houses of Parliament may hand down to posterity a memorial as well of the genius of our artists as of the importance attached by the country to the nobler productions of art, and that subjects embodied in such representations, whether by painting or by sculpture, may serve to perpetuate the facts of our past history, and to preserve the memories of our public benefactors in the grateful remembrance of our people." l l l l l 997 998
 SIR R. PEEL  thought the hon. Gentleman was so convinced of the injustice and impropriety of his Motion, that he wished to withdraw it.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, he wanted to propound distinctly a principle which had only been as it were accidentally men-
 1070
 The CHAIRMAN  said, they were at the 30th clause, in which he understood the Government had some amendments to introduce.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  was anxious to keep  au courant
 MR. CHRISTIE  wished to put the questions of which he had given notice to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War, namely, whether he can furnish any information as to the number of pensioners who may be proceeding to Hudson's Bay this season, and also of those who are at present stationed in the Hudson's Bay territory? And whether the Hudson's Bay Company have been empowered to employ these pensioners for the enforcement or protection of their monopoly of trade against the native or other inhabitants of the country; and if not, what duties it is intended they shall perform on their arrival in that territory?
 MR. CHRISTIE  begged to ask if the pensioners were paid by this country? If they were there solely for the benefit of the Hudson's Bay Company, they were the persons to pay them.
 MR. FAGAN  complained that great wrong had been inflicted on a steamboat company in the city which he had the honour to represent, by the tolls which were exacted on their steam vessels between Liverpool and Rotterdam. He had represented their case to the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, whom he regretted not to see in his place, and that right hon. Gentleman admitted the injustice, and said that he would lay the case before the Government.
 SIR F. BARING  thought it not quite fair to add the name of "Dovor" to the Motion. The hon. and gallant Member for Brighton should bring forward the matter by a substantive Motion, instead of by an
 1087 l
 MR. MOFFATT  trusted that the hon. and gallant Member for Brighton would persevere with his Amendment when the proper time arrived. It was the general impression that these rates were unfairly
 1088
 MR. J. WILSON  said, he did not rise to refuse the assent of the Government to the proposal of the noble Lord, and much less to complain of the manner in which he had brought forward this subject, for in doing so the noble Lord had done credit to himself and also justice to the cause he had supported. But after the remarks of the noble Lord, he hoped the House would allow him (Mr. Wilson) to make a few observations, partly in explanation of the remarks of the noble Lord, and partly to correct some of the misapprehensions under which he appeared to labour. He was sure that those who knew what the Company had done for India in the last two years would be the last to condemn the Government for looking with indifference to that great subject to which the noble Lord had called their attention. He admitted that it would be difficult, looking at that vast empire, for any question to be brought forward more important in itself, or more pregnant with future results to the happiness and civilisation of India, as well as to the commercial interests of this country; and it was in that spirit, and with those views, that the East India Company and the Board of Control had taken steps which, under any other circumstances, they probably would not have taken. The noble Lord had referred to the present condition of India with regard to the cultivation of cotton and various other articles with which that country supplied us, and he thought the noble Lord had exercised a wise discretion in not discussing that subject at any length, seeing that next week there would be an opportunity for doing so. The noble Lord appeared to have overlooked the fact of the enormous increase in the supplies from India of the articles of indigo and sugar,
 1110 1111 1112 l l l l 1113
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that there could be no doubt that Government had dealt most liberally in extending railway communication to India, and the same would be extended to the Madras presidency. There should be a controlling power sitting continually at the board of these companies. Under such an officer, not only was public confidence inspired, but great satisfaction was created. The agreement which Government had made for the public had been complained of as too liberal; but in a great undertaking of this sort,
 1114
 SIR T. E. COLEBROOKE  said, that the Indian public would be thankful for the attention which had been paid to their interests. He had followed the policy and history of recent attempts to introduce railways into India, and had laboured under a misapprehension that this limited line to be entered into in the province of Bengal was to be understood as an experiment upon which the success and value of railways in India was to rest; but he now understood that this line was to be considered as the commencement of a far more important project. There was another misapprehension of the public, namely, that this line was to terminate half way between Calcutta and Delhi. The line would traverse for two-thirds of the way a hilly country of very little population, which scarcely had one single great town in a distance of 500 miles in length, and would only have its value as the commencement of a more important line which would join the commercial classes generally with the capital of India. There certainly could be no line of more importance to India, either in a military or commercial point of view. He feared, however, that if the question dirt not advance more rapidly than it had hitherto done, some time must elapse before it had any effect on the development of Indian resources. He feared that the delay had been mainly caused by the error of entrusting the enterprise to a joint-stock company instead of having it achieved by the Indian Government. He thought, however, that the thanks of the House were due to the noble Lord for having elicited the views of the Government on this great question.
 MR. HUME  believed the only certain mode of developing the inexhaustible resources of India was by railways and irrigation; and it was not so much the weight of taxation as the want of the means of disposing of its produce that prevented the extension of commerce in that country. It
 1115
 SIR J. HOBHOUSE  was not surprised that the hon. Member should declare himself not entirely satisfied with the progress which railroad communication was making in India; because, from long and intimate experience of his character, he knew that it was not easy to satisfy him upon any point. In all that had been said upon this occasion as to the importance of railroads for India, he entirely concurred, and he was exceedingly glad that the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn had been the first person to call the attention of the House to the subject in away which might have fairly been expected from his experience—from his devotion to the interests of India—from the office which he had held—and from the attention which he was known to give to subjects of the kind. After the speech of his hon. Friend the
 1116 1117 l l 1118 Parce, puer, stimulis, et fortius utere loris
 MR. MANGLES  said, the East India Company had no funds in their coffers to carry on those great works. He would be the last man to disparage what had been done, but he thought more ought to be done. A railroad, seventy miles in extent, starting from Calcutta, could not be regarded as a fair experiment of the financial success of Indian railways. He thought the experiment ought not to be tried in the lower part of India, seeing that a noble river, from which the traffic would not be diverted, ran along the proposed line. It would have been better to start such a line from Benares; but it was now, perhaps, too late to remedy that error. He thought it desirable that the Government itself
 1119
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  replied: From the observations that had fallen from his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Control, it might be inferred that his (Viscount Jocelyn's) Motion was made in a hostile spirit to the East India Company. [Sir J. HOBHOUSE: Oh, no, I did not say so.] He had stated distinctly that he knew the East India Company were quite alive to the necessities of the population, and to the improvement of the country. The object of his Motion had been attained. He had heard from the Government that it was not their intention to deny to the Madras railroad that support and that guarantee that was given to the Bombay and Bengal lines. He felt gratified that he had brought forward the subject, for it had elicited the opinions of the Government; and the subject was one of the greatest importance, not merely to the native population of India, but to the people of this country.
 MR. FOX MAULE : The pensioners draw their pensions which are given them for past services, and they get lodgings, land, and money from the company.
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, that the officer's orders were to preserve the public peace, and to prevent any persons from interfering with the trade of that company.
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, that in reply to the question of the hon. Gentleman, he might state that previous to the year 1846 the Hudson's Bay Company were without protection from any British force of any description; but in 1846 disturbances arose between the Hudson's Bay Company and certain parties which he did not know how to designate—whether they belonged to the united States, or were marauders acknowledging no government at all—and it was found necessary to detach from Canada a considerable body of the 6th Regiment of Foot. Those troops were kept there for nearly two years, and it was found to be so isolated a position for troops in Her Majesty's service, without communication with other regiments or from home, that it was thought necessary to provide for the protection of those territories in another way, and it was resolved to send out, under the command of an officer, a body of pensioners who would be there in the enjoyment of their pensions, and receive from' the Hudson's Bay Company
 1080
 LORD ASHLEY  was understood to say that he had no knowledge whatever of the facts, beyond the circumstance that the bodies were removed to a family vault.
 LORD ASHLEY  having had personal communication with the clergy on the subject of the Bill, was bound to say that as a body they had shown the greatest desire to assist in the advancement of this measure, even at the expense of their own fees. The clergy, in fact, were entitled to a fee of 8 s s d
 LORD D. STUART  said, it was the custom of the House to print amendments before they were agreed to. He knew that it was not absolutely necessary; but in a difficult clause like this, the custom ought to be enforced to enable hon. Members to understand it.
 LORD D. STUART  said, he must again put the question which had not yet been answered, and that was whether the Board of Health was to have the disposal of the surplus fund which it was expected might perhaps accrue, and if not, who was to have the disposal of it?
 LORD D. STUART  said, the right hon. Baronet had stated the objects of the fund, but had not mentioned who was to have the disposal of it.
 LORD D. STUART  would refer to the evidence of the Bishop of London, in 1843, in proof of the importance of scarfs and hatbands as a source of revenue to the clergy. Was the five years' average to be calculated on a sum inclusive or exclusive of those receipts? He also wished to know who was to have the disposal of the surplus, if any should be left after compensating the incumbents?
 LORD D. STUART  stated his determination to oppose the clause, as being most objectionable, and involving the abolition of a constitutional principle—the principle of self-government. The clause gave power to the Commissioners to levy a rate of 1 d 1077
 LORD D. STUART  then moved the rejection of the clause.
 LORD NAAS  said, it was not necessary, in order to prove his case, to weary the House with any abstruse calculations or elaborate statistics. He rested the Motion he had the honour to propose, on the ground of equal justice to the home and colonial distillers; and he trusted that, on these grounds alone, the House would accede to his Motion. The case, as between the home and the colonial distillers was this, that in levying the excise duty on spirits of home manufacture, the quantity was measured for duty at the time when it was first made, or as it is called by the trade at the worm's end: if it was then bonded, the distiller, on releasing it from bond, was compelled to pay duty on the quantity originally bonded, no
 1089 "Four quarter-casks of brandy were landed and stored (after a passage from France) in Dublin Custom-house stores, on the 13th of February, 1849. These casks were taken out at intervals, from July, 1849, to January, 1850. The original content of these four vessels was found, on gauge and trial of strength, to be 108 gallons; when taken out, the contents and strength had decreased to 103 gallons; waste, six gallons. "Being French brandy, and taken out of bond, the duty, amounting to 4 l. s "What would be the result, if four casks of Irish whisky were similarly circumstanced? "The owners would have to pay 2 s d s "Now, had these four casks of spirits been shipped from an Irish distiller to a London dealer, the natural course of trade, if unfettered from excise restrictions, was adopted, the owner would have to pay, when taking them out of bond in London for home consumption, the 'deficiency duty,' as it is termed, at the rate of 7 s d d nil nil 1090 s d d d d 
 
 Malt duty 1½ d 
 Increased Plant 1 d 
 Excise restrictions 1 d 
 Duty on decreases ½ d 
 Total 4 d d d in transitu; 1091 "The Government were compelled from the great injustice of this part of the subject, to order that whisky may be exported under the same regulations as affect colonial and foreign spirits, pro-
 1092
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  said, it would only waste time to print the clause, and he therefore hoped his noble Friend would not press his proposal.
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  said, he wished to make one observation on a subject which had been referred to by his hon. Colleague. He meant the salubrity of graveyards. A few weeks ago three grave gentlemen who had invested capital in funeral paraphernalia waited upon him to point out the injustice which the measure would inflict upon them. They insisted that there was no necessity whatever for it, and scouted the very idea of a churchyard being at all unhealthy. In proof of this they wished him to go to a neighbouring church and see the sexton, whose children lived in the yard, and were remarkable for their roseate and healthy appearance. He, however, declined the invitation, much to the disappointment of the deputation, who seemed to think that the best place a worn-out Member could repair to at the close of a fatiguing Ses-
 1072
 MR. T. D'EYNCOURT  begged to remind hon. Members that this was a model Bill, and that their own constituencies would eventually, as well as the inhabitants of London, be subjected to this tax.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , who was met on his rising by loud calls for a division, said, that he could quite understand the impatience of hon. Gentlemen who had come down in considerable numbers to vote in favour of the Motion, but he did not think that it was quite a reasonable mode of settling a question of considerable importance to divide upon it without hearing its merits discussed, and, therefore, he hoped that they would allow him to state to the House that which he believed fairly represented the real state of the case. Although this Motion did not profess to have that object, it really was as much an attempt to reduce the receipts of the Exchequer as
 1095 s d s d s d 1096 1097
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  would not then make any objections to the details of this resolution, but he should take the opportunity of doing so at some future stage. He wished the House clearly to understand that by this course he did not pledge himself to abstain from opposing the proposal in the future stages of the Bill.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, it was not very likely that persons would send dead bodies from neighbouring parishes to be interred in the burial ground of St. Giles, if the practices referred to by the hon. Gentleman had been going on.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, that the noble Lord, in introducing the Motion, wished the House to infer it was a question of free trade. But if the noble Lord had paid attention to the subject, as, indeed, lhs speech showed he had, he might have seen it was the intention of the House, in arranging the spirit duties in 1848, altogether to disregard the question of protection, and to place the home and colonial manufacturers as nearly as possible in a parallel position. Of the several questions that engaged the attention of the Sugar Committee of 1848, there was none that occupied so much of their time, or to which they gave more laborious consideration, than that of fixing the relative duties on home and colonial spirits. The noble Lord adverted to the fact that duty is paid on the quantity of home spirits originally bonded, whilst, as regarded colonial spirits, duty is only paid on the quantity taken from bond. But the noble Lord forgot that this was one of the chief considerations which determined the decision of the Committee in fixing a duty of 4 d s d 1094 d d
 MR. BRIGHT  said, there appeared to be little doubt that this reverend soldier and stonemason had been carrying on a trade in this burying ground. He understood that this graveyard was purchased for the parish by the funds of the parish, levied on the ratepayers for the purpose. And such being the case, it did appear a monstrous thing that the ratepayers should be called on to pay the money to purchase the burial ground, and then that persons should be invited from the surrounding parishes to bury their dead in this graveyard—that the clergymen should put into their pockets the proceeds of this system, and then, when this Bill passed, that they should be empowered to receive in perpetuity—so long as these impostures and evils were permitted—a sum equivalent to what they had received on an average of the last five years. Why, they were trading on the capital and expenditure of the parish; and it appeared astonishing to him that such a system should be suffered to continue. Perhaps he as a Dissenter had not so much right to complain; but he could not understand how Churchmen could tolerate such a system in their Church. A system like that only made him wish that every Churchman should carry a parson on his back till the last day of his life.
 MR. MASTERMAN  thought it very unreasonable that he, as an individual trustee, should be called on to say he would reduce one item or another. He had stated that the subject had been long under the consideration of the trustees, that there was an earnest desire on their part to do justice to all parties, and he had no hesitation in saying a reduction was in contemplation, but what it was to be it would be very indiscreet for him to say.
 MR. MASTERMAN , as one of the trustees of the harbour, denied that the money had been expended in an improvident manner. No funds could be more justly administered, and no persons could more honestly discharge the trust reposed in them. Under those circumstances the trustees of Ramsgate Harbour had no wish to shrink from any inquiry the House imposed upon them; they acted according to their duty; and the more their conduct was inquired into, the clearer it would appear. With regard to the statement that they had in their hands an excess beyond 50,000 l
 MR. STANFORD  thought the rate should be a halfpenny in the pound instead of a penny, and moved an Amendment to that effect; but, after some conversation, finding no support in the House, the hon. Member withdrew it.
 LORD J. STUART  seconded the Motion. He felt a particular interest in the question from the circumstance of his connexion with Campbeltown, where extensive distillery operations were carried on, and an annual amount of duty paid ranging from 250,000 l l 1093
 MR. HUME  thought the case made out by the right hon. Gentleman warranted the appointment of a Committee, for it appeared that the moment the trustees had acquired the sum of 50,000 l
 MR. HUME  said, that if the military officer at the head of the pensioners was not under the control of the company, he wished to know under what particular orders he was to act, and whether he was to obey the orders the Hudson's Bay Company should give him in case of an affray? He thought it ought to be known under what specific orders and authorities this officer was to act.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, the evidence taken, before the Select Committee in 1843 showed that the vicars received more "fittings," as they were called, than the curates. It was a mistake to say that the clergy had never been hostile to sanitary reforms; they were the parties who had most stood in their way; for, like lawyers, they would never teach their own profession with a reforming hand. The Bishop of London, in his evidence, stated that he had never enjoyed better health than when he resided in Bishopsgate-street, near the churchyard of St. Helen's. The same noble Prelate also stated that the "fittings" received by the vicars were purchased by the undertakers, on an average, for 10 s s d
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  wished to know how much money the promoters of the Bill expected to derive from this penny rate, the proceeds of which were to be placed at the disposal of an irresponsible board. He objected to the clause altogether, as one that was giving to an irresponsible board the power of taxation, a right that belonged only to the House of Commons, as the representatives of the people. He maintained that they were exceeding their power in thus transferring to another body the right to impose taxes. It was to be a penny in the pound this year, but it might be twopence next year; and it would be found that Dissenters as well as Churchmen had to pay, for there was no exemption. There was no precedent for so unconstitutional an act as this on the part of the House of Commons.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  complained that the rate would operate unequally in many of the Loudon parishes if the valuation was to be that acted upon in assessing the county rate.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  concurred in the propriety of compensating the present incumbents, but doubted the accuracy of the calculation whereby 6 s d
 MR. THORNELY  seconded the Motion.
 MR. THORNELY  thought that a case had been made out for inquiry, and that the hon. Member for Lymington was entitled to the thanks of the House for having brought the subject under their notice.
 MR. WAKLEY  said, that all that had been stated by his hon. Friend the Member for Marylebone was true; but he believed the Rev. Dr. Tyler was not aware of what was going on till the inquiry took place, for the funeral service was performed by the rev. sexton. He would ask the noble Lord the Member for Bath, whether he was not aware of the facts, as a Member of the Board of Health?
 MR. WAKLEY  said, the noble Lord the Member for Bath had stated, that he did not believe it would be necessary for the Board of Health to resort to this tax. Now, the noble Lord must have made that statement on calculations made by the board; and what, therefore, he would suggest was, that this clause should be postponed for the present, or, as he thought, until the next Session, in order that they might have more information on the subject. If it should be proved that the regulations of the board could not be carried into effect without this additional outlay, he believed there would be no hos-
 1079
 MR. ALDERMAN COPELAND  said, he had great objection to the 30th clause with respect to the amount of compensation. He would ask the promoters of the Bill if they thought they were dealing fairly with the public? The rate of 6 s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s s s d s d
 MR. F. MACKENZIE  then proposed, as the first resolution—
 "That the duties payable on British spirits when taken out of warehouse for home consumption shall be charged on the quantity ascertained by the measure and strength of the sum actually delivered, save and except that when such spirits are not in a warehouse of special security no greater abatement, on account of deficiency of the quantity or strength, as ascertained at the time the said spirits were warehoused, shall be made than shall be after the several rates of allowance following, that is to say;—for every 100 gallons, hydrometer proof, for any time not exceeding three months, two gallons; for any time exceeding three months, and not exceeding six months, three gallons; for any time exceeding six and not exceeding twelve months, four gallons; and for every additional six months, one gallon,"
 MR. F. MACKENZIE  then proposed the second resolution:—
 "That when British spirits are taken out of a warehouse for ship stores and for exportation to foreign parts, no duty shall be charged on any deficiency that may occur in warehouse, save and except that if the said spirits shall not be in a warehouse of special security, the duty shall be charged on any deficiency exceeding the rate" allowance in the foregoing resolution,"
 MR. MACKINNON  offered to withdraw his Motion, provided the hon. Gentleman the Member for the city of London would pledge himself to endeavour to reduce the dues at least one-half.
 MR. MACKINNON : Sir, I rise to move for a Select Committee to investigate the revenue and expenditure and present condition of the Harbours of Ramsgate and Margate. The trustees of the harbour receive annually a sum of about 21,100 l l l l 1081 l l l l l l l 1082 ex uno disce omnes d d 1083 l l l l l l d "Foreign Trade Committee, April 26, 1822. "Sir William Curtis examined. " Q A " Q l l A "W. Domett, Esq., examined (p. 276). " Q A " Q l A "George Good, Esq., examined. " Q A l " Q A " Q A 1084 l l l l l l l l l l 1085 "That a Select Committee be appointed, to investigate the revenue, condition, and expenditure of Ramsgae and Margate Harbours."
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  opposed the clause on great constitutional principles. This Bill was to be confined to the metropolitan districts, but he objected to a precedent of this nature.
 SIR B. HALL  gave notice that, on the
 1076
 SIR B. HALL  said, that the public had not been aware of them till they came out in the inquiry which took place in November last.
 SIR B. HALL  said, the tax thus levied would realise some 35,000 l
 SIR B. HALL  then moved the proviso giving power to vestries to provide burial grounds at their own expense.
 SIR B. HALL  thought the House ought to confine compensation for burial fees to the number of burials of persons who had resided within the parish and had been buried within it. He begged to repeat what he had stated on a former occasion, that the metropolitan clergy had acted in the most objectionable manner with regard to encouraging the interment of persons who were strangers in the parish. [Mr. B. OSBORNE: Speak louder.] It was utterly impossible for him to speak louder. He had addressed thousands of persons within the borough which he represented, and his voice had been pretty well heard by them. The fact that he could not make himself heard in that House, showed the necessity of appointing a Committee to see what could be done with the House to remedy this defect. Some of the clergy of London had made a traffic of their burial grounds, and when they found that the fees were too high they lowered them, in order to induce parties to bring a greater number of bodies for interment than the ground ought to have been made to hold. And yet the House, by this clause, was about to give compensation to persons who had practised this improper trafficking. The disgusting scenes which had taken place in St. Giles's Cemetery, Old St. Pancras-road, had been given in evidence. Sometimes, when they buried a poor person, they threw a little earth over him, but as soon as the burial was over, and the mourners gone, the coffin was removed to a neighbouring vault. In 1846 there were 896 deaths in the parish of St. Giles, but there were 2,323 burials in the ground to which he was referring. In 1847 the deaths were 1,298, and the burials 2,877; in 1848 the deaths were 1,111, and the burials 3,578; while for one-half of 1849 the deaths were 573, and the burials, 3,440. A case could be proved in which a body was entirely broken up, the head being separated from the other parts, and the whole in this disgusting con-
 1074
 SIR B. HALL  said, that when an inquiry was ordered by the Board of Health, Dr. Tyler objected to the press being admitted, and to have any report of the evidence appear in the newspapers. It came out, however, on the evidence of one of the gravediggers, that the practice was to pretend to fill up the grave whilst the mourners were present, but as soon as they were gone, the bodies were removed to a family vault to make room for others. He
 1075
 SIR B. HALL  was glad of the alteration, which he thought would do away with much of the objection to the clause as it stood. Its effect would have been, had the compensation been given by fees on each body, to double the income of some of the clergy in about forty years; for in the parishes of St. Marylebone and St. Pancras the population had doubled in the last forty years. He had been anxious to prevent one clergyman receiving the whole of the fees, and would move a proviso to that effect, requiring a separate fund to be kept for every parish. Those parishes near the centre of the metropolis could not increase much in population; the great increase was in those on the outskirts; the proviso was therefore necessary to prevent the amount paid to the incumbents of the latter parishes from continually increasing, and ultimately doubling or quadrupling itself. This proviso would prevent the amount paid to any incumbent ever exceeding the average of his receipts for the five years preceding the passing of the Act.
 SIR E. BUXTON  thought the fees of graveyards should be limited to those members of families interred within them, and that the fees accruing from the interments of strangers ought to be appropriated to those parishes that were in need of them.
 SIR G. GREY  hoped it would not be necessary for the board to have recourse to the rating clause; but it was clear that, if the fees did not meet the expenses, it would be necessary to have some other mode of providing the necessary funds to fall back upon, otherwise the whole machinery might come to a dead lock. The propriety of having a central board, rather than leaving the whole matter to parochial management, had been amply discussed, and very substantial reasons given why a central board ought to be preferred. As to the remarks which had been made with reference to the unconstitutional character of the rate, he must remind the House that the object was to substitute burial grounds for the existing churchyards in the various parishes, and that, though the machinery by which the rate was to be raised might be new, yet there was nothing new in the imposition of the rate itself. He was certainly surprised that the hon. Member for Marylebone should propose to give power to the parochial authorities to provide burial places after the statements they had heard from him relative to one of the parochial churchyards. He would certainly oppose the proviso he had moved, and he hoped the House would give its sanction to the clause.
 SIR G. GREY  would take time to consider the proposition of the hon. Baronet.
 SIR G. GREY  said, the 6 s d
 SIR G. GREY  said, the average would be calculated on the number of funerals, and the number of fees received, exclusive of any presents to the clergymen. The disposal of the surplus, after paying the chaplains and compensating the clergy, would be applied for church purposes in connexion with the growing population.
 SIR G. GREY  said, he proposed to introduce certain amendments in this clause (the clause giving compensation to clergymen), which he conceived would meet the objections that had been raised against it. It had been decided, when the House was last in Committee, that the compensation should not be limited to existing incumbents; but the amount of that compensation, and the distribution of it, were still open to consideration. The House seemed generally to assent to the principle of giving a just and fair compensation to existing incumbents. With regard to future incumbents, it had been thought necessary that some payment should be continued to them, with a view to obviate the deficiency of income which would be caused in many parishes were these fees withdrawn. In several parishes these fees formed a considerable portion of the income of the incumbent, especially of that class of the clergy for whom great sympathy had always been expressed in that House, the working clergy. The average payment on each interment had been fixed at 6 s d s d 1069
 SIR G. GREY  said, that he had no knowledge of the facts to which the hon. Gentleman referred, but he had known the Rev. Dr. Tyler for a long time, and, from what be knew of that gentleman's character, he believed that he was incapable of giving his sanction to any such proceedings as had been detailed by the hon. Gentleman. If any parties had been guilty of the facts stated, they would be liable to be proceeded against for a misdemeanour. He did not know whether the hon. Gentlemen was misinformed as to his facts, but he felt assured that he was misinformed as to the Rev. Dr. Tyler's having any connexion with them.
 SIR G. GREY  could not answer that question at present.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that it would be devoted to make some provision for the
 1073
 SIR G. GREY  said, that he believed the statistics of the noble Lord the Member for Bath were the most correct, and he could not consent to lower the standard.
 SIR G. PECHELL  was anxious to hear what line of defence would be made to the charge of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Lymington, for he believed there never was a grosser case for inquiry than that of this harbour, where toll was received for larger vessels than ever entered into it. He must call the attention of the House
 1086 l s l s l l l l l l l l
 SIR G. PECHELL  objected to both halfpence and pence. The system of entrusting taxation to an irresponsible board was most disagreeable to all classes, and he should therefore oppose the clause.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that the Bill had been before the House Session after Session, and he was bound to say that all the information which he was able to obtain through the principal land agents in all parts of the country led him to a conclusion most unfavourable to the measure. One of the Members for the county of Lincoln was opposed to the Bill, and
 1120
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  was sorry to differ from the hon. and gallant Member for the city of Lincoln, but he felt bound to support the Bill; he should support it, though he did not think it went far enough. If all landlords were like the hon. and gallant Member, there would be no need of any such measure; but in the northern parts of the country he believed that something of the sort had become quite necessary.
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  coincided in the view taken by the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln with regard to the general feeling upon this measure. His own constituents were certainly opposed to it. What was wanted on behalf of landlord and tenant was some measure enabling persons who had settled estates to give tenants some tenure in the lands they occupied on account of monies sunk in them. But if other counties in the country would follow the example of that of Lincoln, the arguments put forward in favour of this measure would have been wanting. He thought that the measure now proposed was preferable to the former Bill on the same subject; but after having read the evidence, he could not avoid saying that he was, on the whole, unfavourable to the Bill now before the House, for he apprehended that it would lead to improper interference between landlord and tenant, and he regretted to observe that there was in the Bill much that ought to be left as matter of arrangement between the parties interested.
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  said, the tenant
 1121
 MR. PUSEY  was proceeding to defend the clause, when
 The CHAIRMAN  said, it would be impossible for hon. Members to bear the nature of the Amendment and the objections to it unless they preserved a strict silence.
 MR. AGLIONBY , who was seated on the second bench on the Ministerial side, immediately behind the hon. Member for Berkshire, said, "We who are sitting here cannot hear one word."
 MR. PUSEY  said, the words objected to by the hon. Member for South Devon shire were suggested by the right hon. Member for Tamworth, and they formed, in his opinion, one of the most important points in the Bill. It was the practice of all the best farmers in the country, and particularly Norfolk, Lincolnshire, and Suffolk, to purchase cattle and fatten them, but not with a view to derive a profit upon the mere purchase and sale of those cattle. The cattle and sheep were kept for the sake of the manure, and the Committee would call upon the farmers to improve their land for the benefit of the landowner, if they agreed to this Amendment.
 MR. AGLIONBY  thought the proposition of the hon. Baronet would have been much more intelligible if it had gone the length of striking out the entire clause; but in its present shape it would be detrimental to the tenant, and therefore he must support the clause in its original form.
 MR. DRUMMOND  complained of the vague manner in which the clause was worded. The phrase "improvements" would be a fruitful source of litigation, as it would be hard to reconcile men's minds as to what was really an "improvement" and what was not.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that the exhortation of the Chairman, that Members should preserve a strict silence, was indeed necessary, because, although in the old House it was said that the debates were one-sided, in this House they were inevitably so, in another sense. Thus, although hon. Members heard every word which came from hon. Gentlemen opposite, yet they could not hear a word of what was said by hon. Members on their own side of the House. They were, therefore, discussing the measure at a great disadvantage, for they heard half, and only half, of what was going on. As the Committee appeared about to resolve itself into a farmers' club, he must admit that he could not pretend to vie in agricultural knowledge with preceding speakers. It did not, however, appear desirable to him to place such artificial manures as guano and bones upon the same footing as food purchased for the feeding of animals. The tenant did not receive an immediate return from the guano and bones, but a great portion of the food for animals did give him a large and immediate return. It was said that these animals were regarded by the farmer as machines for converting food into manure, and that they were not bought and fed with any expectation of profit. So far as his experience went, that was not a true description. He believed that cattle, sheep, and pigs, if bought with judgment, did return a large and considerable profit, even although the farmer should give them food for fattening them more speedily. It would be said that no harm could result from the operation of this clause, because it would not come into operation unless by agreement between landlord and tenant, without which it would not be binding upon the former. But by the 9th clause he found that this agreement, in default of some stipulation to the contrary, would be binding upon the remainderman. If the tenant for life should enter into an imprudent bargain, that was his own affair, and he might be left to look after his own interests. But he could not consent that the reversioner should be bound by an agreement which would be a still worse bargain for him than for his predecessor. He
 1123
 MR. S. HERBERT  quite agreed that food might be purchased and vet cattle might be fed at a profit; but with that exception he differed from the whole of the right hon. Baronet's remarks. He did not think that the question, whether cattle could be fed with a profit or not, was at all an element in this discussion. The right hon. Baronet was ready to include artificial manures, and also allowed that improvements having a permanent effect on the property could fairly be charged against the reversioner; but if he admitted guano and similar manures, he (Mr. S. Herbert) could not see any principle on which he could exclude the oil-cake, for instance, from which manure was made. If arrangements were allowed to be entered into with respect to compensation for artificial manures, what ground was there for such an interference with the rights of property as to prevent similar arrangements being entered into with respect to the feeding of cattle, sheep, and pigs? He would venture to Say that a better argument against the law of entail (which he believed to be essential to the stability and well-being of the country) could not be used than to urge that the system of entails obstructed the improvement of the land, which would otherwise be effected. He should oppose the omission of the words proposed to be struck out, because he thought the law ought not to prevent landlords from making bargains with their tenants, which were necessary for the improvement of the soil.
 MR. AGLIONBY  thought that the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon had been led away in his opposition to the clause by the system of farming in the northern counties, and had totally overlooked the practice pursued in the south. In Hampshire and other southern counties, it was customary to fold sheep on small pieces of land, and feed them highly principally for the sake of manure for the land for the next crop.
 MR. FLOYER  said, the principal objection
 1124
 MR. NEWDEGATE  thought that some improvement might be made in the mode of valuation, but was not prepared to recognise so great a change as was proposed by this Bill. If they passed this Act without some limitation on parties to charge their successors, which would inflict a wrong upon those successors, they would most effectually invalidate the law of entail. If a person having a life estate had power to charge his successor to an unlimited extent, as he would under this Bill, the measure, instead of being a benefit* would be an injury, for it would be an absolute encouragement to the tenant for life to beggar his successor. He had hoped that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Berkshire would have introduced a clause with regard to the power given to the tenant for life to charge his successor; and he (Mr. Newdegate) begged to give notice that, on the report being brought up, he would move the introduction of a clause limiting the power of a person in possession of a life estate to charge the interest of his successor.
 MR. PUSEY  said, the principle involved in the Clause was nothing more than the tenant-right of Lincolnshire, and the result of very minute inquiries made by two successive Committees of that House. With regard to what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon as to the profitable feeding of sheep and cattle, he might be right so far as Scotland and the north of England were concerned, but his observations did not apply to the south and west. In his belief the two kinds of manure used by the farmers—that derived from artificial substances put into the land, and that derived from the feeding of animals, ought to be placed upon the same footing. The right hon. Gentleman asked if any prudent gentleman was likely to saddle his property with this sort of charge for feeding sheep and cattle. In answer to that, he could tell him that the Earl of Yarborough had introduced this very principle into the management of his property in the Isle of Wighe. It was rather inconsistent
 1125
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  believed that the clause, as it stood, would give rise to a great deal of litigation among the farmers. It was all very well to tell him that it was founded upon the tenant-right of Lincolnshire; but there was also a tenant-right of Surrey with which landlords were saddled, and how were they to graft the tenant-right of Lincolnshire as to sheep and cattle upon the other? Really the landed interest was not in such a condition as to warrant the imposition of a burden like this. They had only to read the reports of the  Times
 MR. K. SEYMER  said, the supporters of the Amendment conjured up all sorts of Contingencies, such as landlords making imprudent bargains with their tenants, and the probability of the interests of the remaindermen being injured; and, on the ground of these, they justified the omission of the words relative to the sheep, cattle, and pigs; but, as he thought these contingencies should not weigh against the benefits of the measure, he would vote for the retention of the words.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  was not surprised that lawyers should be found supporting this Bill, as it would bring grist to their own mill, He was opposed to the measure out and out, and would, therefore, vote for the Amendment.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  must remind his hon. Friend the Member for Berkshire that the results of the application of artificial manures, such as guano or bones, were much slower than the effect produced by the use of articles purchased for feeding sheep or cattle, and which included a return partly from the animal and partly from the land; therefore, he did not feel the force of the observation made by his hon. Friend, that the two kinds of manure were to be placed exactly on the same footing. Again, he demurred to his general statement, that
 1126
 SIR J. Y. BULLER  viewed with alarm all those measures that enabled the gentry of this country to saddle their estates with burdens that would go down to their successors. He was confident that the landed interest could alone overcome the difficulties which might beset them by being free from debt. By this clause a landlord might be assailed by two or three outgoing tenants at once, claiming compensation from him at a time when he was unable to give it from want of money. As to the profit to be derived from feeding cattle, he certainly went with the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon, rather than the hon. Member for Berkshire. The hon. Gentleman seemed to think that if these words were struck out, they would raise the price of meat. If he (Sir J. Y. Buller) thought that would be the case, he would press his Amendment just all the more strongly.
 MR. T. GREENE  proposed an Amendment, to the effect that the word "owner" should not extend to the incumbent of any eeclesiastical benefice.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the condition of land held by the Church was lamentably unsatisfactory, owing to the absence of any power to charge that land for improvements. At the same time, it might happen that a clergyman in possession of a living might have ample means besides those derived from that living, and, having sanctioned improvements, might leave the living the next day, and so throw the burden of them on his successor. He, however, intended to move an Amendment on the bringing up of the report, that persons in possession of a limited estate should not have the power of charging the estate of his successor beyond a certain amount.
 MR. PUSEY  said, the Bill was founded on the practice in Lincolnshire, in which county there were many holders of glebe land, and the practice had not been abused.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  proposed that the consideration of this part of the Bill should be postponed in order that the hon. Member for North Warwickshire might have an opportunity of framing his proviso, because, if the Amendment of the hon. Member for Lancaster were agreed to, it would be equivalent to an enactment against all improvements of glebe. At the same time there ought to be some limitation of the outlay, and that the consent of the patron and ordinary should be required.
 MR. T. GREENE  said, there was a strong feeling that some protection should be given to the clergy; and in order that the subject might be fully considered he would postpone his Amendment until the bringing up of the report.
 MR. TRELAWNY  objected to the clause generally, and moved its rejection.
 MR. TURNER  objected also to committees of lunatics having the power referred to.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the words in the clause should have been "committee of the estate of the lunatic," and not of the lunatic himself. What his hon. Friend proposed was, that the same power should be given to the committee of the estate, subject to the approbation of the Court of Chancery, as the lunatic himself would have had.
 MR. WALPOLE  thought that it would be expedient to omit that portion of the
 1128
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that the case of a mortgagee in possession was somewhat rare; but, if a mortgagor himself were disqualified from improving his estate under this Act without the consent of all who had charges upon it, the expense would be so enormous, and the delay so great, that he would lose the advantage of such improvement. In the first instance, however, he certainly thought the House should strike out the words proposed by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Midhurst to be omitted.
 MR. PUSEY  said, that the principle of the Bill was that no charge should actually fall upon the land, but upon the incoming tenant. The clause had been carefully prepared by a skilful conveyancer, and he believed it was precisely similar to the provision which existed in the Drainage Act.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that he would take the opportunity of referring to the clause with respect to the rights of mortgagees in the Drainage Acts, and hoped that upon the bringing up of the report the hon. Member who had charge of the Bill would consent to strike out that portion of the clause to which he had referred.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that he did not intend to offer any opposition to the second reading of the Bill. It was almost unnecessary for him to assure his hon. and learned Friend that he concurred entirely in the objects which were sought to be attained by this Bill, having made some slight endeavour himself to carry into effect a measure in a similar direction which had already received the sanction of the House, and gone to the other House of Parliament. In that measure he proposed a mode of taking the opinion of the Court of Chancery upon a special case without rendering it necessary to file a Bill; and he begged to call the attention
 1135 1136 1137 1138
 MR. TWISDEN HODGES , in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said its object was to remedy the existing law, which was liable to abuse. At present, the mayor of a borough, assisted by two assessors, was required annually to revise the burgess list. It happened occasionally, that the mayor was a candidate for the suffrages of these very boroughs, and that circumstance might influence his decision in cases which came before him. He could show the necessity of such a Bill as the present by what had taken place in one borough, and he had no doubt similar proceedings might be adopted with impunity in other places. In the borough to which he alluded, the mayor, two or three years ago, was a candidate for election, and he, in point of fact, had to revise the lists for his own election. That person first of all canvassed the borough, he then proceeded to revise the burgess list, and afterwards he returned to his canvass, and congratuted his friends on the course he had taken. [An Hon. MEMBER asked what borough was alluded to.] He alluded to Rochester, where, in consequence of a number of objections having been raised which were afterwards withdrawn, the proceedings were delayed to such a late period that the lists could not be gone through, so that they had to fall back on those of the preceding year. This he conceived was a grievance to which a remedy should be applied.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  seconded the Amendment. He objected to the Bill on the same grounds as those mentioned by the hon. and gallant Colonel; and added, that he was acquainted with many towns where party spirit ran high, but he had never heard of partiality being charged against the presiding officer.
 MR. BERNAL , in supporting the Bill, admitted that it owed its inception to what had occurred at Rochester. At the same time, he believed that that was not an isolated case; and every one must admit that it was a sound, useful, and constitutional principle that no man should preside as judge in his own cause. With regard to the apprehended increase of expense, he thought that the cost of municipal registration, as at present conducted, was as great as it would be under the proposed Bill. He suggested, however, that the measure should not be imperative in its enactments, but permissive, taking effect only upon a memorial from a certain number of the ratepaying inhabitants of a borough. A clause of that nature might be added in Committee.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  opposed the Bill on the grounds already stated. In the borough of East Retford the lists were made up by the overseers; and during the last seven years not a single objection had been taken to the burgess list. His constituents objected to the expense of a revising barrister's court.
 MR. S. ADAIR  opposed the Bill. Whatever alterations might be necessary in Rochester, there was surely no necessity for passing a practical vote of censure upon every municipal authority throughout the country.
 SIR G. GREY  said, a deputation had waited on him some time ago from Rochester, complaining of the conduct of the mayor; and his answer to them at that time was, that the law provided a remedy against a mayor who neglected his duty, and that, until they had tried that, they had no right to ask the interference of Parliament. An action had since been
 1142
 MR. SMYTH  stated, that in York the expense of revising the municipal lists at present was only the amount of the handbill announcing the revision, no allowance being made to the overseers at all. Feeling that the Bill would entail a needless expense upon corporate towns, he cordially supported the Amendment.
 MR. HUDSON  had himself revised these lists upon three occasions, and could bear testimony that under the present system there was no expense whatever. He had presented a petition from Sunderland against the proposed Bill; and he trusted that it would be rejected by the House.
 MR. TWISDEN HODGES  said, that seeing the strong feeling of the House against the Bill, he would not press it.
 MR. P. SCROPE , pursuant to notice, moved that it be read a third time that day six months. He did so, because he conceived the Bill to be unjust in principle, and that its operation would be injurious to the interests of the poor. The object of the measure was, to render the poorer class of houses, which were at present exempted from the poor-rates and highway-rates,
 1143 l
 MR. HUME  opposed the Bill on the ground that it introduced an entirely new principle. If they adopted this measure, the House would, in consistency, be bound to apply the same principle to every house and every estate in the country.
 MR. BROTHERTON  would tell the hon. Member for Stroud why the Bill did not apply to other property. Formerly the rents of small tenements were collected quarterly, and consequently the tax-gatherer had some chance of getting payment of the taxes from the occupiers. Now, the landlords anticipated tax-gatherers by collecting the rents weekly, and the result was that it was found impossible to collect
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  opposed the Bill on the ground that it would be no relief at all to the occupiers, who would be made to repay the owners in the shape of increased rent.
 MR. BAINES  said, that the Bill was so fully discussed on the second reading that he did not think it necessary to go at any length into the matter now. He begged, however, to state that it was altogether incorrect in the hon. Members for Montrose and Stroud to assert that the Bill introduced a new principle. So far from the principle being new, he believed that for a long series of years almost every local Act that had been passed to regulate taxation, had embodied it. The Act which was known as Sturges Bourne's Act contained the same principle as this Bill did; but, without any reason that he had been able to discover, stopped at the minimum limit of 6 l l l 1145
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  said, that from his practical knowledge of the working of the principle in Ireland, he anticipated nothing but injury and oppression to the poor from its application to England.
 SIR G. PECHELL  gave his support to the Bill, on the understanding that the franchise was to be secured to the occupiers, a provision which he understood was to be proposed at the proper time.
 SIR G. GREY  thought more time should be given to consider the wording of this clause.
 MR. TURNER , after presenting a petition in favour of the Bill from the solicitors practising in Chancery, proceeded to express the gratification he felt at the circumstance
 1129 1130 1131 1132 l 1133 "That in case no debt or liability, or no debt or liability other than a contingent liability, shall have been allowed as aforesaid, or in case any debt or liability, other than as aforesaid, shall have been allowed as aforesaid, then after the same shall have been paid, or provided for by appropriation as aforesaid, all payments made by the executors, or administrators, or any of them, on account of the estate of the deceased person, and all dispositions of such assets made by them, or any of them, on account of such estate, shall, as against all persons having, or claiming to have, any demand upon such estate by reason of any debt or liability, other than persons who may have established under the said order any contingent liability for which no such appropriation as aforesaid may have been made, be as good and effectual as if the same had been made under a decree of the said court; provided always, that nothing herein contained shall in any manner affect or prejudice the rights of any creditor or other person having any demand or claim upon the estate of the deceased, against any assets so paid or disposed of, or against the persons to whom such payment or disposition may have been made, or against any assets appropriated under the provisions of this Act, and the appropriation of which, if made under a decree of the said court in a suit to which he was not a party, would not have been binding upon him." 1134
 MR. C. ANSTEY  wished to state that at that moment there were cases before the present Lord Chancellor which since 1847 had been declared ready for judgment, but upon which no further steps had been taken. He was sorry to hear that it was intended by the Lord Chancellor to give judgment on those cases without hearing any further argument, although such a period had elapsed since the cases were before him. He confessed that he thought the reforms should have commenced in the Court of Chancery itself, and not in the inferior courts. In 1848 he knew of a case of appeal which was brought before the Lord Chancellor, in which four aged persons were interested, against the Crown. It was strongly urged that judgment should be given with as little delay as possible after the case had been urged, as the parties might not survive. Nothing, however, was done. But these aged parties were now dead, and a new suit had to be instituted by their representatives. He trusted, whoever might be the successor to the present Lord Chancellor, that he would have
 1140
 MR. W. P. WOOD  agreed with his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General in thinking that it was owing to public attention having recently been so much directed to the abuses in the Court of Chancery that they now had obtained the means of carrying out reforms in that court. He wished, however, to direct the attention of hon. Members to a return just laid on the table, which he feared had not received that attention which it deserved. From this document it appeared that there were 1,947 cases in the Masters' Offices. When these cases were brought forward, it was necessary to obtain a warrant for hearing, which warrant only lasted for an hour, unless under very extraordinary circumstances, when it extended to two hours. When a counsel in a case had obtained a warrant, he was expected to open his case in a portion of this time. A second warrant for rehearing could not be obtained for the space of six weeks, and then he had to remind the Masters of what he had said before, and then to get through his case. Another six weeks must then elapse before the barrister on the
 1139 v
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY 
 1162
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, it was hardly possible to discuss this Bill in Committee satisfactorily in the present chamber. As he stated yesterday, he heard everything from hon. Gentlemen opposite, but he could not hear a word of what was said by hon. Members who sat before him on the same side of the House. He said he wished to call the attention of the Government to the evidence given by Mr. Hagley, a competent officer of the Government, in a valuable report respecting the present state of the law for the recovery of small debts. The clause under discussion, in its present shape. Mould have a prospective operation. Now, under the existing Act the clerks of county courts were appointed by the Judges, with the sanction of the Lord Chancellor; and when once that sanction was given, it could not be withdrawn. The result was, that no direct power was possessed by the Government to remove a clerk, whatever might be his misconduct; and at present there were some of the clerks who resided out of their districts. This was an unsatisfactory state of things, and the evidence of Mr. Hagley was strong in favour of a power of removal being vested either in the Secretary of State or in the Lord Chancellor—he should prefer in the Secretary of State. There was no doubt that the country had pronounced very decidedly in favour of the extension of the jurisdiction of the county courts. He would admit that there were some doubts whether the extension would be found to work so well as had been anticipated; but the opinion was so strong in favour of the present Bill, that he thought
 1163
 SIR G. GREY  agreed with his right hon. Friend that it would be desirable to be able to remove clerks in cases of misconduct. He should be prepared to carry out the recommendations of the committee of county court judges so far as they might appear calculated to improve the law and practice of the courts.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  had next a clause enacting that summonses and orders Might be served by parties or their agents. Such a clause had been very generally demanded, and he had prepared one in which he had endeavoured to carry out the wishes of those parties. But he had since received so many representations of the difficulty and danger of admitting such a principle, that he had great doubts whether the House ought to agree to the clause. It seemed hard, upon the one hand, that parties should be compelled, at some expense, to employ others to do what they were able and willing to do for themselves. But remembering, on the other hand, that the due service of the summons was the foundation of the jurisdiction of the court, and that the courts would be liable to be imposed upon if plaintiffs were to be allowed to serve their own summonses, he was inclined to think that it would be better that some additional expense should be incurred than that the courts should be exposed to the
 1164
 SIR G. PECHELL  said, that hon. Members near him were labouring under this disadvantage—that they could not hear one word. There was something in the clause to enable parties to serve their own summonses. [The ATTORNEY GENERAL: I have withdrawn it.] He had not heard anything about it; but if the hon. and learned Gentleman did intend to persevere in moving the clause—[An Hon. MEMBER: It is withdrawn.] If the hon. and learned Gentleman had only spoken loud enough, he might have heard that the clause was withdrawn; but he could hear nothing about it.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  could assure the hon. and gallant Member that he had spoken at the top of his voice, and, if the Chairman would acquit him of disrespect, he would turn round and repeat to the hon. Member what he had said.
 MR. HUME  would really suggest to the Committee whether they had better not retire to the other House. Except the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon, he had not been able to hear one word.
 MR. GOULBURN : The reason was because the Committee expected to hear something worth hearing from his right hon. Friend, and accordingly they had listened.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, it was more important that the Committee should be able to hear what fell from the Government than anything he could say. He could assure the House that it was impossible for hon. Members to hear what was said by those who were seated before them. In a debate that might not be inconvenient, but in Committee it was exceedingly so.
 MR. STAFFORD  had been sitting on the Ministerial side, and had been straining to hear what was going on. He had, however, been compelled to cross over to the Opposition bench in order to listen to the Members of the Government.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the next clause he had to propose was one of considerable importance. At present, if a person laid a plaint, and served it on a defendant, even though the latter made no defence, the plaintiff was obliged to go to the court with all his witnesses and incur
 1165
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the object of the next clause he had to propose was to save expense in the summoning of juries. It was to the effect that, instead of high sheriffs and bailiffs, as at present, furnishing a list of jurors, for which a fee of twopence a folio was paid, the clerk of each county court should select a jury, when required, from a list of persons assessed for the poor at a rental of 20 l
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he had another clause to propose, the object of which was to give the Treasury the power of ordering that judges, clerks, and ether officers should be paid by salaries instead of fees. At present a minute in Council was necessary for that purpose, but it was thought better to place the matter in the hands of the Treasury.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  then proposed a clause vesting the power of appointing and dismissing the necessary servants of the courts and offices in the Commissioners of the Treasury.
 MR. AGLIONBY  thought care should be taken to have such persons appointed to those offices as would be really competent for the duties, and that the evil of having too small salaries, which would lead to the appointment of unfit persons, should be avoided. These places, he thought, should be under the control and direction of the district clerks.
 SIR G. GREY  said, it was proposed to give the power of appointment and dismissal to the Treasury in cases where there was any neglect of duty; and the same power could be exercised in the case of those persons who were found incapable.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  then proposed a clause providing that town-halls and court-houses shall be used free of rent-charge for the sittings of county courts.
 MR. HENLEY  thought it possible that under this clause county business might
 1166
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the spirit of the clause was completely opposed to the occurrence of any such contingency. Of course, such arrangements would be made by all parties as would obviate any inconvenience.
 SIR G. PECHELL  wished to say once more that he could not hear one Word that was said. The conversation going on among a few Gentlemen was quite confidential. He wished to know if the existing settlements regarding town-halls were to be continued?
 MR. CARDWELL  said, this clause had been brought in at his request, and it was certainly intended to save all existing contracts.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  objected to the clause, as the matter was under the consideration of the Committee of County Court Judges.
 LORD D. STUART  opposed the clause, the enactment of which might be attended with great practical inconvenience; for instance, the judges might be obliged to stop in town till the following day, and the witnesses on both sides in the case, together with the plaintiff and defendant, because the clause of the hon. Gentleman would not permit the court to sit after six o'clock.
 MR. T. M'CULLAGH  said, the strongest representations had been made to him on this subject, and he had been informed that cases had occurred of some of the county courts in England sitting until after midnight. He would not, however, press the clause after the objection of the learned Attorney General.
 MR. FITZROY  understood the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General intended to oppose this clause; but he wished to say that the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard had rather misstated the facts as to the appeal clause in the Bill originally. He (Mr. Fitzroy) himself had always been opposed to the appeal, and had only introduced the clause in deference to what he understood to have been the express wish of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary and the hon. and learned Attorney General. He considered the adoption of the clause now proposed would be extremely objectionable.
 SIR G. GREY  disclaimed having expressed any wish that an appeal clause should be introduced. He had objected to the introduction of the Bill itself, as he thought they were running the risk of depriving these courts of the character which made them popular. He had, on a former occasion, stated that the sum of 20 l l l
 MR. AGLIONBY  believed that the addition of this clause would render the Bill distasteful to the whole country, and make it a curse instead of a blessing. The right of appeal as to matters of fact might induce many judges to throw off their proper responsibility. He knew no form of tribunal so satisfactory as the arbitration of a single barrister of eminence; it was on that ground that he was in favour of the Bill without appeal. For his own part he would rather have a decision pronounced against him than be subjected to an appeal.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  must oppose the introduction of this clause. The object of establishing these courts was to
 1170 l l
 MR. COCKBURN  believed an appeal to be absolutely necessary. There was no Member of the House who was a more cordial supporter of the principle of the measure than he was. He was in favour of localising the administration of justice, and hoped to see these courts gradually absorb the legal business of the country; but in order to the beneficial working of the Bill, there must be an appeal from the decisions of the judges to some superior court. He had never yet seen a judge, however exalted he might be in ability and intelligence, upon whom the consciousness of being subjected to superintending control did not act salutarily; and he believed that these sixty judges needed such control. It must be recollected that they would not have the same check from the bar and the press as the superior courts, and unless they were operated upon by the consciousness of there being an appeal from their decisions, their decisions would be contradictory, and there would be a confused administration of the law. No other judge, not even the Lord Chancellor, was exempt from appeal. He admitted that the object of the Bill was to secure summary, speedy, and cheap justice; but when the jurisdiction should be extended to 50 l 1171
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, he, too, was very anxious for the Success of the measure; but he would not prognosticate as to the fate of the Bill in the other House. He was extremely glad that Her Majesty's Government had adopted the course which they had done that evening, that of endeavouring to perfect the Bill as far as possible, so as to meet the reasonable expectations of the great body of the people. He was unable to combat the arguments urged with his accustomed force by the hon. and learned Member for Southampton. He admitted that it might have been desirable to wait longer, in order to see what had been the exact working of the County Court Act. He also admitted, that amongst sixty judges they could not expect uniformity of decision, and that from the very constitution of these courts there could not be such a check on the conduct of the judges as existed in the superior courts. But the two hon. and learned Gentlemen who had just spoken, even though they might argue with the wisdom of Solon, shared a misfortune which had befallen greater persons, and their arguments were liable to the objection which was expressed in two words, "too late." It was the opinion of the people of this country, that in the superior courts of law, what with delay of process, and what with the great expense attending an application to them, justice was too dear; and that they must have a more summary and ready process. He was afraid that the justice which was about to be placed at their disposal, though cheap, would be imperfect as compared with that which they were accustomed to receive at the hands of the Judges of this country. He also entertained some fears as to the indirect effect of this measure in relation to the bar of Westminster Hall—a body of men which he considered to be one of the greatest ornaments of the country, and to whom it was under eternal obligations. If such was the effect, he should regret it. Still the judgment of the people of this country had gone forth. They said, that the course of proceedings in the superior courts with reference to debts of 50 l 1172
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, however right it might be to desire cheap, speedy, and summary justice, certain justice was not less important; and he could not help fearing that the decisions of the sixty county court judges would be found as conflicting as those of Election Committees were formerly, when no person could anticipate the decision of the Committee except by looking at its constitution. He had no wish to impede the progress of the Bill; on the contrary, he aimed at making it perfect, and for that reason he should vote for the additional clause.
 MR. J. S. WORTLEY  doubted whether those were the best friends of the measure who resisted the proposed addition. It was his firm conviction that if the Bill were passed without including the right of appeal, the county courts would become as remarkable for their unpopularity as they now were for their popularity. The expense of the proposed appeal would be comparatively trifling, not exceeding that of an appeal to the quarter-sessions. In Scotland there was in the ease of debts exceeding 10 l
 COLONEL THOMPSON  would excuse himself for interfering, by stating that he
 1173
 MR. J. EVANS  opposed the clause. He was about to argue a case in the new trial paper in the Queen's Bench, which was a year old; and he had frequently had to argue country new trials after they had been a year and a half or two years in the paper, when he had forgotten all about them. There would be no end of appeals if his hon. and learned Friend's proposition were acceded to, and the business of the Superior courts must necessarily fall into arrear.
 MR. CROWTHER  said, that the arguments of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ripon had failed to convince him of the propriety of passing this Bill without the appeal clause. The House was legislating, not for the moment, but for a continuance, and it would be a strong piece of legislation to pass this Bill without giving an appeal from the judges of the county court, when an appeal had always been allowed from judges selected from the very first ranks of the bar. With regard to the observation made by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Haverford west, there might be some arrear in the business of the Queen's Bench, but in the Exchequer and Common Fleas there were no arrears at all.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, although this Bill might be considered to be a new one as compared with the former, he felt bound to continue his opposition to it. These were not times for spending money in the way proposed, when it might be much better expended in providing food and employment for the people. When they bad done this, it was time enough to provide amusements and recreation of the character to be provided for by this Bill. Instead of endeavouring to afford them industrious and profitable employment, he
 1175
 MR. HUME  said, that, from the speech of the hon. and gallant Officer, it was evident he had not read the Bill with that attention which was required. Though the greater part of what he had said had been inaudible where he (Mr. Hume) sat, yet there were some points on which he was disposed not to differ much from the hon. and gallant Member: for instance, he was averse from saddling people with any taxation without representation. It would be most objectionable, in particular, to do so for such things as billiard tables. The Bill, however, did not propose to do all these things entirely without the consent of the inhabitants, but after a public meeting of the ratepayers, and the vote of a certain majority of them. With reference to the gallant Officer himself, he should not be surprised if one of the very first things he would do, after the passing of the Bill, would be to present his constituents with a handsome sum of money wherewith to purchase a library. In the United States there were some 10,000 public libraries, but in England, not 200; and, thinking it was much better that the people should have the opportunity of spending their time in public libraries in preference to public houses, he did hope that the gallant Officer would not put the House to the trouble of dividing, but let them proceed with the details of the measure.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  felt some difficulty in opposing a measure of this kind; but there were several very great discrepancies in the Bill as it at present stood.
 1176
 MR. HEALD  had objected to the former Bill; but after the alterations which had been made, he should vote for going into Committee. He thought the preliminary step of taking the opinion of the ratepayers was a most fair mode of proceeding.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  asked whether it was intended to make it applicable to Ireland?
 MR. EWART  said, it did not apply to Ireland, but he understood that an hon. Member had given notice of his intention to introduce it into Ireland.
 MR. STANFORD  was not opposed to the principles of the Bill; but he complained that the understanding that had been come to on a previous occasion had been departed from by the hon. Member who had charge of the Bill. There was a distinct understanding, on the occasion to which he referred, that the Act should not be forced on any borough without the assent of two-thirds of the ratepayers. There was a distinct understanding, on the occasion to which he referred, that the Act should not be forced on any borough without the assent of two-thirds of the ratepayers. The effect of this would be, that in the borough which he represented, the 4,000 or 5,000 ratepayers which it contained would be governed by two-thirds of the persons upon the burgess-roll—a proceeding to which he should certainly object. He considered, also, that the Bill was too limited in its object. The vast machinery which it proposed to put in motion was merely to erect buildings, and nothing more. When the buildings were erected there would be no books to put into them, unless the defect was supplied by donations. He believed it would prove as inoperative as the Museums Bill which was passed five years ago; the fact being, he understood, that not one museum had been erected under that Act.
 MR. KERSHAW  said, that the statement
 1177
 MR. SPOONER  appealed to his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Lincoln, whether it was worth while to take the sense of the House again upon the principle of the Bill, there having been already two divisions upon it; and whether it would not be better to go at once into Committee, and endeavour to amend it there as much as possible.
 MR. FORBES  had heard various reasons assigned for going into Committee on this Bill, but none of them appeared to his mind at all satisfactory; and, therefore, if his hon. and gallant Friend divided the House, he should vote with him.
 MR. WYLD  was surprised at the opposition which had been offered to this Bill by the agricultural interest, and could only account for it by supposing that they were alarmed lest it should lead to the diminished consumption of an article in which they largely dealt (malt); because it appeared, from the whole course of evidence on this subject, that, in proportion as institutions of this kind were established, drunkenness and crime had diminished.
 MR. GOULBURN  desired to be informed in how many instances the Museums Bill, which was passed five years ago, had been adopted?
 MR. EWART  said, it had been, or was being adopted, in Warrington, Salford, Manchester, Leicester, and other places.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, that, as he observed the object of hon. Members opposite was to waste the time of the House, in order, apparently, to prevent them getting to the next Order on the Paper (the Marriages Bill), he begged to move that the Chairman report progress.
 MR. LAW  thought they had better go on with the present Bill.
 SIR G. GREY  reminded the hon. Gentleman that the effect of his Motion would be to delay the measure indefinitely.
 MR. HUME  considered that, in the circumstances, it would be advisable to proceed with the business which was expected to come on; and he would therefore support the Motion.
 MR. HUME  expressed his sorrow to find how much disposition there was in the House to obstruct a measure for the enlightenment of the country. He was sorry for it, but hon. Members opposite seemed
 1179
 MR. LAW , without the least disrespect to the hon. Member, must enroll him amongst the advocates for ignorance, inasmuch as he had just voted to stop the progress of this Bill for the enlightenment of the country.
 SIR H. VERNEY  said, that those hon. Members who were advocates for this Bill had great reason to complain of the conduct of the hon. Member who had charge of the Bill. He considered the measure one of the greatest importance to the country; its only fault was, that it was applicable to towns alone, and not to the agricultural districts.
 COLONEL THOMPSON , as an impartial witness, must say, that in his judgment there had been no opposition from the other side of the House, and all the opposition had been on his.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  rose to move the Amendment of which he had given notice. He said the Bill had been introduced last year in a form which was perfectly consistent and intelligible, and which professed to make no difference in any way between Churchmen and Dissenters. It did not then profess in any sense to be a Bill for the especial relief of persons dissenting from the Established Church of Great Britain and Ireland. The Bill then provided that there should be full liberty to all persons throughout the united kingdom to contract this description of marriage, and that it should be at the option of any minister of religion, in the church or out of it, to celebrate such marriage or not. The principle of that Bill was affirmed by the House on the second reading, and he (Mr. R. Palmer) gave notice of amendments which would have had the effect of preserving the definitive doctrine of the Church on this subject, and of preserving its discipline to this limited extent, that no clergyman should be permitted to solemnise a marriage contrary
 1180 Nonconformist "It is my intention to reintroduce the Bill to which you refer at the very beginning of the Session, and to press it through the House of Commons, if possible, before Easter. In the House of Lords I regret to have to anticipate a very formidable opposition; and, therefore, it is very important that those who have an interest in the question should spare no exertion to influence public opinion, and, through the force of public opinion, to sway the decision of the Lords. Hitherto, I confess that I have been disappointed at the absence of anything like a systematic support from the Dissenters; for, though an important petition was presented by Mr. C. Lushington, signed by 108 of the principal ministers of Dissenting congregations, no general movement has been made; and yet, considering the high ground of Church authority and canonical decisions which was taken by the opponents of the Marriage Bill, the question really becomes one of religious liberty. If the organisation of the Dissenting bodies could be used for procuring petitions, it would, in my judgment, be of immense value, for though there will be a considerable majority in the House of Commons in favour of the Bill, there will, unless some new impulse be given, be little chance of success in the House of Lords, and it is not a subject on which it is easy to keep up any strong public feeling." 1181 1182 à mensâ et thoro 1183 Confession of Faith Confession of Faith "Marriage ought not to be within the degrees of consanguinity or affinity forbidden in the word. Nor can such incestuous marriages ever be made lawful by any law of man, or consent of parties, so as these persons may live together as man and wife. The man may not marry any of his wife's kindred nearer in blood, than he may of his own; nor the woman of her husband's kindred, nearer in blood than of her own." Confession of Faith "Church censures are necessary for the reclaiming and gain of offending brethren, for deterring others from the like offences, for purging out that leaven which might infect the whole
 1184 "It ought to be remembered that the discipline of our Church (I speak of the Church of Scotland) extends, not merely to the clergy, but to the members of the Church. Suppose, then, that a church member contracts such a marriage as that which this Bill proposes to legalise, he is regarded by our ecclesiastical law as guilty of having contracted an incestuous marriage. Suppose, then, that this man applies for church privileges, baptism for children, or admission to the Lord's table for himself; these privileges, according to the laws of our Church, must be refused, and refused until the incestuous intercourse be discontinued. There is thus a wide difference between such a marriage and what is called an irregular marriage. An irregular marriage is recognised by the law of Scotland, and yet the parties are liable to church censure; but our ecclesiastical law does not in such a case require that the connexion be dissolved, which it does in the other, and, accordingly, parties who have contracted an irregular marriage may be restored to church privileges while living together, which cannot be the case with such as have contracted what the laws of our Church consider an incestuous marriage. The Church, as recognised by the State, has unquestionably been established for the purpose of supplying with divine ordinances those who are without reproach; but if this Bill be passed, the Church of Scotland must regard persons as having disqualified themselves for her communion by doing that which the laws of their country warrant them to do. Then, suppose, again, that a clergyman of our Church takes advantage of this law and enters into such a union as it legalises; the church courts must interfere and take such steps as will ultimately lead to his deposition. They can have no choice in this. 1185 The question will then arise, 'Can a man be lawfully deposed for doing that which the civil law entitles him to do?' The civil law cannot regard him as worthy of deposition. The fruits of the benefice will thus be severed from the cure of souls, which the civil courts a few years ago declared to be impossible, and thus the civil and the ecclesiastical courts are brought into collision; the civil courts refusing to give effect to the sentence of the ecclesiastical, the civil courts declaring the man still to be minister of the particular parish to which he may belong, and still a minister of the Church of Scotland, while the Church of Scotland herself declares him not even to be in communion with her. There will be this most important difference between such a case and those which led to the secession of 1843, that the collision will not be betwixt the civil power and a party in the Church, but betwixt the civil power and the Church itself." "If any offended the brethren, either by adultery, whoredom, incest, or any other uncleanness or wickedness of life, such notorious offenders shall not be admitted to the holy communion till they be reformed." "No person shall marry within the degrees prohibited by the laws of God, and expressed in a table set forth by authority in the year of our Lord 1563; and all marriages so made and contracted shall be adjudged incestuous and unlawful." 1186
 MR. J. S. WORTLEY  could not give his assent to the Amendment, because he believed it not only uncalled for, but contradictory in principle and highly mischievous in operation. It was wholly inconsistent with the general tone and tenor of the Bill; and, with all deference to his hon. and learned Friend, for whoso ability he had the highest respect, he must take
 1187
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  observed that his right hon. and learned Friend had imputed to the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth a wish to extend the limits of Church authority. [Mr. J. S. WORTLEY: Ecclesiastical authority were the words he had used.] If there were any distinction between ecclesiastical authority and Church authority he would leave his right hon. and learned Friend to explain it to the Committee. His right hon. and learned Friend was understood to say, he wished to leave the law as regarded proceedings in ecclesiastical courts precisely where it stood at present. He would leave marriages within the prohibited degrees precisely where they were at present, so far as proceedings in the ecclesiastical courts were concerned. His right hon. and learned Friend, in the letter which the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth had read to the House, complained that the subject then before the
 1188
 SIR F. THESIGER  said, he wished for an explanation of his right hon. and learned Friend's opinion as to the Amendment of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Plymouth; he seemed to have no objection to the latter part of the Amendment. If he understood rightly, his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Bute stated that no ecclesiastical court would possess authority to pronounce sentence in a suit between parties who stood towards each other within the prohibited degrees of affinity.
 MR. J. S. WORTLEY  explained.
 MR. COCKBURN  thought there could be nothing more mischievous than the legislation now proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth; for the Committee, if they agreed to the Amendment, were about to place the ecclesiastical tribunals in direct opposition to the civil tribunals of the country. For all civil purposes, the civil tribunals were, by this Act, to give effect and validity to these marriages; and yet at the same time, by this Amendment, the ecclesiastical tribunals were to be at liberty to pass ecclesiastical censures upon those who contracted the very marriages which the Legislature pronounced to be legal. Now, the ecclesiastical courts of this country did not stand so very high in public estimation at the present moment, that it was expedient to give them the  coup de grace 1189
 MR. OSWALD  wished to obtain some information as to the effect of this Amendment with regard to the Church of Scotland. There were no ecclesiastical courts in Scotland, but there were church courts belonging both to the Established Church and the Free Church. The first part of this Amendment would allow the church courts of Scotland to say that a person who had contracted these marriages had tendered himself subject to their censure; and he wished to know whether the Bill would give to the Scottish Churches the power of maintaining that discipline which was absolutely indispensable to every church, if it were to continue a living body with the power of putting its belief into action.
 MR. P. WOOD  regarded the Amendment as calculated to prevent rather than to provoke a collision between the ecclesiastical and civil courts. He, for one, was anxious to see the ecclesiastical courts liberated from many subjects that now occupied their attention, and he thought he had reason to complain of Her Majesty's Government for not having introduced a Bill to reform those courts. It was stated that such a measure was about to be brought forward, but the Session had well nigh passed, and no step had yet been taken to redeem the promise made by the Government. In the mean time he thought the House ought to leave the ecclesiastical courts to deal with these marriages according to their own principles and doctrines, and the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth would have that effect. He was anxious to see an alteration in the mode of proceeding in ecclesiastical courts, which he admitted was not satisfactory, and he should be glad when the promised Bill was introduced to reform the state of the ecclesiastical law, both temporal and spiritual.
 MR. J. S. WORTLEY  said, that his
 1190
 MR. LAW  said, it would appear, then, that the Church of Scotland would have the power to censure its members for having contracted these marriages. Would his right hon. and learned Friend extend that power to the Church of England?
 MR. J. S. WORTLEY  explained that with the exception of suits in the ecclesiastical court, which were excepted by the Amendment before the House, the power of censure now held by the Church of England, as well as of Scotland, would not be interfered with.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  declared his entire dissent from the statement just made by the right hon. and learned Gentleman.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  said: Sir, having given notice of my intention to move the insertion of a clause in the Marriage Bill of the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Buteshire, I must of necessity claim the indulgence of the House. Perhaps, Sir, it may not be expected that I should take any part in this debate; but as I know of no reason why a soldier should not be interested in a matter of a religious character, I venture, as such, to offer my decided objection to the concession now sought for. I am unwilling that this Bill should pass for one or two reasons, which I shall briefly state to the House. When I acknowledge I am predisposed to receive with favour and with confidence every sound argument against legalising those impure marriages which the Divine law has ever pronounced incestuous, I only acknowledge the force of that Christian education which has taught us all to view with repugnance even the idea of marriage within the prohibited degrees. Before the Catholic Church in England rescued herself from the usurpation, and reformed herself from the innovations of Romanism, the marriages between first and between second cousins was prohibited, and could not be entered into except by dispensation. But by the table of prohibited degrees, published in the year 1663, such marriages were not prohibited;
 1191 "That no person shall marry within the degrees prohibited by the law of God, and expressed in a table set forth by authority in the year of our Lord 1563; and all marriages so made shall be adjudged incestuous and unlawful, and consequently shall be dissolved from the beginning, and the parties so married shall by course of law be separated." "Before the statute the 32nd of Henry VIII., other prohibitions than God's law admitted were invented by the Court of Rome. The dispensation thereof they always reserved to themselves." "Whereas ye desire to understand ray poor advice touching certain words in the xviii. Leviticus, by which ye think it lawful for a man to marry successively his own wife's sister, I would rather ye had taken in hand some other matters to defend. I reckon the words of Leviticus whereupon ye ground are these—'Uxorem et sororem suam ad lacessendam earn, ne duces ut retegas turpitudinem ejus ilia adhuc vivente.' There are no express words in the Levitical law, whereby I am prohibited to marry my wife's sister:  ergo 1192 1193 "I am obliged by your sending me Mr. Wortley's Bill, a measure which, I trust, for the welfare and happiness of the women of these kingdoms, will never pass into a law; such connexions in this country are held in universal and just abhorrence. The feelings of the Roman Catholic laity and clergy are even more strong against it than those of our own people; the Presbyterians of course share in the dislike of the Scotch Church to such marriages. Some time since I made inquiry throughout this country, and ascertained beyond a doubt, that such marriages are scarcely ever heard of, and the conviction that legalising such connexions would be destructive to morality and the best interests of society." Mail "Some of the London morning journals have inserted, and continue to publish, a disgusting advertisement, purporting to be the substance of an unanimous resolution passed at a congregational meeting of Dissenting ministers, who pronounce in favour of the marriage of a widower with his deceased wife's sister or niece. What sort of ministers they pretend to be who thus declare
 1194 "A recent trial in Tipperary illustrates the practical tendency of such a change as Mr. Wortley's Bill would introduce. A Dr. Langley was tried for the murder of his wife and acquitted. The verdict was a just one we admit; but it was fully proved that the prisoner, after living for many years in terms of unbroken affection with his wife, had latterly adopted a course of brutal unmanly treatment towards her, which embittered at least, if it did not shorten her days; and what was the origin of such a sudden change of conduct? It is fully detailed in a letter written by himself, and read at the trial. He conceived an unhappy passion for his wife's niece, to whom no doubt he expected to be joined in matrimony, as soon as the complaisance of the Legislature would sanction such a marriage; and from the moment that thought found harbour in his breast he began to hate his wife. His words are very remarkable, and worthy of consideration—'My aversion to my poor and unfortunate Ellen has now become unconquerable.' How many uncles and brothers-in-law would transfer their affections in a similar manner if the law should open the way towards the gratification of their illicit fancies? This case of Dr. Langley's should not be lost sight of by the defenders of Christian morality in Parliament when Mr. Wortley's Bill comes again to be considered." 1195
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  supported the Option for adjournment. In the progress of the Museum and Libraries Bill he could not tell what hon. Members were saying, and it was almost impossible to find out
 1196
 MR. J. S. WORTLEY  appealed to the House not to yield to any Motion for adjourning so important a question. As to the arguments of the hon. and gallant Officer the Member for the city of Cork, they might apply to the principle of the Bill, which had been confirmed by the House, but did not make out any peculiar case for the exemption of Ireland. Don't let the House be guilty of the absurdity of enacting one law for Ireland, and another for England. The principle of the Bill had received the support of the present Archbishop of Dublin and of the late Dr. Dickenson, the excellent Bishop of Meath. The opponents of the Bill said it was a woman's question; but one of the most distinguished Irishwomen, Miss Edge-worth, stated that her father had married two sisters, and that the marriages had been productive of the greatest domestic happiness.
 MR. F. MAULE  observed, that all the persons quoted by the right hon. and learned Member were Protestants, but he had not referred to the fact that the Bill was repugnant to the Roman Catholics, almost universally. Although he differed from them vitally in many opinions, he thought they were entitled to the same justice that he wished to see meted to himself. He would vote for the Amendment of the hon. and gallant Member for the city of Cork.
 MR. NAPIER  could affirm of the Protestants of Ireland, that their feeling against the Bill was just as unanimous as among the Roman Catholics. He was confident no question could be selected on which the opinions of all religious persuasions in Ireland were more determined and unanimous. It was said the Archbishop of Dublin was in favour of this Bill, but he was not an Irishman; and, even if he were, the opinion of one archbishop was not to decide the opinion of the whole population. He considered the Bill as destructive to the happiness of families, and as, therefore, he would vote against it on every opportunity, he should support the Motion.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  had always understood, not that the manufacturing population were the prompters of this demand,
 1197
 MR. F. MAULE  said, the feeling in Scotland was unanimous until it was stirred up by a paid agitator. That person had been amongst his (Mr. F. Maule's) constituents, and endeavoured to get up a petition; but when he attempted to hold a public meeting in the large and populous city of Perth, he could not find one respectable man to take the chair.
 MR. SADLEIR  said, the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Buteshire had adverted to the fact of an English Archbishop of Dublin being in favour of this Bill; but he kept out of view the circumstance that Ireland was in a great measure a Catholic country, regarding matrimony as a sacrament, and believing that marriages such as this Bill proposed to legalise were contrary to law, so long as they were solemnised without that dispensation which the Catholic Church had power to grant. Let the House remember, that upon no one subject had the legislation of the Imperial Parliament been more unfortunate in Ireland than on that of marriage. A large and influential portion of the people were Presbyterians, and they viewed with abhorrence the object and policy of this Bill. A case of such a marriage as this Bill would legalise, was upon one occasion brought before the Synod of Ulster, and they determined that the parties should not communicate until a separation had taken place. The evidence in the report as to the Presbyterians being favourable to these marriages, consisted of the statements of an individual who in Scotland was known as Duncan Chisholm, of Inverness, but who in Ireland stated himself to be an Irishman of the name of George Matthews. He also represented himself as a member of the Presbyterian Church, but those statements were untrue. He had received numberless communications from members of the Presbyterian Church, expressing
 1198
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  protested against the accuracy of the statements made by the hon. Members for Dublin University and Carlow. The former Gentleman had made an allusion to the Archbishop of Dublin; surely, it was proper enough that the English Church in Ireland should be presided over by an Englishman, As for the Catholics, their Church recognised the principle of these marriages, retaining to this hour the right of dispensation. Parliament should not place itself in antagonism with 7,000,000 of people in Ireland.
 MR. MONSELL  maintained that all classes in Ireland, the Roman Catholics, the Presbyterians, and the Established Church, were almost unanimously opposed to the Bill. The promoters of the measure, with burning zeal and ample pecuniary means, had not been able to get signatures to petitions in favour of it in Ireland. The people of Scotland were also opposed to it, and a very large proportion of the people of England. Why not respect the moral and religious feeling of the people of Ireland upon this subject?
 COLONEL THOMPSON  felt constrained to ask whether it was possible to suppose that the 7,000,000 of Irish Catholics believed their Church to be in the habit of granting dispensations for incest, or for anything abhorrent to general morals and the good of society? What the Roman Catholic Church avowedly admitted under conditions, Irish Catholics must of necessity view as, at all events, one upon which human wisdom and legislative decision had a right to be heard.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  protested against the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin speaking in the name of the Roman Catholics of Ireland—a superstitious and idolatrous body, with
 1199
 MR. NAPIER  said, he had many Roman Catholics amongst his conscientious supporters, and by these he had been requested to oppose the Bill.
 MR. M'GREGOR  insisted that the religious sentiment, as well as the domestic sentiment of the people of Scotland, was opposed to the measure.
 MR. SADLEIR  said, that the Roman Catholics held these marriages unlawful unless sanctioned by dispensation, which, in Ireland was never granted, except under very peculiar and pressing circumstances.
 COLONEL RAWDON  thought it would be improper to except Ireland from the operation of a law which was to be applied to England and Scotland.
 VISCOUNT CASTLERBAGH  declared that the strongest feeling prevailed against the Bill amongst all classes in the part of Ireland with which he was connected, whether Presbyterians, Roman Catholics, or members of the Established Church.
 MR. FARRER  said, his reason for proposing the adjournment of the debate was, that, under existing circumstances, members had not been able to hear accurately what had been said in the course of the discussion; but as the feeling of the House seemed to be opposed to his proposition, he would withdraw it.
 LORD ASHLEY  said, that all that could be done in the matter by the Board of Health had been done; there was scarcely an inch of the ground to which their attention had not been called. With regard to the sewerage of the Houses of Parliament the board was sitting or was shortly about to sit upon the three great cesspools.
 MR. HENLEY  feared the health of those who resided near must suffer from this pumping up of the sewage water. Not long ago that neighbourhood had suffered very severely from a similar cause, and those living near the spot were now under considerable apprehension of the outbreak of some fearful malady.
 MR. T. GREENE  wished to know why the work was proceeded with at this particular period of the year?
 MR. T. GREENE  put the following question, of which he had given notice, to Viscount Ebrington:—"Whether there is any intention of erecting a steam engine at the corner of Palace-yard, for the purpose of forcing the contents of the sewer to a higher level. If there be such intention, whether it is proposed that such steam engine shall permanently remain, or is it only to be placed there for a temporary purpose: if for a temporary purpose, how long may it be probably required to remain there? Also, how far it was likely that an injurious effect would be produced by stirring up the sewerage at this time of the year."
 SIR B. HALL  said, he should be glad to know why, as this Commission had been in operation several months, they could not have chosen some other time than the hot season for raking up all this offensive matter. This was no time for opening sewers and erecting steam engines. He also wished to know whether the matter had been brought under the consideration of the Board of Health; also, why it was necessary that this sewer should now be made—was that end of the town so low that it was impossible to find an outlet for the drainage? The preceding day, in coming to the door of that House, he had been assailed by an almost intolerable smell. The drainage of the Houses of Parliament was most imperfect.
 SIR B. HALL  said, the particular question he wished to put with reference to the Houses of Parliament was this:—Had the sewer which had been constructed under the superintendence of the clerk of works been placed in such a low level that it would not work; and was it necessary for the sewage to be pumped up?
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, that he should not like to trust himself, without previous notice, to answer a question as to figures and levels.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, the subject had been under consideration for a length of time; but when hon. Members found fault with the slow working of the Commissioners of Sewers, they should remember that that body had worked from the beginning under an extremely complicated system of law, which obliged six members of the board to be present to hear even the most trivial complaints of ratepayers—that the attendance of the Commissioners was frequent—that it was also gratuitous—and that the greater part of them, having many other duties to perform, could only give a portion of their time to the business of the Commission. The subject of this sewer had been entertained for some time. It was only recently that the plans and estimates for the works now in progress in Palace-yard were in a sufficiently advanced state to allow of a commencement being made. With respect to the drainage of the New Houses of Parliament, he certainly did not consider it to be in a satisfactory state. He did not consider the sewers to be properly constructed; but that was a matter for the consideration of the Commission who were charged with the superintendence of the New House. The sewers were a great deal too large, and if they acted as such sewers usually did, as elongated cesspools, as long as there was ordure at the other end they would give out offensive smells. But the Sewers Commission were not to blame for a matter which was not under their superintendence.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  was not aware that any further precautions could be taken. It was obvious that if, during the summer months, works were to be stopped entirely, the execution of improvements in the metropolis must be indefinitely postponed. The execution of these works almost unavoidably occasioned temporary inconvenience; and the question was, whether it was better to incur the permanent evil of delay, from arresting the works, or the transitory evil occasioned by their execution.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, the greatest complaints had been made by the Commissioners for the Improvement of Westminster, who represented that all their operations must be suspended unless this sewer was made. The Commissioners of Sewers were aware that it was undesirable to execute such works during the hot season; but if this sewer was not proceeded with, the drainage of the district would be indefinitely retarded. The present sewer was part of a general plan for draining the metropolitan districts on the north side of the river.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, that if his Colleagues in Parliament and himself had allowed to pass without notice the numerous misstatements and charges which had been made against the Commissioners of Sewers, it was not because they acquiesced in the justice of those charges, or were unprepared with an answer to them at the proper time, but because they did not wish to interrupt the regular business of the House by raising incidental debates. In answer to the first question, he had to say that it certainly was the intention of the Commissioners to place a steam engine in Palace-yard. The drainage of that district of Westminster, in which the Commissioners were proceeding to make great improvements, had been for some time under consideration. The district was a very low one; most injurious consequences had resulted from the want of drainage there; and several unforeseen circumstances, amongst others the unexpected illness of their chief engineer shortly after he was appointed, had delayed the proceeding with those works until a period which the Commissioners regretted. The object with which the steam engine was placed in Palace-yard was for the purpose of raising the water up to the level of the existing sewer in York-street. It was obvious that in driving a much deeper sewer to enable the men to work, all the sewerage must be diverted into a neighbouring sewer; and this sewer being on a higher level, the steam engine was necessary to lift it. The engine would remain until the sewer was finished, which would be about four months from the present time; then it would be removed and the ground made up. The stirring up of the sewerage, he feared, was unavoidably incident to the execution of any new work; but in order
 1160
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  seconded the Amendment.
 SIR G. GREY  had before stated that the Bill had nothing to do with the labour of children, who were already protected to a much greater degree, for no child could now be employed for more than seven hours in any one day in some cases, or for more than six hours and a half in the majority of instances. Ample provision was also made for their attendance at school. He was not prepared to deny that some inconvenience would result from the circumstance pointed out by his noble Friend; but that arose from the necessity of affording greater protection to children than to young persons and adult females, and, unless the noble Lord was prepared to place them on the same footing, he did not see how the House could agree to this clause. The two sets of children now employed, some for seven hours, and others for six hours and a half,
 1236
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that the Ten Hours Bill had been broken through, and the manufacturers had got two and a half hours additional. This was a compromise, and the gain to the manufacturers justified the present proposal of the noble Lord. He thought that children were more entitled to protection than any others, and he wished to protect them against very early and very late hours.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  concurred in the view that this had now become an open question. The House was now called upon to decide in what manner children could be best protected. A Bill which made children leave their beds at half-past four did not protect these children; and, in the same manner, any Bill that would permit them to be kept up till after eight in the evening would be in the highest degree injurious. He thought that, whatever might have been the state of the law hitherto, such measures should now be enacted as would give sufficient protection to children, and therefore he would support the Amendment of the noble Lord.
 MR. BRIGHT  wished to call the attention of the House and of the noble Lord the Member for Bath, to the practical effect of the propositions, if carried; because, if the noble Lord was as convinced of what the effects would be as he (Mr. Bright), who understood something about the matter, why the noble Lord would be the last person in the House to propose the measure now submitted to it. At present children under thirteen years of age
 1237
 MR. EDWARDS : The hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester asserts that many thousands of children have been discharged from factory employment by the Act of 1847. Now, I will take the liberty of asking the hon. Member, what has become of all these unfortunate children of whom he has spoken? In the district with which I am most acquainted,
 1238 s
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  asked if the rejection of the noble Lord's Amendment would not have the effect of encouraging a system of relays, in which adults and young children would be employed, and thus injure, if not entirely cut off, the work of women and young people?
 MR. T. EGERTON  said, the great objection he had to the measure proposed by the noble Lord was, that it would indirectly attack the motive power of the country, and that it would prevent adult labour being employed. At present the time of adult labour might be 13 or 14 hours, and children were employed to assist them. Now, if they restricted children in the way proposed, they would actually limit the moving power in all the mills in the country to 10 hours a day. He asked the House to weigh well the consequences of the Amendment proposed by the noble Lord.
 MR. ELLIOT  was satisfied that if the proposition now before the House was agreed to, the effect of it in his part of the country (Roxburghshire) would be to put an entire stop to the moving power of the mills at the end of 10 hours every day; and he could not help thinking that this was the intention of the noble Lord.
 MR. HUME  said, that the hon. Member for North Cheshire directed the attention of the House to the real character of the proposition. Its object was to restrict the hours of labour by legislative interference, which he considered to be a most pernicious course to adopt. The great object of the Legislature ought to be to improve the condition of the operative classes. He believed Englishmen worked harder than the men of any other country; and if the hours of labour could with safety be diminished, he would be most happy to acquiesce. He believed it was only by capital and machinery that they could employ the millions at manufacturing labour; and he therefore deprecated the attempts of
 1239
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  begged to deny the conclusion arrived at by the hon. Member for Montrose, that labour would be injuriously interfered with by the Amendment of his noble Friend the Member for Bath. It merely went to protect children; and if hot carried, the children would be at the option of the employers to be worked, not merely ten hours per day, but perhaps twelve or even fifteen hours per day.
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, some hon. Gentlemen seemed to think they had successfully applied the  argumentum ad absurdum 1240
 MR. W. BROWN : The hon. Member for Oldham had told them that the workmen did not wish for more than ten hours' labour a day. Now the fact was, that where works were kept going beyond that time, the choice of the best men was always at the command of the employers.
 LORD J. MANNERS  then proposed the Amendment of which he had given notice; and said, if the Amendment were carried, he would propose the following supplement:—"In Clause 3, line 39, to omit the word 'six,' for the purpose of inserting the words 'half-past five.'" He expressed his regret that he could not follow the guidance of that chivalrous and high-minded man Lord G. Bentinck, who was no longer amongst them, and who had devoted so much time and energy to this question. The appeal now made to Parliament was not for the concession of any new favour, but to confirm that which had been already conceded. The appeal was made by a great portion of the working classes of this country, and their demand was that the benevolent intentions of the Legislature in their behalf might not be frustrated. The question which the House of Commons had now to decide was, would they allow those poor people to be deprived of a boon which had been deliberately accorded to them? That was the real question upon which they had to decide; and Heaven send that the decision of English Gentlemen upon it might be in accordance with English honesty and English honour! From what had recently passed in that House, one would have thought that such a thing had never happened before, as that it was necessary to amend in one Session of Parliament an Act passed in the preceding one; but every Gentlemen knew that such things were not of rare occurrence. The House would remember that in 1846, when Parliament had determined to abrogate all the laws imposing duties on the importation of grain, it was discovered towards the close of the Session that, owing to an inaccuracy in the Bill, a fixed duty for a limited period was left on beans and peas. The time for which the duty could be raised was so limited, that it was not thought worth while to pass a distinct Act remedying the defect; but let it be supposed that, instead of a verbal inaccuracy, affecting only the import of beans and peas for a limited period, it had been discovered a year or two after that there were conflicting decisions in the inferior courts on the subject, and that it was decided by one of the supreme courts that not only beans and peas, but every kind of cereal product, would have to pay a fixed duty, not for a limited time, but for ever, what then would have been the language of the right hon. the Member for Tamworth and the hon. Member for the West Riding? They
 1244 "Among the opperatives, a very large majority, and among them those whose earnings have been most reduced by the restriction, appear to be in favour of the shortened hours of labour. That feeling has evidently increased with their extended experience of the effects of the Act; and, in confirmation of this, there is this very significant fact, that, so far as I have learned, there has been only one petition from the workpeople in my district complaining of the Act, and praying that their hours of labour may be again extended; while, on the other hand, numerous meetings have been held in various parts of the kingdom, at which petitions have been agreed to, praying that the existing Act may be more generally enforced according to what the petitioners believed to be its true intent, and that the evasions of it may be put down. The one petition above referred to is that presented last Session to Parliament by the operatives in the employment of Messrs, Jones Brothers. Among the owners of factories, the majority, as might be expected, appear to be against the restriction to ten hours; but my recent communications with them lead me to say that the minority
 1245 "I can speak from positive knowledge that it was the intention of the framers of the Bill of 1844 that the working by shifts which had been practised under the Act of 1833 should be prevented. By referring to the reports of the inspectors, prior to 1844, it will be seen that frequent and urgent complaints had been made by millowners that the principle so essential in such a law, namely, that all millowners should be placed on one footing as to the number of the hours of work, was grossly violated in some districts by the evasive practice of working by shifts, and which could not be prevented by the Act of 1833. When the Bill of 1844 was preparing, the inspectors were called upon by the Secretary of State to suggest enactments which would remedy that defect of the Act of 1833, and they did so. But the law phraseology and construction of the clauses in which their suggestions were afterwards embodied have unfortunately created, in the minds of some magistrates in my district, an ambiguity which has led them to dismiss cases I brought before them under the firm belief that the true intent and meaning of the Act had been violated; a belief founded upon my own knowledge of the intentions of those who framed the Bill of 1844, and supported by that interpretation of the Act, by the law officers of the Crown, which has been given to the inspectors as their guide." "there could be no doubt that the intentions of the Legislature when passing the Bill was, that it should be virtually a Ten Hours Bill, and that the power of working by relay had not been contemplated by Parliament." 1246 Morning Chronicle "One point, however, my informants almost universally conceded, and what they stated is strongly verified by my own observations, that it is the best conducted, the most thoughtful and well-informed workmen in each mill who have been most earnest in the ten hours agitation, and who are now most zealous in the support of the present law. The matter is to so great an extent a labourer's question that the feelings of the people themselves are of the most primary consequence in forming a judgment. I have, therefore, in every mill which I have visited in Manchester, Bolton, Ashton, and Oldham, taken opportunities of personally learning the opinions of the workpeople from their own lips and in their own phraseology. I have thus examined probably nearly 100 persons, and the result is, with two exceptions, I was told by one and all that they preferred the ten hours system to the twelve, even if they only got ten hours instead of twelve hours' wages.
 MR. HORNBY , in seconding the Amendment, said, that if anything could tend to reconcile him to the loss caused by the desertion by the noble Lord the Member for Bath of this Bill, it was the fact that they had found so able a successor in the noble Lord who had just addressed the House. For his part, he could never understand what was the great difficulty in amending the Act of 1847. The Government had proposed to amend it by limiting the hours for labour from six in the morning till six in the evening; but he could not see why the remedy could not have
 1255 1256 "He was much struck with the statement of the hon. Member for Leeds, that, out of seventy owners of mills, forty were ready to adopt ten hours, and had signed a petition to that effect. Now, when they were told of the alarm which existed (and he believed alarm did exist) at their legislation on that subject, was it not something to be urged in support of the principle, that practical men, who, it might be thought, ought naturally to have opposed it, were ready to adopt the proposition? It was a difficult thing to interfere with toil, but the time was come when he thought they ought to do so. And if he were called upon to point out another measure of relief, it would be that which would allow of a greater supply of food; thus insuring the double boon of diminished labour and increased enjoyment of the necessaries of life." "They should look to the reasonable wishes of the great body of operatives, and approach ten hours gradually; that they were fully competent to take a just view of the question; that they had admitted to him that they had expected a reduction of wages, and that the evidence preponderated in favour of ten hours." 1257
 SIR G. GREY  hoped the House would not adopt the Amendment proposed by the noble Lord the Member for Colchester. In the hope expressed by the noble Lord, that the House would not decide the question in ignorance of facts, and with its eyes closed against them, he entirely concurred. If any Member had come into the House uninformed upon the question, and heard only the speeches of the noble Lord and the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, they would be wholly ignorant of the real merits of the case. The hon. Member for Blackburn, who last addressed the House, taunted him and his colleagues with giving a vote in 1844, when sitting on the other side of the House, which they were now prepared to nullify in deference to the secret advice of the hon. Member for Manchester. The hon. Member ought, however, in candour, to have mentioned that the Members of the Government, to whom he referred, when holding their present offices, voted in 1847 in conformity
 1258 1259 1260 1261 Morning Chronicle resumé 1262
 MR. BANKES  said, that he was glad to find any confirmation of the fact that the object of the Bill was to make a satisfactory settlement of the question. The right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, however, had entirely failed to answer the arguments of the noble Lord the Member for Colchester. They ought to observe that a very large proportion of the Bill, instead of being a boon, was an acknowledged loss; and they had the hon. Gentleman who seconded the Amendment stating that this shift and relay system met with so little favour from the manufacturers themselves, that public opinion alone, in his judgment, would be sufficiently poworfully to set the question at rest if the law were to remain as it was; and it was for the House to consider whether it would not be better that no Act should pass at the present moment, which would be, in 99 cases out of 100, a loss and no gain whatever. The right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary seemed to think a great deal of the comparison which had been drawn between his conduct and that of his Colleagues in 1844. It was impossible not to see that there was a most essential variance between the doctrines held out by hon. Gentlemen when sitting on the the Opposition benches and their opinions and acts when in power at the present moment. With respect to his noble Friend
 1263 1264
 MR. STANFORD  thought the country would have a very unfavourable opinion of the House if, after coming to a decision in favour of an enactment supposed to be intelligible to all the world, declaring that ten hours was to he the duration each day of a factory workman, that principle was not to be confirmed by Parliament when an opportunity was presented to them by the circumstances of a legal decision being adverse to the principle contained in a former measure. That statute having been in effect thus set aside, the operatives came now to the House to ask us to put them in that position in which it was evidently intended by Parliament they should be placed by the former measure. He could not understand how the House could come to any other decision now than that it was the intention of Parliament to place them. He did not wish to treat this question with ridicule, but he could not avoid comparing the decision that had been come to to a nursery rhyme—
 "Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall, Humpty Dumpty had a great fall, And all the King's Ministers and Parliament men Could'nt set Humpty Dumpty on the wall again."
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he had listened with much attention to the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, who had informed them that there had been a misunderstanding of the Act of 1844, when that Act was tested by the operation of the measure of 1847, and he would now ask him this question: Did the right hon. Gentleman, or did he not, when, in 1847, he voted for the Ten Hours Bill, intend to restrict the hours of factory labour to fifty-eight hours per week? Would—and he now addressed himself to the hon. and learned the Attorney General—would the insertion of the words proposed by the
 1265
 MR. MUNTZ  would ask the manufacturers who refused the limit of ten hours, whether they ever did work the ten hours, and whether, if they did, they did not find
 1266 bonâ fide bonâ fide l l
 MR. HEALD  did not feel justified, representing, as he believed he did, the third largest cotton-consuming population on the face of the globe, to give a silent vote upon this occasion; and, considering the large number of factory operatives in the borough which he represented, he thought he might state that he represented their opinions in the vote he was about to give. He confessed with frankness that he had never approached a subject to which he had felt it necessary to give a more careful and anxious consideration, and the conclusion at which he had arrived was based simply upon the dictates of conscience and honour. He certainly agreed with the hon. Member for Montrose that it was not only a delicate but a dangerous thing to interfere much with the question of labour; and, taking into consideration their mixed character and the dependency of one class of operatives upon another, he thought it was possible to err by legislating too much upon the subject. He had
 1267 Times Times 1268
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, that it appeared to him, in a case like the present, in which a Bill had been passed some years ago by Parliament, on which the masters were not consulted in any way, that it was perfectly open to Parliament to reconsider the matter; and it was very well known that the master manufacturers themselves would be glad of eleven hours per day. In his opinion, the Bill might be made to work very harmoniously, by the proposed alterations, and to create a much better feeling than had hitherto existed. He should, therefore, give it his support.
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, he thought it had been generally agreed on both sides of the House to throw over all arguments as to the policy of the Act of 1847, that having been already settled. He considered that what they had to do on the present occasion was not to discuss its policy, but to fulfil its requirements. He had heard no valid reason for the alteration of that policy. The exigencies of trade did not require it. They had heard that no mill, on an average, worked ten hours; while, on the other hand, they could not expect to satisfy its opponents, seeing that the Millowners' Association of Manchester had declared unequivocally for 11 hours a day. Such would always be the case if they persisted in this unhallowed compromise, which, in fact, compromised nothing but the faith and honour of Parliament. The great majority of millowners had conformed to the Act, and yet were not ruined. The cotton trade had not gone to the dogs. As to the parties more immediately concerned, its results had been satisfactory beyond calculation. Its good effects, which were described in the last report of the factory inspectors, must be most gratifying to Parliament. There was nothing unreasonable in the limitation established. In 1833, when they abolished slavery in the West Indies, they limited the labour of the apprentices to 45 hours a week, while the factory operative was content to work 58. In 1849, they assigned 7 hours as the day's work of the Hill Coolies, while the factory labourer willingly gave 10. What they asked now was simply, that the House should keep faith with them. There could be no doubt as to how the Act of 1847 was understood by them who were its objects; and they had the authority of a great moralist for stating that a promise
 1269
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, the question was, whether the Bill granted in 1847 was to be renewed now, or whether advantage was to be taken of a technical error, and 58 hours a week substituted for 60. The Government would deceive themselves greatly if they considered that this Bill would be a settlement of the question; and remembering, as he did, the excitement that prevailed in the manufacturing districts in 1830, the monster meetings that were held, and the agitation that was organised, he warned the House against again giving occasion to such proceedings on the part of the factory operatives of the North, The operation of the Ten Hours Bill since 1847 had been most satisfactory—the manners, the morals, and the habits of the people had been essentially changed—time had been afforded them for reflection and recreation, and they had been taught habits of providence; why, then, when this was the case, and when the maximum amount of labour imposed upon criminals was 10 hours a day, from which one hour was to be deducted for exercise and another hour for instruction, should they condemn women and young persons under 18 years of age, in factories, to labour 10½ hours a day? He entirely concurred that this was a question in which the honour and integrity of the House were concerned, and he should support the Amendment.
 MR. W. PATTEN  said, this question had been hitherto improperly argued, simply and solely upon the assumption of a contract having been entered into between Parliament and the operatives. The fact was this—in 1847 the Ten Hours Act was passed, after many years' discussion; and even then with a strong feeling on the part of many of the impolicy of the measure. Since then, as the representative of the county of Lancaster, he had been requested, over and over again, to endeavour to get the Act modified; but he had always advised his friends not to interfere with the decision at which Parliament had arrived. Now, however, when an opportunity offered, be thought it was perfectly legitimate for those who had opposed the Bill of 1847 to come forward and urge their objections to the system. In doing so, he held that
 1270
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, that the case of the cotton spinners of Lancashire had been fully stated by their representatives. The hon. Member for North Lancashire had denied the existence of a compact with regard to the Bill of 1847, because the millowners were not consulted. But the hon. Member should recollect that for 16 years before that time there had been a constant struggle between the operatives on the one hand, and the  laissez faire, laissez passer 1271
 MR. B. COCHRANE  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary whether he had not denied that this was an amended Bill, or an alteration of the law, as he found the Bill was accepted by the hon. Member for North Lancashire, on the part of the millowners, as an alteration in their favour. For his own part, he looked upon it as an alteration of the law, or, in other words, as a breach of the promise made by that House to the factory operatives. The right hon. Baronet talked of the concurrence of the manufacturers. That was not what he (Mr. B. Cochrane) wanted. He wanted the concurrence of the operatives; the Bill being passed for their benefit, it surely ought not to be altered without their consent. It was evident, from the allusion made by the hon. Member for North Lancashire to the interview, that there was a good understanding between the deputation of manufacturers and the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department; but that did not satisfy him (Mr. B. Cochrane). What he required was the fulfilment of that engagement into which the House had entered with the operatives. He cared not if the Bill stipulated for ten minutes only of work beyond the ten hours: he asserted  pro tanto
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  said, that in his communications with the operatives of Rochdale he had been called upon by them to give his vote in favour of maintaining the principle of the measure of 1847—to maintain that in its integrity. He held in his possession the names of forty-four proprietors of mills who were supporters of the ten hours system, and in thus laying
 1272
 MR. GREENALL  said, that he felt more difficulty in the course which he had resolved to pursue in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. Member for North Lancashire. Upon the present occasion he (Mr. Greenall) had no choice open to him. He was in almost daily communication with the operative classes upon the subject, and it would be next to impossible for any one to over-estimate the intense interest with which they regarded this question. Their feelings were alive and strong on the subject. The measure of 1847 was one which they had struggled all their lives to obtain, and they lost it by no fault of theirs; it evaded their grasp by a mere Parliamentary blunder. It was, at all events, his determination not to let the working man be able to say that he had not kept faith with him. As to children, they would be great sufferers by the proposed change. The severity of factory labour would now fall principally upon them; and having said thus much, he trusted that he had fairly laid before the House the grounds of the vote that he intended to give.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I rise. Sir, to state the grounds on which I shall support my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department. The hon. Member for Oldham has argued this question as if the Bill of 1847 has proved entirely satisfactory—as if its provisions are indisputable—and as if the millowners are coming forward seeking to alter and amend that Act. Now, that I think is as far as possible opposed to the fact. For my own part, in 1847, I considered the Act of that Session was a great advantage to the families of the working classes belonging to the mills. I considered it enabled them to have time for their domestic duties, for education and instruction, and for such other improvements in their social condition which could not otherwise be effected. I did not think it likely to justify the predictions of its opponents, that it would destroy one-sixth of the manufacturing power of the country, and thereby occasion a great diminution of the wealth and industrial power of the empire.
 1273 1274 1275 1276 1277
 MR. ELLIOT  said, he wished to point out to the House the difficulties which this Amendment would entail on the mills that were worked by water power. By tying these mills to particular hours of the day, they would not be able to compete any longer with the mills that were worked by steam; and the workmen dependent on the former must be thrown out of employment. In the winter months, work could not be commenced in these mills until the accumulations of ice that obstructed the supply of water were removed. These preparations often took till nine o'clock in the morning; and instead of being bound down to certain hours of the day, the operatives at present had to work when the circumstances of the mill would allow them. He appealed to the House, therefore, not to suffer such an injustice as this Amendment would inflict on this class of mills,
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, he had always been favourable to any measures for ameliorating the condition of the operatives, and he conscientiously believed that this Bill would be highly to their advantage. The rejection of the Bill would carry dismay to the working classes, while it would give extreme satisfaction to those employers who had availed themselves of the range of fifteen hours to evade the operation of this Bill. It was said that the House were bound to carry out the Bill of 1847. But were they contented with the name of the thing rather than the reality? The present was to all intents and purposes a Ten Hours Bill. If the House rejected it, the relay system would become more general than at present, and the operatives would be some time before they got an enactment that would be beneficial to them. He should give the present measure his hearty support, and he should therefore vote against the Amendment.
 MR. EDWARDS : It is not my wish or intention again to intrude myself upon the notice of the House at this hour of the evening and at this stage of the Bill, having already experienced so much indulgence; and if I were to attempt to do so, and to speak for an hour upon the question, I could only reiterate the
 1278
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I hope the House will permit me, notwithstanding its anxiety for a division, to offer a few observations in explanation of the vote I am about to give. Although I have been in Parliament more years than I care to remember, I have hitherto registered my vote on this subject without ever presuming to address the House upon it. I have listened with the interest which all must feel to the discussion which has taken place. It appears to me that the question which the House is called upon to decide, is really one of a simple, though of a very serious character. More than thirty years ago, the hon. Member for Stockport reminded us, the working classes in the north of England originated what is called an agitation in favour of the principle which we recognised as law by the Act of 1847. In looking upon that event with the advantage of experience, and taking that general view of the question which has (and very properly) characterised the present discussion, I perceive in that movement of thirty years ago what may fairly be described as the conviction of an overworked population. And I think it is a subject of much gratification when we remember that in this country a large portion of the community, finding themselves in such a position, had not recourse to those arts and means which generally distinguish a population under such circumstances; that
 1279 1280 1281 nisi prius 1282 1283
 MR. LAW HODGES  begged to substitute the following:—
 "And be it enacted, that the said board shall from time to time be assessed or rated to all county, parochial, or other local rates, for or in respect of any burial ground provided under this Act, and any building or place of burial therein, or other lands acquired by them for the purposes of this Act, in such and the same proportion as, but not at any higher value or improved rate than other lands lying near or adjacent thereto, are or shall, for the time being, be rated at, and as the lands to be so required and taken by the said board, would have been assessable or rateable in case the same lands had continued in their former state, and had not been acquired and used by the said board for the purposes of this Act."
 SIR G. GREY  had no objection to the provisions, as he found they were inserted in most Cemetery Acts.
 MR. LACY  rose, pursuant to notice, to move the addition of three clauses: the first, giving power to overseers to charge in their accounts the costs they may incur for the conveyance of the corpses of paupers dying within their parishes to any cemetery appointed under this Act. The second gave power to the Board of Health to enter into any contract with any railway company for the carrying out of corpses in properly constructed carriages to cemeteries; and the third giving power to directors of railway companies to make such contracts, and making the contracts binding on future directors.
 MR. BAINES  said, he would effect the object of the first clause, by introducing a few words on the bringing up of the report.
 LORD D. STUART  said, he wished to make an attempt to obtain from Government information as to the mode intended to be adopted for the removal of corpses. If they allowed corpses to be carried by water they might propagate disease and contagion, for it had been observed that the cholera and infectious diseases followed the courses of rivers. He hoped Government would state the general mode to be followed of removing bodies from the metropolis. He suggested that the duty on horses should not be charged in respect of horses used by undertakers.
 SIR G. GREY  said, he could give no
 1287
 MR. D'EYNCOURT  asked whether it was intended to have one large cemetery for London, or several?
 SIR G. GREY  said, it would be clearly impossible to have one cemetery for the whole of the metropolis. As yet there had been no selection of cemeteries. It was an open question to be decided by the board when constituted, but it was under-Stood that the existing cemeteries would be made available for the purposes of the Act as far as possible.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he wished to know whether there was to be a separate cemetery for Her Majesty's Government; and if that cemetery was to be paid for out of the public purse?
 MR. LAW HODGES  proposed a clause authorising the board to pay compensation to owners and occupiers of land near or adjoining to lands taken, in the manner provided by the Lands Clauses Consolidation Act.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  objected to the clause, as, if it were adopted, owners at a distance from the lands taken might consider themselves aggrieved, and demand compensation.
 MAJOR BERESFORD  thought 1,200 l
 SIR B. HALL  believed that the office was to be created only for the purpose of placing patronage at the disposal of the Government. Ministers had been asked repeatedly who was to fill the office, but had never answered the question. Hon.
 1288
 SIR G. GREY  thought it unreasonable to expect that the Bill could be carried into effect without the assistance of another paid officer, there being at present only one.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, that the taxpayers would not like the additional burden thrown upon them by the Bill. He should move that the salary be only 1,000 l
 LORD ASHLEY  assured the Committee that the charge made against the Government of seeking patronage under this Bill was unfounded. The proposition which the Board of Health originally submitted to the Government was, that a distinct Commission to consist of four paid members, should be established. The Government said, they were unwilling to extend the number of paid Commissioners, and expressed a hope that the Board of Health, with some assistance, would be able to discharge the functions the Bill would impose upon them. An idea, he understood, prevailed, that the office of paid member of the board was destined for him. The notion was completely unfounded. It was his happiness to have served the public without remuneration, and it was his intention to continue in that course so long as he was allowed to do so. His experience of the working of the board satisfied him that additional assistance was necessary. It was impossible the board could go on with its present staff, even if no additional duties should be thrown upon it.
 MAJOR BERESFORD  did not dispute the necessity of appointing another paid member to the board; he merely objected to the amount of salary proposed to be given him.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that a salary of 1,000 l
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he could not state who was to fill the office, because he did not at present know. As to the salary, he would not object to fix it at the sum suggested by the hon. and gallant Member for North Essex—namely, 1,200 l
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  thought the House ought to act consistently with respect to salaries. It had recently been determined that a dean should receive no more than 1,000 l
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  would support the
 1289 l l
 SIR B. HALL  then moved the following Clause:—
 "That no compensation shall be awarded to incumbents, clerks, or sextons for the loss of any fees for the burial of persons who may have been brought for interment from other parishes." s
 LORD ASHLEY  begged to state, that in consequence of what passed on a former occasion the Board of Health had directed one of their inspectors to examine the state of things in this burial ground, and make a report upon it; his report was now ready, and would be immediately presented. The result was this: that the burial ground was constructed under an Act of Parliament passed in 1803, which not only gave power for the construction of the burial ground, but regulated the fees, and gave permission to inter non-residents; that the Rev. Mr. Tyler found the custom prevailing when he became rector in 1826, and conformed to the custom; but so far
 1290 s d s
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  was per suaded that the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone totally misunderstood the ground on which these fees for interments were taken. The hon. Member must be totally ignorant of the mode of performing all the services and offices of the Church of England under circumstances in which more than one body was to be buried in the same place at the same time, if he thought it the duty of the clergyman to read the service more than once. The service was adapted to be read with the substitution of the plural for the singular. So with regard to baptisms, marriages, and all the services of the Church; and the fees were to be paid to the clergyman, not for reading the service, but for performing his office according to the custom and manner of the Church. Therefore, the hon. Baronet complained of the law
 1291
 SIR B. HALL  said, that if the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth had laid down the law correctly, the rev. gentleman had taken the most convenient way of discharging his duties. But he only allowed two days in the week for the interment of paupers. It was said that the reverend gentleman was not responsible for what was done, and that the whole was conducted under a board of trustees. In order to show how far the reverend gentleman was responsible, he should refer to a resolution of the joint vestry of Holborn, which declared that, in the event of proceedings being taken by the Board of Health against the churchwardens, their Solicitor should be instructed to defend the churchwardens, and take such steps as counsel might advise. The rector of St. Giles was in the chair, and signed that resolution. The evidence he (Sir B. Hall) had cited the other day was given by most respectable people; and it would be a very great satisfaction to himself, if he found the report to be laid on the table could refute that evidence, which showed the state of matters to be most disgraceful.
 MR. GOULBURN  thought that what had fallen from the hon. Baronet was only a proof of the facility with which he could make charges against a reverend gentleman whose character ought to protect him against imputation from any one, at least, who knew him. The hon. Baronet, he presumed, did not know that reverend gentleman. The hon. Baronet argued that the clergyman was responsible in these matters, because he signed a resolution against the interference of the Board of Health. But the clergyman was chairman of the meeting of vestry by law; although he had been in a minority of one he would have signed that document; and he was as little responsible for the resolution of the body over which he presided as the Speaker for a decision of that House. The attack
 1292
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO  had seen twenty or thirty couples married at the same time a few days ago, and suggested that an alteration should be made in the fees for marriages as well as for burials.
 MR. GRATTAN  said, that this was the case of a countryman of his, and he knew of no law of this country that imposed torture. This was a question of humanity; and the right hon. Baronet forgot about the 50 l
 SIR G. GREY  said, that every Member of the House must sympathise with the position, of the hon. Gentleman who spoke, naturally, with strong feelings on this subject. He only regretted that the hon. Gentleman had not informed him of his intention to make this statement on the present occasion; because if he had been aware of it he would have refreshed his memory by referring to the despatches received by the Government, and with the purport of which the hon. Gentleman himself was acquainted. The hon. Gentleman had truly stated that the Government, wishing to act with as much indulgence in this ease as was consistent with their public duty, had departed from the usual practice pursued towards ordinary convicts, and issued instructions to the Governor of Van Diemen's Land, on the arrival of the hon. Gentleman's relative and his fellow-prisoners, to offer them tickets of leave immediately, provided they would give an engagement that they would not avail themselves of the indulgence in attempting to escape. But this privilege, which was certainly a very great indulgence, was positively refused by the relative of the hon. Gentleman; and the Governor, acting then in the discharge of a responsible duty, and in conformity with the instructions which he had received, took the only course open to him under the circumstances—he placed the hon. Gentleman's relative on Maria Island, a place for the reception of convicts. He was not placed with the other convicts, but had consigned to him the separate apartment to which the hon. Gentleman had referred, and was put under the charge of a responsible officer. He had not the opportunity possessed by the ordinary convicts with tickets of leave of having intercourse with the inhabitants of the island; but he had held communication both with the bishop and the chaplain, and also with other persons, and had received every indulgence AS to rations, and in every other respect that was Consistent with the duty—the
 1234
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  hoped that the House would hear with him if he brought before them the case of his brother, Mr. Smith O'Brien. His reason for doing so was the statements which had appeared in the public prints, He ought to apologise to the House for taking upon himself this task. But the House must be aware that the subject had been pressed upon Members from the sister country, and it was thought better that he should not bring it before the House. But others thought that it was his duty to do it, and for this reason, that it was naturally supposed he must be better informed than any other person upon the subject, inasmuch as every person who had received a letter from Van Diemen's Land had kindly favoured him with a perusal of it. The last communication he had received from Van Diemen's Land was dated the 31st of January, and it appeared that three weeks before that letter was dated, his brother had fallen into so bad a state of health that his life was despaired of. Now, if by any treatment that was designedly harsh, or if by not taking what might appear to be only the ordinary precautions, his brother's life should be lost, or his reason become impaired, the Government would incur a severe responsibility. It would be used as a handle against them, and in Ireland a fatal use might be made of it, which the Government, as public men, might well wish to avert. it appeared that on his brother's arrival in Van Diemen's Land he refused to accept a ticket of leave, and he was accordingly placed in Maria Island, a small island, the property of two or three individuals, and situated, he believed, about ten miles from the shore. The inhabitants of the island appeared inclined to treat him with much civility, and sent messages and called upon him; for two or three weeks accordingly his brother felt as comfortable as he could be under such circumstances. But in that space of time orders came that no one was to have any intercourse with him. For eight weeks afterwards his brother was not allowed to hold
 1232 1233
 COLONEL THOMPSON  was sure there were many English Members who like himself were unwilling to pass under the sweeping description of following the beck of the Government without any reason being offered for the course they were adopting. He was surprised to find that during the long debates which had taken place, no reference had been made to a great precedent—a grand experiment, though confined perhaps to the negative part of the argument—ho meant the precedent of Scotland. He would ask whether the condition of that country a century ago, was not as bad as anything that can exist in Ireland, and whether every one of the arguments employed against the abolition of the Lord Lieutenancy might not equally have been urged in the case of Scotland, had such an office existed? John of Groat's House, it might have been argued, was so far off, and it was so difficult to get information without being at least as near as Edinburgh, and the communication across the border was so liable to be interrupted by floods and snow. But, for all that, was there any Scottish Member who would aver that the complete union with England had not greatly improved the country which he represented? The reason why he and other English Members would support the Bill, was simply because they believed the Lord Lieutenancy bad always been, and especially in worse times than the present, the centre of the accumulations of evil which had afflicted Ireland. Who was the first Lord Lieutenant? Was it Strongbow? If not, it ought to have been. As an Englishman who admitted that there had been an almost incessant course of ill-treatment to Ireland, he formed this opinion of the office and its tendencies. He heartily agreed in the sentiment expressed by the hon. Member who led the opposition to the Bill, as to the danger to be apprehended on the side of America. He (Colonel Thompson) believed that America
 1463 Tourist's Guide, or Pencillings in England "While standing on the summit of the tower (at Windsor), the royal standard of England was proudly tho wing out its silken folds to the southern breeze from the lofty pinnacle above, giving notice to all that royalty revelled in the banquetting-hall of Windsor Castle, and that its warders were on duty at their watch towers. While gazing and listening at the flapping of the royal banner, as if proud of its lofty height, I thought that the time would come, and probably the child was then born in the western world who would live to see yon silken banner give place to the stars and stripes of America, whose mandates would go forth from those massive portals below, dictating to the world, commanding nations to honour and respect the modest bunting that waved in signal triumph from the towers of Windsor Castle." 1464
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, there is a subject to which the House will perhaps allow me to call its attention, although I do not at present intend to give any notice of Motion with regard to it. It is a subject worthy of the attention of this House; and if I find that there is a general opinion in the House in conformity with what I have to state, I shall certainly propose some alterations in our orders with respect to it. I allude to the manner in which addresses from this House to the Crown are agreed upon. The House is aware that on any subject that requires to be legislated upon, whether it be a question of finance or a subject of general legislation, the House has an opportunity of considering and deciding upon that subject on more than one occasion; so that if any resolution of the House with regard to it does not appear to have the consent of the majority in its favour, the House can afterwards, at a subsequent stage of the proposition, reverse its proceedings. Now, with respect to addresses to the Crown, the case, it is well known, is entirely different; because when an address is moved, and has once been carried, it is immediately ordered that certain Members of the House shall present that address to Her Majesty. The consequence is that the advisers of the Crown must either advise the Crown to comply immediately with that address, or should they advise the Crown not to comply, it tends certainly to a breach between
 1405
 LORD NAAS  felt compelled to say that he felt some satisfaction in supporting the Bill, reserving to himself the right of using his discretion hereafter as to whether he should support or oppose whatever form of government might be substituted for the existing system in Ireland. Looking back as he did upon the history of Ireland, he believed that that history was but one continued scene of misgovernment. He looked upon the office of Lord Lieutenant as the chief feature of that system, and now that it was proposed to abolish that office, he could but rejoice at the change. He felt that the present system of governing that country partook very much of that pursued with reference to the colonies, while it possessed nothing whatever of its efficiency. He had listened with much interest and pleasure to the able end eloquent speech of the hon. and learned Member for the
 1439
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, when I heard the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down allude to the fervid appeals of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Dundalk, and then listened to his own glowing address, I was surprised; but more so when I found his rhetoric clothed an argument in favour of an office which he rose to abolish. "I will prove," he says, "that the Castle of Dublin has undergone a great revolution—that all corrupt influence there is at an end, and because it is pure that is the first reason I would abolish it." "But," said the right hen. Gentleman, "I have another reason—the situation of Ireland is most perilous—her situation cannot be compared to the situation of other countries;" and the right hon. Gentleman, having painted her situation in most forcible terms, says, "I am for destroying the form of government which is already established, and which hitherto has successfully coped
 1455 1456 1457 1458 1459 1460
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  said, that upon the first occasion when the noble Lord the First Lord of the Treasury introduced this measure, he thought it worth his while, in order to get rid of the main objection to the Bill, to state authoritatively, on the part of the Government, that there was no intention, either now or hereafter, to remove the courts of law from Ireland. He had no doubt that that was a genuine pledge on the part of the noble Lord, and he was sure that it would be kept; but he would ask, had they any reason to be so certain that those who in the natural course of events may succeed the noble Lord would not be prepared to sweep away the courts of law in Dublin, and transfer the legal adjudication to London, for the purpose of centralisation? He thought that the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Tamworth showed them that at any rate there was one man in this country who would be prepared, when in power, not only to give them what he was pleased to call identity of law, but to sweep away every remnant of local power in Ireland, and to destroy all her national institutions. The right hon. Baronet would allow him to state that in the minds of the people of Ireland there was a great difference between equality of justice and identity of laws. The circumstances of that country were different from those of England, the people and their feelings were different, and a law which may be good in England may he exceedingly bad in Ireland. Therefore he insisted that when the right hon. Gentleman held out as an inducement to them to support this Bill, that the result of it would be that by centering everything in this country they would have an uniformity of government and an identity of law, they would by adopting such a course be inflicting a great injury instead of conferring a benefit on
 1417 1418 1419 1420 1421
 MR. MOORE  said, that a more illogical train of reasoning than that of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, it had never been his lot to hear. The hon. Gentleman first complained that so few of the Lord Lieutenants bad been Irishmen;
 1431 1432 1433 1434 1435 1436 Two penny Postbag Avatar 1437 1438 argumentum ad absurdum
 MR. REYNOLDS  begged to tender to the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, on behalf of his constituents, his sincere thanks for the suggestion he had thrown out as to the compensation of which the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth spoke; and would endeavour to avail himself of that suggestion, if necessary.
 1461 1462
 MR. SADLEIR  said, that he had heard three long speeches upon the question he-fore the House; but it seemed to him that they applied more to the details of the measure than to its principle, and he therefore thought they would have been more appropriately addressed to the Com-
 1428 1429 1430
 MR. NAPIER  having, after considerable deliberation, come to a conclusion different from that to which his mind was in the first instance inclined, felt it his duty to give his reasons why he had done so, and why he considered he ought to oppose the second reading of this Bill. The noble Lord, in introducing the Bill, said it was a subject of the greatest importance to unite the administration of Ireland with that of the rest of the empire, and expressed his desire to equalise the laws of both countries, and to prevent those evils which directly obstructed the welfare of Ireland, and ultimately affected the interests of England. That statement caught his (Mr. Napier's) attention with many who acknowledged the abuses that existed, and could see no prospect of any likely remedy but some such change in the administrative government of Ireland. He entirely concurred in the view of the noble Lord, that the union in law should be followed up by a union of administration, and if the Bill effected or accelerated that result, he (Mr. Napier) would support it; but believing it would have no such effect, but would, on the contrary, aggravate existing evils, he felt bound to give it his strenuous opposition. The Bill, so far from providing one administration, perpetuated two distinct administrations; it substantially fused into one the offices of Lord Lieutenant and Chief Secretary, and transferred the head of the Executive Government from Dublin to London, leaving the rest of the Government to work its way in Ireland. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Tam-worth had stated with great clearness the grounds on which, with all deference, he (Mr. Napier) thought a very different conclusion from that at which the right hon. Baronet had arrived might have been based; but, setting aside any objections to the creation of the new Secretary-ship, it would be important for the con-
 1422 1423 1424 de jure de facto 1425 1426 1427
 MR. P. S. BUTLER  said, that he thought it his duty to his constituents not to give a silent vote on this occasion. He would allude to a speech made by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth in the year 1844, when that right hon. Gentleman expressed his belief that absenteeism was the greatest curse upon Ireland. The abolition of the Lord Lieutenant would increase absenteeism. The opinion of Dean Swift was—
 "That a people long used to hardships lose by degrees the very notion of liberty; they look on themselves as creatures at the mercy of a Government, and feel that all impositions laid on them by a strong hand are legal and obligatory; hence proceeds the poverty and lowness of spirits to which a kingdom as well as an individual may be subjected."
 MR. SHEIL : The fervid nationality of my hon. Friend the Member for Dundalk has overcome, in this instance, his habitually admirable good sense. His criticism, on the details of the Bill, which is at least as minute as it is accurate, does not touch the principle. He has throughout assumed. that the Minister for Ireland is not to visit that country. This is a misapprehension. That functionary ought to have a perfect knowledge of Ireland, and be conversant with our policy, our feelings, our prejudices, our passions, our good qualities, and our imperfections; and there can be no doubt that his residence in Ireland must be conducive to that knowledge, and is to be desired. I have risen. Sir, with a view to prove two things; first, that the Lord Lieutenancy is worse than useless; and, secondly, that the Government of Ireland ought not to be absorbed in the Homo 'Office. There was a time when the Lord Lieutenancy was made subservient to the policy upon which the Government of Ire-
 1452 1453 1454
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, that, although he approved of the principle of the abolition of the vain and idle pageantry called the Viceroyalty of Ireland, he was not prepared to extend one inch further the principle of centralisation. He approved of the first five clauses of the Bill, but he would not support its further progress if the noble Lord was determined to abide by the machinery which it was the object of the concluding clauses to substitute for the present system. This Bill was called the Lord Lieutenancy Abolition Bill, and if it stopped there he should say he would have no objection to it. But the most important part of the Bill was kept out of sight—he meant the appointment of a fourth Secretary of State. He objected to all that
 1406 1407 garde mobile;
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH : I can-not refrain from expressing the satisfaction at the serious and considerate tone which has characterised this debate, contrasting forcibly as it does with the levity of allusion and bitterness of taunt, by which a
 1443 1444 1445 1446 1447 1448 1449 1450 1451
 SIR G. GREY  said, that two questions had entered into all that had been stated that evening, and which ought to be kept quite distinct: one was, whether the office of the Lord Lieutenancy ought to be abolished; and the other was, by whom, and in what manner, the duties of that office should be performed, should Parliament approve of the abolition? With respect to the first, he considered that it must be apparent, that it would be beneficial to have the duties performed by a person having a seat in the Cabinet. With respect to the greater part of the information received by the Lord Lieutenant, he could have no other means of collecting it in Ireland than could be at
 1440 1441 1442
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, the gorgeous eloquence, he might say poetry, of the right hon. Gentleman the Master of the Mint, and the perpetual exhibition of fireworks with which he had dazzled them, could not make him overlook the close of his speech, rendered significant by the cheers with which it was greeted, and the quarter from which those cheers came, when he said he regarded the measure as chiefly valuable because it gave him reason to hope when there was one uniform system of administration, and when the great operations of centralisation were fixed here, that the early dream of his boyhood would be accomplished. Now, who would contradict him (Sir R. Inglis) when he affirmed that the object to which the right hon. Gentleman alluded was the establishment of the Church of Rome in the kingdom of Ireland? He would over oppose a proposition to which such a tendency could be assigned; and he begged to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government and the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, how they had ruled the country so long without bringing forward a measure they now thought of such importance to its destinies? In 1844 both parties were agreed in stating the time had not come for the abolition of the office. The whole argument in favour of it now must rest, therefore, on what had occurred between 1844 and 1850; but he would appeal to the House if, in January 1850, any one could have anticipated Government would have brought forward this measure. Having heard nothing in 1850 which would have induced him, if it had been stated in 1844, to vote for the Bill, and having listened to the whole speech of the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin, which seemed quite conclusive, he was not prepared to vote for the Bill.
 SIR R. PEEL  explained. The hon. Gentleman was mistaken if he supposed that he had any desire to interfere with the bar of Ireland, or the separate existence of the Attorney General and Solicitor General, or of a judicial bench. In his opinion, those matters left the question entirely untouched, whether they had two Secretaries of State or one.
 SIR R. PEEL : Sir, considering that this Bill is brought forward by Her Majesty's Government, and that the undoubted object of it is to promote the good go-
 1408 1409 1410 1411 Laughter 1412 1413 1414 1415 1416
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  was sure that every Member of the House was anxious to do honour to the name of the Duke of Cambridge; and it seemed to him that the most obvious and natural way to do honour to that name, was to grant to his son the allowance which the dignity of his position and his high station in life rendered necessary. He thought there was no difference of opinion in the House that some provision should be granted; the only difference was, as to what should be the amount of that provision. The hem. Member for Manchester had said that he understood the noble Lord to state that the annuities with which the income left to the present Duke of Cambridge was burdened, would entirely counterbalance that income. He (the Marquess of Granby) believed that the total income of his Royal Highness would only be about 900 l. l. l.
 MR. V. SMITH  thought it would he highly satisfactory to the country if the noble Lord would insert a clause in the Act granting the 12,000 l.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, that if the Royal Family had not consented to an arrangement by which Parliament had robbed them of their estates—if Parliament had not taken possession of the Woods and Forests, which had been badly managed because they had been in their hands—and if those estates had been as well managed as any private estate would be, there would have been no reason for this application, for the Royal Duke would have been in 'possession of an enormous fortune.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  agreed with the hon. Member for Berwick in everything but the very stringent condemnation he had passed on the Colonial Office; for he thought, never to do right, must exceed
 52 animus 53 True-born Englishman 54 l.
 MR. V. SMITH  was glad that the Government had made their treaty for the purchase of these ports conditional on a vote of that House; he only regretted that the question had not been submitted in a larger form, namely, whether we should, by either purchase or conquest, extend our colonies to the very utmost. We were not to lay down a rule of establishing a crusade in every quarter of the globe, and
 58
 MR. V. SMITH  said, we might as well be asked to purchase the French and Dutch forts, if we were not content with the co-operation of those nations in suppressing the slave trade. He was entirely opposed to the projects of extending our colonies by any means; and he hoped the Government would not attend to every suggestion from the manufacturing districts for the extension of colonies with the view of extending trade. He hoped they would be warned by what had taken place in Labuan. The greatest difficulties arose from the unlimited extension of our colonies in all parts of the world—the Cape of Good Hope was a notorious instance of this; and in all those distant colonies the military expenditure in particular was most excessive. It was no doubt a very flattering notion to be continually adding little
 59
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  opposed the Motion on the ground that sufficient time was not allowed for considering the report of the Commissioners on the subject.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  depre-
 71
 MR. SPOONER  wished the Bill not to be pressed this Session. The county courts objected to the operation of the Bill, which would place increased duties on those courts without a proportionate increase of remuneration. He must move that the Bill be postponed.
 SIR G. GREY  had stated distinctly that the Bill would he brought forward, so that there was not any reason to complain that it came upon the House by surprise. The measure related to matters on which great and almost personal alarm existed, and a delay at that period would amount to a rejection of the Bill. With respect to the judges of the county courts, who would be affected by its operation, it should be remembered that power was placed in the hands of Government to increase the salaries of those officers; but he objected to those gentlemen coming to the House, through the medium of Members, to stipulate for an increase of salary, and he hoped that that would not be made a ground for delaying the Bill.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  thought fair ground had been alleged to call on Government to postpone the consideration of this Bill.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, the question now raised was, as to additional remuneration to persons connected with the county courts. That was no valid reason for postponing the measure. The present was not a time to stop an important public measure on an incidental question of an increase of salaries to county court judges.
 MR. HENLEY  said, many hon. Members on his side of the House wished to have time to consider the report which had been recently placed in their hands. There certainly ought to be further time allowed for the consideration of this Bill; to afford which, he should now move that the House do adjourn.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  again moved that the debate be adjourned.
 SIR G. GREY  said, the report in question contained nothing that ought to obstruct the progress of the Bill. It would
 72
 MR. HENLEY  said, Government had no right to say any unfair delay was contemplated. Some further information had come out recently, which ought to be considered before the Bill went forward. No opposition would be offered to the Bill on Monday next.
 ADMIRAL BOWLES  admitted this to be a most important clause. His own as well as his hon. Friend's object was so to improve it as to make it as clear as possible; and therefore they wished to have a definite description of the powers and constitution of those courts.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON : Sir, I trust I may not be thought intrusive in offering a few remarks upon the proposition of the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government, particularly as I do not agree in all that has been advanced by the noble Lord. Sir, I beg to say that no person is more desirous than I am for the most rigid enonomy in every branch of the public service; but there are some cases, in my mind, when it should give way to a dignified liberality; and the fault I find with the noble Lord is, that he seems to have forgotten that word. Called upon as we have been by Her Most Gracious Majesty's 'Message to make competent provision and support for his Royal Highness the Duke of Cambridge, and his illustrious sister the Princess Mary, caused by their melancholy bereavement, and the loss the Royal Family and the country have sustained by the death of the illustrious Prince, whose character needs no eulogy from me, we are bound to attend to such recommendation; and, Sir, in my opinion, no person has more claims upon the generosity and kindness of this House than the illustrious Person to whoso comforts we are called upon to minister. Born as his Royal Highness has been in England,
 27 Decus et tutamen l. l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  would rather not answer (he question at present; he would observe, however, that the allowance to the Duke of Gloucester, upon his marriage, was 14,000 l. l. l. 29
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Mr. Bernal, in considering the proposition which I have In make to the Committee, in answer to Her Majesty's Most Gracious Message, I shall place the question entirely upon grounds relating to the Duke of Cambridge, and shall not at all refer to that question which the hon. Member for Montrose has alluded to—the annuity paid to the present King of Hanover. Whether that annuity is rightly or wrongly paid I under the authority of an Act of Parliament is, I conceive, a totally separate question. It has been brought under the consideration of the House separately. It I can be so again; and the repeal or maintenance of that Act of Parliament should be entirely discussed upon the arguments belonging to that subject alone. At present I intend only to deal with the situation of the affairs of the present Duke of Cambridge, and of his sister, the Princess Mary. The late Duke of Cambridge had, by an Act passed in 1788, part of an amount of 60,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. 15 l. l. l. l. l. l. 16 l. l. l. l. l. l. 17 l. l. l. 18 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  said, that in some ports abroad there might be no British naval officers or consular agents. In such cases how was the court to be constituted?
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I agree with the noble Lord the First Minister that this proposition ought to be considered upon its own merits, and that we ought not to mix it up with any arrangements formerly made as to His Majesty the King of Hanover. I think the noble Lord was quite correct in stating, that when the Committee is called upon to consider a message from the Crown with regard to a subject of this character, there are, in fact, two considerations before us: first, whether any provision should be made for the illustrious individual whose name is recommended to the consideration of Parliament; and, if that question is answered in the affirmative, what would be a provision that, in the language of the Message, would be considered "suitable?" There are not certainly two opinions upon the question that the illustrious individual to whom our attention is called is one for whom some provision should be made. The Committee will consider the position in which an English Prince of the blood is placed. It is one which gives him very peculiar claims upon the favourable consideration of Parliament. The House of Commons should recollect that it is the constitutional jealousy of Parliament that has virtually deprived the Sovereigns of this realm of the power of making charges upon their estates in favour of Princes of the blood; and, therefore, when a Prince of the blood comes before us, under the circumstances of the Duke of Cambridge, we must always remember it is the consequence in great part of the conduct of the House of Commons. There is another consideration which ought never to be omitted from the consideration of a proposition of this nature, namely, that the House of Commons was a party to the passing of an Act which prevents any Prince of the blood in England from assisting or increasing his fortune by means which are open to all other subjects. When we consider how much the House of Commons has been concerned,
 21 22
 MR. HAWES  said, that if he had hesitated to rise earlier, it was because he had reason to expect, and the event had proved his expectation not to have been ill-founded, that two Gentlemen largely connected with the British trade on the coast of Africa would address to the House
 49 50 l. l. l. 51 l.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he had been informed that certain parties which had some time ago attempted to establish in the county Down a manufactory of sugar from beet-root, had been so much thwarted by excise restrictions, that they had been compelled to give up the undertaking. He wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether he could give any explanation upon that point?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had never heard any complaints of the kind alluded to by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, and therefore he was not prepared to give any answer to the question that had been put to him.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the object of the resolutions
 70
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was glad that the hon. and learned Member had shown that the impression of the hon. Member for Montrose was a wrong one; and he hoped it would be sufficient for him now only to add that the gentleman whose promotion had given rise to this petition, was the Mr. Palmer who had been successively selected for promotion to the Dublin, the Edinburgh, and the London Money Order Departments, on account of the high opinion entertained by the Earl of Lonsdale and the Marquess of Clanricarde of his merits.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was really a grievance which Her Majesty's Government had much reason to lament, that there was no officer in that House connected with the Post Office to answer such statements as that which had just been brought forward by the hon. and learned Member for Youghal, or to meet any inquiries that might be made in relation to the affairs of that department generally. For his own part, he really wished that when any hon. Member had any case of this kind, on which complaints and interrogatories were to be founded, to bring forward, that he would have the courtesy to give notice of the fact, and of his intention to his hon. Friend the Secretary for the Treasury, to whose province, perhaps, rather than to his own, it more particularly devolved to supply, if possible, the desired information. Of course, in the absence of any official representative of the department in question, it was almost impossible for him (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) to be prepared with answers to questions or statements made in that place, without previous notice. But he might remark that there was one fallacy which pervaded the whole of the statement advanced by the hon. and learned Member. It was not true, as he assumed, that seniority of standing alone was the principle on which the rule of promotion in these Government establishments proceeded. This was not true of the Treasury, nor—so far as he knew—of any other of the Government departments. Indeed, he would ask the House how it could be possible for the business of Government to be conducted on any sound or efficient system were the principle that which the hon. and
 33
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that no doubt any duties which could be raised upon the import of rum or other articles would go in aid of the annual expense of the ordinary establishments; and if any new establishments were required, it would then be applied in aid of the additional expense thereby incurred. But the question now was, whether they would apply a sum of 10,000 l. 55 l. l. 56 l. 57 l.
 MR. CARDWELL  did not understand that his hon. Friend the Member for Oxfordshire wished to interfere with the appointment of these courts, but that the clause should define the powers of the court. All that he required was, that the clause should be made intelligible. He challenged any human being to understand it as it now stood.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he had received several communications from Ireland, which clearly proved that the amount of the excise that was levied operated as a prohibition.
 MR. MOWATT  conceived that this case might be shortly stated thus—that, whilst these thirteen gentlemen, who not only stood, in the rotation of their seniority, in a preferable position, but had been, after examination, declared duly and properly qualified for this post, had been passed over, a party who was not of equal standing with themselves, and who had been expressly reported, in 1844, by Colonel Maberly, not to be qualified for it, had been elevated to it over their heads. Now, this was an allegation of injustice to, of unwarrantable hardship upon, the petitioners, too grave and too important to go forth to the public uncontradicted or unexplained, without being calculated to produce a very prejudicial impression against the management of the Post Office. He did hope, therefore, to hear some answer offered to the petition. It might be very true, as the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had told them, that seniority of standing was not the general rule of promotion in the public offices, which the hon. and learned Member for Youghal had supposed. But the right hon. Gentleman had not quite fairly stated the hon. and learned Member for Yougbal's assertion, which took for this principle
 34
 MR. MOWATT  seconded the Motion.
 MR. MUNTZ  would like to know what a stranger in the gallery would think they had been about all night. Instead of 10,000 l. l. l.
 MR. AGLIONBY  would not have offered any remark upon the present occasion but for the singular and unconstitutional language which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had employed in declaring that the House ought on no occasion to listen to complaints against a public department, coming before it in this manner. He (Mr. Aglionby) was perhaps sorry that the hon. and learned Member for Youghal should have felt it his duty to bring forward this petition on the present occasion, seeing that on a former occasion, when the hon. and learned Gentleman moved for certain papers connected with the case of the petitioners, it appeared that, though the Marquess of Clanricarde himself had no objection to their production, Her Majesty's Government, as a body, had refused them. That refusal proceeded on a ground which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had tonight stated fairly enough, namely, the grave inconvenience of entertaining the prayer of the petition, or meeting the observations elicited by it, when there was no person present officially connected with the department referred to. On this account,
 35
 MR. LABOUCHERE  attached the greatest importance to this clause. It was necessary to give the power proposed to be conferred upon the naval courts in somewhat vague and general terms, and, indeed, it was a question between justice to be obtained in the way specified, or no justice at all. It was important that our ships, scattered as they were over the whole world, should be able to find courts for the administration of justice. It sometimes happened that a ship remained away from this country for several years, and it was a monstrous state of things that during that time no means should exist of checking abuses on the part of the captain or sailors. It was his belief that the mere possibility of summoning naval courts would prevent many abuses. This was the case in the Dutch service. He had lately received a letter from an intelligent English shipowner in Holland, who had examined the Dutch maritime code—one of the wisest in the world—and the writer informed him that naval courts similar to those proposed to be established under the Bill had long been part of the Dutch maritime code; and that the knowledge that the courts could be summoned almost entirely superseded
 12
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that Clause 71 being much objected to, he would withdraw it.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  replied, that provision was made in the clause for the purpose. It enacted in such a case that the places should be filled by masters of British merchant ships, or respectable British merchants.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  thought it would be better to leave a good deal to the instructions which would be sent out by the Board of Trade to naval officers and consular agents in ports abroad as to the authority of and course of proceedings to be taken before these courts.
 MR. HEYWOOD : If hon. Gentlemen were dealing with their own funds, of course they might make the allowance as high as they please; but, remembering that this money would come out of the pockets of the labouring classes, he could not support the larger amount.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he had felt rather disappointed in hearing the statement of the noble Lord. In one of the proposals to which he directed the attention of the Committee, the noble Lord had, if he understood him aright, stated that the late Duke of Cambridge had divided his property equally among his three children, but had attached to the share he had left to his son certain annuities which for some time would eat up the whole of that son's share—that, in fact, those annuities amounting to 1,600 l. l. 23 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 24 l. l. l. l. l. 25 l. l. l. l.
 MR. BRIGHT  would oppose the vote on behalf of the trading community which he was supposed to represent. He doubted whether there was, in the history of any country in the world, anything to be found so contrary to the dictates of Christianity,
 60 61
 COLONEL RAWDON  said, that from his earliest years he had had the honour of calling the Duke of Cambridge his friend, and that for several years he bad been in intimate relations with him, which afforded him ample opportunities of knowing his liberal and extensive charities; and these, he believed, would account for the fact that he had left so small a sum behind him for his family.
 MR. J. WILLIAMS  expressed his belief, that if there was one office more than another that required investigation, it was the Money-order Office of the Post Office. Some two years since he had presented petitions to the House praying for inquiry to he instituted, in consequence of the gross mismanagement of that office. He had afterwards presented a memorial to Mr. Rowland Hill, calling for a simplification of the accounts of that establishment, because two years had elapsed without those accounts being audited; and he believed that any merchant would be a bankrupt very speedily who conducted business in such a manner. The Government not having had a single person in their employ
 32 l. l.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the clause was crude and indefinite, and the best course the Government could pursue was to postpone the clause, and remodel it.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the effect of this clause would be to cause every case determined in these naval courts to be tried over again in this country.
 MR. HENLEY  said, this clause as it stood would be productive of great mischief, as there would be conflicting jurisdictions, and the powers of neither of the courts were properly specified. Suppose one of these courts ordered a man to be flogged, and he resisted, and in doing so killed one of the sailors who was endeavouring to carry out the order of the court, could such case be regarded as one of murder, as the court might not legally have the power of inflicting punishment, unless it was specified?
 MR. HUME  said, he was exceeding sorry to be compelled to differ from the noble Lord as to the amount that ought to be granted to the present Duke of Cambridge. No man had given more credit than himself to the late Duke for prudence and good management; and whether his accumulations were 100,000 l. l. l. l. 19 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 20 l.
 MR. HUME  wished to know what they would do when the Speaker had left the chair? He said he was now in a position to demand a statement of the general intentions of the noble Lord respecting the Royal grants. Probably the House was not aware that by an Act of Parliament passed many years ago 6,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. 14
 MR. HUME  then moved that the sum should be 10,000 l.
 MR. HUME  wished to ask one question of Her Majesty's Ministers, on their answer to which would depend the vote he should give that night. It had been alleged that the person who had been placed over the heads of these petitioners was, at no very remote period, reported by Colonel Maberly to be unqualified for the situation he held. Was this the fact or not? Although he (Mr. Hume) might agree with those who deprecated as most mischievous, on general principles, the interference of this House with the internal administration of executive departments, there might yet be cases in which the extent of oppression charged against officers in the public service might well warrant such interference. The Government must not wonder if he felt some suspicions that the complaints of these parties must be well grounded, when he reminded them that they had refused him the documents for which he had formerly moved with a view to elucidate the facts. Could they or could they not deny that the individual who had been promoted out of his turn to be the president of a
 36
 MR. HUME  wished to ask the Members of Her Majesty's Government whether any definitive measures had yet been taken towards carrying out the recommendation of a Committee which had recently sat to inquire into the management and affairs of this important establishment? With regard to the defective condition of the catalogues, and the necessity for immediately remedying their deficiencies—one of the points embraced in that report—the
 37
 MR. HUME  said, a more extraordinary discussion had not taken place within his recollection. Of the advocates of the measure no two had agreed as to the grounds on which it deserved support. The noble Lord the Foreign Secretary said, that from the year 1815, the efforts made to put down the slave trade had been completely successful. Why, if the evidence taken before the two Houses was to be relied upon, so far from that being the case, the number of slaves transported to America had been doubled and even trebled. The noble Lord's reasoning was very singular. He said, "The Danish Government have made a very liberal and handsome offer, and will you refuse it?" Why, what was the fact? The Danish Government, after keeping up these forts at an expense of from 3,000 l. l. 68 l. l.
 MR. BAINES  thought the clause might be safely struck out of the Bill.
 MR. BAINES  thought it was unnecessary that the powers of a court of this kind should be specifically defined. With respect to the case put by the hon. Member for Oxfordshire, that if any person in resisting the orders of this court, and in doing so killed another, he was satisfied it would amount to murder.
 MR. FORSTER  said, it was quite incorrect to say that he had made any offer to the Danish Government; they had applied to him in the first instance.
 MR. FORSTER  felt himself very incompetent to meet his hon. Friend the Member for the West Riding as a speaker; but, on this occasion at all events, he had the advantage over his hon. Friend of knowing something of the matter before the House. In fact, his hon. Friend should endeavour to confine himself a little more to the subjects with which he was acquainted, such as the corn laws and financial reform, for he never departed a hair's breadth from them without involving himself in trouble and in unfounded statements. The hon. Member had said, the object of the purchase was the extension of our territory on the coast of Arica. It was no such thing. He also asserted it would tend to increase the mortality on the coast. Now, so far from that being the case, one of the great objects of the transaction was to lessen the mortality by enabling us to raise local black corps,
 44 l. l. Laughter. 45 l. l. l. Manchester Guardian, 46 l. l. l. l. 47
 MR. FORSTER  thought, if the salaries of these parties were really so inadequate, they had the remedy in their own hands, by declining to retain their appointments. But he rose to protest against the House being made a court of appeal against grievances arising out of the administration of a public department, with the details of which they were not supplied, and could not by possibility know anything. The House, in short, was a tribunal utterly unfit to entertain such a case as this.
 MR. COBDEN  said, he should have thought it probably more in order if some Member of the Government had explained the grounds upon which the Committee were called upon to vote this sum. It was proposed to vote 10,000 l. l. l. 38 "Have you any means of forming any judgment as to how far the system of the occupation of forts upon that coast might be extended?—Yes; I have on one or two occasions corresponded with the Secretary of State on that very subject; and it is my firm opinion that slavery will never be done away, excepting by blockading the Bight of Benin, and building forts along the line of coast. I do not mean simply blockading by not allowing Spanish or Portuguese vessels to go there; but I mean to say, that in two years, or two years and a half, by blockading the coast thoroughly, you must do away with slavery; because it would compel the King of Dahomey to come into our views; for they cannot do without English manufactured goods, and I think that in two or three years he would certainly come into our views in respect to the sum of money. But it must be such a blockade by steamers as not to allow anything to pass, and at the same time erecting forts every ten or twenty miles; something in the same shape as the forts on the coast of Sussex, the martello towers." "Those forts would have twenty-five or thirty troops, with officers, and we should patrol the beach, just as you do in looking out for smugglers upon the coast of Kent, and we should always have a telescope on the top of those towers, watching for the approach of any vessel." 39 40 "My Lords concur with your Lordship and Lord Palmerston as to the results of such an arrangement in the extinction of the slave trade and the improvement of the inhabitants which must be anticipated from such a measure." "It is unnecessary to point out the advantages which must result from the measure with regard to the diffusion of Christianity and the spread of civilisation on the coast of Africa in connexion with the increase of British commerce. The acquisition of the Danish forts and the spread of British influence will give efficiency to our policy in the territory subject to our jurisdiction." l. 41 d. l. 42 "Do you find that the health of the white officers suffers very much from the climate?—Very much; seven died during the time I was out there upon the coast alone. Did your health suffer while you were there?—In the first instance; you are quite sure, on arriving at the Gold Coast, to have an attack of fever, what they call the 'seasoning,' and two out of five are the average that die. After you get through the seasoning, you are compare
 43 particeps criminis "That a sum, not exceeding 14,080 l,
 MR. C. ANSTEY  begged to correct an error into which the hon. Member for Montrose had fallen. The complaint was not as to the incompetency of the person who was put over the head of these petitioners, but of that person, who, having been formerly chief clerk, had just been promoted to be president of a department in the Post Office "as next in rotation," although he had been the junior of these petitioners at the time he was reported as incompetent to discharge the duties of his situation.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  begged to call the attention of the House to the petition of 138 clerks in the Money-order Department of the Post Office, presented on the 7th June, and to move that an inquiry should be made into the grounds upon which the appointment of chief clerk of that department bad been withheld from the officer, who, as it was alleged by the petitioners, would, in official order, have succeeded to
 30 l. 31
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, the object of this vote had been very differently stated by the hon. Member for Liverpool, and by other authorities as competent on the other side. The hon. Gentleman said it was merely to form a nucleus for the spread of Christianity and civilisation in Africa; the hon. Baronet opposite the Member for South Essex said it was to form a new colony which should produce a revenue. He wished to know whether this vote would be taken as a substitute for that most objectionable one in support of the African squadron. So long as we had settlements on the coast of Africa we must have a squadron there for their protection; but the idea of putting down the slave trade by the acquisition of these forts was most vain and illusory. Their possession of these territories was but temporary, and the time would come when the civilised African would be able, without the interference of the white man, to administer the affairs of his own ports. He, on this ground, objected to the extension of such possessions, and to the establishment of even pacific factories, when they were conducted by the Government.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  inquired, if it was the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill for regulating the period at which, and the manner in which, the gauging of syrup should take place, so as to make it conform to the method adopted in the manufacture of sugar.
 MR. M. GIBSON  said, there was one part of the explanation of his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies which was not clear to his mind, and which he thought had an important bearing on the matter in hand. It was said that a large revenue was to be derived. Now, somebody must pay this large revenue. It was said also that the tariff of duties which was to be enforced had been submitted to somebody who had approved of it, and this "somebody" was said to be a merchant connected with that trade. Now he did not think that the tariff of duties was to be approved by a particular merchant interested in that trade. But the question was who were they going to tax? Why, these very negroes for whom they expressed so much sympathy. His hon. Friend the Member for Berwick said these ports were the inlets to that part of Africa. Then what were they going to do? They were going to place themselves at these ports, without any right, and to collect a tribute on the articles that were brought into that country for that population, and this tribute they told them was for the benefit of that population. And then the hon. Gentleman told them they were going to christianise the population. They were always told that was the object. He doubted very much whether they would. The only thing they would do would be to make these negroes pay more for their rum and tobacco, and all for the benefit of the British Exchequer. He did not like economy at the expense of those whom they had no right to tax. He wanted to know from what source this right sprung, it was said that it was all for the benefit of our merchants trading with Africa; but would imposing a duty on British manufactures going into Africa extend our trade? He must say, if we were to have these ports it would be more creditable for us to pay the expense of them, than to defray it by taxing the negroes. On these grounds he should vote for the Amendment.
 SIR DE L. EVANS  believed that the cotton merchants were in favour of it. He believed also that they had a great deal of culpability to redeem, as also complicity to atone for; and therefore, for his own part, though this question were connected with the question of the African squadron, which it was not, he was prepared to take any degree of odium that might result from voting in favour of it. He believed that the acceptance of this small territory would be highly beneficial to commerce, whilst the whole expense of maintaining it would not exceed some 1,150 l.
 SIR E. BUXTON  concurred in the impropriety of extending our possessions all over the world; but the effect of the proposed purchase would be, not to increase, but to diminish, our expenditure on the coast of Africa. A revenue would be raised by taxing the inhabitants; and he was surprised to hear the right hon. Member for Manchester, and others near him, object to a colony defraying its own cost. If, by a moderate outlay, we could increase our commerce in Africa, the money would be well spent. Our present colonies there were very near those of the Danes and the Dutch; so much so, that it had been impossible to raise revenue from them, or to give security to the trade. By adding the forts in question, both objects would be accomplished. As to the supply of cotton, it was surely worth 10,00 l.
 SIR G. GREY  believed that the report had already been brought before the Government, and it would undoubtedly receive all consideration. For himself he trusted the hon. Gentleman would for-give him for saying that his time had been so much occupied with other matters as to have precluded him as yet from devoting the necessary consideration to its contents.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, that, before the noble Lord replied to the hon. Member, perhaps he would state to the Committee whether, in the event of the marriage of the Duke of Cambridge, he should propose any addition to the 12,000 l.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that the hon. Member for Montrose had regretted that
 26 l. l. l.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that the duty devolved upon him of moving in this Committee the vote for the expenses of the British Museum. He felt that all which could be properly addressed to the attention of hon. Members in reference to the national importance of the objects embraced in the application of the annual grants to this establishment, had been so well and so often stated by others, that it was unnecessary for him to trespass on the time of the Committee by going over the same matters on this occasion.
 MR. HUTT : The noble Lord does misrepresent me; but I have already made one speech, and I am afraid the House would not have patience to hear a second.
 MR. HUTT  agreed with the views expressed by the hon. Member for the West Riding, and looked upon this proposal to purchase these forts as another of those costly and abortive experiments by which the people of this country had been so long deluded into the imagination that they were magnanimously suppressing the slave trade. For 30 years together they had pursued the game by no other means. They had made treaties enough, and had undergone sacrifices enough, to have secured the most perfect success to their
 62
 MR. HUTT : I have not the slightest doubt that the noble Lord had not the least intention of misrepresenting me when he rose a second time to repeat his statement. I deny that I made the statement which the noble Lord has now imputed to me; he utterly mistook me. He granted me the honour of an interview with him at the Foreign Office, when we had some discussion on the subject, and I then pointed out to him my opinion, that, inasmuch as it was almost impossible, under existing circumstances, to prevent the influx of slaves into Brazil, it would be advisable that, in concert with Brazil, we should adopt some system similar to that by which we are now supplying our own West Indian colonies with free labour; and that if Brazil could be supplied with free labour, it would more effectually put down the slave trade than all the efforts we are now making. Sir, that was my statement, and no other.
 MR. HUTT : The noble Lord below me, in defence of his own case, has thought it necessary to state that I have, at some place and time, advocated a qualified system of slave trade. Now, I distinctly deny that either here or anywhere else, either now or at any former time, I ever held such
 66
 MR. JACKSON  expressed his surprise that the Government had not at once explained the object and real intent of this vote. He had heard a petition from merchants of Liverpool read, declaring that it was necessary to expend this sum of money, and he could understand their doing so; and for this reason—so soon as the 10,000 l. l. l. 48 l. l. l. l.
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  said, that this was not a question of 10,000 l. l. l. 69 l. l. l. l. s.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : If my hon. Friend wishes me to state time and place, I can only say I was under the impression that at an interview I had with him in the Foreign Office, he stated to me that in his opinion there was a natural tendency for labour to flow from Africa to America, and he wished me to consider and weigh well in my mind whether it would not be possible to come to an arrangement by which a certain limited amount of slave trade might be carried on with Brazil, subject to arrangements which might render the passage less prejudicial and injurious. If he says I was mistaken, I will at once admit that I was so, but that was my impression.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I cannot but think that this question has risen in the course of the discussion to a magnitude very much disproportioned to its real im-
 63
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I thought I was borne out in saying that my hon. Friend maintained that we ought to cease all forcible attempts at putting down the slave trade. I am sure his arguments in public, and I venture to say he won't contradict me when I state that his private opinion is, that the best policy this country could adopt was to consent to a limited and well-regulated amount of slave trade on the coast of Africa. [Mr. HUTT: Hear, hear!] If my hon. Friend does not intend that, I beg his pardon, and I retract it. My hon. Friend, at all events, has stated that our attempts have failed; that after a long course of endeavours to put down the slave trade, we have utterly failed in that attempt; and that the slave trade is just where it was when we began in 1815. But what was the attempt made in 1815 for the purpose of putting down that trade? What was the utmost endeavour which the Powers of Europe would make for that purpose? They thought that at the outset the best plan was to put an end to the slave trade as far as the south of the line. Well, the slave trade, with the exception of a small portion of the coast between Whydah and Lagos, has practically been put down. Therefore it is contrary to the fact to assert that England—in conjunction with, and not in opposition to, all the
 64 l. 65
 MR. AGLIOKBY  hoped his hon. Friend the Member for Gateshead, though pre-
 94
 MR. H. DRUMMOND  said, that besides the 20,000 l. l. l.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he very much regretted that the hon. and learned Member for Cockermouth was not in the House during the early part of the speech which they had heard from the hon. Member for Montrose, because he would probably not have made the observations which had just fallen from him—he would probably not have made them, if he had been present when the hon. Member for Montrose declared that he had never heard such a tissue of falsehood as the statements made on behalf of Sir James Brooke. Surely the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite would not have recommended the House to drop the present discussion, if he remembered that throughout the whole of the Session, from its very commencement, the hon. Member for Montrose had been insinuating charges of various kinds, without the least possibility of Sir James Brooke, or any one who thought him injured, being able to meet those charges: that was surely not fair on the part of the hon. Member for Montrose. The first notice of that hon. Gentleman was of a Motion for the production of letters addressed to the noble Lord the Colonial Secretary; and then he came forward with a statement that the marauders on whom Sir James Brooke had inflicted well-merited chastisement were not at the time engaged in a piratical expedition; at another time, that Sir James Brooke had no authority for the steps that he had taken; and, finally, he brought a charge against Sir James Brooke of being a trader, as if there was something unworthy in that character. He might fur-
 114 "Although he had a tolerable notion Of aiming at progressive motion, 'Twasn't direct, but serpentine." "This is an engagement made by Orang Kaya Pamancha, together with the head men and elders, Dyaks, now inhabiting the country of Padih, with the Rajah Sir James Brooke, who rules the country of Sarawak and its dependencies. Now, the Orang Kaya Pamancha, the head men and elders, Dyaks, swear before God, and God is the witness of the Orang Kaya Pamancha, the head men and elders, Dyaks, that truly, without falsehood or treachery, or any evil courses, but in all sincerity, and with clean heart without spot, with regard to the former ovil acts, we will never do them in
 115 "As one of the oldest, indeed, I believe the oldest, surviving British vistor to the western coasts of Borneo, I feel myself called upon to offer my testimony as to the state of those coasts sixteen years ago. I have a lively recollection, even at this distant date, of the terror in which the coast was kept by the very tribe which you have been instrumental in checking. Scarcely more than a year before my arrival, the entire population of the town of Slaku, a few miles to the south of Sambas, was cut off by a marauding expedition of Dyaks from the north-west coast; and I found all the smaller rivers that I wished to enter so barricaded with wooden piles that I found it difficult to obtain an entrance even for my small boat. I see that in my work on the  Eastern Seas 116 117 "I can send you rather a favourable account of myself. I caught a bad ague, watching for the pirate fleet night after night, in hard rain, and it brought me near unto death's door. I felt the springs of life collapsing, the desire of life to be weakened; but care and a good constitution have enabled me to rally this time, and, with the advantage of Labuan air, I have got comparatively strong—not as strong as a hon. yet stronger than I was some weeks ago. The medical men, however, still urge me to try change to a cooler climate; and, though with some reluctance, I shall proceed, when an opportunity occurs, to Penang, and perch myself on the hill-top. Labuan, like myself, is rallying. The climate for six months is charming, and for the other six months much the same as Singapore. Fever will disappear before drainage, and is limited to the plain which bounds the harbour. Health insured we shall advance. The Chinese merchants will also move from Bourne in another two months, and we shall then be the centre of trade for the coast; and I have not the shadow of a doubt the settlement will pay its expenses within a reasonable time. That laggard Eastern Archipelago Company keeps us back. It does nothing itself, and deters others from coming here; and one of our elements of success is at present our poison and hindrance. We shall do, however. Sarawak, when I heard not long ago, was quite quiet and flourishing as usual." 118
 MR. DRUMMOND  had been attacked on account of his geography', but he thought the hon. Member for the West Riding would not have ventured to do so if he had been aware of a document that now lay before him. On a former evening-it was said that an English ship had never been attacked by pirates in these waters. A return, however, had been moved for and obtained on the subject, and he had made a mark with ink on every place where English ships had been attacked; and if they placed one point of the compasses on Labuan, and drew a very small circle, it would be found that every one of those places was within the circle. Gentlemen opposite seemed to be perfectly ignorant of the real condition of that part of the world. He held in his hand a classification by Sir James Brooke of the inhabitants living upon the various rivers, and from that statement it appeared that though there were many unwarlike tribes who would be very glad to trade with us, they had been prevented from doing so on account of the piracy that prevailed.
 MR. V. SMITH  urged the House to pause before they adopted the proposal of the hon. Member for the West Riding till they got two other ports. The hon. Baronet complained of the amount of the salaries paid to the consuls in China; but they were on the same scale as those paid in other distant places, where the cost of living was high. They must not compare the expense of living at a European port with that of residing in China.
 MR. V. SMITH  replied, that there was as much necessity for having assistants in such cases as there was for having principals.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, he ob-
 134
 SIR G. GREY  said, that with respect to one of the Commissioners sitting in Parliament, it was thought that as the Archbishop of Canterbury, being one of the  ex-officio
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that, not having had the opportunity of taking part in the discussion mi this Bill, he should, bad it been an earlier hour, have made some observations upon it; but as it was, he should, leave it to the other House to deal as it thought fit with the Amendments which had been introduced into it since it came down, and which had so much changed its character.
 MR. J. A. SMITH  asked whether the Government intended that the Ecclesiastical Commissioners should deal with the property of the Church in accordance with the recommendations recently issued?
 SIR G. GREY  said, that no doubt the Ecclesiastical Commissioners would deal justly by the property placed in their charge.
 MR. AGLIONBY  complained that the lessees had hitherto been sacrificed, and he recommended that the Bill should be postponed.
 MR. SPEAKER  then called on Mr. Hume, who had given notice of a clause.
 SIR B. HALL  said, that as the hon. Member for Montrose had left the House,
 135
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that he had stated early in the evening that he would proceed with the Bill to-night, and the hon. Member for Montrose must have left the House knowing it would come on. As to the clause to be proposed by the hon. Baronet, the principle had been much discussed already, and no notice had been given of his intention to bring it on, and he hoped he would not press it.
 SIR B. HALL  then moved a clause to the effect that prebendaries and canons should not be allowed to hold livings beyond three miles from the cathedral town in which their prebends or canonries were situate, nor above the value of 500 l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, this clause was discussed in the Committee, and there was a great deal of argument upon it. It seemed to him the case was quite different from that of the dean. The dean was required to reside eight months in the cathedral city, and he could therefore reside only four months in his parish; whereas the canon was only required to reside three months in the cathedral city, and he could reside at his parish nine months. The case was, therefore, entirely different. He did not see any evil, but, on the contrary, much good in a rural clergyman receiving a canonry; and he believed the clause proposed by the hon. Baronet would do serious harm.
 SIR C. GREY  said, he did not think the Amendment of much importance. If a representation were made to the Estates Committee that any officer was inefficient, they would make a change.
 SIR B. HALL  said, then if the right hon. Gentleman did not attach much importance to the question, he might take the common-sense view of it, which was that those who had the management of the estates should have the appointment of their own servants.
 MR. GOULBURN  could speak from personal knowledge of the respectability and ability of Messrs. Dalton; and the same might be said of Messrs. Smith and Pickering.
 MR. SCOTT  agreed with the hon. Member for the West Riding as to this vote. He should have been glad to have seen a reduction in the consular expenditure at Canton and Shanghai; but still there was a large trade carried on with these ports, but there was no trade with Foo-Chow-Foo and Ningpo. Therefore, keeping consuls there was a mere waste of money.
 MR. SCOTT  said, we had consuls at each Chinese port, for discharging the same duties as the American consuls, for which we paid 32,000 l.
 MR. SCOTT  objected that this vote, though 5,000 l. 97 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. d. s. l. 98 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. d. l. l. l. l.
 LORD J. MANNERS  wished, however, distinctly to know whether the hon. Member was prepared to propose to reduce the salary of Dr. Bowring?
 LORD J. MANNERS  wished to ask the hon. Member for the West Riding whether he intended to propose to reduce the salary of Dr. Bowring?
 LORD J. RUSSELL  did not believe the House could refuse this vote without, as was represented, doing injury to anybody, because it must be recollected that at least 300 Dissenting ministers received assistance in very small sums from the grant; and it was stated by those who distributed the money, that it was given to persons who, from their pecuniary circumstances, were in great need of such assistance. It had been said, now and on former occasions, that it was entirely against the principles of Dissenters to receive this money; but if that were the case, it seemed very extraordinary that from 1723 to 1850 this grant had been made every year. It appeared to him that this fact contradicted the assumption of hon. Gentlemen, and that it could not be contrary to the principles of Dissenters to receive such assistance. He could, however, very well understand that those who did not wish to see any ministers of religion receiving money from the public funds or from the State might feel that this grant made against their argument, and might, therefore, wish that it should be discontinued; but he could not consent, for the sake of giving some additional force to that argument, to deprive 300 Protestant Dissenting ministers of the sums they had hitherto been receiving. It appeared to him that this was a matter of charity, and as a matter of charity only he would ask the Committee to assent to the vote. The hon. Member for Manchester had said that this was a species of secret service money. He (Lord J. Russell) would admit that if this were a sum for which the Dissenting ministers applied directly to the Treasury, and the Treasury chose the persons to whom the grant should he made, it might have the appearance of giving the Treasury some influence over those who received it. But the parties who distributed the grant were Dr. Rees and eight other ministers, who re-
 133
 LORD J. RUSSELL  could not comply with the hon. Gentleman's request. If be did so the names of the recipients would he held up to odium all over the kingdom.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  contended that if the hon. Member for Montrose opposed the vote on the ground that they were now be-
 96 l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said: I propose to take the Lords' Amendments on the Irish Franchise Bill into consideration on Tuesday se'nnight. I propose on Friday, at Twelve o'clock, to take into consideration the Lords' Amendments to the Australian Colonies Bill. After the report upon the Mercantile Marine Bill, on Thursday, I propose to consider the Lords' Amendments upon the Metropolitan Interments Bill. I believe that they are not of very great importance, and it is desirable to complete that Bill as soon as possible. There is another Bill with respect to which a question was put to me on Friday last—I mean the Oaths Abjuration Bill, which has reference to the oaths taken by Members of Parliament. I was in hopes of being able to bring on the consideration of that Bill next week; but I find that there is still a considerable quantity of business in the Committee of Supply, which will probably take four or five nights, I could
 88
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that no despatches had been received from Guiana since May last that would answer the description given by the hon. Member for Montrose; and his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies had not as yet had time time to read those which had been received. He feared, however, that his hon. Friend bad not made the House acquainted with the real facts of the case, or difficulties with which the Governor had to contend. The party who were clamouring were not a popular reform party, but a close oligarchy, and their real grievance was that the franchise had been extended by the Governor. It was quite true that this party, finding themselves obliged to resort to open election, were now asking for a constitution similar to that possessed by other colonies. The hon. Member for Montrose had stated that the Governor, having the casting voice, was enabled to cushion any attempt made at reform in the Court of Policy; but the case in point bore completely in the opposite direction. It appeared that a Motion was made for a new form of Legislative Council; and the Governor, the Chief Justice, and the Colonial Secretary declined to vote, thus enabling the gentleman who made the Motion to carry it. It was not true, therefore, that the Governor, by his casting vote, was in the habit of defeating all Motions for reform. With respect to the general question, it was, whether the colony was prepared to receive extended political institutions. Governor Barkly had stated that it was not yet ripe for such institutions, and that it would be better in the first instance to extend the franchise to the
 91
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, it must be negatived, not withdrawn.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that there were inquiries out of doors as to the effect of this measure upon yachting, the season for which was beginning, and some persons were under the apprehension that not a yacht would be able to set sail. He wished for some explanation from the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade to know whether he had had any communication on the subject from yacht owners, and whether he would object to receive suggestions from them?
 MR. HAWES  said, as the hon. Member who had moved the Amendment had not specified in what particular items or offices he wished a reduction to be effected, he could only conclude that the hon. Gentleman's object was to enforce a general reduction of expenditure, on the ground that the Government had not exercised sufficient vigilance with regard to the cost of the settlement of Hong-Kong. Now, he would show the House the large reduction which had been gradually made in this vote for some years past. In 1845 the total vote for Hong-Kong was 49,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 100
 MR. HAWES  said, that, as the matter stood at present, the grants for the bishop, chaplains, and schools, were permanent; but as there was a prospect of representative institutions being established in the colony, he could not say how far this country would remain responsible for these charges.
 MR. HAWES  said, that returns had been laid before the House, in which a detailed account of the expenditure would be found; but he could not say, without reference to those returns, what were the items of the incidental charges.
 MR. HAWES  said, the hon. Member for the West Riding had asked him to give the House an assurance that Sir James Brooke should in future reside in the island of Labuan. He also understood him to say, that he would not object to the salary given to Sir James Brooke, provided he resided at Labuan; and he likewise understood him to refer to the instructions laid down for his guidance when he took office. Now, he (Mr. Hawes) begged to state that Sir James Brooke had of his own accord reduced his own salary 500 l. l. l. 121 "From Labuan these pirates might certainly be intercepted by armed steamers far more conveniently and cheaply than by any other means that could be pointed out."
 MR. HAWES  said, the circumstances of the case to which his hon. Friend referred, were still under consideration, and he was unable to communicate any decision upon it. He was very sorry for the delay; but the cause of it would be perfectly intelligible when he stated that the case was one of considerable extent, and of considerable difficulty.
 MR. LUSHINGTON  proposed, as an Amendment, that this vote should be reduced by the sum of 1,695 l. 129 l. l. l. s. s. 130 "That a sum, not exceeding' 4,623 l.
 MR. LUSHINGTON  said, it was understood that the Governor of Labuan had made charges against the Lieutenant Governor (Mr. Napier.) He wished to know whether the Colonial Office had come to any decision upon the merits of that dispute?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  believed if Mr. Redman had the opportunity afforded him he could establish his ease before a Committee of that House, and he could scarcely suppose that a Government that had assumed so strong a position in the maintenance of his rights and interests abroad, would endeavour to preclude him from a hearing before the House of Commons.
 MR. SPEAKER  intimated that as one Motion had been already disposed of on going into Supply, it was not competent for the hon. Member to submit a second.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  expressed a hope that his hon. Friend would take the sense of the Committee on his Amendment. The vote, he believed, included an office into which a late Member of that House, Dr. Bowring, had been pitched. [An Hon. MEMBKR said, that Dr. Bowring was consul at Canton.] Besides the vote of 20,000 l. l. l. 99
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, when he heard the hon. Member for the West Riding propose reductions, he very much doubted his sincerity. The hon. Member cavilled and pretended to attack the Government, while all the time he was the cause of great expenditure. The hon. Member would strain at a gnat, but was perfectly ready to swallow a camel. He (Colonel Sibthorp) did not like such underhand proceedings. The present Motion was a mere flash in the pan—it was blank cartridge, which would only make a noise. The hon. Member was only tickling on the raw, and barking where he was afraid to bite. If the hon. Member was sincere, he would join him in raising the Government fore and aft, for their mean, cunning, and underhand proceedings.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that however much the Gentleman who moved the Amendment represented the opinion of certain sects of the Dissenters, the evidence of Dr. Rees was opposed to their views, inasmuch as Dr. Rees affirmed that the distribution of the Regiuin Donum was attended with great satisfaction, and that the withhold-
 131
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that as by the rules of the House his hon. Friend could not make a Motion on the subject, he need only say a few words on the matter. He agreed that the case was one of those in which no doubt British subjects had sustained considerable loss; but he could not admit that there was, therefore, any claim against Her Majesty's Government in the matter. They had endeavoured to get reparation as much as they possibly could for the aggrieved parties; and Mr. Redman was, practically, in the situation of a man who, having gone to law to obtain damages, and obtained them, found that the amount he received was not sufficient to cover his losses. The amount awarded to him by the King of Prussia had been given to Mr. Redman: and he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) could not see on what grounds he asked the whole case to be reopened.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  stated that he had received a letter from Mr. Rowland Hill, with reference to certain statements which had been made in that House by the hon. and learned Member for Youghal on Friday last, in which Mr. Rowland Hill desired him to say that he gave the most distinct and unequivocal denial to any imputations that had been made against him.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that when so many officers were appointed it was desirable to know the particulars of their salaries. Were the clerks separate for separate purposes, and was there to be a specific statement for each?
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the same witnesses who were examined before the Commissioners would also appear at the criminal court afterwards. He doubted the expediency of the provision.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the right hon. Gentleman undertook a great responsibility for the Board of Trade in this clause. How could the machinery be arranged that no such difficulties would arise as those now existing with respect to savings banks? If there was a deficiency in these sums it must be made good, and if so, was it to be made good out of the Consolidated Fund? The claim should not fall upon the shipowner. If the right hon. Gentleman would satisfy the Committee that his machinery was correct upon this point, he would be satisfied.
 MR. CARDWELL  suggested that the point be postponed to the bringing up of the report. The question was, when there was a defalcation, what course would the Government take when parties arose who made a claim upon this fund?
 MR. CAYLEY  thought the explanation of the noble Lord was satisfactory, and therefore would withdraw his opposition to the vote.
 MR. CAYLEY  seconded the Amendment, on the ground that where there were no duties to perform, and where there was no trade, there could be no necessity for consuls.
 MR. FRENCH  begged to ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland, whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to appoint a Vice. Chancellor, or any other officer whose peculiar duty it should he to allocate the fund accumulated under the incumbered Estates Commission to the different persons having claims upon it; or whether they proposed taking any steps in order to secure the distribution of moneys received under the Act for the sale of incumbered estates in Ireland?
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he did not rise to oppose the vote, for he was aware of tin circumstances under which the money was required; but he wished not to be thereby precluded from calling attention to other matters connected with Now Zealand. His object now was to ask his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies whether the grants for the bishop and clergy contained in this vote were to be permanent?
 MR. AGLIONBY  should regret very much if the Committee assented to the Amendment. Dr. Selwyn was receiving a very small salary, while his duties were most onerous and arduous—he having to superintend several settlements, extending over a country as large as Great Britain. [Mr. BRIGHT: That is no reason why he should be paid by this country.] The Bishop of New Zealand had more important and onerous duties entrusted to him than perhaps any other colonial bishop; and though he thought Dr. Selwyn had been occasionally mistaken, and had taken a course hostile to the views and interests of the New Zealand Company, he believed a more zealous, honourable, and conscientious man could not be found; and the trouble he had taken, and the good he had done in assisting in the civilisation of the natives, could not be too highly commended. He had great pleasure in supporting this vote, which was a very inadequate payment for the services rendered, though, he admitted, as much as could be expected from this country. He was glad to hear that representative institutions were likely to be extended to the colony; and he could assure his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies that nothing would give more satisfaction to the colonists than an assurance that a Bill would be introduced next Session for establishing such institutions on a just and firm basis. He hoped his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose would not divide on his Amendment.
 MR. AGLIONBY  appealed to the House whether this painful discussion ought to continue? They had to view men in their public capacity, and that House was not the place for reading and discussing all the private letters that had passed between old friends ten years ago. He hoped the House would go on with the public business of the night.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, nothing he had hitherto beard had convinced him that Sir James Brooke had been concerned in a mercantile transaction, or that he had ever been engaged in anything to his detriment as a public officer. From pri-
 119
 MR. AGLIONBY  wished to explain. He did not think he deserved all the ponderous and virtuous indignation of the hon. and learned Member for Newark. He could not have interrupted the hon. Member for Montrose while he was speaking. Besides, private letters on the other side had been introduced before; and to-night the hon. Member for Montrose had been meeting charges with an answer. He wished such a subject had never been introduced at all into that House, and he now trusted that the matter would go no further.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the principal expense was incurred for the East Indian officer. The others would be appointed by the local boards, but the salaries would be paid by the Board of Trade. He did not wish to give these local boards the temptation of appointing officers, although he consented that the local authorities should fix the amount of salaries.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the amount of wages the board would receive as trustees would be so small that it would be better to place them in the common fund; for it was not worth while, and at the same time very inconvenient, to constitute this trifling sum into a separate fund. There would be no danger in thus dealing with them, for the money would be as secure
 85
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the salaries of the persons paid by the Board of Trade would be submitted to the House.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the accounts would be kept separate, and would be separately stated to Parliament. But it was really not worth while to keep the wages first alluded to by the hon. Gentleman as a separate fund. The items would be given separately, and when the accounts were on the table the Louse would be able to see from what source of income the payments were made.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  quite agreed with that principle, but the whole object might be attained without making special provision for amounts so small.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  proposed to add a clause, in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. Member for Liverpool concerning encouraging sailors' homes. He (Mr. Labouchere) was most desirous to promote them, with the sanction of that House, and he hoped that one of the consequences of this Bill would be, that those who would be connected with the shipping offices would be connected also with the sailors' homes. The Board of Trade would encourage them in every way; but the voluntary exertions of the shipowners themselves would do more for the establishment of sailors' homes than this clause, or any Act of Parliament whatever. The object, of the clause was to enable corporations to purchase land for sailors' homes.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  then brought up the Amendments in the clauses that had been postponed. Several new clauses were added.
 MR. LABOUCHERE : Gentlemen must reconcile themselves to applying somewhat different principles to eases occurring at sea to those on  terra firma. a primâ facie 83
 MR. LABOUCHERE , upon the whole, approved of the suggestion of the two hon. Gentlemen who had spoken last, and he would strike out the clauses; but upon the understanding, of course, that if found necessary on further consideration, they were to be restored on the report, or on the third reading.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the matter was not of very material consequence. This clause and the next had been well considered, and, in fact, only re-enactments of former provisions, and applying them to these shipping offices. The substance of the provision was scattered over two or three different Acts, and it was thought that the most convenient course would be to condense them all in one Act. However, if the Committee thought these clauses no improvement, or unnecessary parts of the Bill, he had no objection to postpone them.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, it was a serious thing to inflict upon the Board of Trade the exclusive conduct of the prosecutions.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the object of the clause, requiring the costs to be certified as proper, was to prevent the low bloodsucking attorneys who loitered about the courts from cheating the sailors. Whether the objection of the hon. Gentleman had weight or not, that purpose must be effected.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  should be glad to hear any suggestion from gentlemen of the shipping interest. He could have no motive for throwing such claims upon them.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  assured the hon. Gentleman that it never had been intended to include the Yacht Club in the provisions of this Bill, and he did not think the measure could prejudice them; but if it did affect them in any way, he should be happy to listen to any suggestions, and quite ready to make the necessary alterations on the third reading.
 MR. KERSHAW  seconded the Amendment. He was very anxious that this grant should be cut off. It was so singular in its character, and was so opposed to the feelings of Dissenters both in England and Scotland, that he had hoped that the Government would consent to withdraw it. The Dissenters regarded it as at once inconsistent with their principles, and derogatory to their character. The boards connected with the several denominations had expressed their disapprobation of it. It was distributed amongst the Presbyterians, the Independents, and the Baptists, and neither of these bodies was in a position to require such assistance. [ Loud cries of
 MR. WYLD  regretted that the noble Lord should have treated this grant as a matter of charity towards Dissenters, he could assure the noble Lord that the Dissenters of England required charity neither from that House nor from any other body. He would remind the Committee that the most numerous body of Dissenters, the Wesleyans, were not participants in this grant.
 MR. BRIGHT  wished to ask the noble Lord whether he would lay on the table the names of the recipients of this grant; or whether he would consent not to press the vote this year, and it would then be seen whether the 300 ministers who were said to participate in the grant would petition for its renewal?
 MR. BRIGHT  thought that, though the question had been discussed on several occasions, the House was not aware of the nature of the grant. The statement made by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer was calculated to mislead the Committee with regard to it. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had quoted the evidence of Dr. Rees to prove that it gave great satisfaction. Now, it was probable that not a single congregation was aware of the fact that its minister was a recipient of the fund, All congregations repudiated the grant; and if it were known by any that its minister was a recipient, it would become a question between the minister and the congregation, and a stop would be put to it. It was, in fact, a sort of secret service money; as, at the Treasury, nothing was known of the recipients. At the Treasury it was handed to three individuals of average respectability to distribute; but no names were returned as those of the recipients, and consequently nothing was known of the necessities of those for whom that House voted money. His great objection to the grant was this—he thought it calculated to cause duplicity amongst the Dissenting clergymen, which was most dangerous to their characters as ministers. The amount was 5 l. l. l l. l. 132
 MR. REYNOLDS  thought the noble Lord ought to adopt the suggestions of the hon. Member for Manchester. He was surprised that the Government should force such a grant upon people who were unwilling to receive it, especially as they proposed to reduce by a considerable amount the grants to the charitable hospitals of Dublin. As the representative of those who were anxious to support the Dublin hospitals, he could only say that he would willingly accept the 1,700 l.
 MR. J. STUART  said, it was plain that the hon. Members for the West Biding and Montrose had made a run against Sir James Brooke. [Mr. HUME: No, no!] he was glad to hear it, because, if that had been sooner stated, it might have saved much useless discussion. What, however, was the complaint against Sir James Brooke? That he had put down pirates. The hon. Member for the West Riding said, however, that he (Sir James Brooke) could not put down pirates, because be did not reside at Labuan. But he had effectually put them down, and thereby brought upon himself the enmity of the hon. Gentlemen.
 MR. J. STUART : Then the hon. Member accuses Sir James Brooke of committing murder, and says he does not make a run at him.
 MR. J. STUART  thought the hon. and learned Member for Cockermouth rather late in his interference. If the hon. and learned Gentleman thought to stop the discussion at the close of such a speech
 113
 MR. HENLEY  said, that some definite security should be taken for the expense of the machinery of this clause. Here they proposed to put the wages they might be holding as trustees, with all the other receipts, in one common fund, out of which they proposed to pay all salaries and other expenses, as thereinafter authorised. That he thought was not a convenient form. It was more desirable that the salaries should appear in a distinct form, and that the wages for which the Board of Trade was responsible as trustees should be a separate fund. They had no right to mix up those wages with the common fund without giving distinct and responsible security for them.
 MR. HENLEY  objected to the clause altogether. It was most unusual to give costs in summary cases. The expenses of witnesses and fees to the clerk were granted; but he did not know a case in which costs to the attorney were given in a summary case, and he should move that the clause be struck out.
 MR. HENLEY  said, it was a question whether the powers could not be most safely trusted to a public board.
 MR. HENLEY  thought the first Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman an improvement, but objected to the proposal as regarded costs, and called his attention to the 1 and 12 Vic, by which common informers had been much restrained. He did not think it right that these penalties should fall into the hands of common informers who might bring forward the cases. That ought to be guarded against, or the parties, even if they had committed no offence, would be liable to heavy penalties at the mercy of common informers. The hard labour provision might be right and proper, but the question of costs should he kept out.
 MR. HENLEY  said, it must he understood that if the clauses were again proposed, ample time must be given for their consideration. If not, he would rather strike them out at once.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that no provision was made in the clause that the evidence before the inspectors should be taken in the presence of the parties concerned. The clause conferred a vast power, which he hoped would never be given to a local marine board. Moreover, the difficulty might arise of the inquiry being held before an examiner who was unacquainted with the proper mode of conducting it, relating as it might to a man's seamanship or ability to command a ship. The inspector might also be ignorant of the rules of evidence, and the result might seriously prejudice any man about to be put upon his trial. In section 20 great power had been taken for inquiry into the conduct of masters and mates; but in the present clause additional power was taken of inquiring into matters of misconduct and gross violation of the law, but there was no provision that the, party whose conduct was to be inquired into should be present. Also in collisions, or what were called "running down cases," there was no power to secure the presence of both parties at the inquiry. The sort of evidence given in such cases should be recollected: and was it just and fair that evidence given in such cases should be taken on oath; and a report made grounded upon that evidence that would prejudice the rights of parties not present at the examination, and perhaps had no opporunity of knowing anything about it?
 MR. HENLEY  said, if the inquiry was to he limited, as the right hon. Gentleman described, he would not object to it. There was, however, abundant power in the 20th section, and this clause related to matter of a personal character, the evidence on which ought not to be taken behind a man's back. He proposed, therefore, to leave out the words referring to the misconduct of the master or mate, "or that any master or mate has been guilty of serious misconduct of any kind, or has shown gross negligence or want of skill." The omission of those words would reduce the application of the clause to a general inquiry, which he thought just and fair, and exclude inquiry into individual eases.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that in the case of income arising from fees, it was right to appropriate that fund to office expenses. But those funds for which the board was trustee should go to the parties to whom they belonged, and if kept in the common fund the accounts would be more complicated. Besides, there might be interest accruing on those wages, and the board had no right to appropriate that interest in any other way than giving it to the owner of the wages. He thought the right hon. Gentleman might devise some simpler mode of settling this matter.
 MR. HENLEY  would be satisfied if the right hon. Gentleman would have the accounts kept separate. Bui, if all were thrown into one general fund, how would the public know in what proportions these various sources of income arose, and be able to judge whether it was fair those salaries should be continued, and how much ought to be handed over to the merchant seamen's fund? He throw this out as a suggestion to the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the Bill made no provision for burying seamen and apprentices, although a peculiar course was proposed for taking care of them when they were dead. A mode was proposed, which had all the inconvenience of the existing law, while no securities were given for the distribution of the property of these deceased persons, but rather the reverse. He advised the right hon. Gen-
 81
 MR. HENLEY  said, they had recently extended legislation upon this subject so much that the probable amount they would have to deal with had been greatly increased. He could understand that when the amount of wages left was very small, it might be given to the Seamen's Fund for the general advantage; but he I protested against including all effects whatever to be given to the Seamen's Fund.
 MR. HUME  said, that as the despatches had not as yet arrived, and after what had fallen from the noble Lord, he was willing to withdraw his Motion.
 MR. HUME  said, he should object to the vote for sundry reasons, one of which was the conduct pursued by Sir James Brooke to Mr. Wise, his partner. It had been asserted by an hon. Gentleman that Mr. Wise had never been a partner of Sir James Brooke. But he thought he would be able to show that Mr. Wise stood in that relation to Sir James Brooke; and that it was not until after the massacre of 1,500 individuals—which, by the way, had never been published in the  Gazette, 107 "London, 31st October, 1848. "To the Right Hon. Viscount Palmerston, &c, &c., Foreign Office. "My Lord—I have received advices by the last Overland Mail, announcing the departure from Singapore of the Government establishment of Labuan. The foundation of that (if properly managed) important colony, the object of my unceasing efforts since 1842, being at length accomplished, I cannot conclude my voluminous correspondence with Her Majesty's Government on the subject of Borneo, without tendering my grateful acknowledgments to your Lordship, and to the Gentlemen of your Lordship's department of the Government, for much kindness and patient attention to details, throughout the progress of my communications. I therefore avail myself of this opportunity of acquainting your Lordship, that I have terminated the political relationship hitherto existing between Sir James Brooke and myself.—I have the honour to be, my Lord, your Lordship's faithful servant, (Signed) "HENRY WISE." "Foreign Office, November 3rd, 1848. "Sir—I am directed by Viscount Palmerston to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 31st ultimo, announcing the termination of your connexion with Sir James Brooke, and thanking his Lordship for the attention paid to your several communications relative to Borneo; and to the new settlement of Labuan. In reply, I am directed by Viscount Palmerston to thank you for the information which you have at various times transmitted to this office with reference to these matters, which in his Lordship's opinion contributed in no small degree to their final satisfactory arrangement.—I am, Sir, your most obedient humble servant, (Signed) "H. U. ADDINGTON." "Singapore, March 14,1843. "My dear Wise—I will explain to you now my own ideas on this subject, and you may consider them at your leisure. When we consider the numerous companies which are formed (if properly introduced) I cannot doubt that Sarawak would offer temptations to capitalists which few other fields present, and that the outlay of sufficient capital in mining and agricultural pursuits would repay sufficient interest for money until the country was developed enough to afford direct revenue. A company of three to five hundred thousand pounds capital, in shares (as may seem best to the projectors), would be sufficiently powerful to protect itself, even supposing the Government refused their countenance in direct assistance. The recognition
 108 l. l. 109 (Signed) "J. BROOKE." "Having returned to Singapore, I bought another vessel, and filled her with merchandise, and returned here once more." "Sarawak, 24th Sept., 1841.—Oh, if the echoes of Exeter Hall could catch this news; if some of her big-mouthed orators could only hear it, how would they ding it into the ears, the 'long ears' of the public; but philanthropy, like other I things, is a fashion, and I do not think they care much about Borneo yet." "Sarawak, 7th Dec., 1841.—The religious community must help us. My great working friend is Templer." "Sarawak, 16th March, 1842.—You speak of having me made a knight, or even a baronet. I am not sanguine. The former title I am not ambitious of; but hero, in this distant corner of the world, it would be very useful, both with natives and Europeans. In England a knight may be elbowed in every street; here you may seek for and not meet with one, and therefore it is, desirable. If I am a baronet, I will be Vyner and not Brooke—the old title shall be revived." "Sarawak, 25th Aug., 1842.—The great advantage to me personally by this reconciliation of; the parties in Borneo is, that Muda Hassim and his rascally train will remove to the capital, and we shall be rid of the great impediment to trade; for these Borneo rajahs are the terror of the trader, and, like other great people, run into debt for thousands without hundreds to pay." "Singapore, 15th Jan., 1844.—After nearly three years, then, I could close my accounts at Sarawak without being a loser; and this when I have built houses, boats, &c, and purchased guns and many other things. At the same time, I have not exported above one-third the amount required of antimony ore. I should like much to have our family baronetcy, but I know not that I would
 110 "J. Brooke to H. Wise. "Sarawak, Feb. 20, 1845. "My dear Wise—I have the pleasure to communicate to you an arrangement that I have determined upon regarding my future trading concerns in this country, viz. 1. In consideration of your services during the last two or three years, whereby the Government recognition of my proceedings in Borneo has at length been obtained, I hereby consent to your joint participation with myself in all profits arising from my several transactions here, after the payment of the annual expenses of my establishment (an estimate of which I have already given you) and of Mr. Ruppell's allowances. 2. In order to afford Mr. Ruppell sufficient time to close the present accounts, I propose that this arrangement commences on the 1st of April next. 3. The antimony ore, and all other shipments of produce from hence on my account, will be consigned to your London firm for realisation, and account sales thereof rendered to mo direct. 4. The establishment by you of another house at Singapore—the propositions of the Sultan of Saniboa—and the continuance or otherwise of my present arrangements with Messrs. Boustead, Schwade, and Co., I leave, with all matters of detail, entirely to yourself and to your London firm for decision. 5. Duration of this agreement our mutual convenience. (Signed) "J. BROOKE. "Henry Wise, Esq., H.M.S.  Driver, "Singapore, May 8, 1845. "What is ultimately to be looked to is the development of the country, and you may rest assured I will not draw back from our arrangement of dividing whatever may turn up. I trust you will not touch the money left in Cameron's hands, is I much wish to leave it entire as a nest egg on which I can fall back. (Signed) "J. BROOKE." "Cheltenham, January 10, 1848. "In the second count, granting an opium farm monopoly, a clause should be inserted that if the renters do not fully satisfy the demand for the drug, that I am at liberty to do so myself." "Sarawak, March 17, 1845. "Mr. George Ruppell, Sarawak.—Hear Sir,—I take this opportunity of acquainting you with the terms upon which 'I am willing to continue your services as manager and superintendent of all my trading operations in Borneo—namely, a salary of 100 dollars per month, and a commission of 10 per cent upon the annual net profits derived from the transactions referred to. Your undivided attention to my business matters will of course be required; and this arrangement, you must also
 111 (Signed) "J. BROOKE." "Sarawak, 17th March, 1845. "James Brooke, Esq., Sarawak.—Dear Sir,—I beg to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of this day's date, communicating the terms upon which you are willing to continue my services as manager and superintendent of all your trading operations in Borneo, and which terms I hereby cordially assent to. With reference to the future management of your trading operations at Sarawak, I have agreed with Mr. Wise that the following system for keeping the annual accounts should be adopted from the 1st proximo, the date upon which the new arrangements commence. The whole of the trading operations to be debited with the following items and accounts, namely—Annual payment to the Sultan; house account, including all salaries; 'Julia's' account (annual disbursements); payments for ore in goods or wages; expenses attending transhipment of antimony ore, &c, at Singapore. On the other hand, the transactions in question are to be credited with the following results, namely—Net proceeds of antimony ore, as rendered by London agents; net proceeds of goods sold, namely—vegetables, tallow, birds' nests, rice, opium, Ac.; net proceeds of revenue receipts; and the difference between these amounts is to form the annual profit and loss account, from which my commission of 10 per cent upon the net profits is to be calculated. Assuring you of my continued exertions in the discharge of the duties I have undertaken, to the best of my abilities, I beg to subscribe myself, dear sir, very thankfully and sincerely yours, (Signed) "GEORGE RUPPELL." 112 l. "August 22, 1842.—Your design upon Mrs. Fry is most laudable, and I trust she will lead all the religious world. Oxford and Cambridge I have no hopes from, because they are not interested parties, and, as a body, they are bigots and bookworms, who think more of their own squabbles than anything that is going on abroad. Don't forget Sir Fowell Buxton, although Sir F. must be disheartened. You do not say anything about the press, though of course you will not neglect it; and the mercantile body, though never moved by generous or disinterested motives, are alive to their own interests, and, if they see an opening likely to increase trade, they will assuredly pour in and help with money. When the vagabonds are laying out millions in mining speculations in the mountains of South America, cannot we get them to supply our exchequer with some dirty thousands? The press—the press—agitate—agitate—ding-dong, knock it into their ears, and perhaps after a time they will awake, like an alderman after a surfeit, and, with a few grunts, think that a penny may be turned."
 MR. HUME  said, that the establishment at Hong-Kong had been an experiment, and it had been expected to prove a great emporium. It had not turned out what was anticipated; and, while he did not blame the Government of the day for what they did at the time, he must submit that, under the changed circumstances, there ought to be a great reduction—he should say, by one-half. In a mere military post, such a civil establishment was not required.
 MR. HUME , although reluctant to detain the Committee, wished for a few moments to call the attention of the Government and the House to the state of affairs in British Guiana; and in order to show the improper and harsh treatment which that colony had received, it would be necessary to state that he had during the present year presented a petition, setting forth the unfortunate state of the colony, and praying for a reform in its institutions. In 1849 the hon. Member for Inverness had obtained a Committee to inquire into the affairs of British Guiana and Ceylon; and British Guiana being taken first, the Committee came to the conclusion that the present state of the colonial institutions was
 89 90
 MR. HUME  objected to the principle of voting money for the support of the ecclesiastical establishments of the colonies. The revenue of the colony was estimated at 36,000 l.
 MR. HUME  considered that this country had enough to do to maintain its own ecclesiastical establishments, and that to begin paying for the colonial establishments was most objectionable. Where was the system to end, if once admitted—were we to pay for the clergy and schools of all the colonies? He had nothing to say against the efficiency of the bishop; but he contended that, as the House had had nothing to do with his appointment, they had no right to be called upon to pay his salary. He would move that the vote be reduced by 600 l. 95 l.
 MR. HUME  suggested that it might be better to adopt at once the old Catholic rule of the Spanish and Portuguese, to which we seemed fast approaching, of appointing a bishop as the first act of colonisation.
 MR. HUME  denied that he had made a run at Sir James Brooke. He had only made a run at the murderers upon a coast where there were no pirates.
 MR. HUME  admitted, that in applying the term "falsehood," of which the bon. Gentleman the Member for West Surrey had complained, he had used an expression which was too strong. The hon. Gentleman, however, had admitted all the facts he had stated; he had done more, for he added that Mr. Wise was to give Sir James Brooke half the profits upon his concern. As to the existence of pirates, he was content with the authority of Sir Edward Belcher on that point. At the same time, he wished the hon. Gentleman to understand that he had never seen Mr. Wise, or even heard of his name until after he had given his notice for some returns upon the subject, believing that Government could not have consented to such an awful sacrifice of life without authority. The instructions had never been produced under which the attack was made; and the Government had never ventured to publish the disgraceful proceedings in the  Gazette.
 MR. HUME  trusted, after the explanation they had heard from the noble Lord, his hon. Friend would not press his Amendment.
 MR. HUME  wished to ask the noble Lord the Foreign Secretary whether in these two ports commercial restrictions did not exist which were not in force in the two other China ports? He wished to know whether they could not get these restrictions removed? If they once gave up their relations with these two ports, they would find it very difficult to get them restored.
 MR. BAINES  said, this was an important clause as part of the machinery to effect the objects of the Bill, and he proposed, in addition to the words "fine and imprisonment," to add the words "with or without hard labour." The Bill could not deal properly with some of the most flagrant offences without the addition of these words, and he proposed to add the same words with respect to costs.
 MR. BAINES  said, that the report would be no more binding than the verdict of a coroner's jury.
 MR. BAINES  admitted the necessity of placing a check upon common informers. The Committee would decide whether the power of prosecution should be left to the Board of Trade, or to the parties. He
 84
 MR. COBDEN : That was perfectly true. The head-quarters of the judicial establishment was at Hong-Kong; but look how differently matters were managed by the United States, who had nearly as extensive a trade with China as ourselves. They had a consul at each port, with a salary of 1,000 dollars a year, who administered justice to all American subjects, and thus they
 106 l. l. l.
 MR. COBDEN  said, that a good deal of what had been urged by the noble Lord was an argument in favour of the hon. Gentleman opposite, the Member for Berwickshire. It was said, that Hong-Kong was to be considered more as a military port, or sort of  point d'appui, l. l. 105 l. l. l. l. s. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. COBDEN  said: No. Dr. Bowring was stationed at Canton, the chief seat of our commerce in those parts.
 MR. COBDEN  thought there ought to be an assurance given to the Committee by the Secretary for the Colonies, that if they voted a salary to Sir James Brooke as Governor of Labuan, he should reside at Labuan. He objected to the vote last year before those events occurred which had complicated this question, and made it a personal one. He objected to the vote of 2,000 l. l. 120 Indian Archipelago.
 MR. COBDEN  said, he had never objected to the occupation of Labuan. What he contended was, that the pirates were not in the neighbourhood of Sarawak, but of Labuan; consequently the governor, who received 2,000 l. 122
 MR. COBDEN  said, he wished to call attention to two of these establishments in China, Ningpo and Foo-Chow-Foo, where it appeared there was no trade for British vessels. The half-yearly reports of the consuls there stated that in some periods not a single British vessel had visited the ports. The consular establishments on the coast of China were altogether on an extravagant scale; and these two might well be discontinued, there being no trade. Altogether the consular establishments in China cost 32,096 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 124
 MR. COBDEN  replied that Dr. Bowring was at Canton, not at one of those ports where there was no trade.
 MR. COBDEN  said, that it appeared, from the evidence taken before the Com-
 128
 MR. SPOONER  thought it was unnecessary to keep up a large establishment at Hong-Kong, as there was very little trade there. The noble Lord had himself admitted that it was useless as a place of trade.
 MR. SPOONER  wished to call the attention of the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs to the estimate of the sum required for the payment of the consular establishment at Hong-Kong, namely, 4,261 l.
 MR. SPOONER  observed, that the cost of police and gaols in Hong-Kong appeared,
 102 l. s. l.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, it was due to himself to say that for the statement he made upon that occasion he had documentary evidence—some of it in the handwriting of Mr. Rowland Hill himself; and that if he had been allowed the Committee he had asked for, he should have been able to prove infinitely worse cases of oppression against that gentleman than anything he had stated the other night.
 MR. MITCHELL  considered the vote was so extravagant, that he hoped the hon. Member for Berwickshire would persevere in his Amendment. The hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies had asked what it was that required reduction. His reply was, that not one item, but every item, ought to be reduced. The
 101 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  could find nothing like the Hong-Kong charges in any of the other colonies. In Western Australia there were six resident magistrates with salaries of 100 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. PLOWDEN  denied that a police magistrate and his clerk would be found equal to the discharge of the judicial functions of a judge.
 MR. PLOWDEN  said, he had been in China for ten years, and he could state that the East India Company's expenditure upon the Chinese establishment, for ten years before the renewal of their charter, had been from 80,000 l. l. l. l.
 MR. PLOWDEN  wished to observe, that when the East India Company had the monopoly of the trade with China, it endeavoured to obtain tea direct from Foo-Chow-Foo, as that was the nearest port to the black tea-growing countries. They were in hopes of being able to induce the Chinese black tea merchants to send their tea down to Foo-Chow-Foo, to be shipped thence for Canton, and they hoped by this means they should be able to get
 125
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  asked what necessity there was to have assistant consuls in those ports where there was nothing to do?
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  regretted that any Member of that House should have so far forgot Parliamentary usage as to characterise a person intrusted with high office by the Crown, at a great distance from England, as one who from first to last had acted as an impostor, and then to think it enough, as the hon. Member for Montrose had done, to say that he had made no run at him. A charge had been made against Sir James Brooke that he threatened to sell the territory he had become connected with to the French or the Dutch. It was sufficiently well known that he first offered it to his own Government. But he asked hon. Members to consider whether by such treatment as had been awarded to that gentleman, they were not doing much to cut asunder those ties that bound a gallant and honourable man to his country, and making a poor return for the services of one who had sacrificed the blessings of social life to promote the best interests of his species.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  bore testimony to the high character of the bishop for piety, zeal, and general efficiency, and urged that while the mother country administered the affairs of a colony, she was bound to provide the means of religious instruction.
 MR. HUTT  rose to call the attention of the House to the petition of Mr. G. C. Redman, presented the 12th of April last. In the year 1833–34, Mr. Redman, in conjunction with other merchants, was anxious to open the trade with Portendic, on the coast of Africa, in conformity with the treaty of Paris of 1783, which specially secured the right of commerce there to British subjects, which right had, notwithstanding, been monopolised by Prance. Mr. Redman accordingly in that year sent a cargo to Portendic for that purpose, and the Governor of the French colony of Senegal seized and detained the British ships engaged in the enterprise; but the outrage did not end there. The following year the French Government, as if to close for ever the territory of Portendic against British commerce, in defiance of the faith of treaties, declared that port in a state of blockade, and again seized the British vessels that had been sent out. The consequence was that great loss and almost ruin fell upon the parties who had undertaken to
 92 l. 93 l. l. l.
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  wished to call the attention of the noble Lord to the fact, that the consuls in China received salaries out of proportion to those paid to that class of officers in the other ports of the world. In these two places there was absolutely not the least necessity to retain consuls.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE , in reply, said, that on a former occasion he had understood his hon. Friend to ask whether the Court of Chancery had declined to distribute the proceeds of sales under the Act for the sale of incumbered estates. If he was light in supposing that to be the question, he begged to say that there was no foundation whatever for the report that the Court of Chancery had declined to distribute the money, because by the Act of Parliament they were bound to take charge of the money. He suspected that the report to which his hon. Friend had alluded on a former occasion owed its origin to the following circumstance, as described by Baron Richards:—
 "The Court of Chancery, I apprehend, has no power to refuse to receive moneys transferred
 87 l. "But, in fact, the practice of the commissioners is not to lodge money in the Court of Chancery in any case in which it can be avoided. They will have sold more than half a million of property before they separate for the vacation, and of that sum they hope to distribute the entire, with the exception of about 25,000 l. l. l. l.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  apprehended that it was a mistake to view this merely as a colony in the ordinary sense of that term; it was a post for the support and protection of our trade with China in general. When it was his lot to frame instructions to Sir Henry Pottinger, who went out to China with a view to the treaty which he was to conclude, and afterwards did (with verbal alterations) conclude, he (Lord Palmcrston) felt it his duty to endeavour to get information from every possible quarter, and he saw persons from all parts of the country who had any knowledge of China; among others, he derived most valuable assistance from his Friend the hon. Member for Portsmouth, whom he did not now see in the House. There were two things these persons pressed upon him as of the utmost importance. The one was, to obtain access to a larger number
 103 104
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that the hon. Gentleman seemed to think that the chief justice and attorney general were confined to Hong-Kong; but the courts of justice had jurisdiction over every part of the Chinese seas.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that Hong-Kong had communication with all the five ports that were open, and the chief superintendent obtained regular periodical reports from these five ports, and communicated them to the Foreign Office.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, if it happened at any other ports in the world that there were consuls and no trade, he should have no objection to abolish the establishments there. It was very true, as had been said by the hon. Member for the West Riding, that no one attended to transact business at the consular offices in these ports, but they must take into their consideration the very peculiar circumstances connected with our trade with China. As was stated by the hon. Gentleman who just addressed the House, the consular establishments at these ports were formed by treaty, which made it most desirable to pause before any steps were taken to get rid of them. The whole subject, however, had occupied the attention of the Government during the last two years, and, as he had already stated, he had entered into correspondence with Mr. Bonham, and other persons able to form a sound judgement on the subject, as to whether other ports might not be obtained as substitutes for these two. These communications had not led hitherto to any satisfactory result; but in that very month he had received a letter from the Chinese Association at Liverpool, enclosing a very important document from the Chamber of Commerce at Canton, in which it was clearly shown that it would be unwise to abandon at present the consular establishment at Foo-Chow-Foo, as it was probable that before long persons would go there to establish themselves in trade.
 126
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that the hon. Gentleman had misunderstood him. He had not said that Hong-Kong was useless as a place of trade, but that its chief value was not as a place of trade.
 127
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  apprehended the restrictions of which this country had reason to complain were imposed some distance in the interior of the country. An additional duty was imposed on the importation of our produce into these districts. Representations had been made the Chinese Government on this subject, but Mr. Bonham in his last despatch stated he had not then received an answer.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that the proposed Amendment raised an important question, by those words which authorised going beyond the boundary of any one union in forming the dispensary district. That provision militated against the principle of the Bill, and he could easily show
 148
 MR. VESEY  could not see why the right hon. Secretary objected to the appeal, for it did not appear likely there would be many such appeals; and they would not be resorted to except in gross cases of abuse.
 MR. CLEMENTS  wished to bring forward his Amendment, which was to the effect of so altering the clause as to give the initiation or origination in the matter entirely to the boards of guardians, and that the Commissioners should have the same powers they now possessed.
 MR. F. FRENCH  did not see how the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin could be reconciled with that of the hon. Member for Leitrim.
 COLONEL DUNNE  thought that the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin University did not go far enough, and hoped he would endeavour to extend its operation.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  offered to withdraw that part of his Amendment which would legalise exceeding the boundaries of one union in the formation of the districts, and taking parts of adjoining unions to form one dispensary district.
 COLONEL DUNNE  suggested, that the best course would be to withdraw the clause for the present, in order to incorporate with it the several Amendments proposed to be inserted; and then the entire clause would be in an intelligible form before the Committee.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  then moved—
 "At the end of the last Amendment to add the words 'but so, nevertheless, that no electoral division formed under the Acts for the more effectual relief of the destitute poor shall be divided; and in such scheme or plan the said Commissioners shall also state the number and salaries of the officers to he appointed for the service of each such Dispensary District, and the number of persons who shall be members of the committee of management of such district as hereinafter is provided.'"
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that the decision of the amount of remuneration to the medical officers ought not to vest with the hoards of guardians; for practical experience had shown that many of their decisions had been regulated in fact by no principle at all, but from motives the most capricious, personal, and partial. While in some districts medical officers had been appointed at salaries which it was wonderful the veriest drudge would accept, in other districts the medical officers had been appointed at an amount of remuneration five times greater than they ought to have. The proper course was to leave the final fixing of these salaries in the hands of the Commissioners.
 MR. CLEMENTS  defended the principle of the local settlement of the amount of the salaries, and would divide the Committee upon his Amendment.
 MAJOR BLACKALL  thought the medical men should be paid according to the worth of their services, and irrespective of considerations as to their private practice. He objected to the boards of guardians originating the amounts of the salaries, because personal interests would be certain to intervene, and in some localities the salaries would be very low, and in others very high, being fixed and regulated by nothing but personal and local prejudices and influences.
 MR. MOORE  was of opinion that it would be desirable to establish, by Act of Parliament, a general scale of these salaries, applicable to the whole country. Would the right hon. Secretary for Ireland say if any plan had been proposed for a scale of remuneration, to be drawn up according to the circumstances of the district, and having regard to the fact whether or not private practice was to he allowed to the medical officer.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  thought that there might be a maximum. In the 25th clause, power was given to the Commis-
 150
 MR. MOORE  could point out to the Committee the inequality in salaries arising from the decision of the amounts being in the hands of the boards of guardians, the payments made in different unions ranging from 60 l. l.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that the question now before the House was whether the initiation of salaries was to come from the hoards of guardians or from the commissioners.
 MR. SCULLY  must protest against the doctrine of a Dublin board having the power of taxing the ratepayers. The boards of guardians were the persons who were responsible; the ratepayers were the persons concerned, and he contended that the salaries should be under the control of the boards of guardians. The Dublin board would give salaries of 90 l.
 COLONEL RAWDON  wished the hon. Gentleman and the Committee to remember, during this discussion, that there was another party concerned, and deeply concerned, in the matter before them, besides the Commissioners and the boards of guardians, and that party was—the poor.
 LORD NAAS  said, that in cases where the hoards of guardians had the settlement of the salaries in their hands, the amount of them was either too large or too small. Let the Committee then take the middle course and strike out the word "salaries," and, adding a proviso to the 10th clause, enacting that in cases of salary, which the Hoard of Health considered too little, that the Board of Health should have the power of reconstructing the arrangement, and awarding such a salary as they deemed sufficient. This would give to the board of guardians the power of proposing or initiating the salaries in the first instance, and would prevent the medical officers from being underpaid.
 COLONEL DUNNE  considered the proceedings on this Bill as a most complete interference with the whole of the institution of local government in Ireland.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  then moved to strike out the words, "and it shall be lawful for any such board of guardians to appeal against such Order in Council within one month after the date of such order."
 MR. CLEMENTS  said, that if the order was to be made subject to the approval of the Lord Lieutenant, that approval would be given at the time the order was issued; and that before the guardians had seen it, and thus they would be mocked with an appeal against what they knew nothing about, and which had in fact been already decided on appeal.
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  would support the Motion. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had altogether mistaken, or affected to mistake, the grounds upon which the present Motion was made, and had given no answers to the plain statement of his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Lincoln as to the grounds upon which this test was imposed upon the tenant-farmers. There was this difference between that period and the present, that then they made large profits, now they sustained severe losses. When that tax was imposed, their produce was protected against the foreigner—now, the tax was maintained whilst the farmer was obliged to endure its burden, and to submit to foreign competition. At the time the income tax was imposed, the farmers were making large profits, and it was therefore an advantage to them to have the tax assessed on half their rents instead of on the gross profits. At that time the corn law existed; but now that it was repealed, the condition of the farmers was changed, and they were paying the tax not on a profit but on a loss. He could assure the hon. Member for Manchester that there was no fear of the cessation of the cry of "protection," to which he had alluded; it would be kept up with increased vigour; and had not the hon. Gentleman well known that such had been
 174
 COLONEL THOMPSON  seconded the Motion.
 LORD NUGENT  seconded the Motion. He said, in all sincerity he would gladly have given a silent vote, and much more gladly no vote at all on this sad question, and that for many reasons. But, placed as he was, he should consider he was guilty of an act of baseness if, in the face of the transactions which had taken place in the Ionian Islands, and which he believed were still going on there, he should shrink from supporting the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose. It was within his (Lord Nugent's) knowledge that portions of the evidence, and not unimportant portions, affecting this sad question, had been suppressed and kept back by the Government. He contended that this question had been most grossly misrepresented in the despatches; and the people in those islands, many of whom were his own countrymen, dealt with unfairly, cruelly, and illegally. If injustice had been done to that people, he wished that that injustice, so far as it could be reparable, should be repaired; and he sincerely asked that justice should be done oven to the character of the per son representing this country in the Ionian Islands. If that person could come out blameless from the inquiry, no man would more sincerely rejoice at that result than he (Lord Nugent). No one rejoiced more than he at that Gentleman's appointment, because he (Lord Nugent) believed that he was a person who would fill the office of Lord High Commissioner with discretion, humanity, and justice; but from all that had come to his (Lord Nugent's) know lodge—from things which he knew had improperly, as he thought, been kept back and suppressed by the Government—ho did think there was an  à priori 182 "I am perfectly aware that I run the risk of being denounced as a persecutor and a tyrant for taking these steps, but I have no choice; I have to deal with semi-barbarians, as recent events have proved, and I must treat them as such." "1. I received, on the 30th September, a visit from a person, who, after insisting upon seeing me in private, acquainted me with many mysterious precautions; that he was an officer of high standing in two secret societies established at Corfu, and having extensive relations with Italy and Athens. 2, Having expressed some doubts as to the accuracy of his statement, and some curiosity as to Ids object in making it, he offered to satisfy me as to the first by bringing me his diploma as lieutenant general in the Universal Brotherhood ( La Fratellanza Universelle l. l., 183 pseudo "I found him so frank a traitor, and so utterly regardless of the obligation of an oath, that I thought it would be wrong to lose so good an opportunity of learning so many things that it was necessary to know."
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  said, it was not his intention to enter into any general or detailed statement of the acting of the poor-law in Ireland, or of all the evils and manifest injuries it had brought upon Ireland, for they had been so fully shown and ably commented upon by his gallant and hon. Friend the Member for Portarlington that it would be needless for him to detain the House by their repetition; therefore he should merely confine himself to a few facts respecting the working of that law in his immediate locality; and he was convinced that he could assert without fear of contradiction, that there was no part of Ireland where it was more admirably carried out than in the city of Cork, and he attributed this chiefly to the fixed determination of that excellent, zealous and enlightened body the poor-law guardians, not to allow outdoor relief to be forced on them. In vain, however, had that most destructive body the Irish Poor Law Commissioners endeavoured to compel its adoption in Cork: it had always been effectually opposed and resisted; and when the workhouse became filled, the guardians immediately provided and fitted up other premises for the poor, and there never had been a solitary instance of a person requiring relief or assistance having been refused admission. To prove the advantage of this system of not entertaining outdoor relief, he would merely mention one instance, and draw a comparison between Cork and a comparatively small town about twenty or twenty-five miles distance from it, Kanturk. By the census taken in 1841, the population of Cork city amounted to 156,657 persons; in June, 1849, there were 6,979 paupers receiving indoor relief; outdoor relief, none; making a total of 6,979. Now, at Kanturk the population was, at the same period, 85,561; in June, paupers receiving indoor relief, 2,257; outdoor relief, 25,619; total, 27,900 paupers, very nearly one-third of the population. Thus, with a population less by 71,096, the poor of Kanturk exceeded those of Cork city by 10,981 persons. Now, did not this sufficiently demonstrate the ruin and impolicy of giving outdoor relief? If persisted in, it must in the end pauperise all the ratepayers in Ireland, opening as it did the door to the greatest fraud and imposition, encouraging the idle and indolent, and actually holding out a premium to them to leave their em-
 161
 COLONEL CHATTERTON : I was so assured by many poor-law guardians when I was in Cork.
 MAJOR BLACKALL  said, it should be recollected that outdoor relief was merely permissive, and was never put into requisition until the workhouses were completely full. He believed that in very few unions was outdoor relief given to ablebodied paupers, who were generally absorbed by the various public works going on in different parts of the country. If vice-guardians were obnoxious, they might be dispensed with if the elected guardians would only do their duty; but he could not consent to take away the power of making such appointments. He knew cases in his own district in which they had been of the greatest advantage. If the expense were objected to, the remedy was in the power of the guardians; but he believed that the poor-law officers, generally, were not over, but under, paid. He believed that any defects in the working of the poor-law would be remedied by the recent change which had been made in the electoral divisions, and that, therefore, no legislative alteration would be necessary. He would not, however, oppose the introduction of the Bill, although he feared its details would be found to be wholly impracticable.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that one important provision in the Bill of his hon. and gallant Friend had been overlooked, and that was the clause for lightening the burthen of the poor-rate on real property. If it were for that provision alone he should be inclined to support the proposition of his hon. and gallant Friend. His plan was to lay upon other interests a share in the taxation, and seeing that the whole question of the income tax was to be discussed in the ensuing Session, he (Mr. Stafford) thought a more fitting time than the present could not have been chosen for introducing the Bill. He denied that on that (the Opposition) side of the House, there was any wish suddenly to put a stop to outdoor relief. With respect to the reproductive employment suggested by the hon. Member for Stroud, he wished that the hon. Member would lay a Bill on the table, and the House would be able to see whether or no there was anything tangible in it. As to the expense of working the poor-law, he denied that as a whole the poor-law officers were underpaid. The accounts received of the failure of the potatoes, were no longer of a doubtful character. That failure was assuming a serious aspect; and he hoped the attention of Her Majesty's Government would be immediately directed to it, in order to see what arrangements could be made if it should please Almighty God, in his inscrutable wisdom, to inflict again on Ireland the calamities of past years. Two systems of expenditure had to be decided on now, and the question was whether the House would take a high tone, extend outdoor relief, give relief indiscriminately, and let the resources of real property in Ireland utterly run out; or whether they would make the property of Ireland responsible for its poverty, and give the people there to understand that, whatever happened, nothing more in the shape of assistance was to be expected from England. Would they adopt the advice given by the hon. Member for Stroud, as it issued from his luxurious mansion in Belgravia? His (Mr. Stafford's) wish was that the property of Ireland should maintain its poverty, but that that should be done with great economy and the application of stringent tests; and, unless these plans were adopted, he firmly
 157
 MR. DISRAELI : I think my hon. and gallant Friend is to be commended in bringing forward his Motion. I think it is the duty of every hon. Gentleman who supports the opinions we do, to take the sense of the House upon every convenient opportunity, and to endeavour to obtain ample and complete justice for this much suffering and depressed class. As to what has been remarked that it would be impossible to repeal the Income Tax Act during the present Session, I think there is no force in it, for there would be no difficulty in introducing a Bill during the present Session—a Bill which, if introduced by the Government, they would easily carry, with the aid of the Opposition, accomplishing the object which my hon. and gallant Friend has in view. I am glad that the subject has been introduced, although, I regret, that it has not been brought forward at an earlier period of the Session,
 172
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had spoken of the income tax as fair and equable in its pressure on the farming class; but he ought to be aware that there was, as regarded its imposition on that class, a most remarkable anomaly, namely, that the farmer must pay whether he made profits or not. When their case, however, was brought before the House, it was always met by the sternest refusal to consider the anomalous position in which they are placed. They had invested their capital to a large extent on the security of laws which they did not suppose would be abrogated; but yet the House of Commons refused to pay the slightest attention to their distress. The right hon. Gentle-
 169 170 l. l. l.;
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  felt it to be his duty to divide the House upon his Motion. He could not account for the absence of some hon. Gentlemen belonging to the party he had the honour to be connected with; but as the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had given so little hope of any remedial measure being introduced, he would take the sense of the House on the Motion.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice, relative to relieving the tenant-farmers from the operation of the income tax. He wished some abler Member, and one more competent to enter into the details of the question, had brought forward this Motion. The tenants were suffering from free trade, and they were less able than almost any other class to bear the losses to which they were exposed by the operation of the new system of commercial policy. He wished the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would relieve him from the necessity of bringing forward this Motion, from his own sense of what was due to the tenant-farmers and justice, by acceding at once to his proposition, and thus relieve him and his hon. Friends who attended in that House from a tiresome speech, and an unsatisfactory speech on the part of himself, because of the weak efforts he was only able to make
 162 instanter, 163 s. d.; s. d. s. s. "Sir, I rise in pursuance of the notice which I have given, to submit to the House the views of Her Majesty's Government with respect to the modification and amendment of those laws which regulate the import of foreign corn." "I am aware of the difficulties which encompass the subject I am about to bring under the consideration of the House. With regard to a matter in respect to which such adverse opinions prevail, it is difficult to discuss it without making statements or admissions which will be seized on by those who entertain opposite opinions; but I feel that the best course I can pursue is to submit to the House the considerations which influenced the judgment and decision of Her Majesty's Government, and to leave them to be decided on by the reason, moderation, and judgment of Parliament." "The only object which I shall aim at in bringing this subject under the consideration of the House will be to state, as clearly and intelligibly as I can, the considerations which have induced Her Majesty's Government in reference to the nature of the measure I am about to propose. One other object I shall aim at—namely, to discuss this question, affecting such mighty interests, in a temper and spirit conformable with its great importance, bearing in mind how easy it is on each side to raise exaggerated apprehensions, and find inflammatory topics by which the feelings of the people may be excited. Her Majesty's Government have deemed it their duty to consider the corn laws with a view to their modification and amendment. They undertake the consideration of this question at a period when there is commercial distress, and when there exist great suffering and privations connected with that distress. But I feel it my duty, in the first place, to declare, that after having given to this subject the fullest consideration in my power, I cannot recommend the proposal which I have to make by exciting a hope that it will tend materially and immediately to the mitigation of that commercial distress. While I admit the existence of commercial distress—while I deplore the sufferings which it has occasioned, and sympathise with those who have un fortunately been exposed to privations, yet I feel bound to declare that I cannot attribute the dis-
 164 "I refer to this for the purpose of confirming my impression, that to look for any rapid or great change in the condition of the working population of this country from any extensive change of the corn laws, would subject you to great disappointment. My firm belief is—-I am now speaking with reference to those who wish for an absolute repeal of these laws—that if the House of Commons should be induced to pledge itself to a total repeal, which we on this side of the House deprecate so much, without relieving permanently the manufactures of the country, you will only super-add the severest agricultural distress. Any such disturbance of agriculture as must follow from a total repeal of the corn laws would, in my opinion, lead to unfavourable results, not only with respect to the agriculturists themselves, but also to all those numerous classes who are identified with them in interest." "Nothing can be more difficult than to attempt to determine the amount of protection required for the home producer." "With reference to the probable remunerating price, I should say that for the protection of the agricultural interest, as far as I can possibly form a judgment, if the price of wheat in this country, allowing for its natural oscillations, could be limited to some such amount as between 54 s. s., s. "My belief, and the belief of my colleagues, is, that it is important for this country—that it is of the highest importance to the welfare of all classes in this country, that you should take care that
 165 Hansard 166 167
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought the hon. and gallant Member seemed himself to feel that whatever Motion he might think proper to bring forward upon this subject should be made next year. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) need hardly remind the House, that to relieve any class of the community from income tax would be inconsistent with the whole principle upon which that tax was levied. It had always been held that no one class ought to be taxed unless all were taxed—that all persons having incomes at and beyond a certain amount ought to be made to contribute, in proportion, to the necessities of the State, and that all persons not having such an amount of income ought to be entirely exempted. Therefore it would, in his opinion, be unjust and a breach of faith to exempt any one class. If the profits of farmers were not taxed, the manufacturers would at once, and with fairness, claim an equal exemption. Other classes would also complain that they were unduly burdened, and the result would be that the tax must be altogether abandoned or maintained as it at present stood. However, as the hon. and gallant Member intimated his intention of bringing the subject forward next Session, which would be the proper time for mooting any question connected with the mode of levying this tax upon tenant-farmers—and there were many such questions—it would probably be more consonant with the wishes of the House that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) should refrain from saying more upon the subject now; and he hoped the hon. and gallant Gentleman would not
 168
 MR. WODEHOUSE  would support the Motion of his hon. and gallant Friend, though it might be regretted that the subject was not brought forward at an earlier period of the Session. He regretted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had dismissed the, question so summarily, as the position of the farmers at the present moment was perfectly new; and he hoped that, both with regard to himself and family, and to his landlord, the farmer's position would be fully entered upon. There never was a period at which the agricultural interest was more depressed; and, in fact, their case was at the present moment altogether new and extraordinary; there never was a time at which the farmers, landlords, and their dependants,
 171
 MR. F. FRENCH  said, that one main object with his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Portarlington was to secure reproductive employment for Ireland. There could be no real doubt that outdoor relief had been most injurious to the morality and to the interests of that country; but still the hon. and gallant Member did not propose to abolish it without providing an efficient substitute. It was most unjust to cast blame on the Irish proprietors, who had contributed largely to the relief of the existing distress. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Stroud had for years made
 154
 COLONEL DUNNE , in reply, said he had before stated that he did not think it possible to relinquish outdoor relief altogether; but he wished that it should be given in a different manner from that now adopted. With regard to the question of free trade, so far as Ireland was concerned, it was entirely a one-sided free trade, for the Irish people were not allowed to cultivate tobacco or sugar, although they were told they enjoyed the advantage of free
 160
 COLONEL DUNNE , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Irish Poor Laws, said that it had been asserted heretofore that he and other hon. Gentlemen who thought with him wished to abolish the poor-laws entirely. That he altogether denied; but he wished to amend them, as without some amendment in them the country would continue in its present wretched condition. On a former occasion several Members of that House, as also of the other House, agreed to certain resolutions, which they laid before the First Lord of the Treasury; and it was on these resolutions that he intended to base his Bill for the amendment of the poor-laws. The first of these resolutions referred to the abolition of outdoor relief. Whilst he wished to abolish outdoor relief, he was aware that in the present state of destitution in Ireland it could not be abolished without a substitute; and, therefore, he was prepared to introduce a certain modification of that abolition, though it
 152 locus standi s. d.,
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  seconded the Motion.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  said, that if hon. Gentlemen could see the condition of the county of Waterford they would not be surprised that Irish Members could not remain silent in that House, and that they could not forbear from proclaiming to the British Parliament and the nations of the world the misery and wretchedness of devoted Ireland. He believed the poor-law, in its present shape and administration, was one of the greatest grievances of which the Irish people complained. It was drawing into the vortex of universal pauperism more than one-half the ratepayers of the country, and sending them into the poorhouses. The farmers had been universally reduced to beggary by the operation of the poor-law, and the effects of free trade. Let the House not be surprised, then, if he reminded them of their misgovernment of the country. Ireland had been their difficulty, and she would be their difficulty again, unless they governed her by a majority of Irish Members. At present the Irish Members were outvoted by the English and Scotch. The representation of the country was, therefore, a mockery. Englishmen would not bear such a representation; why, then, should Irishmen bear it? It was such a species of legislation which had lost them America, and might yet lose them Ireland. So far as he understood the Bill, and he had not yet seen it, ho entirely agreed with it. He believed that outdoor relief in Ireland had been a total failure. The English people complained of a paltry 7 d. s., s., s. 158
 MR. WYLD , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to incorporate the general practitioners of surgery, medicine, and midwifery, said, it would not be necessary for him to detain the House more than a few moments, as he was happy to state that he had obtained the assent of the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary to the introduction of his Bill. The general practitioners of this country—a most useful set of men—were placed in an anomalous position, in consequence of their being obliged
 175 status,
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that, from the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, one might suppose that the farmers were suffering most dire injustice from the present state of the law. [ Cheers from the Protectionist benches. 173
 MR. HUME  then rose, in pursuance to notice, to call the attention of the House to the causes of the late riots and proclamation of martial law in Cephalonia, and proceedings thereupon; and into the grievances of the inhabitants of the Ionian Islands. He should not occupy more time than was actually necessary to state his views on the subject. Various causes had prevented him from introducing the subject at an earlier period of the Session, and he was now forced to bring it forward at a period when the House was almost dissolved and dissipated by heat. The House had become in reality a Select Committee. Having visited these islands in 1839, and having since that period taken great interest in their welfare, he felt very strongly how much they had been neglected. He wel recollected the proclamation in which His Britannic Majesty declared to the inhabitants, through the Chief Commissioner, his deep interest in the welfare of his subjects, and intimated that such measures would be adopted as would promote the prosperity of commerce and agriculture, and extend the blessings of freedom. In 1814, the inhabitants were told that they should enjoy the blessings of their own free constitution until a better one could be adopted. Notwithstanding these promises, they were assured in the official papers which had been laid on the table during
 176 177 178 179 180 Daily News 181
 MR. BUCK  was very glad his hon. and gallant Friend had brought the subject under the consideration of the House, and hoped it would attract the serious attention of the Government during the recess. He believed there was no class of men in any country suffering more deeply than the tenant-farmers of England at the present moment. There was scarcely a tenant-farmer in England who had not for the last two or three years been paying the income tax, not out of his profits, for he made none, but along with his losses. He much regretted to find that the Government did not sympathise with the sufferings of that class—had they done so, and even promised that they would take the whole question into their consideration—had they shown they were willing to meet their case with some degree of liberality, it would be a consolation; but there was neither sympathy nor the promise of relief. He now came to the conclusion that any relief to the agricultural interest must be the result of the exertions of that class—that fair play would not be conceded, but must be wrung from the Government—that agitation must be rekindled and kept up, and the pressure from without brought to bear upon the reluctance of the Government and of Parliament. The tenant-farmers would not, could not, rest satisfied under the present state of things, and they would not be satisfied until they either received that degree of protection which would enable them to pay the taxes, or were relieved from those national burdens, so that they might be able to compete with the foreigner on something like equal terms.
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, he feared that the object of the hon. and gallant Member was to subvert the entire of the Irish poor-law as it at present existed. In the first place, he stated that his object was to
 153 Times l. l.
 MR. SPOONER  said, there were two circumstances which ought to be taken into account in the consideration of such a proposition as the present: the first was, that the income tax was imposed when the rents of land were much more easily paid, and the profits of cultivation much greater than at present; and the second, that whereas the farmer was paying the tax out of a profit, he was now obliged to pay it with a loss upon his farm. Now, he thought the injustice of this was manifest, and that the least the Government could do was to pass a short Act in which the farmers would have the power of appeal to the Property Tax Commissioners in the same way as the trading classes; and that if they could show that they farmed at an absolute loss instead of a gain, and that, as was the case, their capital was absorbed in the cultivation of the land, they ought to be exempted from the tax. At all events, the power of appeal ought to be granted. If his hon. and gallant Friend would feel it to be his duty to divide the House, he certainly would vote with him.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  had not understood the hon. and gallant Member for Portarlington to say, that the object of his Bill was to abolish outdoor relief, or he (Mr. Crawford) would have felt it his duty to oppose the introduction of the measure. He admitted that outdoor relief ought to be restrained within certain limits, and placed under such regulations with regard to distribution as would obviate as far as possible the evils which now existed. The hon. Member for Waterford city had said, that when the Irish landlords purchased their estates they were not subject to this tax. He (Mr. Crawford) could only say, then,
 159
 SIR G. GREY  said, as there did not appear to be any indisposition on the part of the House to permit the introduction of this measure, he, on the part of the Government, would not offer any opposition to it. He hoped, however, it would be clearly understood that no sanction whatever was given by the Government to the opinions entertained on this question by the hon. and gallant Gentleman who proposed to introduce this Bill. He (Sir G. Grey) was not so fortunate as to have heard the speech of that hon. and gallant Gentleman, but he understood that his main object was to take away altogether the power of giving outdoor relief in Ireland. Now he (Sir G, Grey) must admit that, as at present
 155 156
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE : Can the hon. and gallant Officer prove what he has said about the Commission endeavouring to force outdoor relief upon the guardians in Cork?
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  begged, with the permission of the House, to make a statement relative to a matter affecting the privileges of the House. It would be in the recollection of the House that not very long ago he directed the attention of the noble Lord the Chief Commissioner of Sewers to the fact that the signature to a certain return with respect to the Victoria-street sewers was "Francis Foster," while he was told the name of the individual was "Frank Forster." His observations had been made the subject of comment in the Court of Sewers; and Mr. Forster stated that—
 "The manuscript of the Sessional Paper referred to was not signed 'Francis' Foster, but 'Frank Forster,' and that the signature is mine; and I have further to add, that for the last twelve or thirteen years I have never signed my name otherwise than as Frank Forster. I never in my life wrote my surname as Foster. Previously to that (twelve or thirteen years ago) I signed my Christian name as Frans, Francis, or Frank, indifferently, being always called and known as Frank, and by all my relations, and many others, addressed so by letter." "15, Hill-street, July 16, 1850. "Dear Sir—I beg to enclose a return to the House of Commons (Victoria-street sewer), Sessional Paper 481. I have been informed by Lord Ebrington that the signature which I have under lined, Francis Foster, is a misprint for Frank Forster. Will you have the kindness to compare the signature with the original, and let me know whether it is a typographical error, and whether the signature is Frank or Francis.—I remain yours faithfully, "DUNCAN. "Mr. Whiteman, Messrs. Hansard's, Old Turnstile, Lincoln-inn Fields." "House of Commons Printing-office. "My Lord—I beg respectfully to acknowledge your letter of to-day, and am directed by Mr. Hansard to inform you that the name 'Francis
 185 pro "Viscount Duncan." "G. WHITEMAN.
 MR. S. ADAIR  begged to move the Second Reading of the Poor Relief (Cities and Towns) Bill. Its object was to render more equitable the distribution of the charge for relief of the poor in the case of cities and towns comprising several parishes. It was proposed that the majority of the guardians of any union comprising a city or town of more than one
 186 ex proprio motu
 MR. T. EGERTON  thought the Government ought to take up the subject; but he recommended the withdrawal of the Bill now, otherwise he should feel obliged to move that it be read a third time that day three months.
 MR. V. SMITH  said, that as this subject was intimately connected with the larger questions of settlement and rating, he expected to have heard the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board undertake to bring in a Bill upon those subjects in the next Session. The report of the Committee upon the law of settlement showed the existence of evils which were a disgrace to the country, yet nothing had hitherto been done to remedy them. The question of rating had also been submitted to a Committee of the other House—the evidence before which, although not yet presented, he thought would furnish the right hon. Gentleman with a valuable mass of information for his consideration during the recess. He was aware that the Poor Law Board never was so popular as at the present moment; but he trusted the right hon. Gentleman would not hesitate to risk that popularity, if necessary, by dealing with these important matters at the earliest possible period next Session.
 MR. S. ADAIR  said, he was satisfied with the discussion which had taken place, and he was willing to withdraw the measure.
 MR. T. EGERTON  expressed his satisfaction at the course taken by the hon. Member for Cambridge, as an opportunity would he afforded next Session for considering the whole subject.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, as he was under no apprehension of being charged with superstitious reverence for anti-Christian error, he felt quite at liberty to vote for the second reading of the Bill, if the hon. Mover would aid in securing to the public those conveniences in it which they had a right to expect, and which, if not secured to them by law, they would take without law. The course of recent legislation on those subjects had been to do more harm than good. He would mention an instance in his own experience. He had a gardener, a respectable family man, who was in the habit of passing the Sunday at his own home; but since the new Post-office regulations, he was obliged to invite his gardener, whenever he wanted to save the Monday's morning post, to go to London to post his letters. And twenty of his neighbours were probably doing the same; and this was called a measure to diminish Sunday labour. He had a great horror of these perverse pieces of legislation. But he did not know whether he ought to conceal what the casuits would call an esoteric opinion, that this Bill was permissive rather than prohibitory, and consequently its passing would be more of a blow to the Sabbatarian heresy than its rejection; for which reason, under the proviso stated, he should support the second reading.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he had no objection to the second reading, but hoped the Bill would then be postponed till next Session.
 SIR G. GREY  did not object to the principle of the Bill, but thought the method of fixing the salaries was not fair. At present, they were very different in different parts of the country, and, if commuted at their present rate, the same inequality would be continued. There were other points on which amendment was required; and be feared there would not be time fully to consider them this Session. At the same time he bad no objection to the second reading of this Bill.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  said, that be was anxious to sec the principle of the Bill adopted. He wished to see coroners paid by salaries instead of by fees. It was somewhat difficult, however, to say how the principle was to be carried out, and therefore he would recommend his hon. Friend to withdraw the Bill for the present Session.
 SIR B. HALL  said, that he concurred with his right hon. Friend as to the objectionable portions of the present Bill. If the House would consent to the second reading now, he would fix the Committee for Friday, and in the mean time would speak to his hon. Friend who had charge of the Bill, and who would, he was sure, consent to the opinion of the House.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  stated the object of the clause, which was to prevent the disfranchisement by this Bill of occupiers who were now entitled to vote at municipal elections.
 LORD D. STUART  said, that notwithstanding the observations which had been made by the hon. and learned Gentleman, in a somewhat vehement tone, against this Bill, he hoped the House would give its assent to the second reading. He did not
 198
 MR. HAWES  said, he had had the honour of representing Lambeth for many years, and he believed that the great majority of all classes were in favour of a
 200
 MR. FREWEN  suggested that the Bill should he withdrawn, as it was obviously impossible for it to pass this Session.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, this Bill was identically the same Bill which hail been introduced last year, and that it stood for a second reading on the 27th of July. This year its second reading was moved on the 24th of July, and therefore a gain of three days was obtained on the present occasion as compared with last Session. The House, having heretofore considered the proposition, came to the conclusion that the machinery of the Bill was imperfect, and that it would be improper to proceed with the measure. Yet now the hon. Baronet at the fag end of the Session, called upon the House to affirm what they had refused to do at the fag end of last Session. He believed the Bill would open a door for enormous frauds, and that it would cause numbers of faggot votes to be manufactured. Lord Denman had given it as his judicial opinion that its principle, if acted upon, would foster bribery. He believed that while county voters were on the decrease, borough voters were on the increase—to the extent of 30,000 in 1840 as compared with 1848. He moved as an Amendment that the Bill be read a second time that day three months.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  explained, His objection to the Bill was mainly grounded on the fact, that he believed it would open a door to great frauds. The Bill of last year was not rejected by the House. It was withdrawn by the hon. Baronet, With respect to the late period of the Session at which the hon. Baronet now asked them to read the present Bill a second time, he (Mr. Newdegate) begged to say that had arisen from no fault of his.
 MR. C. PEARSON , in moving the
 192 193 l. 194
 MR. PEARSON  stated that he should reserve any remarks he had to make in reply till the Bill went into Committee.
 MR. B. WALL : Well, Mr. Hayman, at all events, stated in his evidence that he had been besought at various times, by the Home Office, to prepare a measure on the subject, adding, that the only opposition to the measure was to be apprehended from Chartists and Jews. Now, the father of the Bill was the hon. Member for Ashton-under-Lyne, whose absence he was sure the House regretted. He (Mr. B. Wall) had been a Member of that House
 195 196
 MR. BARING WALL  opposed the Motion, as his hon. and learned Friend had utterly failed to make out any reason for changing a law which had existed for 200 years, and which was therefore well known to the people of this country. He had some difficulty in opposing the measure, as he believed it had come down from the House of Lords with the unanimous consent of that House; but it ought to he understood that it was founded upon the report of a Committee, the witnesses before which seemed to devote themselves to casting abuse upon the witnesses that were examined before the Commons' Committee, rather than to prove the merits of the Bill. The chief author of this Bill was a Mr. Hayman, one of the witnesses before the Lords' Committee, who put himself forward as a sort of confidential agent—a sort of unpaid solicitor of the Home Office under the late and present Administrations.
 MR. G. THOMPSON  said, that as the representative of a large metropolitan district, he thought it right that the metropolitan Members should, as far as possible, put the Government and the House in possession of the feelings of their constituents with reference to this question. He should be one of the last that would wish to interfere with the enjoyment of Christian liberty; but looking at this measure as affecting solely the civil and social condition of the people, and as in no degree infringing that liberty which every man had a right to enjoy under a Government like our own, he was decidedly in favour of it, and the more so, because for the last two years he had been in communication with persons in the Tower Hamlets on this very subject. He should make no observations on the details of the Bill; his remarks would apply solely to the principle of the Bill. It, was a Bill
 199
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he should oppose the Bill, though agreeing in most of the remarks of the right hon. Baronet who had just resumed his seat. He had hoped that this discussion would have steered dear of any allusion to Sabbatarian principles or parties. He was disposed to support any measure which would prevent unnecessary trading on the Sunday; but this was a partial and limited measure, referring only to the metropolitan district. It ought to be a general measure, emanating from the Home Office. This was the crude
 204
 MR. AGLIONBY  said he felt pledged to the House to go on with the Bill, which had been opposed at every stage hitherto without success. If the Government would undertake to consider the subject during the recess, and bring in some measure next Session, he would readily abandon his Bill.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, be considered he should disappoint the country, unless he proceeded with the Bill. He never could understand why the Government bad abandoned their former Bill. There certainly was no reason why this Bill should not pass.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that nothing but compulsion should make him withdraw the
 206
 COLONEL SALWEY  said, it was not without great reluctance that he rose to postpone the Motion for a Select Committee to inquire into the case and claims of the Military Knights of Windsor till the next Session of Parliament. He had waited long and anxiously, week after week, and night after night, in the earnest hope and expectation that he should have an opportunity of introducing this subject to the House; but his intentions had been frustrated by those events and adverse circuit) stances over which an independent Member of that House had no control. It must be obvious to every hon. Member, that were he to move for a Select Committee at this late period of the Session, the Committee would no sooner be nominated than Parliament would be prorogued. Under these circumstances ho thought that he should best consult the interests of the Military Knights by postponing the notice till the next Session. The question was one deeply affecting the interests of every man, of every rank, and every grade in the; British Army—deeply affecting the interests of the taxpayers of this country, and of vital importance to those meritorious, gallant, and aged soldiers, who had spent their youth, wasted their health, and shed their best blood in the service of their country. He pledged himself to bring forward the whole of this case at the earliest possible period of the next Session, and could only reiterate his regret that the adverse circumstances to which he had before referred, should have precluded him from carrying his intentions into effect.
 MR. ELLIS  seconded the Motion. He did not think, however, that the measure could be carried further this Session, hut he hoped that the subject would be taken up by the Government early next Session, with a view to the general settlement of what was really a very important matter for legislation.
 MR. STANFORD  said, that the clause gave the franchise to persons who paid
 207
 MR. TRELAWNY  supported the Bill, and said, that if the Government did not go on and extend the suffrage, they might depend upon it they would not be allowed much longer to rule the country.
 MR. HENLEY  thought the best course would be to propose that the Chairman do leave the chair—as the hon. and learned Gentleman would apparently he glad to be relieved from further proceeding with the Bill.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the real question was, whether they were to give the power of voting to parties who did not choose to put themselves to the trouble of claiming it. He did not think it wise for such a purpose that they should depart from the sound principle of requiring payment of the rate as a test of the fitness of the voter.
 MR. BUCK  was glad to hear that the Bill would be withdrawn, because he should have objected to it on the ground that it was calculated to carry out the principle of union rating.
 MR. BAINES  said, that while the preamble was confined to the case of cities and towns, the enacting part of the Bill applied to the guardians of any union comprising a city or town, so that a union consisting of a great number of agricultural parishes, but comprising a city or town, would come under its operation. The whole question of union rating would be opened, which, bound up as it was with the question of settlement, offered far too extensive a subject for discussion at this period of the Session. A Committee of the Lords had been considering the whole subject of rating. He had not had any opportunity of seeing their report, but the evidence taken before that Committee ought to be fully weighed. He hoped the hon. Member for Cambridge would not press the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. BAINES  said, that there were difficulties on all sides of the question, but he considered that the clause of his hon. and learned Friend was the most free from objection.
 MR. SPOONER  opposed the Bill, and contended that at this late period of the Session there was not, sufficient time for the consideration of a question of so much importance. To press the Bill at this period of the Session was merely to take up the time of the House in vain. He regarded the measure as dangerous, if it were not impracticable, and as likely to open a wide door to fraud. It was only a waste of time to continue the discussion of its objectionable principle.
 MR. ALCOCK  said, that, having consulted his constituents and conversed with many tradesmen on the subject, he was forced to the conclusion that this measure contained a proposition that was only reasonable, just, and fair. If Gentlemen would take the trouble to go to Lambeth on a Sunday morning, they would find more trading going on than in any day of the week, and not only in provisions, but in clothing. It was a Sunday fair and Sunday market held in different parts of
 197
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, he would join issue with the general statements of the hon. Gentlemen who had just addressed the House. This was not a Bill to restrain Sunday fairs; it was not a Bill to carry out the principle of the Bill which had already received the Royal Assent, and which was intended to put down fairs, which used to be held for the purpose of hiring servants, but had become mere idle gatherings. By this Bill persons were prohibited from selling on a Sunday. This applied to the poor, but it did not apply to the higher classes—those who were called upon by their tradesmen. Their was a clause which provided that any meat, fish, poultry, or game might be left at houses before 9 o'clock in the morning. It was impossible to misunderstand the meaning of this distinction. It was a distinction between the rich and the poor. Go further, where was the clause for shutting up clubs on a Sunday, and where was the clause that forbid servile work? There was a clause exempting servants from the operation of the Act. Only that he did not like to do evil that good might come, he would follow the example of the hon. and gallant Member for Bradford, and vote for the Bill, in order that the evil effects of it might be seen, and that these evil effects might have a tendency to put this matter in its true light. If there were any reasons which would induce him to come to a different conclusion, it would be the hope that if the Bill passed the result would be a reaction of the common sense of the country, so well founded and so strong as to sweep away every vestige, not only of this absurd Bill, but, of all other idle and impertinent measures of Sunday legislation. Believing, however, that now was the time for making a stand against the present Sabbatarian movement—a movement which was begun in hypocrisy, and was now carried on by the power of, fraud and ignorance—he would vote against the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  wished to call the attention of the House to the severity with which the existing law pressed on landowners and small farmers. As an illustration of the inequality of the present mode of levying the tax, he might instance that there were 24 parishes paying at the rate of ½ d. d. 187 d. d. s. d. s. d. s.
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, he perfectly coincided in the opinions generally expressed in this discussion, that in a social, economical, and even in a physical point of view, the blessing of one day of rest from toil and care was most inestimable. He would cheerfully support a measure tending to secure that object; but he thought it was not an object to be attained, or even to be promoted by a Bill like that before the House. In order to introduce wholesome legislation on such a subject, it would be necessary to look upon society in all its gradations—to consider the relative importance of different modes of procedure to secure the comfort and well-being of the people—to see how the greatest benefit could be secured at the smallest sacrifice. In the very complicated state of society in which we lived, an entire abstinence from business and from trade on the Sunday, was a matter of impossibility. They could only approximate, and that approximation was not to be obtained by a particular opera-
 201 202
 SIR E. N. BUXTON  had no hesitation in giving his vote in favour of the Bill, because he knew that in many districts of the metropolis, as well as elsewhere, there were many thousands of persons disfranchised under the existing system who otherwise had a perfectly good right to vote. The machinery of the Bill he did not entirely approve of; but that was a question of detail. The Bill, however, would be a great benefit to a large number of persons.
 SIR G. GREY  said, he had no difficulty in stating that he should vote for the second reading of the Bill; and he must remind the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Warwickshire that it was not the identical Bill which had been introduced last year. The Bill of last Session wholly dispensed with the necessity for perpetually recurring claims, but it did not make the liability to pay the rate coexten
 190
 SIR G. GREY  said, that his right hon. Friend the President of the Poor Law Board had said nothing whatever against the principle of the Bill. He had only expressed a hope that the House might not not be driven to a decision upon it at the present time, and that it might be withdrawn, because the whole subject was under consideration, with a view to the introduc-
 188
 SIR G. GREY  said, the Government bad brought a Bill into the other House founded on the report of the Commissioners, but the Lord Chancellor thought there were insuperable objections to it. The Government could not properly reintroduce that Bill. The present Bill was modified to meet the objection; he had supported the second reading, and wished to send it up to the other House. But, on the part of the Government, he could not promise to introduce a Bill which would more stringently effect the object in view. At the same time, he would put it to the hon. and learned Member whether he thought there was any advantage in now proceeding with the Bill.
 SIR G. GREY : I never heard the name.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the Bill, as it was introduced, would cause a considerable diminution of the number of persons entitled to vote at municipal elections; and the present clause was drawn up with the consent of the Committee to prevent that result.
 SIR G. PECHELL  approved of the principle of the Bill, and expressed a hope that its second reading would be carried.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  objected to a continuous claim, provided the tender were once made. He thought also that, under the provisions of the Bill, a number of parties might get on the register who had no right to be placed there.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, that by this clause the owner was to pay the rate, and the occupier was to vote, which was tantamount to the introduction of the scotand-lot system.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, with respect to the Parliamentary franchise, there was no difficulty in allowing persons to compound for the rate, because they had the value of the tenement, which must be of the value of 10 l.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  could not think that the decent observance of the Christian Sabbath in this metropolis was a petty or unworthy object. Though there were several of the statements of the hon. Member for Oldham with which he was not prepared to quarrel, he had come to an exactly opposite conclusion from that hon. Member, and he should go into Committee, not for the purpose of damaging the Bill, but, if possible, improving it, amending its faults, and supplying its deficiencies. The hon. Member had stated the great principle sought to be established, and had pointed out the difficulties of legislation
 203
 SIR J. GRAHAM : I don't recollect any such person.
 SIR W. CLAY , in moving the Second Reading of the Compound Householders' Bill, said that the Reform Bill conferred the franchise on those who occupied houses of 10 l. l. l. 189
 MR. CLAY  said, he had received letters from his constituents complaining that these alterations had made the Bill very different to what it had been when they had last seen it, and that they had not had proper time for considering those Amendments.
 MR. DUNCAN  hoped that suggestion would be adopted, and time be given to communicate with Scotland upon these latter Amendments. The Bill, as it now stood, was not, in point of fact, the Bill which was known as the Mercantile Marine Bill No. 2. It was "the Mercantile Marine Bill No. 3."
 MR. CLAY  said, that if the right hon. Gentleman would say that the Admiralty had the power of granting compensation in cases of serious injury, ho had no doubt his hon. Friend would he satisfied, and withdraw the clause. But it had been brought forward in the belief that in cases of damage there were no means of relief.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, that the proposed clause gave no additional power to the Admiralty. To effect its object it should have specified the funds from which the Admiralty was to take the compensation. At the same time the Admiralty might find the means of compensation in very extraordinary cases if they thought fit.
 ADMIRAL DUNDAS  opposed the clause, and defended the Admiralty from the insinuations thrown out by the hon. Member. He considered that the law which enabled a seaman to resort to a man-of-war, was a great protection and valuable privilege to seamen, for it enabled him to escape from a ship where he might have been ill treated, to one where he would be well treated.
 MR. MOFFATT  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. CLAY  contended that the case of Quebec afforded no analogy with that of England. There might be a necessity in Quebec for such regulations, which had no existence over here. All those with whom he had communicated entertained great objections to this minute interference, and thought that it would work a great deal of evil.
 MR. DUNCAN , on behalf of the same I interest in Scotland, complained that the time was not sufficient to consider the recent alterations.
 SIR D. J. NORREYS  objected to giving these powers to a local committee, as by so doing all the old jobbing existing under the present system would be revived.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, he had been requested by Mr. Frank Forster to explain to the House that he meant and believed he had signed the returns required from the Metropolitan Commissioners, "Frank Forster," and that he was sure there must have been some mistake in the reading of his name on the part of Messrs. Hansard. The noble Lord then apologised to the House for having taken up so much time in reference to this mistake.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL , in reply, said it was quite true he had refused his sanction to a proposed application for an injunction; but he would reserve his
 223
 LORD NAAS*  rose to move, as an Amendment—"That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She may he graciously pleased to order such measures to be taken as shall ensure the immediate establishment of regular Steam Racket Communication with the Australian Colonies." Before doing so be adverted to a petition in favour of that object from a number of merchants, landowners, stockholders, and other persons interested in the welfare of Australia. His Lordship commenced by observing, that the names attached to this petition were, he believed, a sufficient apology fur, even at this late period of the Session, submitting the present question to the consideration of the House. Among the names in that distinguished list are to be found those of persons connected with some of the most eminent banking firms of the metropolis, as well as the directors of the various Australian banks, and many other houses of the highest commercial character in this kingdom. The evils complained of in the petition are felt by every person connected with these great colonies; and at no period, and on no occasion, had the inconvenience been more severely felt than during the past year. In the late discussions on a most important question,
 231 232 233 l. l. l. l. l. 234 bonâ fide 235 l. l. l. "At sunset on the 29th November, 1839, we made the lighthouse on the headland of Port Jackson. We had a fair wind for entering the harbour, and though the night was dark, and we had no pilot, yet, as it was important to avoid any loss of time, I determined to run in. At 8 p. m. we found ourselves at the entrance of the harbour. Here a light erected on the shoal, called the Sow and Pigs, since the publication of the charts, caused a momentary hesitation, but it was not long before it was determined where it was placed, and with this new aid I determined to run up and anchor off the Cove. In this I succeeded, and the 'Peacock,' directed by signal, followed the 'Vincennes' at half-past 10 p. in. We quietly dropped anchor off the Cove, in the midst of the shipping, without any one having the least idea of our arrival. When the good people of Sydney looked abroad in the morning, they were much astonished to see two men-of-war lying among their own shipping, which had entered the harbour in spite of the difficulties of the channel, without being reported, and unknown to the pilots." 236 l.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that in 1848 the vote was 14,795 l., l., l. l. l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that at present he could not assent to any alteration of the vote. All that description of votes were being gradually reduced.
 MR. REYNOLDS  objected to the vote, as the institution was of a purely sectarian character. He was opposed to Catholic sectarianism, as well as Protestant; therefore he thought the 700 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the vote had been granted for many years, and therefore it would not be just at present to disallow it altogether.
 MR. HUME  thought it better to reduce votes gradually than to abolish them altogether.
 MR. REYNOLDS  did not oppose this grant from any unkind feeling towards his
 258
 MR. HUME  thought that charitable institutions, supported by the public, ought not to be purchasers of stock, and yet he found that this institution had purchased Three-and-a-Quarter per Cent stock for 400 l.
 MR. REYNOLDS  expressed his regret that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had felt it his duty to reduce this grant. The report of the institution stated that appeals in its behalf had been made to the nobility, and that only thirteen replies had been returned, and 15 l.
 MR. HUME  would remind the hon. Gentleman that the Act of Union only stipulated that these grants should continue for twenty years. Therefore, in 1820, these grants ought to have ceased. He had always protested against the grant of 3,000 l.
 MR. REYNOLDS  complained that the hon. Member for Montrose was not quite so economical with regard to his votes when Scotland was concerned, for he had voted or promised to vote 25,000 l.
 COLONEL RAWDON  thought the present an unfortunate time for reducing the grant, and said that, according to letters which were extant, Ireland was, if the Union Act passed, to have a right to all the resources of England, not as a matter of favour, but as one of duty.
 MR. SCULLY  wished to call the attention of the House to the case of the Rev. Mr. Dill, Presbyterian minister at Clonmel. The case was one in which a great injustice had been done to a poor clergyman, arising from the withdrawal of the Regium Donum through the acts of a clerk in the castle at Dublin. The practice had been that on a certificate being produced to the Government, the grant was issued. The vote was taken annually, and the grant was paid quarterly. In the first quarter of the year 1847 the usual allowance under the grant was paid to Mr. Dill. In October, 1847, the grant was stopped without any reason being given. Mr. Dill thereupon applied to the Government in Dublin, who stated that an order had been made by the House of Commons which required certain returns from the different Presbyterian congregations in Ireland, and among the rest from Mr. Dill; that this return was not made; and that this was the cause why the payment was withheld. Sir T. N. Redington, upon further representation and inquiry, withdrew this statement as to an order having been made by the House of Commons for returns, and he (Mr. Scully) discovered that no such order had ever been made. It appeared that Mr. Matthews, a clerk, who had absconded from Dublin Castle, and who had two or three names, his real name being, he believed, Duncan Chisholm, had made the statement that Mr. Dill had neglected to make a return to an order of the House. In 1848, the hon. Member for Athlone brought forward the case very ably in that House, when the
 260
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that whatever had been clone in this case had been done with the sanction and approval of the Government, and that the Commission appointed to inquire into the conduct of Matthews, or Chisholm, the late chief clerk in
 261
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, whatever difference of opinion there might be in other respects, it must be gratifying to every one to see the Roman Catholic Member for Tipperary advocating the cause of the ill-used and persecuted Presbyterian minister of Clonmel. He (Mr. Osborne) was acquainted with Mr. Dill, who was an honest and excellent man, and one who did much to promote the bond of union between the Catholics and Protestants of his neighbourhood. The statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland was likely to mislead, because he said that Mr. Matthews was not to blame in this matter. Now, it was notorious to every one who knew anything of Dublin Castle, that till the time of his
 262 l.
 MR. REYNOLDS  had entered the House determined to oppose the vote of the sum named, and was more impressed with the necessity of such a course from the speech of the hon. Member for Tipperary. He would state his reasons for opposing this vote. He was an advocate of the voluntary system, and he believed that all sects into which our common Christianity was divided should support their own pastors. He thought it contrary to the common principles of justice that any man should be called upon to support the minister with whom he was not in religious communication; and if there were one nation in the world more aggrieved than another in this respect, it was the Irish people. His Roman Catholic brethren in Ireland amounted to 7,000,000 of the population; and although they contributed to the support of their own ministers, they had also to pay for the
 263 l., l. d. aliases l.
 MR. ANSTEY  said, that no petition had been presented in the name of the Presbyterians of Ireland in opposition to
 264
 MR. SADLEIR  complained that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland should have treated the case of George Matthews, or, as he was called, Duncan Chisholm, as being of too trifling a nature to engage the attention of the Committee. Mr. Matthews had always conducted the correspondence on the part of the Government with the Presbyterians of Ireland until the case of Mr. Dill occurred. Since then the Secretary and Under Secretary for Ireland had interested themselves in the matter. For several years previous to 1847, Mr. Dill furnished the return which, in that year, was objected to by Duncan Chisholm, and on those returns Mr. Dill had been regularly paid his portion of the Regium Donum up to that year. The first quarter's money for 1847 was also paid, but since that time he had not received anything. Since that year Mr. Dill had continued to furnish information to the Government, in strict compliance with the Parliamentary form. The conduct of that gentleman had been approved by the great Presbyterian Assembly at Belfast; but the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland had said, that he could meet the public expression of that great assembly by a resolution which had been passed by some provincial synod, in which the conduct of Mr. Dill was condemned. He challenged the right hon. Gentleman to produce any such resolution. If it existed he had no doubt it would be found to be the petty movement of some hole-and-corner meeting held by the creatures of Duncan Chisholm.
 MR. HUME  hoped the House would not give entire weight to what had been stated till they heard his statement. In 1847 an increase was proposed to the Regium Donum, and he wished to know why, and moved for papers. Mr. Matthews was brought up as a witness to make explanations in relation to certain charities; and no one could have done his duty better, or given clearer answers. Of course he (Mr. Hume) knew nothing of Mr. Chizzle-em—or any other name. Constant efforts had been made to increase the grant, and he agreed that as an endowment it was a bribe to a particular party, made them tools of the Government, and it would be
 265 l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he wished to suggest a course which appeared to him more
 266 l., l. l. l. l., l. l., l. l., l. l. l., l. "That a sum, not exceeding 32,698 l.,
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, any recommendation of his hon. Friend the Member for Manchester would have weight with him; but in this instance it was contrary
 267
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  said, he had always opposed these grants out of the State funds to religious bodies, and in consequence of that opposition he had had communications with the Presbyterians of the north of Ireland, in which they stated that the ground on which they claimed this grant was that they themselves were required to pay for the support of the Established Church. But, notwithstanding his opposition to this grant, he did not believe that it prevented the Presbyterians from identifying themselves with the interests of the people generally, and never were they more identified with them than at that moment. There were many old clergymen who had no other support than this grant, and it would be a great injustice to withdraw it at once from its present recipients. He would suggest, therefore, to the right hon. Gentleman the Lord Mayor of Dublin that he should accede to the recommendation of the hon. Member for Manchester, and, instead of voting for the abolition of the grant at once, should proceed to attain that end by a gradual reduction.
 MR. REYNOLDS  then declared his intention to divide the Committee on the vote.
 MR. REYNOLDS  objected to the item of 217 l.
 MR. HUME  asked if there was any return of the number of estates that had been sold by the Commission, and of the amounts they had realised.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  believed that such a return had been recently laid before the other House.
 MR. HUME  said, as this court was doing the duty of the Court of Chancery, as they were now paying 13,000 l. 269
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, he believed the operation of the Incumbered Estates Act, instead of diminishing had materially increased the business of the Court of Chancery.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  wished to be informed how long this Incumbered Estates Court was likely to last.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE : Three years, according to the provisions of the Act.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP : Then, Sir, I beg leave to move that this Vote be disallowed.
 MR. HUME  said, he was surprised to see this vote, as there was a Committee then sitting which had under their consideration the salaries of the diplomatic corps. He would suggest a postponement of this vote till the Committee had made their report.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in any case there must be a residence for the Minister at Constantinople.
 MR. HUME : But the house for a man with 6,000 l. l.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that it was impossible to hire a house at Constantinople fit for a European to live in; and as it was necessary to build a house, it was a matter of economy that it should be made of materials that would not burn.
 MR. HENLEY  asked what the total expenditure would be?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  regretted to say, that it would be much more than was at first expected; for whilst the building of it was going on one portion of it caught fire.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the present vote made the total expenditure 30,000 l.,
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  believed the present vote would complete the building.
 MR. HUME  said, he did not rise to object to the employment of money for useful purposes. But he regretted that the Government did not take this department, under their own control, instead of leaving it to be managed by a self-elected company, who expended what they pleased, and levied what they pleased. He regretted that the present First Lord of the Admiralty did not follow in the steps of the Earl of Auckland, who appointed a department in connexion with his office to take charge of this important subject. Now, the matter was left with the Treasury, the Colonial Office, and the Trinity Board, and there was no unity in the system. When he and others voted for the alteration of the navigation laws, they were promised that the shipping interest would be relieved from these dues; but no relief had been afforded up to that time. He believed that the colonies would contribute to the expense of erecting lighthouses if the Government gave them any assistance.
 MR. HUME  said, he was not going to object to the vote. All he wanted was, that they should not leave the building in the hands of Mr. Barry; for nothing could be more disgraceful to a civilised country than the folly which was going on with respect to the New Houses of Parliament. He did not wish to see any more public buildings, unless there was to be a responsible person to guard against any increase of expenditure. He had not seen the plan of the proposed Record Depository, but he had read the report, and it appeared to him to be a very proper report. All that he wanted was, that they should be secured against any abuse in the construction of the building.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the head of the Woods and Forests Department would be responsible for the expenditure of the money.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP : Could not be in worse hands.
 MR. HENLEY : A Record Office was certainly desirable. He hoped they would provide against the possibility of the building being found too small in a short time for the purposes for which it was to be erected. The report did not appear to be
 271
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the plan contemplated a structure to be raised in four different periods. No. 1 would provide for all existing records, and the expense of it would be covered by a sum of 45,000 l.
 MR. HUME  said, that the salary of the Solicitor of the Treasury was 1,850 l.;
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, that the Solicitor of the Treasury devoted his entire time to his office, and he received nothing but his salary.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that in this country nearly 70,000 l. 272 l.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  believed that it would be found, if the average of the last three years for this charge was taken, that a greater amount had been given to Ireland. Before 1846 the moiety of the charge for criminal prosecutions in this country was paid by an annual vote of Parliament. In that year the entire charge was transferred from the county rate to the Exchequer, and this was done with the view of equalising the allowance to the two countries. Also the moiety of the charge for the maintenance of convicts in gaol, and certain allowances for certain county officers. Compensating allowances were made in Ireland, and a very considerable sum was transferred from the county rates to the Consolidated Fund, such as the expense of the constabulary and certain other charges connected with the poor-law.
 COLONEL DUNNE  felt assured, if he had the papers on this subject, he should be able to induce the Committee to come to a very different conclusion from that of his hon. Friend.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  stated, that in the county which he represented (Kerry), there were 1,500 prisoners in the gaol, which was constructed for 130. He had himself visited the gaol, and had seen lunatics and convicts placed together without the smallest regard to classification. There could not be a matter of more importance to the country, than that Government should take some measure for removing all the convicts in the county gaols. In his county the grand jury had been seriously alarmed by its being given out that clothing would be sent to the convicts, which seemed to imply that it was the intention of Government to leave them there for a long time.
 MR. SADLEIR  hoped that the appeal which had been made to Government would be attended to. There was most dreadful and frightful mortality and disease amongst the prisoners in the prisons of Ireland, and it was not for Government to say that they had not the means and power of removing prisoners who were convicted from these
 273
 SIR G. GREY  could assure the hon. Member for Kerry that the greatest exertions had been made on the part of the Government to remedy the evil; but it should be remembered that there had been a large and sudden increase in the number of convicts in Ireland sentenced to the punishment of transportation. Government had exerted itself in every possible way, and he was happy in being able to state that an arrangement had been made for the maintenance, at the expense of the Government, of 3,500 convicts, now in the county gaols, at Spike Island. A large number of convicts had also been transported to the colonies, and there were also two ships under orders to convey a further number of convicts abroad from Ireland. It was impossible for the Government to provide at a moment's notice for such a considerable increase in the number of convicts.
 MR. V. SMITH  asked whether any steps had been taken to produce something like a uniformity in the scale of fees for prosecutions at the various assizes?
 SIR G. GREY  had stated the other day that it was very desirable that in all the counties and boroughs there should be something like a uniform scale for prosecutions. At present there was the greatest variety, and although attempts would be made to produce something like uniformity, there still would be some variety in consequence of the peculiar circumstances of different counties.
 MR. HENLEY  expressed a hope that the right hon. Gentleman, in his attempt to provide a uniform scale, would not incur an increased charge.
 MR. HUME  objected to the vote, as the country had to pay it, and there was no person to control the expenditure. If they paid the expenses of these prosecutions, there should be some Government officer I who should be responsible for the mode in which the money was laid out.
 SIR J. TROLLOPE  said, at present the magistrates exercised the same careful control over the expenditure as they for-
 274
 MR. AGLIONBY  wished to refer the Committee to an Amendment in the Criminal Justice Bill, which he had suggested, with regard to taking the pleas of prisoners in cases of larceny and midemeanour, for the first offence, before the magistrates at petty sessions. The effect of his Amendment would be to save the country 40,000 l. l.
 SIR G. GREY  hoped the Committee would not consent to this reduction, for he believed the greatest advantage had been derived from the appointment of these inspectors. At the same time he would admit that the reports of some of the inspectors had contained matter which had better been excluded from them. Some of the suggestions made by the inspectors of prisons were suggestions that ought to be addressed to the Secretary of State, and were in no degree binding upon the county magistrates unless they were recommended by the Secretary of State. The duty of these inspectors was defined by law; it was their duty to inquire into facts, rather than to report opinions or make recommendations. They might undoubtedly make recommendations to the Secretary of State for the consideration of the Government, but he thought it was out of their province to make direct recommendations to the
 275
 MR. T. EGERTON  said, that in a district with which he was connected as a county magistrate the late prison inspector had been perfectly satisfied with the management of the gaol, but a new inspector had been recently appointed who entertained different notions, and he told the magistrates their arrangements were altogether wrong. Now, it was a very unpleasant thing for the magistrates to be told by the inspector, "Your gaol is very ill managed, and I shall think it my duty to report it to the Secretary of State," although the previous inspector had fully approved of the prison management. He hoped the inspectors would pay some attention to the suggestions which had just been made by the right hon. Baronet.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  had visited several prisons, and had never seen a set of more jolly, happy, well-fed, well-clothed fellows than the convicts were. They were much better fed, much better clothed, and much more lively, he was sorry to say, than the agricultural labourers of England were at present. There was too great a disposition on the part of the public to sympathise with criminals. When men committed such crimes as the assassination of Mr. Drummond, why, they were under the influence of monomania. He remembered hearing that on one occasion a jury applied to Chief Justice Hale, as a Christian, to extend mercy to a criminal. The Chief Justice replied, "I hope, as a Christian, that I am disposed to exercise mercy, but there is a mercy due to the country. The prisoner is a notorious scoundrel, and I shall hang him." He (Colonel Sibthorp) thought that principle might with great advantage be carried into effect more extensively that it was at present. He wished
 276
 SIR G. GREY  said, that a considerable reduction had been effected in the expenditure for the Pentonville Prison. The subject had been very fully investigated by a Committee, whose report would be laid on the table before the end of the Session.
 SIR J. TROLLOPE  begged to withdraw his Amendment, as the object he had in view had been answered by the remarks of the right hon. Baronet with regard to the inspection of prisons. The report of Mr. Hill was almost impertinent, and had given general offence not only in his (Sir J. Trollope's) county, but in York, where he had recommended the abandonment of the gaol after a large sum had been laid out on it.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  opposed the Amendment.
 MR. ANDERSON,*  although reluctant to take part in any discussion on a question in which his personal interest might be supposed to be involved, felt compelled by a sense of public duty to contradict some of the mis-statements into which—no doubt from an insufficient knowledge of the matter—the hon. Baronet the Deputy-Chairman of the East India Company had fallen. 243 viâ 244
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he should detain the House for only a very short time. First, as to the report, he wished to say that it was not by any means the intention of the Commissioners to delay the Bill; and if hon. Members only looked at the report they would see that it was the evident desire of the Commissioners to forward the Bill as much as possible. They would see also that the Commissioners had suggested a special mode of keeping the accounts of charitable funds, as well as that of creating a special tribunal; and, though there were strong objections on general grounds to the establishment of special tribunals confined to particular objects of jurisdiction, as contradistinguished from the present mode of administering the law in this country, yet experience had shown it to be highly desirable that small matters relating to charitable trusts should he adjudicated on by the judges of the county courts. There were upwards of 23,000 charities under 30 l., l. l., 279
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  consented to the introduction of the words.
 ADMIRAL BOWLES , in moving the adoption of a clause of which he had given notice, said: I shall refrain from pressing on the attention of the House any of those higher and more serious topics which naturally present themselves to the mind, but which this is not a fitting place to discuss. I will only beg to be considered a petitioner, asking in behalf of the seamen of the mercantile marine, a body of between 200,000 and 300,000 persons, that they may receive that protection which secures to all the working classes one day of rest out of seven. Above 100 years ago, when an Act was passed analogous to the present, for regulating the discipline of the Royal Navy, it was required that—
 "all commanders, captains, and officers in or belonging to His Majesty's ships shall cause the public worship of Almighty God to be solemnly, reverently, and orderly performed on board their respective ships, and that the Lord's Day be observed according to law." 214
 ADMIRAL BOWLES  said, that all he wished was that the seaman should have a day's rest: he had said nothing relative to divine service; but, considering the long time which this Bill had occupied, and the opposition now offered to his proposal, he should be sorry to cause unnecessary delay by an ineffectual persistance in the clause. At the same time, he must add that he was extremely sorry to see so many Members ready to vote against a resolution having such an object as this.
 MR. SCOTT  hoped he might obtain for a few moments the indulgence of the House, since, during a period of not less than four years, he had, to the utmost of his power, endeavoured to show the importance of establishing a line of steam communication with our Australian possessions. He desired to state, likewise, that he had been honoured by having entrusted to him for presentation two petitions on the subject, which the forms of the House prevented him from presenting on that day; the one was signed by from 1,000 to 12,000 most influential persons in the city of London, including the house of Rothschild and others; another signed by persons interested in the Australian trade, both praying for the establishment of steam communication with Australia. These, he believed, had been given to him from the circumstance of his having, four years since, had the honour of presiding over a committee of gentlemen connected with the city of London, who submitted a memorial to the Government, praying that such a line of communication might be established. From that period to the present time, ardent and anxious representations to the same effect had poured in both from the colonies and commercial men in this country, who were interested in the colonial trade; and so frequently had they been alternately encouraged and disappointed, that they were well nigh wearied with the vacillation and uncertainty they had met with—for "hope deferred maketh the heart sick;" and now, when they were again buoyed up with the hope of an arrangement being completed, they were again doomed to fresh disappointment from a new and unexpected quarter. 247 248 l. l. l. 249
 MR. VESEY , pursuant to notice, moved to omit the words "guardians of unions," and to insert "committee of management." All the expenses of the union would be greater as the clause stood.
 LORD J. MANNERS  seconded the Motion.
 LORD J. MANNERS  said, it might he true that the clause did not practically carry out its object; hut, nevertheless, the subject demanded consideration, and he gave notice that he would have a clause drawn up in the form which the right hon. Gentleman had just described, and which he should propose on the third reading.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, With respect to the former part of the statement of the hon. Gentleman, I have only to say that I made the statement that I did upon the letter which the hon. Gentleman has
 228 229
 LORD J. RUSSELL : My hon. Friend the Member for Montrose misunderstands me, in supposing that I imputed any blame to the hon. Gentleman the Member for Inverness-shire for now bringing the subject before the House. What I stated was directed to the course he took at the beginning of the. Session, in having made charges against Captain Watson before the Committee was appointed.
 LORD NAAS  begged to say, it was not his intention to press the Motion to a division, and he would therefore withdraw it.
 MR. B. COCHRANE : What I want to know, when the noble Lord refers to that despatch, is, whether the suggestion came from the noble Lord that Sardinia should propose her good offices? I want to know if the proposition was not made by the noble Lord in the first instance that Sardinia should offer her good offices? [Viscount PALMERSTON: No, no!] Then I am wrong on that point? [Viscount PALMER-STON: Quite wrong.] I wish to know whether, when the noble Lord wrote that despatch to Sir George Hamilton, he had received the despatch suggesting, on the part of the Tuscan Government, the arbitration of some great Power.
 MR. B. COCHRANE : Sir, I wish to put a question to the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, of which I have given him notice; and with the permission of the House I will shortly explain what is the nature of the question. When the demand for the indemnity to British subjects at Leghorn was first made, at the suggestion of Sir George Hamilton, our Minister at Florence, the Government of the Grand Duke of Tuscany sent a proposition to the noble Lord to refer the arbitration of that question to one of the great Powers. Some three weeks after that communication was made by Sir George Hamilton, the Tuscan Government received a note through him from the noble Lord, making a proposition for the good offices of Sardinia to settle the question of the indemnities, but making no allusion whatever to the despatch from the Tuscan Government sent some time preceding. Upon the Tuscan Government asking for an explanation of this omission, Sir George Hamilton is reported to have said that the despatch so forwarded had never been received at the Foreign Office, and that it had probably miscarried upon the road. I wish, therefore, to ask the noble Lord whether that despatch has been received at the Foreign Office, and, if so, whether the noble Lord has any objection to lay it upon the table of the House?
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  said, that the grievance in question was much felt by the shipowners. He could understand the necessity in extraordinary cases for a ship-of-war taking a seaman from a merchant ship; but it was fair when the act was done, that the owner should have compensation for loss and injury sustained. It would seem that the Admiralty had power to make compensation, but no funds to pay it from.
 MR. ANDERSON  then moved after the word "characters" to insert the words "and when thereto required by any owner or master of a ship." The object of this Amendment was to limit the interference of the shipping masters with the ordinary business of shipowners. By the provisions of this Bill all agreements with seamen were compelled to be entered into before the shipping master. This, in the case of men leaving a vessel, as they often did, at the first place at which the ship touched after leaving her port, would occasion great delay. The right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade
 219
 MR. ANDERSON  said, it would be most satisfactory to hear the opinion of a legal Member connected with the Government upon the point.
 MR. ANDERSON  then, pursuant to notice, moved the adoption of a clause to relieve shipowners from a serious grievance. The Merchant Seamen's Act provided that a seaman deserting his ship on a voyage should be subjected to certain penalties, among which was the forfeiture of wages. But by two other clauses it was provided that if a seaman quitted a merchant ship, and went into one of Her Majesty's ships,
 216
 MR. ANDERSON  said, he had Amendments of importance to propose, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade would accede to the Motion of the hon. Member for South Shields, as it would be far more convenient to consider such details in Committee than upon the third reading.
 MR. STAFFORD  protested against assuming any practice in the English poor-law being applicable to the existing mode for relief of the poor in Ireland. As chairman of it board of guardians ho denied that there was any machinery in Ireland for the operation of English modes. He believed that the committee of management was the best repository for the trust proposed to be committed to them, for it was only consistent with the whole clause, which was to give substantial and effective powers of administration to the Poor Law Commissioners.
 MR. DISRAELI : I do not wish to question the propriety of the course adopted by the noble Lord. At the same time, I feel it a duty to express my opinion that
 230
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  begged to ask the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General whether it was true that he had refused his sanction to an application to the Court of Chancery for an injunction to stay the holding of the Exhibition of 1851 in Hyde Park. If the report abroad to this effect was true, he should certainly bring the subject under the notice of the House.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP : Then I shall call the attention of the House to the subject To-morrow.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Gentleman was incorrect in stating that he did not communicate with the East India Board upon the matter. On the contrary, when he had made up his mind—[Sir J. W. HOGG: Yes, when you had made up your mind.] As to the best route—of which the Government, and not the East India Company, were the best and proper judges—he immediately sent to the late lamented Chairman of the East India Company, and stated the facts of the case to him.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the object of the noble Lord would probably be answered by his having called the attention of the House to this very important subject, and hearing his (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) statement of the circumstances which, up to that period, had prevented the establishment of any such plan as that to which the noble Lord had called the attention of the House, and the importance of which he acknowledged as fully as the noble Lord could desire. The noble Lord had, he thought almost unnecessarily, occupied the attention of the House in proving that which he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) thought was pretty self-evident—namely, the advantage and importance, both to this country and the Australian colonies, of a more rapid and certain communication between them. Now, he could assure the noble Lord that he had been as anxious as any one could be to see such a communication established; and he confessed that it was with feelings of great regret that he had to say at the close of the Session that the measures which he had in contemplation for accomplishing that object had not been carried into effect. The noble Lord had very correctly stated the measures which had been proposed on this subject. It was quite true that in the course of the last autumn tenders were invited for the conveyance of the mails between this country and the Australian colonies. Tenders were sent in from different parties for different routes, between which the Government had to decide; but the adoption of the route which Her Majesty's Government considered to he by far the most advantageous to this country and to the colonies did not depend only upon their opinion. The route which they desired to adopt was one that, whilst it would afford a communication between this country and the colonies, would also attain that other very important end to which the noble Lord had himself alluded; that was to say, it would afford a communication between the territories of the East India Company and the Australian colonies—a matter of the utmost consequence to both of them. It would also tend to foster and develop the trade between the Chinese and those Australian colonies: a result which would he of great importance to the latter. 238 l., l. l., l. 239 240
 MR. CARDWELL  trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would assent to no delay that would endanger the passing of the Bill in the present Session; and that, the third reading would be taken as early next week as possible, so that the Bill might be sent to the House of Lords in time.
 MR. DIVETT  wished to state most distinctly, in answer to the hon. Baronet's observation, that having first given in notice of the question, he asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he had any objection to produce the correspondence. The right hon. Gentleman stated in answer, that it was of a confidential character, and that he therefore could not do so without the assent of the East India Company; upon which he (Mr. Divett) asked the hon. Member for Honiton for his assent, which his silence induced him (Mr. Divett) to believe he positively refused.
 MR. DIVETT  said, that after the able statements of the noble Lord, and his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, it would be unnecessary for him to trouble the House for more than a few minutes. He rejoiced that this discussion had taken place; for there had been rumours afloat, which he could hardly believe, to the effect that the East India Company had been throwing difficulties in the way of the advantageous arrangement sought by Government; and the speech of the hon. Baronet (the Deputy-Chairman of the East India Company) more than confirmed these rumours, and put the matter in its true light. Nor did the tone and temper of the hon. Baronet (Sir J. W. Hogg) at all tend to mitigate what would be the indignant feelings of the public, and of those interested in Australia, as respected the Company he represented. His only argument against the Chancellor of the Exchequer, if one, seemed to be rested mainly on his offended dignity, and was utterly unworthy of a man of his high character and talents as a statesman; especially when occupying the proud position of Vice-Chairman of the East India Company. This attack, more-
 252 253
 MR. TURNER  said, that as the Amendments which had been introduced in Committee had not removed the objections which he entertained to the measure, he should feel it his duty to take the sense of the House on the question of its further progress. Since the Bill was last before the House, a report had been presented from the Commission appointed in 1849. for the purpose of inquiring into those charities which were not reported on to the Attorney General under the authority of the Commission issued in 1835, The House would be surprised to learn that there were 23,746 charities under 30 l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l., 278
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, the main, if not the sole objection, taken by the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the Motion, seemed to be on the ground that it prayed for the "immediate" establishment of regular
 245
 MR. BAILLIE : I rise. Sir, to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and I trust the House will allow me its indulgence whilst I allude to a matter which is personal to myself, and in which my character, as well as that of my hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, is, in some degree, concerned. The House will remember that at the commencement of this Session the noble Lord at the head of the Government accused me of having made a statement in this House injurious to the honour and character of a British officer; that I had supported that statement by documents which were said to be forged; and the noble Lord read a letter addressed to the noble Earl the Secretary of State for the Colonies by Captain Watson, who he stated was an officer of twenty years' standing in Her Majesty's service, and the son of a general officer. The letter which the noble Lord read was as follows:—
 "22, Craven-street, London, Feb. 7. "My Lord—Owing to absence from London, it was only this morning that I saw in tile morning papers of yesterday the very cruel and unjustifiable attacks which are stated to have been made on my character by Mr. Baillie and Mr. Hume—who have coupled my name with acts of atrocity more suitable, as they say, for the 'destruction of
 226 227
 MR. GOULBURN  then proposed that in the 35th clause the words "or of any schools" should be inserted along with religious or charitable institutions maintained by voluntary contributions as being exempted from the operation of the Act.
 MR. GOULBURN  objected to the Bill on a former occasion, and did so still. There were two Bills before them relating to the object before them, namely, the Bill itself, and the report of the Commissioners appointed, in June, to consider the question. The Bill had been before the House since the 1st of March, and the report of the Commissioners since the 25th of June. It was remarkable that the Commissioners made no remark on the nature of the Bill, but they laid down a system incompatible with the system of the Attorney General, especially so far as it related to the local tribunals. There were 28,000 charities in England, 23,000 of which fell within the jurisdiction of the Bill—a consideration that ought to weigh heavily with the House in forming any decision; and the more so, since it was the poorer charities that were most exposed to local and particular abuse. Where a charity had 1,000 l. 280
 MR. GOULBURN  proposed that in the 20th clause, which provides that in cases of charities for religious purposes the trustees shall be of the same religion as the church or sect for whose benefit the charity is established, the same rule should be made applicable to schools; and he moved that the words "or any school" should be inserted.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that his hon. Friend had called upon him, accompanied by some of his constituents, and had certainly left him (Mr. Labouchere) under the fullest impression that the constituents of his hon. Friend were favourable to this Bill. They had certainly wished him to make two alterations relative to the coasting trade, and he had been unable to comply with their request; and to this circumstance might probably be attributed a great deal of the opposition manifested by his hon. Friend. But the gentlemen who accompanied his hon.
 221
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the House would feel the importance of sending this Bill up to the House of Lords as soon as possible. He had ascertained now that the Bill could be reprinted and placed in the hands of hon. Members to-morrow morning, thus giving Friday and Saturday to consider the amendments and alterations. He proposed, therefore, to fix the third reading for Monday next. Mean while, the reprinted Bill could be sent by post into the country; and the alterations, though numerous, he considered were not such as affected the great body of the shipowners.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the alteration of the hon. Member struck at the
 220
 MR. LABOUCHERE  hoped that his hon. Friend would excuse him for not going into the merits of the Bill in answer to his animadversion. It was certainly quite true that the Bill had occupied the attention of the Committee during several mornings, and that it had received several very important Amendments; and he took this opportunity of acknowledging his obligation to the hon. Member for Oxfordshire and to the right hon. President of the Poor Law Board for the suggestion of many improvements. But the alterations that had been made at the last were not of a very momentous kind, and were founded upon points that had before been amply discussed, and they were embodied in clauses which would be brought up on the report, and the Bill would be reprinted, and the
 212
 MR. LABOUCHERE  assured the hon. and gallant Admiral that he was not in the least disposed to treat with any other feeling than that of the greatest respect any suggestion emanating from him. For it was well known that in addition to the care and attention which the hon. and gallant Gentleman bestowed in that House upon the welfare and interests of merchant seamen, he also devoted a large portion of time in his private capacity to the same object; and the greatest advantages had arisen from the exertions of the hon. and gallant Admiral, and of several other naval officers. With regard to the present proposition, he (Mr. Labouchere) had communicated on the subject with some of those shipowners who were most distinguished; in that body for their care and consideration of the religious and moral welfare of their sailors, and for their anxiety to promote, by every means in their power, the proper observance of the Lord's day on
 215
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the question had been already discussed and decided, and he hoped, therefore, that his hon. Friend would not now press his clause. If there were special circumstances that had caused loss or damage to the owner, he should think the Admiralty would entertain the case. But he really thought it would be unwise for the House of Commons to pronounce opinion in this manner by a clause in a Bill upon a matter of this
 217
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the only difficulty which pressed upon his mind with regard to any amount of delay was, that they had arrived at a late period of their sittings; and he did attach the greatest possible importance to the Bill passing in the present Session. The most considerable and important of the Amendments that had been lately made, did not affect the principle of the Bill, or the interests of shipowners, but chiefly related to the legal forms in carrying the Bill into effect, and were such as the House was
 213
 MR. WYLD  would wish that this communication had been established. They were all well aware that Indian vessels were more vessels of war than of commerce; and, although their officers were gentlemen of great courtesy and nautical skill, still they were not the men to be entrusted with cargoes. They had it in evidence that within seven years after they had extended steam navigation to the Mediterranean, the trade between the Levant and the Black Sea doubled; and if the present project were carried into effect, he doubted not their traffic would treble.
 MR. MACGREGOR  would not detain the House more than a few minutes; but having presented a petition from his own constituency, signed by nearly every merchant in Glasgow, having for its object speedy communication with the Australian colonies, he felt it to be his duty to say one or two words. The Australian colonies now had a population of 300,000, and produce one of the staple articles of our manufactures in great plenty. It was therefore of the greatest importance that communication with those colonies should be as cheap, as speedy, and as frequent as possible. The contract with the Peninsular and Oriental Steam-ship Company must be considered at a period when the House would have also to consider the charter of the East India Company. He must say that the conduct of that (the East India) Company was not wise or proper, either in an economical or political point of view. He must express his conviction that that Company had acted unwisely in rejecting the proposition of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He thought that, if the East India Company would reconsider the subject, they would find it to be for their benefit, and for the commercial advantage of this country, that a speedy and effective communication with the Australian colonies should be established, as its necessity was becoming every day more obvious and important. It was a matter of much regret that the bi-monthly communication with India had been stopped, and no doubt could exist but that the present mode of transit between Suez and Bombay was most unsatisfactory, for the ships carrying the mails could carry only a few passengers and little merchandise; indeed, there was hardly room for the passengers' baggage. He believed the wisest course would be to leave this matter altogether in the hands of the Government. believing that their determination was as speedily as possible to take measures for
 250
 MR. SIMEON  said, that a petition had been entrusted to him to present to tie House by the Canterbury Settlement, which had just left this country, and he regretted that the forms of the House did not permit him to present it. He had the greatest pleasure in referring to it, and he believed that the emigrants were filled with a high religious zeal and enthusiasm, as well as with the most elevated feelings of patriotism and attachment to the institutions of this country. He hoped the discussion of that night would have its effect next Session, and that if the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer found that the objections to the
 246
 MR. WAWN  complained that his constituents greatly objected to this clause, and considered it an evil.
 MR. WAWN  said, that several days had been occupied by the Committee on this Bill, and many alterations had been made, and new clauses proposed and inserted at the last moment. Many hon. Members interested in the subject had not been aware of the nature of those clauses and alterations. He complained also of the vexatious interference of many provisions of the measure with the ordinary business of the shipowners. Even a seaman's wages could not be paid without the intervention of a third party. Under the circumstances, and considering that important alterations had been made and new clauses inserted, proper time for the consideration of which had not been given, he felt that on the part of his constituents he had a right to ask for further time, and he should therefore move that the Bill be recommitted.
 MR. HENLEY  thought the only effect of going into Committee again would be to give Members the trouble of going through the clauses again. It was certainly unfortunate that the clauses to be proposed by the right hon. Gentleman had been printed in a way that they were mingled up with the other votes relative to private business; and might have escaped the eye of hon. Members who had no interest in private business, and were, perhaps, not very scrutinising in looking over their papers. The most useful course, however, he thought, would be to consider the Bill as amended, and the Bill would then be reprinted with all the alterations. Hon. Members would then have a fair right to ask the Government that between the reprinting of the Bill and the third reading, ample time should be given to communicate with all parties interested in the subject.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that this was a subject which should receive more consideration from the Government than they had yet bestowed. The shipowner was now in a very different situation from that in which he had been. By this Bill considerable restriction was imposed upon tin1 shipowner, and the Government refused to give any countervailing advantages, and refused to consider the strange position in which they would be placed under the new regulation. The question was, whether,
 218
 MR. HENLEY , having had the honour of presiding over a Committee of the House in which these matters were discussed last Session, thought it right to make a few observations. It was not his intention to enter into the question as to whether or not the East India Company ought to maintain in their own hands any part of this communication. The principal object he had in view in rising was, to express his opinion that the statement of the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer was not satisfactory as to the economical part of the arrangement; for his explanation implied that, without looking at the abstract merits of the question of cheap or dear communication, he had confined himself to the relative, and only considered that it was cheaper than before. The agreement for the carriage of the mails from Suez to Bombay could only be defended on this principle: it was cheaper than before; and that was all that could he said in its favour. The right hon. Gentleman said, "We have paid so much, and we get much more extensive services for 5.000 l. s. s.
 MR. HUME  had always thought that steam navigation would prove most useful to the colonies, and remained of the same opinion. He thought that, if this discussion had come on before the proceedings of the results of which they had now to complain, it would have been much better for the public. He had risen for the purpose of suggesting that they ought now to close the discussion, and have the correspondence laid before the House. It was impossible to discuss the charges made against a great public body like the East India Company, without knowing the grounds upon which those charges were made—in short, without having the whole correspondence before them. He was very anxious to see this communication effectively carried out, and must say, in justice
 251
 MR. HUME  said, that the noble Lord seemed to think that his hon. Friend the Member for Inverness-shire would have done better not to ask for the paper; but it was absolutely necessary that they should have this document to lay before the Committee. Ho believed that hundreds of those proclamations had been circulated, and that, it would be proved that property to a large amount had been plundered, and that innocent persons who had never been tried, but who fled from fear and alarm of martial law, bad been robbed under them. The noble Lord blamed his hon. Friend for having brought those proclamations under the notice of the House; but if he had not done so, the commission would never have been granted. He (Mr. Hume) did not want to say one word more on the subject, until the report should be before them  in extenso,
 MR. HUME  said, he had given notice of the following Motion, which, with the permission of the House, he should now read:—
 "That, in the opinion of tins House, the present regulations for restricting the admission of the public to St. Paul's Cathedral are injurious to the cultivation of those feelings of veneration for religion and of respect for departed greatness which a free access to that sacred edifice and its monuments is calculated to inspire. That the recommendation by the Select Committee on National Monuments, of 'free admission daily, especially on Sundays, reconciling such admission with the due and undisturbed performance of religious services,' having been carried out for some years in Westminster Abbey, and in many of our county cathedrals, the good conduct of the people in those cases, and wherever confidence has been reposed in them, has completely refuted all previous objections, and shown that free admission may safely be granted. That an humble Address he therefore presented to Her Majesty, praying that Her Majesty will be graciously pleased to adopt such measures as may afford to the public free and gratuitous admission to St. Paul's and its monuments." 255 d. s. 256 to
 MR. FORSTER  said, that to allege that the Admiralty had the power of compensation, but no funds to pay it from, was a more evasion of the question, and nothing else. A great deal was heard about the necessity of a large navy to protect our commerce; but he confessed that so far as his own experience went, he was not able to discern those great services it rendered, especially to merchant ships. It was made the special duty of merchant ships to supply men to the Queen's ships, under a special necessity. It had been suggested that the Government should take one man and give another; but what would be the result of that? Just that that they would take a good man away, and give a bad one in return.
 SIR G. GREY  agreed in the general opinion expressed by the hon. Member for Montrose, that it was desirable a free admission should be granted to the public to view all objects of national interest. The Dean of St. Paul's, in transmitting to him the return lately moved for by the hon. Member for Montrose, as to the money taken for admission to St. Paul's Cathedral during the last five years, had written him a letter stating that the account was furnished by the vergers, who had been for a long period the sole irresponsible receivers of these payments, of which no account was rendered to the Dean and Chapter, and which do not pass their audits. The dean added, that he had been endeavouring to put this subject on a more satisfactory footing; but the control now exercised over the chapter revenues by the Ecclesiastical Commissioners had created a difficulty in providing payment for the vergers in lieu of the tax levied on the public. In consequence of this letter be (Sir G. Grey) inquired how the matter stood with the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, and he found that the subject had been several times under their consideration; but they had come to the conclusion that they were not authorised by law to sanction the arrangement proposed by the dean. He (Sir G. Grey) thought some alteration of the law might, therefore, be necessary; but he would communicate further with the Dean and with the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, in the hope that some arrange-
 257
 SIR G. PECHELL  said, he was most auxious to record his vote against the clause. He begged to remind the gallant Admiral that upon a former day he had implored him not to persist in moving an impossible clause.
 SIR J. W. HOGG  entirely concurred with the right hon. Gentleman as to the great advantages of a steam communication between this country and Australia. The right hon. Gentleman, however, had not confined himself to the question before the House, but had taken a course uncalled for, very uncandid, and very unfair. The other night, when asked to produce such communications on this subject as were in his hands, the right hon. Gentleman refused to do so, alleging that they were confidential. But now the right hon. Gentleman made a speech, almost the whole of which consisted of the purport of those communications, coloured in such a manner as to support the views of the right hon. Gentleman on this question. He (Sir J. W. Hogg) would now observe that he would move for the production of those papers, which would enable the House to arrive at something like a correct judgment of the merit of the proposition which had been so much commended by the right hon. Gentleman. The right hon. Gentleman, in alluding to the line which the East India Company had from Suez to Bombay, suppressed a most important fact. When steam navigation between this country and India was first established, the first question that arose was, with whom shall the communication between Suez and Bombay rest? There were political considerations of great importance involved in the consideration of that question. Those political considerations were submitted to the Cabinet of that day, and the Cabinet determined that for important reasons the communication between Suez and Bombay should rest in the hands of, and be performed by, the East India Company. Upon that distinct understanding—that being the condition precedent before the East India Company would entertain the proposition—a steam
 241 l. 242
 SIR J. W. HOGG  rose to explain. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had represented this as a question of offended dignity on his part. Now, so far from this being the case, he had not the honour of filling the post of Chairman or Deputy Chairman of the East India Company at the time this correspondence took place. The horn Gentleman had made an application to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, but none to him, on the subject of the production of this correspondence. No application had been made to him (Sir J. W. Hogg) on the subject.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  opposed the Amendment as being against one of the main principles of the Bill, which was, that as far as the districts were concerned, local management should be in the hands of the boards of guardians. If the medical officer were to be placed so completely under the control of the committee of management, many of the present evils would be continued, and the committee would probably look more to the interests of the persons who were appointed than they ought; but if the appointment rested with the boards of guardians, it would be in the hands of a more independent body.
 222
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, when that despatch was received at the Foreign Office, the state of the case was this. The Sardinian Government, through their Minister here, offered verbally the good offices or the arbitration of the Government of Sardinia for the settlement of the differences with Tuscany. He was requested to make that proposal in writing, which he did; and in reply to it he was informed that Her Majesty's Government could not consent to refer the question to the arbitration of any Power, but that they would willingly accept the good offices of the Government of Sardinia with a view to obtaining what might be proper satisfaction from the Government of Tuscany. A despatch was at the same time sent to Sir George
 224
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The two despatches crossed each other. When the offer was made, spontaneously, by the Sardinian Government, and not at our suggestion at all, that she should arbitrate, or interpose her good offices, we had not received the despatch on the part of the Tuscan Government offering arbitration by a Power, nameless at the moment, but to he named afterwards. But if we had received it, we should have given the same answer, namely, that we could not accept the arbitration of any Power, but that we would willingly accept good offices. [Mr. HUME: What is the difference between good offices, and arbitration?] I will explain the difference between arbitration and good offices. When you accept an arbitration, you agree to submit to the award; but when you accept good offices, you accept them as individuals between whom there is a difference accept the good offices of a friend—to endeavour to bring the two parties into friendly agreement upon the subject of the misunderstanding.
 SIR F. BARING  must oppose the Motion. He was not aware that any rule existed which debarred admirals in the service from holding civil appointments. The rule no more existed in the naval than it did in the military service. He therefore had no cause to defend such appointments. The hon. and gallant Member seemed to be under the impression that officers were obliged to accept the retirement or to give up their civil appointments. These cases had occurred before he took office; but from all he had heard of Sir Henry Hart's, it appeared to him that the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Brighton was under a wrong impression. He believed the acceptance of the retirement was not compulsory on any officer. They accepted it, and it was regarded as a boon. As to the case of Admiral Hornby, he was informed that on his becoming an admiral it was intimated to him that it was inconsistent with that office to hold a captain's appointment. He had never heard any complaint from Sir Francis Beaufort. The place he held was generally held by captains, and he (Sir F. Baring) regarded any arrangement by which this gallant officer's services could be secured to the country as most beneficial. With regard to the office of admiral of the fleet, the hon. and gallant Member was under some mistake. This was an office which was not conferred out of the usual line of seniority. The vice-admiral and the rear-admiral were not appointed according to seniority, but the distinction was conferred by the Crown on the recommendation of the First Lord of the Treasury, on the ground of distinguished merits. The admiral of the fleet drew no salary as vice-admiral, and did not think lie was called upon to resign that appointment, for though he highly valued the office of admiral of the fleet, having obtained it by seniority, he still more highly valued the office of vice-admiral, having obtained it as a reward and recognition of his own merit. He need hardly assure the House that, although Sir Edward Codrington had no claim to the office on the score of seniority, he felt sure that should a vacancy occur he would receive the reward to which his high merit, during a long career in the service of his country, entitled him.
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, the difference in the two cases was, that Sir Henry Hart had taken the retirement, knowing he could not rise beyond the rank of rear-admiral, and Sir Watkyn Owen Pell had not accepted it.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS : Sir, I protest to this House that I heard distinctly the words pronounced, "I desire to be sworn on the Old Testament." ["Oh, oh!" and "Order!"] I was not mistaken in that phrase. Sir, from the time that this nation has been a Christian nation, and from the time that this Legislature has been a Christian Legislature, no man has ever—if I may use the word without offence—no man has ever presumed before to claim his seat here, unless he was prepared to take it under the solemn sanction of an oath in the name of our common Redeemer; if not upon that book which contains His revealed will and word, at least upon some outward symbol of our common redemption. Sir, I do not undervalue—God forbid that I should!—I do not undervalue the Old Testament, If the hon. individual who came to the table had asked to be sworn upon the I Bible, although with my knowledge of what his mind would be, I should, even; then, refuse his request. Now I feel doubly bound to do so, when by the terms of his proposition he asks me and the House to abrogate that second part of the book on which the Christian faith is fixed. But, Sir, we have not an Old Testament in our collection. The Old Testament is found in our courts of criminal jurisdiction; and if this was a court of criminal jurisdiction, and the hon. individual had come forward as a witness, the case would have been entirely different. But we all know in this House that the hon. individual who
 298
 MR. W. P. WOOD  rose to order. He begged to observe that there was no question before the House.
 MR. SPEAKER  stated that the hon. Member for the University of Oxford was in possession of the House, and might conclude with a Motion.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS : Even if I was not in order, and if I intended to propose no Motion, there is business before the House which I think justifies me in addressing you, inasmuch as an individual approached the table, and has been requested to withdraw in consequence of a request he made; and until the House shall have decided upon the question of the acceptance or rejection of the request of that individual, or upon some other course to be taken under the circumstances, I apprehend, with all deference to the hon. and learned Gentleman, that I myself, or any other Member of this House, may address themselves to the subject as I have done. I could well wish that the majority of the House would rise with the same principles and objects which are so dear to my heart; but, whether the heart and mind of the majority of the House he with me or not, I will never shrink from declaring that, as all my life I have done, I will at least endeavour that in name and profession we shall be, and in our habits we shall he, what we profess to be—a Christian Legislature for a Christian country. If then it be necessary in form to conclude with a Motion, I would conclude with one like this—That it had been the practice of this country, ever since it had been a Christian country, to regard the Members of this Supreme Legislature, whether King, Lords, or Commons, as bound by Christian obligation and by none other, and that no man approaching this table should take part in our deliberations, or ought to be permitted to take such part, except under the sanction and obligation of Christian profession, whether by declaration on oath, or by touching some symbol connected with the Christian faith. If the hon. and learned Member for Oxford says it is necessary to put it as a question of principle that it is unnecessary for a person to make profession as a Christian, I will, if the House will permit, write down what 1 will propose as a Motion.
 MR. HUME  said, that the hon. Baronet seemed to have omitted to state that the Baron Rothschild had been chosen and elected by the city of London.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, I propose to take the course which I apprehend will be consistent with the due dignity of this House, and with the magnitude and importance of the occasion, and the House will, I think, observe that it has in this case a judicial duty to perform, and that no feeling whatsoever of any party considerations ought to enter into the decision to which the House may come upon the present occasion. I propose, therefore, without expressing at present any opinion upon the subject before the House, to ask the House to adopt in this case a course similar to that which was adopted when Mr. O'Connell was elected for the county of Clare. Mr. O'Connell came to the table, and declined to take the oath which was then in usage in this House. After that, and an adjourned debate, it was moved by the late Sir R. Peel that Mr. O'Connell he heard at the bar of the House upon his claims; and I now propose to ask the House to follow a similar rule in the present case, and to adopt a Motion in exact conformity with what was done on that occasion. I propose to ask the House to leave out all the words after the first of the Motion proposed by the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, for the purpose of inserting in their place other words to that effect. I apprehend that that is the course which it would be consistent with the dignity of this House to take upon the present occasion. The question would then be upon what ground the Baron de Rothschild claimed the right to take the oaths upon the Old Testament; and after hearing his case upon that point, it would be fitting that the House should debate with a view to come to a conclusion as to what course it would be proper to take. These are the identical words of the late Sir Robert Peel's Motion, which was adopted by the House without any division, and Mr. O'Connell was heard.
 MR. W. P. WOOD  said: I think it will be scarcely necessary for me to follow at any length the somewhat singular course of the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, in moving his resolution by starting with an avowed declaration of his Christian principles—a declaration which I should have thought extremely unnecessary, because we may fairly assume that those principles are common to the whole House—instead of taking that view which I apprehend to be the constitutional view of the subject—namely, whether or not a gentleman who has been twice returned as a Member for the metropolis of our own country—one amongst the largest constituencies in the country, consisting of Christians as distinguished—I wish to make no invidious comparisons—but I would say, as distinguished as the hon. Baronet himself—I say the constitutional question, whether or not a person so returned and so elected, is or is not entitled to those privileges which, it must be admitted, are the common privileges of every British subject until the law be enacted debarring him from them. If the hon. Baronet had entered into that question, the address which he offered to the House might have been pertinent to the subject before the House; but as his whole argument proceeded on a principle with which I entirely agree, I hold myself excused from saying one word more on the arguments which he offered to the House. The hon. and learned Attorney General has met that hon. Baronet's resolution by an Amendment which seems to me not to meet the case before the House. If the claim had been of another nature—namely, to alter any portion of our existing law—then it might be right that Baron de Rothschild should have the assistance of counsel; but there is one important feature in this case which appears to have been overlooked, and that is, that the Baron has not, as in the case of Mr. O'Connell, required to be heard by counsel. In that case Mr. O'Connell requested to be heard.
 301
 MR. A. B. HOPE  rose to order. The hon. and learned Member for the city of Oxford had made several allusions to the Baron de Rothschild. Now, he (Mr. Hope) apprehended that the only Barons known
 302
 MR. W. P. WOOD : I will easily correct my mistake by calling the Baron hereafter the Member for the city of London. If the hon. Member for the city of London should take his seat without taking the oaths of allegiance and supremacy, which he has tendered himself to take, if he should be compelled by any resolution, of the House to seat himself without taking those oaths, the consequence would be that he would become at once a Popish recusant convert. But the oath of abjuration, which was originally imposed by the 13th William and Mary, had during the time between I the 1st and the 13th no existence. I affirm that no lawyer will assert that during that interval Baron de Rothschild could have I been excluded. The only oath a Jew could take up to that time was on the Old Testament; but the 13th William and Mary enacted the oath of abjuration, which was altered into the law as it now stands by the 6th Geo. III. Here are three oaths—supremacy, allegiance, and abjuration. The hon. Member for the city of London has tendered himself to take two of the oaths, as Mr. Alderman Salomons did. The House is aware that the administration of oaths was within the last century adjudicated upon by Lord Hardwicke; and the case was this. There was a form of commission in Chancery for the examination of witnesses. Time out of mind this commission had tendered oaths without difficulty, but at last a Hindoo came to be examined, and it was ruled that the practice should be regulated by the principles which rule all law. An application was made on behalf of the witness, that the words "corporal" and "upon the holy evangelists" should be left out, and, instead, the words "on a proper oath, in the most solemn manner" substituted. Lord Chancellor Hardwicke, upon this application, said—
 "It depends upon what is admitted on the other side, that the defendant in the cross cause is of the Gentoo religion and an idolater. I have often wondered, as the dominions of Great Britain are so extensive, that there has never been any rule or method in cases of this sort. The general rule is, that all persons who believe a God are capable of an oath; and what is universally understood by an oath is that the person who takes it imprecates the vengeance of God upon him if the oath he takes is false. It was upon this principle that the Judges were inclined to admit the Jews, who believed a God, according to our notion of a God, to swear upon the Old Testament. And Lord Hale very justly observes, it is a wise rule in the kingdom of Spain that a heathen and
 303 tactis sacro-sanctis Dei evangeliis, evangeliis evangelium per se sacro evangelio voluntarie et corrupte commisit perjurium; 304 "It is plain that by the policy of all countries oaths are to be administered to all persons according to their own opinion, and as it most affects their conscience, and laying the hand was originally borrowed from the Pagans. It is said by defendant's counsel, that no new oath can be, imposed without an Act of Parliament. My answer is 'This is no new oath.'" "The next question will be, whether the depositions ought to be read, which depends upon two things: first, whether it is a proper obligatory oath: secondly, whether, on the special circumstances in this case, such evidence can be admitted according to the law of England. The general learning upon this head has been fully enlarged upon by the Lord Chief Justice. The first author I shall mention is Bishop Sanderson,  De Juris-juramenti Obligatione. Jurisjuramentum, est affirmatio religiosa. 305 "Be it declared and enacted by the Queen's most excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords spiritual and temporal, and Commons in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, that in all cases in which an oath may lawfully be and shall have been administered to any person either as a juryman or a witness, or a deponent in any proceeding, civil or criminal, in any court of law or equity in the United Kingdom, or on any occasion whatever—" "such person is bound by the oath administered, provided the same shall have been administered in such form and with such ceremonies as such person may declare to be binding; and every such person, in case of wilful false swearing, may be convicted of the crime of perjury in the same manner as if the oath had been administered in the form and with the ceremonies most commonly adopted." 306 307
 MR. J. S. WORTLEY  said, that considering this question to be one intimately affecting both the privileges of the House of Commons and the constitution of the country, and considering the position of the hon. Member who had offered himself at the table, and the constituency that he claimed to represent, it was impossible to overrate the importance of the subject. He could not too strongly express his concurrence in the opinion of his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General, that, proceeding as they were in the case, judicially, it was essential to the dignity and character of the House that they should act with due deliberation; and, further, he thought it would be wise on this occasion, as nearly as they could, to follow in the steps of those who had preceded them, and to take the course which they had taken in circumstances of a similar character. To a great extent he should be prepared, if called on to come to a vote at that moment, to assent to much that had been said by his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General; hut in referring to the instance which had been alluded to, he had omitted to refer to one very important step taken upon that occasion, and which he thought upon this occasion was even more necessary than then. It was at that time well known that Mr. O'Connell was about to tender himself at the table of the House, and it was equally well known that he was about to take objection to a particular oath, and therefore the question was not new; but, in the present case, he believed that up to twelve o'clock last night it was totally unknown to the great majority of that House that it was the intention of Baron de Rothschild to appear at the table to-day; and, for his own part certainly, until a very few hours from that time, he had not heard that they should be called upon to come to a decision upon this question. He had not had the honour of belonging to the Committee to whose report the hon. and learned Member for the city of Oxford had alluded. He certainly had read the report at the time it was issued; but since the noble Lord at the head of the Government had introduced his Bill, he had dismissed the subject from his mind.
 308 309
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Mr. Speaker, I own I think when an hon. Gentleman in this House asks that this debate should be adjourned, and considering the circumstances which can be stated and which the right hon. and learned Gentleman has just stated, namely, that up to last night no one expected that Baron de Rothschild would claim his seat, that that proposition is so reasonable, and so conformable to the usages and character of this House, that I think time ought to be taken for deliberation. I do not think that the hon. and learned Gentleman is exactly following the precedent in Mr. O'Connell's case, because he will find that when Mr. O'Connell claimed to take his seat in this House, it was proposed, I think by Mr. Brougham, that he should be heard at the table in support of his claim. The late Sir Robert Peel doubted whether that was the course which ought to be pursued, and asked time to deliberate and consider that question. On Monday Sir Robert Peel proposed, that instead of Mr. O'Connell's being heard at the table, he should be heard at the bar, as being more conformable to precedent, and more required by the justice of the ease; and having come to that conclusion, the House willingly agreed to that amendment of the Motion, and that resolution was adopted. That precedent now exists, and it is one which I think we may safely follow. But the hon. and learned Member for the city of Oxford says, he cannot adopt the resolution of my hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General, because Baron de Rothschild has not asked to be heard in support of his claim, and that such a resolution ought not to be carried unless some claim is made. Now, Sir, in the cases that have happened-—in the ease of Mr. Archdall, as well as that of Mr. O'Connell, who claimed their seats without taking the oaths which are prescribed for Members who take their seats in this House, they stated why they wished to be exempted from taking such oaths, or from taking certain oaths in the manner prescribed. I think, therefore, it would be well for the House to give Baron de Rothschild an opportunity of doing that which Mr. Archdall did by letter, and Mr. O'Connell by speech, and which he would be at
 310 311
 SIR B. HALL  should feel it his duty to join with his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the city of Oxford in voting against both propositions. He admitted that the right hon. and learned Gentleman who preceded the noble Lord in the debate could not have known until a late hour yesterday that the subject would be brought under consideration to-day; but while he admitted that, it was right to say that he and others who had taken an active part in bringing the question forward had no desire to take the House by surprise, and that the noble Lord had done no more than justice to Baron de Rothschild in exonerating him from any such intention. But he must be allowed to remind the noble Lord and the House of the position in which the city of London was placed. The noble Lord had promised to take up the question, and over and over again he had stated, during the present Session, that he did intend to persevere with the measure which he had introduced; and it was only a few nights ago, when explaining what were the measures the Government proposed to abandon, and what they intended to proceed with, during the present Session, that he declared most emphatically that it was their intention to take the opinion of the House of Commons upon
 312 313 314
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, that the precedent of the Clare election was not at all applicable to the present case. In that case, Mr. Brougham moved, "That Mr. O'Connell be called back, and heard at the table." The late Sir Robert Peel moved, as an Amendment, that the debate be adjourned till the following Monday, giving as his reason that he wished time to consult precedents, to enable the House to decide whether Mr. O'Connell should be heard at the bar or at the table. A further question arose at a later period of the debate, and Sir Robert Peel was asked, "Do you mean to look for precedents whether Mr. O'Connell be heard at all?" and his answer was, that he did not; but merely whether, as in the cases of Sir H. Mounson and Lord Fanshawe, he should be heard at the table or at the bar. His reason for objecting to his being heard at the table was, that by a strict construction of the statute, Mr. O'Connell would expose himself to a statutory penalty for having spoken in the House without taking the oaths. The adjournment accordingly took place till Monday, it having been arranged that it should then take precedence of everything else, and that it should be finished in one night. Lord Duncannon had previously stated that he was instructed by the hon. Member for Clare to state that he claimed the pri-
 315 316 Parliamentum Judaicum, 317
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he could answer for it that until twelve o'clock last night it was known by very few Members on the Opposition side of the House that this question would come on that day. He wished to call attention to the effect which the decision now sought would have when considered with reference to the conduct previously pursued by the House with reference to this subject, Baron de Rothschild had come there without notice, demanding that a question should be decided at once, which for two Sessions they had been debating, which had been debated in the House of Lords two Sessions, and with reference to which Her Majesty's Ministers had again introduced a Bill, and then withdrew it, after an announcement by the Prime Minister that it was only withdrawn with a view to its introduction next Session. What was it then that Baron de Rothschild and his friends now asked the House to do? They came down to the House without notice, and asked them to declare that they had been wasting the time of the House for the last two Sessions in debating a question which had already been settled by a previous Act. They asked them, in other words, to condemn their own proceedings as ridiculous, and to declare that the House of Lords had been betrayed into a course equally anomalous. He thought the attempt made to force on this discussion at the present moment was contemptuous towards the House. Did the parties making it repudiate the noble Lord at the head of the Government as the representative of the
 318 319
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, he should not have presumed to offer himself to their notice so early in the debate had he not been one of those Members who rejoiced in representing a large constituency. Baron de Rothschild had been called an "individual," but he would call him one of the Members for the city of London; and when they were told of the undue hurry of the present proceeding, and when they were called upon in judicial accents proceeding from the Treasury benches to proceed with deliberation, he would put it to the House and the country whether this question, which had now been debated for three Sessions, and which had been affirmed by large majorities of that House—whether they were going to fight a sham battle, and postpone the great question of civil and religious liberty, because it might not be convenient to the Government, and might not be agreeable to their friends on the protectionist benches opposite to debate it? He, for one, would be a party to no such proceeding. They had debated this question in three successive Sessions, and, if there was any inconvenience now, the noble Lord at the head of the Government was to blame. That noble Lord had had the conduct of the question; and he (Mr. Osborne) must say that the conduct of the noble Lord with regard to this Bill did not do him that honour which other acts of his life had conferred. The noble Lord had postponed the question of religious liberty, because the Jews were a small body: he would not have done so had they
 320 nisi prius
 MR. WALPOLE : I assure you I made no arrangement.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  would ask whether the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst meant to state that he had made no arrangement with the hon. Member for the University of Oxford, to delay this question until Monday next? Did he mean to say that he had entered into no communication or arrangement of that kind?  [A pause.] 321 Hansard, A laugh.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex has put a question to me which I have no difficulty in answering. The question now at issue does not depend upon any opinion of mine. It is a question for the decision of the House itself. An hon. Member has appeared at the table and claimed to be sworn on the Old Testament. Now, that is a perfectly novel mode of taking the oath; and it would
 322
 MR. GOULBURN  did not mean to say a word about the propriety or impropriety of allowing the hon. Member for London to be sworn in the form in which he had claimed to have the oaths administered. He would address himself simply to the point, whether it was fitting that the House should have time to deliberate before coining to a decision? The hon. and gallant Member who had just sat down, following the example of the hon. and learned Member for Youghal, had stated that there was no analogy between the case of Mr. O'Connell and the present case. It had been stated that the hon. Member for London was willing to take two of the oaths if he was allowed to be sworn on the Old Testament. Now his (Mr. Goulburn's) opinion was, that the oaths ought to be tendered all together. With respect to Mr. O'Connell, so far from his having refused to take the oaths that were tendered to him, he stated that he was ready to take the oaths of allegiance and abjuration, but not the oath of supremacy. It had been stated by the hon. and learned Member for Youghal that the only ground upon which the late Sir Robert Peel had asked for delay, was that time might be given to consider whether Mr. O'Connell should be heard at the table or at the bar of the House. The hon. and learned Gentleman had not read correctly what had passed on that occasion. [The right hon. Gentleman here read extracts from the speeches of Sir Robert Peel on that occasion to show that his reason for asking delay was to consider, not whether he should be heard at the table merely, but whether he should be heard at all.] He had no doubt that the House would consent, as in the case of Mr. O'Connell, to adjourn the discussion of this question, in order to enable those Members who had not until that morning heard that the subject was to be introduced to prepare themselves for its consideration.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, the question in the first instance before the House was the oath of allegiance, passing by for the time the two other oaths required to be taken by Members. As one of the constituency of London who had yesterday advised the course here adopted by Baron de Rothschild, he begged to express his opinion that the most convenient proceeding now
 323
 SIR F. THESIGER  said, that before the House determined upon adjourning the debate, it was extremely desirable that it should come to some clear understanding of the nature of the discussion that was to be taken when the debate should be resumed. He gathered from the hon. and learned Member for Cockermouth that the friends of Baron de Rothschild proposed first to discuss what might be considered the preliminary question of the refusal of the Baron to be sworn on the Gospels, taking other matters subsequently; whereas it appeared to him that all the considerations involved in this very important question should be taken together. Baron de Rothschild had come to the table of the House and desired to be sworn on the Old Testament. No question was put to him why he desired to be sworn on the Old Testament rather than on the New. Everybody perfectly well knew the Baron to be of the Jewish persuasion; but the question was not put to him that ought to have been put—"Why do you require to be sworn on the Old Testament and not on the New?" No doubt the Baron would have replied, "Because I am of the Jewish persuasion, and that form of oath is the only form which I deem binding on my conscience." That answer being given, the case would
 324
 MR. HUME  said, the supporters of Baron de Rothschild had every desire to discuss the proposition of the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, and for that purpose were ready to assent to the Motion for adjourning the debate; but they decidedly objected to the Motion of the hon. and learned Attorney General, which called upon Baron de Rothschild to appear by counsel in support of a case which he and his friends believed to be already perfectly clear. If the hon. and learned Attorney General would withdraw his Amendment, the debate might be adjourned without any opposition on the part of Baron de Rothschild's supporters. He did not understand why the House had not in this case followed the precedent of Archdall's case. When Mr. Archdall, elected for Chipping Wycombe, refused to be sworn upon conscientious grounds, he was asked successively—"Will you take the first oath, and the second, and the
 325
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the Attorney General did not propose to make Baron de Rothschild employ counsel if he did not so desire. All that his hon. and learned Friend propounded was that it would be fair to enable Baron de Rothschild, if he so pleased, to declare, either by himself or by his counsel or agent, what were the views and reasons which induced him to demand to be sworn on the Old Testament. He could not see how any hardship could be inflicted upon Baron de Rothschild by this proposition. If it should appear on Monday that Baron de Rothschild declined to avail himself of the facility thus suggested, the Attorney General would withdraw his Motion, and the House could then proceed to discuss the general question.
 MR. HUME  asked why Baron de Rothschild, who was in the House, should not at once have the question put to him at the bar?
 MR. WALPOLE  thought that, as in the case of Mr Archdall, Baron de Rothschild might be asked successively, whether he would take the three oaths; and if he refused to take any, why he refused?
 MR. W. P. WOOD  said, he had just placed himself in communication with Baron de Rothschild, and the Baron had authorised him to state to the House that in reference to his demand to be sworn upon
 326
 MR. J. STUART  denied that upon such a question as this any person was entitled to be heard by counsel at their bar. It was a question to be decided wholly according to the law and custom of Parliament. Suppose any person elected to that House refused to take the oath of allegiance, and demanded to be heard by counsel in support of his refusal; would the House hear counsel in such a matter? Why then in this?
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that as Baron de Rothschild did not desire to be heard by counsel, he was quite willing to withdraw his Amendment; but the Motion he sought to amend being before the House, he could not by the forms of the House withdraw the Amendment. If the debate was adjourned, he should be ready on Monday to withdrawn the Amendment.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  thought the ground now so cleared that they were likely, for that day at least, to arrive at a satisfactory result. He had not, in common with many other Members, anticipated that this matter would come on at the morning sitting; but he understood that previous to his arrival at the House Baron de Rothschild had put in a preliminary objection to being sworn upon the Evangelists. Upon this preliminary objection the House must decide for itself; and Baron de Rothschild was entitled to have the decision of the House upon it. It appeared that Baron de Rothschild did not desire to he heard by counsel upon this preliminary point, and the hon. and learned Attorney General, accordingly, was ready to withdraw the Amendment which had reference to it. As the matter stood, he should strongly advise the friends of Baron de Rothschild not to resist the adjournment of the debate. It would be of immense advantage to be able to discuss this very grave judicial question calmly, deliberately, exempt from haste, excitement, or passion. It was urged on the one hand that the law and the custom of Parliament were altogether against this claim; on the other hand, it was contended that by custom—a custom recognised, perhaps, by statute—other high tribunals sanctioned the claim. It was most desirable that the House should have until Monday ["No, no!"]—well, or until some other day next week, to weigh maturely all the bearings of this most important question.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said,
 327
 MR. B. OSBORNE  gave notice that, on the debate being resumed, he should move an Amendment on the Motion of the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, that the Baron de Rothschild having presented himself at the table of the House, and requested that the oaths be administered to him on the Old Testament, which he believed binding on his conscience, the clerk be directed to administer to him the oaths of allegiance and supremacy accordingly.
 MR. J. S. WORTLEY  suggested that Monday would be too early a day. He thought Thursday would be a more convenient day, the disscussion to be then taken upon the whole question.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  appealed to the First Lord of the Treasury whether, after the distinct intimation he had given that this subject would not be resumed until next Session, upon the faith of which intimation many Members had quitted town, and even gone abroad, it would be fair in the Government to permit the discussion to be renewed so early as Monday?
 MR. AGLIONBY  was quite ready to proceed on Monday, but it was immaterial to him whether the House named Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday. The House might rest assured that the friends of this claim would not allow Parliament to separate till the question was settled.
 MR. ANSTEY  said, that as hon. Gentlemen declined the concession of an adjournment until Twelve o'clock on Monday, he should move, as an Amendment, that the debate be adjourned to Five o'clock on this day.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he hoped the noble Lord at the head of the Government would not assent to either of the propositions before the House. He (Mr. Spooner) knew that several Scotch Members had at great personal inconvenience waited in town until the noble Lord declared the other night that he would not press the Oath of Abjuration Bill, and they had now gone to Scotland. He was satisfied that, as the question had been brought before the House in this manner, many of those hon. Members would return to London if they could do so; but it was utterly impossible for them to be in their places on Monday. He put it to the noble Lord, therefore, whether he would consent to exclude those Scotch Members from taking part in the consideration of this important question.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he had stated in the earlier part of the debate that as Members were not aware until late last night that Baron de Rothschild would come to the table and claim his seat that day, he considered it would be inexpedient for the House to come to any decision on the subject to-day, and that he was in favour of the adjournment proposed by the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite. But the House having agreed generally that there should be such adjournment, he thought it ought to be to the earliest possible time. The hon. Member for the city of London (Baron de Rothschild) wished a decision to be taken upon his case, and, as he had declared that he did not wish counsel to be heard with respect to the preliminary question, he (Lord J. Russell) thought the House should meet in order to decide at least that preliminary question at the earliest convenient period. He hoped, therefore, that the House would agree to meet on Monday next to discuss the subject. He thought the proposition of the hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex would be attended with some inconvenience, because, as he understood the terms of the Amendment read by that hon. and gallant Gentleman, it seemed to imply that a Member of that House might take two of the oaths, and that the third, the oath and declaration of abjuration, might be omitted. He (Lord J. Russell) certainly thought it would be very difficult for the House to come to a decision implying that any of the oaths and declarations fixed by law to be taken by Members should be entirely omitted. He would give his support to
 329
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, he saw the force of the noble Lord's suggestion, and he would consider the terms of the Amendment before he placed it on the hooks.
 MR. SCOTT  hoped the hon. Member for North Warwickshire would persist in opposing the Motion. The grounds upon which he (Mr. Scott) wished the discussion to be postponed to a later day were precisely those which had been alluded to by the noble Lord at the head of the Government. He considered that sufficient intimation had not been given of the intention of Baron de Rothschild to claim his seat, and that many Members of the House had not, therefore, the opportunity of being present to record their votes. He (Mr. Scott) considered that the debate should be adjourned till Thursday or Friday next. He thought, that as under the present Post Office arrangements no letters could he delivered on Sunday, such an adjournment was not unreasonable. He begged to move that the House do now adjourn.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said,' that he bad been sitting during the last three hours listening with Job-like patience to speeches which were meant to show either that the House ought then to adjourn, or, that if they did adjourn, it should be until Monday. His hon. and learned Friend the Member for Cockermouth stated it was to him a matter of little consequence whether they adjourned to Monday, Tuesday, or Wednesday; and one hon. and learned Gentleman opposite proposed an adjournment to Friday. He trusted that the House would do no such thing. He objected to any adjournment, because the House had often considered this question before, and therefore required no adjournment respecting it. [ Loud cries of and 330 Cries of 331
 MR. SCOTT  said, he would withdraw his Amendment, but he wished to state his reasons.
 MR. ANSTEY  rose to order.
 MR. SCOTT : Hon. Gentlemen over the way have begged an opportunity. I have not had an opportunity of concluding the remarks I was about to make.
 MR. SPEAKER : Is it the pleasure of the House that this Motion for adjournment be withdrawn? The hon. Member for Berwickshire may explain, but he is not entitled to speak again on this Motion, as he has already spoken. Is it the hon. Gentleman's wish to withdraw the Motion for the adjournment of the House?
 MR. SCOTT : It is.
 MR. B. OSBORNE : The hon. and learned Member for Youghal wishes to withdraw his Amendment, on the understanding that the debate be adjourned till Monday at Twelve o'clock.
 SIR G. GREY  suggested that the best mode of settling the intricacy of the question would be to divide.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the House must first decide whether the words "Monday next" stand part of the question. If the House decide not, then the next question will be that the debate be adjourned to this day at Five o'clock, and then it will be competent for the hon. Gentleman the Member for Shoreham to move Tuesday next.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that so far as he was personally concerned, he felt indebted to the hon. and gallant Member for bringing this question before the House, both because it was highly important that every public functionary should be ready to explain his conduct upon all occasions to the House, and also because upon this particular occasion he was extremely desirous to state to the House the motives which had actuated him in the course he had adopted with respect to the information in question. But before he proceeded to say anything on that subject, be thought it right that he should say that the course adopted in this case had been taken upon his own sole responsibility; that he had not been asked to take that course by anybody; and that he had not been advised by anybody to take it. He had not, indeed, consulted with anybody-previous to determining upon taking that course. He might very possibly be wrong in the judgment he had come to. If he had had any doubt upon the subject, he should have thought it his duty to take advice and counsel from those who were capable of giving it; but entertaining no doubt with respect to the course which he felt it his duty to pursue, he thought that the only proper and dignified course for him to take was to act upon his own responsibility. In this case, too, the House would permit him to observe that there could be no doubt at all that the duty of signing the information by the Attorney General was not a mere matter of form. It was a matter in which he had to exercise his discretion—in which he had to read every information in order to enable him to form an opinion whether it was a proper case to be submitted to the consideration of a court of justice. This had been the established and invariable practice, as far as he was aware, of all the Attorney Generals who had preceded him in his office; and he had heard regret over and over again expressed by every Judge who had presided in the courts of equity, that cases had not been fully brought under the attention of the Attorney General, because if that had been the case he would
 355 356 ex officio. 357 358 359 360
 MR. H. BERKELEY  rose, pursuant to notice, to oppose the vote, the principal object of which was the maintenance of the yeomanry corps—a body alike inefficient in itself for any useful purpose, and unconstitutional in its tendency. He was aware how unpopular his opposition must be in an Assembly which numbered among its Members a full squadron of yeomanry officers, all bristling with yeomanic valour, and burning with squirarchal indignation that any one should dare to meddle with this pet toy of the landocracy and aristocracy—this mimicry of war; but he must fulfil what he considered to be a duty. He approached the subject in no spirit of hostility—[ ironical laughter l. l. l. 372 l. 373 Cries of Laughter, and cries of Shouts of 374 375 Bristol Gazette Hudibras, "Marched up a hill, and then marched down again," …"maintained at vast expense; In peace a charge—in war a weak defence. Stout, once a year, they march, a blustering band, And ever, but in time of need, at hand." 376 "The corps consisted of three divisions, the eastern, central, and western, under the command of a country gentleman as major, since dead. These divisions were ordered to assemble, and march upon Merthyr. The western, or Swansea division, commanded by an old Peninsula officer, never reached Merthyr, having suffered themselves to be disarmed in a bloodless encounter with a mob on the road. A portion of the central division was hastily collected by me as lieutenant, and marched to Merthyr, where we found the major with the eastern division. The yeomanry, 100 strong, were ordered to march towards Brecon to escort some powder." "After some delay the major gave the word—What word? To get off their horses and storm the barricade? or to outflank the barricade with a party, and take it in the rear? No; nothing of the sort, the major gave the word, 'Threes
 377 os sacrum "This is the consequence which must necessarily arise from the attempt to make bad farmers into worse soldiers by a few days' drill—just sufficient to make man and horse uncomfortable—just sufficient to destroy the confidence of men individually; without giving the confidence of discipline to either man or horse. Humanity, policy, and economy forbid the employment of any other force than regulars against a mob." 378 "The hon. Colonel Boyle returned thanks for 'the Army.' He trusted the Army would not be reduced in numbers, for a soldier was not made in a day; he must be drilled and disciplined, and on that discipline often depended the fate of battles." 379
 MR. CLIVE  bore testimony to the valuable services of the yeomanry corps, particularly to those of the regiment with which he was connected.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  believed the hon. Member for North Warwickshire commanded a force somewhere in the neighbourhood of Uxbridge. [Mr. NEWDEGATE: I do not.] At all events, the hon. Member belonged to that distinguished corps to which he had alluded, and which was commonly known in the country by the name of the "mournful and dangerous." He had been told lately of some half-dozen of them marching through Uxbridge with umbrellas over their heads. As regarded his (Mr. Berkeley's) selecting his seat on
 390
 MR. BAINES  said, that the change proposed to be made by the hon. Baronet was one of so much importance to the whole poor-law system that it could not with propriety be introduced at so late a period of the Session. The subject of the present clause had better be reserved until the whole question of settlement came before the House.
 COLONEL REID  said, that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Bristol held an opinion of the yeomanry force diametrically opposed to his own. The hon. Gentleman had complained of the inadequacy, incapacity, and insubordination of the body.
 382 l. l. 383 l. 384
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO  said, he was glad that his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for the city of Cork had brought forward the subject of good-conduct pay. He himself knew of the case of a corporal who had four badges for good conduct, and who had on that account an addition of 4 d.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON : Sir, I trust my right hon. Friend the Secretary at War will bear with patience, and excuse the remarks I think it my duty to offer on these estimates, believing I am solely actuated for the benefit and advantage of that profession in which I have passed my life. s. s. d. s. s. 363 s. s. d.; l. s. l. s. d. s. s. s. d. s. d. d. 364 l. l. s. d. s. d. s. d. s., s., s., 365 d. s. l.,
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  said: I cannot avoid remarking upon the enormous and unjustifiable charges in the first page of this vote. I see clerks of overy degree receiving more pay than General Officers in the Army. I do not wish, Sir, in the least to detract from the merits of those gentlemen, nor do I desire to have the smallest deduction made from the pay of the humblest of them. But when I see men of their class in life receiving more pay than officers of high rank in the Army, who have purchased their commissions—who are exposed to the casualties of war and the vicissitudes of climate, I cannot but exclaim against such injustice. In the second page of this vote, that department over which my right hon. and gallant Friend presides, and presides so ably, the salaries of this description of gentlemen are still more extravagant and unjust. Clerks receiving 1,200 l. l.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON : Sir, it is not my intention to follow the hon. Gentleman the Member for Bristol through his tirade of invective and jest with which he has entertained the House; but as he has undoubtedly alluded to me as an Inspecting Officer, I must beg to offer a few remarks, and I think I should be undeserving of a seat in this House if I permitted any aspersion for a moment to be cast upon such an admirable, loyal, and efficient a body as the Yeomanry Cavalry of Great
 385 386
 MR. F. MAULE  said, he must confess that at that period of the Session, and at that hour of the night, he was sorry that his hon. Friend who had just sat down had occupied so long a time in calling upon them to reject a vote which he (Mr. F. Maule) should not have proposed for their adoption had he not felt that it was for the support of a force which he believed to be in itself a good and a constitutional force. His hon. Friend had stated that he had shown that this force had for a long series of years been insubordinate and unamenable to discipline, and that it possessed every quality which would make it unfit and inefficient as a military force. His hon. Friend had gone through the long period which transpired between the year 1831 and the present time, and had quoted three instances during that time in which, according to his own showing, the yeomanry force had failed to do their duty as it would have been expected to have been done. He (Mr. F. Maule) thought that he knew a little more of the habits and practices of the yeomanry than his hon. Friend did, for he had had the honour of holding the office of Under Secretary of State for six years, during which time the yeomanry force claimed his most particular attention. He was then made aware of the character and state of efficiency of every corps, and of the reports to the Commander-in-Chief of the inefficiency and efficiency of each re-
 380 381
 MR. F. MAULE  was not aware of the issuing of any general order with respect
 387
 MR. F. MAULE  said, that the hon. Member for Montrose was under a mistake in supposing that the yeomanry, when on duty, were not under the Mutiny Act in the same manner as regular troops, who were in the receipt of pay.
 MR. F. MAULE  said, these gentlemen held very important offices. The depart-
 371
 MR. F. MAULE  said, he did not think the exactions referred to by the hon. and gallant Member for the city of Cork were so very great, after all, when it was considered they were made with an increase of daily pay. With regard to the question of married soldiers, he had done all in his power to make arrangements in the barracks; and the Ordnance Department had been most anxious to assist him, so as to separate as far as possible the married from the single. He believed that was carried out to a considerable extent, and he did not find now so many complaints on that subject as there were. With regard to the solicitor of the household brigade, there were many cases in which the household brigade and the Army generally were involved in law, and in the household brigade they found it better to make a small allowance to pay the solicitor. There were so many detached bodies of the Army, that they could not appoint solicitors to each of them. Then, with regard to the discharge, the commanding officer put at the bottom of the certificate the character of the man. And now to address himself for one moment to the question which his hon. Friend the Member for Manchester had raised. He must say that the question of the consecration of the colours of a regiment was one which must be a matter of opinion. It was a custom which had been handed down in the Army from time immemorial. It was the practice whenever colours were presented to a regiment, to sanction the presentation by invoking on the occasion the blessing of the Almighty God. For his own part he could see nothing offensive in this; he could see nothing superstitious in it. He admitted that it might not be necessary, in order to ensure to those colours the attachment and affectionate regard of the soldiers who fought under them; but the soldiers were none of them the worse for hearing that blessing solicited. With reference to the prayer which his hon. Friend had read, he confessed that if this observance was to be practised at all, so far as he could listen to that prayer, he did not see anything that could be found fault with, and he saw no expression which could well be improved. The chaplain of the garrison of Dublin, from whom that prayer was said to have emanated, he believed had the interest of the soldiers, over whom he held a pastoral charge, most sin-
 369
 MR. F. MAULE : It has been brought under the notice of the Adjutant General.
 MR. F. MAULE  replied that his attention had been drawn to it. It did not, however, rest with him, but with the Commander-in-Chief.
 MR. F. MAULE  explained, with regard to the good-conduct pay, that a corporal's pay was 1 s. d., s. d.,
 MR. F. MAULE  willingly bore testimony to the patience and temper with which the Committee upon the Army Estimates had investigated the matters before them, and which could not fail to be of service to the whole branch of the profession. They had opened large subjects of inquiry—the clothing of the Army, the question of agency, and, indeed, the whole constitution of the Army. These were subjects which required very considerable time and deliberation before the Committee proposed any report to the House. The Government would be in the possession of the evidence upon these points; and before the estimates were presented to the House next year, the Government would give it their most careful consideration.
 MR. J. S. WORTLEY  said, there was one point in the proceedings of the Committee of which he was a Member, that he wished to advert to, rather with a view to
 345
 LORD J. RUSSELL  thought the House would be of opinion that it would be impossible then to enter on the grave consideration of the affairs of Ceylon, with reference to the proceedings of the Committee appointed to investigate those affairs. The Committee had not thought it right to report the evidence to the House. The Committee having come to that decision, for the House now to act on the statement of the hon. Member for Montrose, he submitted, was entirely out of the question. He trusted, however, that no hon. Member would take for granted that the hon. Gentleman's statements were at all borne out by what took place before the Committee. The report of that Committee was—
 "your Committee also regret that, notwithstanding their utmost diligence and perseverance, they find themselves still unable to make a complete report upon some of the various matters into which they were directed by the House to inquire. "Your Committee are of opinion that the serious attention of Her Majesty's Government should be called to the evidence taken in the course of this inquiry; and they recommend that a Royal Commission should be appointed to proceed to Ceylon to ascertain what changes may be necessary for the better government of that colony, unless some step should forthwith be taken by the Government which may obviate the necessity of further investigation." 344
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Perhaps the House will allow me to make a few remarks on what has just fallen from the hon. Gentleman. The proposal I shall have to make with respect to the Irish Franchise Bill is certainly liable to observation and to censure, on the ground that it is too great a departure from the original principle of the Bill; and when I say that for the sake of obtaining the assent of Parliament to the Bill, I consent to an alteration of the franchise from 8 l. l., l. l.,
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I stated that I would give notice to-day of what would be the substance and terms of the Amendments I should propose respecting the Franchise Bill for Ireland. The Lords made two Amendments especially, of very great importance. One of them requires that persons claiming to vote for a county should be rated at 15 l. l. l., l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL,  in answer to the question of the hon. Member for Macclesfield, had to state that some years ago it was a question in the House whether or not they should proceed to enact, that no one should be appointed to a see in Wales who was not well acquainted with the Welsh language. That proposal did not meet with the approbation of the House, and was rejected, it having been thought desirable to leave the Crown full discretion with respect to the appointments to sees in Wales, and not to fetter its discretion so much that if there was any person not so well qualified as another, but speaking the Welsh language, he should be appointed to a see, to the exclusion of him who was better qualified. Considering also that in the exercise of the discretion which devolved on him as Minister of the Crown, be had advised the Crown on a recent occasion to nominate a clergyman well acquainted with the Welsh language, who was besides a person of great learning and of unexceptionable qualifications, he thought he would not do right to fetter himself by a pledge which was never demanded before on behalf of the Crown. With respect to the second question, by the right hon. Member for Cardiff, in which he had called attention to an Act of Parliament referring to the appointment of clergymen to Welsh livings, and not to the appointment of bishops, he could only say, without looking to the Act in question, that the existing state of the law, as he considered, made sufficient provision as to the knowledge of the language to be possessed by clergymen in Wales. He would, however, look to the Act, and consider the matter again. His present impression was that legisla-
 339
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that when the noble Lord at the head of the Government had stated the alterations he proposed to make in the Lords' Amendments, there was no question before the House, and therefore it was not possible for him (Mr. Disraeli) to give an intimation, which he was now desirous of conveying, to the Government. He regretted that a more conciliatory spirit had not been shown by Her Majesty's Government, and that there was not, in consequence, any prospect of the Bill passing into a law during the present Session. But he thought it right to state that his Friends on that side of the House would feel it their duty to oppose the alterations which the noble Lord had declared would be made in the Irish Franchise Bill as it had been returned to them from the other House.
 MR. HAWES  would not have said a word, but for what fell from the right hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, with reference to the Committee recommending the evidence to the serious attention of Government. Now, he had the honour to be a Member of the Committee, and it had been a part of his duty to submit the evidence to the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Colonies. But, more than that, the Committee had ordered that a regular copy of the evidence should be sent from day to day to the Colonial Office; and therefore the Government were fully cognisant of it.
 MR. FREWEN  hoped the right hon. Gentleman would not press his Amendment. Much consideration had been given to the subject by the Bishops in the other House.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  trusted that, when the hon. Member for Bristol should again he about to make so unpopular a proposition as that which he had made to-night, accompanied, as it was, by an attack on the protectionist Members, he would not select that (the protectionist) side of the House to make it.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that it was the last thing he should have thought of, to make any observation as to which side of the House it might be convenient for the hon. Gentleman to address the Committee; but he could not help feeling that, as the hon. Gentleman had indulged in language not highly complimentary to those around him, he (Mr. Newdegate) might be excused for having adverted to the circumstance. As to the "mournful and dangerous troop," he would not stop to inquire in what purlieus of Uxbridge the hon. Gentleman bad picked up that name.
 MR. SPEAKER  must remind the hon.
 341
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that all the Committee could do was to report the evidence to the House; and the evidence so reported might, with the approbation of the House, go to the Government. Or, the Committee might state that it was not proper or right that the evidence should be made public, and the House might order the evidence to be referred to Her Majesty's Government. The Committee could not do it of themselves.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  would now call the attention of the House to the proceedings on the part of the Attorney General relative to the erection of buildings in Hyde Park for the proposed Exhibition of 1851. It had been his intention to have moved an address, "praying Her Majesty to direct her Attorney General to give his sanction to the filing of the proposed information for an injunction to restrain the erection of any building in any part of Hyde Park for the intended Exhibition of 1851;" but it appearing that the forms of the House precluded his making that Motion at the present moment, he should reserve it until some other opportunity when the House was going into Committee of Supply, or Ways and Means. After the very explicit opinion just given by those eminent counsel, Sir F. Kelly, Mr. Rolt, and Mr. Cairns, he trusted the hon. and learned Attorney General would be induced to reconsider his refusal to allow the filing of the information which required the sanction of his name. Such a course would be at once honourable on his part, and an act of justice to the public, and that numerous body of petitioners who had petitioned the House on the subject. He denied the efficacy of a vote of the House of Commons to contravene the public rights, and repudiated the notion that the Attorney General could not act in opposition to such a vote. He also denied the right of the Commissioners of Woods and Forests to appropriate the public parks of England to any purpose which might be pleasing to themselves, or which they might think congenial to wishes expressed by persons in certain quarters—persons whom it might be their interest, but certainly not their duty, to fawn upon and flatter. The right of enjoyment of our parks was vested in the people of this country, and had been recognised in the reigns of the Charleses, of William III., of George II., of William IV., and in the reign of the present Sovereign. He believed Her Majesty to be one of the last persons who would desire to do
 353 354
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, no one more sincerely felt the necessity for economy than he did. As the Committee had not reported, he would abstain from any remarks on the subject. He quite concurred in the hardships on private soldiers referred to by the hon. and gallant Member for Cork city.
 SIR F. THESIGER  presented a petition from several persons residing near
 334 335
 MR. BAILLIE  said, he wished to take the earliest opportunity of stating the course he intended to pursue with respect to the report made by the Ceylon Committee, and the more so, both as the subject itself was one of great importance, and as the report was perhaps the most singular, inconsistent, and extraordinary document which had ever emanated from a Committee of that House. He must in
 336 "Your Committee deeply regret that that House did not see fit to acquiesce in the recommendation submitted to them at the close of the last Session, that an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She would be graciously pleased to appoint a Commission to inquire on the spot into the circumstances connected with the suppression of the late insurrection in Ceylon." 337
 MR. EDWARDS : I much regret having to say anything at this late hour of the night, when the House is so anxious to divide, especially after so much has been said upon the question, and would rather have given a silent vote; but after the unwarrantable attack upon the yeomanry generally by the hon. Member for Bristol, and in vindication of the regiment to which I have the honour to belong, I feel called upon to state a few facts that have come within my own personal knowledge. There are few Members of Parliament representing constituencies in the north of England who will not remember the riots of 1842, when the whole of the manufacturing districts were in a state of disaffection bordering on rebellion, and most alarming disturbances took place, calculated to spread terror amongst Her Majesty's loyal subjects, owing to immense mobs having collected from all parts of Yorkshire and Lancashire, and uniting in Halifax; and the authorities no sooner became aware of their intentions, than a despatch was sent off for a reinforcement of troops to Bradford, Leeds, Manchester, and other places. Every application was refused; not a single soldier could be spared, nor was it possible to procure even a file of men from either of the two Yorkshire yeomanry corps. These fine old regiments, consisting together of nearly 1,000 men, so highly prized and so justly esteemed throughout the county for the valuable services they have so often rendered during the last century, were employed in their respective districts in aid of the civil power. The town of Halifax for two days was a scene of the greatest confusion, and appeared to be in the power of the rioters. At length they came in collision with the military; half a troop of the 11th Hussars and two companies of the 61st Regiment being the only troops quartered in the town. A battle was fought, and blood was spilt on both sides before they could clear the town.
 389
 MR. BRIGHT  said, there was one subject connected with this vote to which he wished to call the attention of the Government and the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War. He referred to the allowance to officiating clergymen for performing divine service—17,500 l. 366 Freeman's Journal "Having implored thy blessing, O Lord, upon the Queen and all the Royal Family, we would now implore thy blessing upon that portion of Her loyal and devoted subjects now present, and who are more immediately engaged in the service and defence of their country. We thank thee, O Lord, that although the maintenance of the profession to which they belong is rendered necessary owing to the wickedness and depravity of man, still it is a profession countenanced and recognised in the pages of thy Holy Word; and as the banner of the cross of Christ, the great Captain of our salvation, is therein set forth as the chief point around which the soldiers of Jesus rally in the day of trouble, and a sight of which, when looked at through the eye of faith, inspires the beholders with renewed confidence and energy, so, O Lord, may these earthly banners now being renewed and consecrated to thy service and the defence and honour of our Sovereign, be as instrumental as those that are now being laid aside, have been in maintaining the loyalty and bravery of the corps now before thee—a corps which has ever been ready to stand foremost in its contributions to the fame and glory of the British arms. We call upon thee, therefore, O Lord, to bless and consecrate these banners. In thy name, most mighty Lord of Hosts, we do now send them forth. May they never be unfurled in any but a good cause—may they, as we doubt not they shall be, borne and supported by strong arms and brave hearts, who, if they fear thee only, shall be enabled to do all things through Christ, who will strengthen them. Cover and protect those over whom these colours shall wave in the day of battle; or if they tall, as many of
 367 In hoc signo vinces, 368
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he had seen many reports presented to the House, but never had he seen a report so ridiculous, so lame, so unworthy an investigation of this serious character, as the one in question. He was satisfied that when they read the report, and considered the painful rumours which were afloat, the very nature of the report itself would force them to call for the evidence. It was clear that either the Committee had been sitting for two years about nothing, or that they had discovered evidence of so painful a character that they had shrunk from reporting it. At the commencement of the Session they had had a discussion relative to the attempts made for bringing witnesses from Ceylon to this country. He confessed that suspicions of the gravest nature had been aroused in his mind; and he urged the House to call for the evidence, and to insist on its being placed on the table. Nothing could be more preposterous than the idea of the Committee passing over that House with the evidence, and giving it at a Government office. The House had better go home if such a system were to be pursued, and let the Government take the course it pleased. The whole thing tended to create grave suspicion, and he hoped the House would not be content until the evidence was laid upon the table.
 DR. NICHOLL  begged to ask the noble Lord, before he replied to the hon. Gentleman's question, whether, considering that the 1st and 2d of Victoria, cap. 106, sec. 103, gave ample powers to the bishop to provide that clergymen, in all necessary cases, should be acquainted with the Welsh language—considering that there was a power, on the part of the Welsh laity, to enter a caveat against the appointment of any clergyman who did not understand the Welsh language—and considering that it was desirable to extend the knowledge of the English language, which was spreading rapidly in Wales—he did not think the state of the law at present fully provided for the state of Wales?
 MR. J. WILLIAMS  said: It being well known that the separation of the great body of the people from the Church in Wales is caused by the want of sympathy on the part of their English ecclesiastical rulers with the feelings, habits, and language of the people; and that the solemn ceremonies of consecrating churches and confirming children are still performed in language not understood by the people, I beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury whether he will assure the House that no clergyman shall in future be appointed to any see in the principality of Wales who is not well acquainted with, and able to
 338
 MR. J. W. PATTEN  was afraid that was contrary to the rules of the House. It was done, he dared to say, with the best intentions; but he put it to Mr. Speaker whether any evidence taken before a Committee appointed by order of the House could be laid before any department of the
 346
 MR. HENLEY  wished before the House went into Committee of Supply, to call the attention of the House to that part of the report of G. A' Becket, Esq., that relates to Reading, in Berkshire, contained in the reports to the Poor Law Board on laws of settlement and removal of the poor, presented to both Houses of Parliament, by command of Her Majesty, in the year 1850. It appeared that some time since evidence had been given by Mr. Chadwick, before a Committee, to the effect that the poor had been driven into Reading in consequence of a number of houses having been pulled down in the surrounding agricultural parishes. That was doubted. However, in 1848 the late President of the Poor Law Board directed inquiries to be made by a gentleman named A' Becket. That gentleman, in his report, distinctly referred to the evidence of Mr. Chadwick, and in the last paragraph of his report he stated that he had no hesitation in saying that the practice of pulling down cottages for the purpose of driving out the agricultural labourers had existed in several parishes. That allegation bad created some surprise in the neighbourhood where the occurrences were alleged to have taken place; and Mr. A' Becket added that they had been driven into Reading either because they had been guilty of poaching, or had
 351
 MR. HENLEY  said, that as the hon. Gentleman had chosen, by inference, to cast an imputation against a sot of what he called unreformed magistrates, it would have been but common justice if he had stated that those gentlemen were brought to trial in the county of Berks, and acquitted.
 MR. HUME  thought the country had no right to expect from any man sacrifices such as those made by the hon. Member who had last addressed the House. The reasons why he objected to the force were, that they were not placed under military law, and had not time for practice sufficient to make them steady soldiers when upon service. He believed that twenty troops of forty men each of the regular army would do more to preserve the peace than the whole of the yeomanry force of the country. If free trade continued, and wheat remained at 40 s., 388
 MR. HUME  said, he should admit that the Army was now in a better position and condition than either the Navy or Ordnance. He thought there was much to be done in regard to the improved organisation of the Army. However, he would not then enter upon that question. Looking at the state of the Army, Navy, and Ordnance, and the state of our finances, he believed considerable retrenchment might be made without rendering either of these branches in the least degree less effective. He believed a very large portion of the Ordnance stores had been wasted, and in that department especially much more improvement might be effected. It was not his intention to propose any alterations then, or interfere with any of the returns. The House had voted the number of men—they were bound to pay them, and the vote before the House was for that purpose. At the same time he was certain they had voted for 20,000 men more than they wanted; but the time was not far distant when considerable retrenchments should be made. He thought it was of great importance that the public should be made aware more precisely of the nature of those estimates than they could be by the more anouncement of the total sum voted. He was of opinion that the estimates ought to be reduced to what they were in 1835. As regarded the Army, he felt bound to say that the estimates were rather creditable, looking at the relative expenses of the three branches. There was certainly much less ground for com-
 361 
 
 Years. Army. Navy. Ordnance Total. 
 £. £. £. £. 
 1834 6,493,925 4,503,960 1,068,223 12,066,057 
 1835 6,406,143 4,099,430 1,151,914 11,657,487 
 1836 6,473,183 4,205,726 1,434,059 12,112,968 
 1837 6,521,715 4,750,659 1,444,523 12,716,897 
 1838 6,815,641 4,520,428 1,384,684 12,720,750 
 61,274,159 
 
 Years. Army. Navy. Ordnance Total. 
 £. £. £. £. 
 1846 6,699,699 7,803,464 2,361,834 16,864,697 
 1847 7,540,404 8,013,873 2,947,869 18,502,146 
 1848 6,647,284 7,922,286 3,076,124 17,645,694 
 1849 6,549,109 6,942,397 2,332,631 13,824,537 
 1850 6,490,474 6,711,724 2,485,387 15,687,585 
 84,524,659 l. 362
 MR. HUME  said, the agreement was that the Company should take upon itself the pay of each regiment from the day it embarked to the day it returned, besides which they paid 60,000 l.
 MR. HUME  said, that lie was alluding to nothing but what had already been laid on the table in the last year's correspondence. He had the information last year, and was then prepared to produce it, and he knew of no order that prevented him from quoting evidence which he obtained from sources independent of the Committee, He contended that the result of such evidence was, that if a court-martial sat upon Lord Torrington's conduct in any part of the world, he would not be allowed to hold Her Majesty's commission for one hour afterwards. He therefore appealed to the House, and to those who were anxious that justice should be done to our fellow subjects in distant parts of the world, whether Ceylon was to be subjected to a tyranny worse than that which prevailed in any other part of the world, and which it was disgraceful to this country to permit? He, for one, was not willing that any part of the Queen's subjects should remain for one hour under the government of a man who had violated the principles of humanity, and outraged not only the feelings of a gentleman, but, he must add, the ordinary usages of civilised life. Last year, when the proceedings of the courts-martial were called for, they were told they had not yet been received in England. Yet the noble Lord, in the absence of those proceedings, without any knowledge of the evidence, gave his sanction to them. This year, for the first time, they had some account of those proceedings, and they found that Lord Torrington had ordered the sentences of the courts-martial to be carried out at once, without going through the ordinary form of referring the evidence to the Commander-in-Chief. The conduct of Sir Henry Ward in Cephalonia was bad enough, but that of Lord Torrington at Ceylon was infinitely worse. He had abolished all the safeguards which the law required should be extended to Her Majesty's subjects when subjected to military law. As he had said, he believed there never was any ground for martial law, and, consequently, the proclaiming it was an illegal act; but supposing he had the power to establish martial law himself, it was clearly illegal to delegate that power to Colonel Drought, and for him to delegate that power again to the other officers of the Army, was a course wholly unprecedented. It was on
 342 343
 MR. HUME  begged to call attention to the report of the Ceylon Committee. He wanted to know by what authority the Committee had referred the evidence to the Government. For his part, he was not disposed to leave anything connected with the subject to the Government, for they were in fact implicated in the charge, for they had acted in violation of all the principles which ought to have governed their conduct in the matter. He spoke in so far as they had approved of the acts of the Colonial Secretary. The Committee
 340
 MR. BAINES  should be extremely sorry that any report that emanated from the Poor Law Board should be the means of doing injustice to any one; but the allegations having been made, he was anxious that the truth should be fully investigated. The hon. Gentleman had the courtesy to communicate to him the contents of the letters that he had received. He thereupon placed himself in communication with MR. A' Becket, stated that doubts had been expressed with regard to the accuracy of some of the information he had received, and asked him to go down again, and investigate on the spot the facts of the case. Mr. A' Becket accordingly did go again to Reading, and he had since re-
 352
 MR. BASS  said, that after thirty years' service in the regiment of yeomanry to which he had the honour to belong, his experience led him to the conclusion that the yeomanry corps did not deserve the opprobrium which had been cast upon them by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Bristol. The instances to which the hon. Gentleman had referred were, he thought, more disparaging to Her Majesty's troops than to these corps. The hon. Gentleman had also said there was great delay in getting the men together; but it had happened to him (Mr. Bass) to be called out on many occasions, and he had known his regiment summoned at seven o'clock in the evening, and to have marched into Derby before eleven o'clock the same night; and they had afterwards the satisfaction of receiving the thanks of the magistrates for their services. In 1842, when at a great distance from home, he had been ordered to attend in his county, and his regiment, which consisted principally of farmers to the number of 600 men, cheerfully left their own labours, though it was in the middle of harvest-time, and served for three weeks. The only advantage he had ever had from belonging to a yeomanry corps was to spend 1,500 l. s.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  did not rise either to make an attack on the great country party, for whom he entertained much respect, or to eulogise the Government. He thought the speech of his hon. Friend the Member for Bristol would have been more judicious had he not raked up the Bristol riots, which ought to have been forgotten. But, on the other hand, the speech of the hon. and gallant Member for Windsor, if it proved anything, proved too much; for it went to show that a yeomanry corps, with seven days' drill, are quite equal to a regular corps. Nay, they were even told that the yeomanry were so admirably manœuvred, that the inspecting officer himself adopted a manœuvre which he had witnessed. The hon. and gallant Member's argument, if it were good for anything, was in favour of reducing the Army, and setting up a cheap yeomanry establishment. He dissented from that argument; regarding one troop of regular dragoons as at least equal to two regiments of yeomanry cavalry. He rose chiefly for the purpose of making an observation with regard to the yeomanry dress. In the reign of William IV., he believed, a general order was issued, establishing the distinction of gold and silver, lace for the regular force, and the yeomanry cavalry respectively; but he now saw yeomanry officers at levees and fancy balls arrayed in the most extraordinary costume. He had seen one commander of a yeomanry regiment in a dress which made him look more like a foreign potentate than an English soldier. It must be very galling to officers of the regular force to see gentlemen who were called out for only seven days arrayed in these dresses, and styled captains and colonels. He wished to ask his right hon. Friend the Secretary at War, why the general order to which he had referred had not been carried out—in other words, why these yeomanry gentlemen were allowed to array themselves in the same uniform as Her Majesty's regular troops?
 MR. COBDEN  was quite sure that the East India Company did not pay their fair proportion of expenses for the soldiers in their employ. Take, for instance, the pensioners. The out-pensioners of Chelsea alone cost a million a year. At this moment nearly one-fifth of the Army was in India, and if the Company were charged one-fifth, their proportion of the pension list would be 200,000 l.
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  said, that having seen the report alluded to, and the statement relative to the parishes in his own neighbourhood, he had thought it his duty last year to inquire whether that report was substantially correct; and he could not find that within the recollection of persons in the neighbourhood the facts were as stated by Mr. Chadwick. There was one parish in the county of Oxford the greater portion of the property in which belonged to a friend of his. He knew that that gentleman was considerably hurt at the allusions that were made, and he denied the accuracy of the statement. Also in a part of the county of Berks there was a small parish near the town of Reading, which he knew to be the property of only two persons. One of those gentlemen had brought him a list of the different cottages pulled down on account of dilapidation, and of others built in their place, and had made a statement which was very different from Mr. Chadwick's and the report. The other gentleman had made a statement of the facts before a Master in Chancery. He thought it would be very satisfactory if all the papers were to be laid upon the table of the House.
 MR. WAKLEY  begged to ask the Secretary at War if any inquiries had been made or steps taken with regard to the adoption of the knapsack invented by Mr. Bennett, and which was admitted to be much superior to that now in use?
 MR. WAKLEY : Has it been brought under the notice of the Commander-in-Chief?
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, the Lords had made an alteration in the Bill as to the value of benefices that might be held in plurality; but in that alteration he saw nothing objectionable. With regard to the contiguity of benefices, however, they had made a change of which he did not approve. Instead of the arrangement agreed to in that House, the Lords had made it necessary only that the churches of two contiguous parishes held in plurality should not be more than three miles distant from each other. This he considered fatal to unity of charge; and therefore he would move the reinsertion of the words containing the principle of contiguity.
 MR. GLADSTONE  agreed with the noble Lord that it was impossible to enter satisfactorily into this important question at present. At the same time, he was not surprised at the strong expressions used with regard to the proceedings of the Committee by the hon. Member for Montrose. The proceedings of the Committee were, in his judgment, of such a nature, that though it was impossible on the present occasion to discuss them, they must infallibly be discussed at some future time. It was true the Committee had decided not to report the evidence to the House; but it was equally true, and it would be seen from the proceedings which the Committee had printed for the use of Members, that, on the day before they came to this decision, they came by a large majority to a directly opposite decision, to report the whole evidence to the House, with the exception of that which was personal and confidential. He should offend against the rule he had himself laid down, if he were now to go into the particular considerations which led him to think that this matter was a subject for the full consideration of the House. In his judgment, the hon. Member for Montrose, or the hon. Member for Inverness-shire, would do no more than their duty to the public if, on the earliest opportunity that the state of the public business would permit—if not on this, certainly on the earliest opportunity next Session—they again raised the question by a Motion for the production of the evidence, to draw the attention of the House both to the merits of the case with respect to the Governor of Ceylon, and with respect to the Government at home, and to a third subject, which, in his mind, was not the least instructive or the least important of the three—to the proceedings of the Committee which this House had appointed.
 SIR G. PECHELL  rose to call the attention of the House to the case of the retired rear-admirals, and also to the judicial appointments of vice-admiral and rear-admiral of the united kingdom, lie said, that in 1845 a plan had been issued by the Admiralty relative to the retirement of captains in the Royal Navy, for the wise pur-
 347 348
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  complained of the proportion of the expenses paid by the East India Company for the troops in their service.
 SIR J. DUKE  had the honour of serv-
 350
 MR. J. A. SMITH  wished to know under what statute the hon. and learned; Member for Abingdon termed the one oath, the Protestant oath?
 MR. V. SMITH : The first question has not, as it appears to me, been stated in the record. The case arises in this manner. The Baron de Rothschild appeared at the table to take the oaths, when the New Testament was tendered to him by the clerk, and he answered, I demand to be sworn on the Old Testament. The answer of the Baron de Rothschild applied to the tender of the New Testament, and it is
 409
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he had already entered fully into the grounds on which he had thought it his duty to refuse his signature to the information which had been laid before him, and he did not propose to repeat that statement. The hon. and gallant Gentleman now proposed an address to the Queen to direct the Attorney General to give his sanction to the filing of an information for an injunction to restrain the erection of certain buildings in Hyde Park. Now, he was satisfied that no lawyer would say the Attorney General had not a discretionary power in this matter. But what was it the hon. Gentleman proposed? He asked the House to call upon the Crown to interfere with the first law officer of the Crown upon a question with which the House was not at all conversant, a proposal which he was satisfied would never receive their sanction.
 MR. HUME  wished to know how far the recommendations of the Committee of 1848 on the Navy Estimates were to be carried out with regard to the admirals? The Committee stated that there were 150 admirals, and recommended that they should be reduced to 100; and everybody must see that so long as a dead weight like this lay on the department, relief from a heavy expenditure was impossible. He knew that a great many of the admirals were superannuated officers; but there was a far larger proportion than ought to be. What use had we for 150 admirals, when not more than 12 or 13 were employed? He would move that the vote for the admirals be reduced by 3,000 l.
 SIR F. T. BARING  opposed the Amendment. It might be all very well for the hon. Member for Montrose to take away the amount he proposed to cut off if he
 463 l.
 CAPTAIN PELHAM  looked for the remedy of the evil complained of in increased economy in naval expenditure generally, which might be secured without at all imparing the efficiency of the service; and if such economy were really carried out, the country would, he believed, enable the Government to place the retired list on a proper footing. In the last two years a saving of 800,000 l. 464
 MR. COBDEN  was astonished at the conclusion at which the hon. Gentleman had arrived, after arguing in favour of a reduction of the expenditure in the Navy. Those who spoke out of doors sometimes accused the House of having an aristocratic leaning, and of almost confining themselves to proposals to cut down the weaker and humbler portions of the service. The justice of that accusation would now be tested. The report recommended that the number of admirals should be gradually reduced from 150 to 100, not by dismissing any admirals, not by depriving any existing admirals of their flag, rank, or pay, but by making only one promotion for three deaths until the desired diminution had been effected. The country would now have an opportunity of judging how far that House was disposed to treat fairly and equitably different classes of public servants. A considerable number of shipwrights had been dismissed, and meetings had been held to raise subscriptions for their relief. The Committee on the Estimates declared that only fourteen admirals could be employed. Would the House, then, reject the reasonable proposition before it? Then were told that even at present the officers of the Navy had but little chance of promotion. It must be recollected that they were living in a time of peace; and those who entered the Navy must take their chance, and not expect the same amount of promotion as during war. If they departed from, the principle of pro-
 465
 ADMIRAL DUNDAS  thought the hon. Gentleman had not put the question fairly before the House. In 1816 there were 220 admirals; there were now only 150, of which number 40 received only the pay of rearadmirals. In 1816 the number of captains was 867; it was now 511; and the number of lieutenants having been 3,999 at the former period, was now only 2,200. One half the naval officers had gone off the list since 1815, and still the hon. Gentleman: was not satisfied.
 MR. HUME  said, that the gallant Admiral stated that in 1816 there was a certain number of admirals, and that they were reduced. Would he state how many had been promoted since that time? The fact is, they had had more promotions during the peace than ever obtained during the war. During the last year 14 admirals had been promoted. The Committee found that there were 156 admirals, and they recommended that they should be gradually reduced to 100, winch he thought was a great many. Take the list of 600 captains, and they would find that 250 of them had never served a day as captain; and 360 commanders out of 800 had never served a day as commander. The fact was they were making the service of the Navy a pension list. The United States had not one admiral, but their officers were better paid. He was perfectly ready to admit that the pay of our naval officers was small; but where there were six officers where only one was required, it did appear to him that they required a change. It was on that ground that he wanted the right hon. Gentleman to carry out the recommendation of the Committee, small as it was.
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, that the hon. Member for the West Riding was never more mistaken in his life than when he said that the Navy was kept up for the aristocracy. These men were promised this promotion for their gallantry; it was a bargain made in the time of war. [The hon. and gallant Admiral then read an account of the services of Captain Collier, who was at the head of the list who en-
 466
 CAPTAIN PELHAM  said, his argument was, that they required a fresh bargain, and that they ought to make a fresh bargain altogether, to put the active list on a proper footing, and, as to the rest, make a retired list of them.
 MR. BRIGHT  thought the hon. and gallant Member for Gloucester, who spoke last on behalf of the admirals, had put this question in a very unfair and unsound view before the House. He appeared to think there was some bargain with every man that entered the Navy that at a certain period of his life he should be made an admiral. Some hon. Gentlemen opposite appeared to agree with that. That was the strangest notion of public service that he ever heard in that House. The only contract that could be implied was that upon certain principles laid down, whether it were upon seniority or in any other way, that as the service required promotion for the efficient carrying on of that department, they should have such pre-eminence as the service could give them; but there was no contract that a proportion of officers should be raised to the rank of admiral. That would be to make the Navy subservient to the officers and not the officers to the Navy. The hon. and gallant Gentleman, because he belonged to the Navy, seemed to see nothing else; he forgot the country, and would starve the country, for the purpose of building up on a magnificent scale the profession to which he was attached. Now, there was one point in this question to which he would allude for the benefit of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The Chancellor of the Exchequer found at the end of the Session great inconvenience from the votes of hon. Members to take off certain taxes. Some wanted to take off the attorneys' certificate duty, others the window duty, and they were all of them wanting to repeal some tax or other; and the Chancellor of the Exchequer thought them unjust in moving for a reduction of taxation while he had no funds to spare. Well, but if they brought forward a proposition like this to put a stop to expenditure, that was the only mode of enabling them to reduce taxation. What
 467
 COLONEL THOMPSON  could not help supporting the Member for Manchester in the opinion, that there could be no such thing as officers of any description having a right to claim promotion beyond what the necessity or convenience of the country should authorise. He was sure there was no such principle in the service to which he had belonged. The cornet made no claim to being a lieutenant till a lieutenancy was vacant, and the lieutenant did not expect to have a troop till there was a troop for him to have.
 ADMIRAL BOWLES  supported the vote, and said it would be a great misfortune to the country if the system of promotion were stopped.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, his conviction was, that if all the recommendations of the Committee were carried out, it would lead to increased expense.
 MR. CORRY  said, that in 1845 it was stated in a minute by the Earl of Haddington, then First Lord of the Admiralty, that the list of flag officers was to be reduced to 150, and maintained at that number; and every officer who was called on to retire argued the question on the supposition that the faith of Parliament had been pledged to him that he was to succeed to the flag list if a vacancy oc-
 468
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, the question which, substantially, the hon. Member for Montrose sought to raise was the question which had obtained much attention in the Committee on the Naval Estimates, wherein a proposition was made, for which he was responsible, for reducing the number of admirals from 150 to 100. So far as pecuniary considerations went, this reduction, perhaps, might not be very important; but, if there was to be a reduction of establishments, they must begin at some point; and, as he conceived, the point at which to begin was the highest rank in the service, if it could be shown that the extent of that highest rank was redundant, and the expense more than was necessary. The gradual reduction of officers on half-pay in the lower ranks of the service, had been carried into effect by only promoting one officer upon three vacancies. The real question was, whether it was not expedient to carry this rule, which pervaded all the other ranks, into the rank of admirals? At no time during the last war—the greatest naval war in which the country was ever engaged—was there a greater number of admirals employed than 32; and in this time of peace the number employed did not exceed 12. Now, though the admirals' list might be considered more or less a retirement, or reward for past services, yet it was still a question of degree, and the House must bear in mind, with reference to it, what the real wants of the service were in relation to the country. He hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer was not going to be misled by the pamphlet published the other day by a Bank Director, who wanted to make out that this country was the lightest taxed country in world; that taxation, direct or indirect, had not attained anything like its maximum; and that the people were, in fact, ready and competent for a great deal more taxation. He begged to demur altogether to those positions, and to express the conviction that no Government could be found which, in time of peace, could impose a greater weight of taxation, direct or indirect, than that now borne by the people of this country, the difficulty being, in fact, to maintain the burden already existing. The time had arrived when every practica-
 469 l., l. 470
 SIR F. T. BARING  wished that his right hon. Friend would show, rather by figures than by general phrases, what he meant by enforcing economy. He did not regard this as a question of economy at all. The entire saving, even if you could reduce the number of admirals from 150 to 100, would scarcely exceed 10,000 l.; 471
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty, called upon him to state the precise amount of saving he proposed to effect by reducing the list of admirals from 150 to 100. He could only say that if the reduction of one-third in the number of admirals would effect no material saving in the half-pay of admirals, it was a case of despair. The right hon. Baronet appeared to think that it would not be possible to add any fresh youth, vigour, and activity to the list by means of selection. If then they could neither reduce the expense, nor render this class of officers more efficient by infusing health and vigour into it, he (Sir J. Graham) thought the case of the admirals was desperate.
 MR. HENLEY  said, this was a very important question, for it appeared that while the amount expended in pay and wages for the effective force of the Navy was 1,322,000 l., l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  wished to say a few words on this subject, as it was one with regard to which he had had some Admiralty experience. He must say he deprecated more than anything the interference of the House of Commons in these matters. ["Oh, oh!"] He did not mean as to what was to be done, but as to how it was to be done. When he became Secretary to the Admiralty a system of reduction was in active operation. It was going on rapidly, and
 472 A cry of
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  said, that officers, whether admirals, captains, or lieutenants, were not made in a day, and it was necessary to keep up the half-pay system that they might have efficient men upon the list who would be available in case of emergency. He did not concur in the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the Executive Government could conduct changes in these matters most advantageously without the interference of that House, for the House of Commons was bound to take care that there was no extravagant outlay of the public money.
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO  would remind the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Admiralty that this vote included surgeons and assistant surgeons, with respect to whom there was a recent vote of the House; he believed some regulation was to be made for their benefit.
 SIR F. T. BARING  had already explained to the hon. and gallant Member the course intended to be pursued; a memorandum had been drawn up, and the arrangement would be carried into effect.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  rose to call attention to a sum of 29,534 l. l.
 SIR F. T. BARING  explained the circumstances under which the payment on account of the iron steamers was made. The year before last money was taken to pay for these iron steamers. The estimates of the expenditure for the next year were framed in the month of October, and presented in 1849. But he found that the contracts, which were expected to terminate before the termination of the financial year, did not fall within the financial year, and, therefore, the payments ran actually a few weeks beyond the financial year. He made a payment on account, though not legally compellable; and he had stated the excess, on the principle that Parliament ought to know how it had occurred.
 MR. HENLEY  thought the matter was not yet clearly before the House. The right hon. Baronet seemed to say he had committed the fault of having an excess, but had shown it to Parliament, arid that he might have carried it to another year, without their knowing anything of it. There was a third alternative—that of not spending in excess at all. The statement was not satisfactory as to how the excess arose.
 SIR F. T. BARING  had stated, in opening the estimates, the ground of that excess, which occurred before he came into office. A good deal of it arose from the number of men being carried beyond the vote, and from the pay of the men being-taken on a wrong calculation.
 MR. HUME  did not believe they would get rid of these excesses until they came to a resolution that the Lords of the Admiralty should pay the excess themselves. He was quite ready to make the right hon. Baronet pay it himself.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that the excess was not incurred under the administration of the First Lord of the Admiralty, and no one more agreed with the position laid
 474
 MR. REYNOLDS  complained that, while 700,000 gallons of rum were consumed in the Royal Navy, home-made spirits were not advertised to be taken under the contracts, though there was no Parliamentary resolution giving a preference to rum.
 MR. FRENCH  said, that at the Admiralty the interests of Ireland were not represented. There was no Irish Lord of the Admiralty. Such was not the case in the late Administration, which was supposed to be more adverse to the interests of Ireland. The right hon. Member for Tyrone was then Secretary for the Admiralty.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  would vote with the two hon. Gentlemen who had just spoken in favour of consuming Irish whisky in the Royal Navy rather than rum; hut he could not understand how, with their views, they supported Her Majesty's Ministers, of whom no man entertained a worse opinion in their public capacity than he did. He advised the hon. Gentlemen to leave the bad company in which they were placed. They should remember that evil communications corrupted good manners; and, if they remained longer amongst their present associates, they would become inoculated with their virus.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that although he disapproved of many of the acts of the Government, he did not believe that another Administration would pursue a different policy. Only a choice of evils was before him, and he took the least. If, however, the hon. and gallant Colonel would form an Administration which would take Ireland under its protection, it should receive his support.
 SIR F. BARING  said, in reference to what had fallen from the right hon. Member for Ripon, communications should be made to the Treasury with respect to every case of excess.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, that in consequence of the right hon. Baronet's explanation, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 SIR F. T. BARING  reminded the hon. Member that the payment must be made as long as the contract with the Company subsisted.
 LORD NAAS  thought, that after the contradictory statements they had heard from the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer and the hon. Member for Honiton, it was understood the vote for the Indian mail service would be postponed till the House had had an opportunity of judging what was the real state of the case by the production of the correspondence between the Government and the East India Company.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the production of the correspondence could have no effect on a contract which had been already completed. Whatever opinion the House might have as to any future arrangement, it was evident that what had been entered into by the Government must be carried out.
 MR. HUME  suggested, that in future an account should be laid before Parliament of the several contracts, of the number of ships, of the distances, and of the expense, on one side; and of the profits, by passengers and from other sources, on the other. No vote required a closer scrutiny, and the opinion of competent persons out of doors was, that many of our mail contracts were extremely extravagant. The House ought to have some intimation when new contracts were to be made.
 MR. SCOTT  quite agreed with the hon. Member for Montrose that the votes for the mail service required very close observation. It was rumoured that a certain company, who were disappointed in getting the contract for the mails to the Brazils, were likely to obtain the contract for the Cape mails, by way of making up for their disappointment. The vote ought not to be passed without some explanation, though no hon. Member connected with Government had yet condescended to give any.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, that the state-
 476
 SIR J. GRAHAM  inquired what arrangements had been made for the conveyance of the mails between Holyhead and Dublin? It had been strongly recommended by the Committee that the same company who had carried the mails between Liverpool and Dublin should become the lessees of the establishment, which cost the country a very considerable sum; and he observed that the expenses had increased since 1849.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, that arrangements had been made for carrying the mails by contract, which would be carried into effect as soon as possible. There were charges against the Admiralty on this point also, but they referred not to the Admiralty having done badly to the public, but to their having taken the lowest contract, which was said to be so low that it could not be worked. The tenders for the mail contracts to the Cape would be returnable on the 13th of August; and, the service would be taken by screw steamers.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that Government intended to make the inner harbour at Holyhead at the public expense. It would be, he considered, rather hard, under all the circumstances, to call on the railway company to contribute 200,000 l.,
 LORD J. MANNERS  said, he regretted to be obliged by the conduct of Her Majesty's Government to move that the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again. It was necessary for him to call the attention of the House to the course pursued by hon. Gentlemen opposite in a matter personal to himself. About three o'clock in the day he had crossed over to the Ministerial benches and asked the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade when he would take the third reading of the Mercantile Marine Bill? The right hon. Gentleman informed him, at Twelve o'clock to-morrow; when the right
 477 478
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he should him very sorry indeed if any conduct on his part could have rendered him justly liable to the imputation of having acted in any way but with the most scrupulous fidelity in any engagements he might have made with any hon. Member. He felt very deeply the important character of those engagements, and how much the convenience of the House and the despatch of business depended on their being adhered to with the most inviolable fidelity. But be hoped, before he sat down, to remove from the mind of the noble Lord the false impression under which he seemed to labour. It was quite true both as to the noble Lord, and as to other Members, that he (Mr. Labouchere) had stated, if the discussion which had occupied the greater part of the day should be brought to a close at any time before twelve o'clock at night, that he should move the third reading of the Mercantile Marine Bill, for he felt it to be of great importance that that measure should be sent up to the other House of Parliament with as little delay as possible; but he never for a single moment contemplated anything so very extraordinary as letting the most convenient opportunity pass by and keeping back that or any other measure till twelve o'clock. Every one knew that the discussion respecting the Baron de Rothschild had ended much sooner than was expected; and if the noble Lord had been taken by surprise, so also was he (Mr. Labouchere), for he was himself not in the House when the Bill was read a third time, his noble Friend at the head of the Government being the Member who then took charge of it, and by whom it was successfully passed through its last stage, at which time the Amendment that the noble Lord had intended to propose was moved by another Member. Having made this short statement, he trusted the House would do him the justice to believe that he never intended to take the noble Lord by surprise. He hoped during the ten years that he had bad a seat in that House he never pursued any course which could justify an imputation of any unfairness, he was sorry that any misapprehension should have occurred; but he begged the House to observe that not only the noble Lord, but the hon. Member for Liverpool, was also absent when the Bill was read a
 479
 LORD J. MANNERS  said, that no doubt the right hon. Gentleman did not mean to take him by surprise, but he must be permitted to say that the right hon. Gentleman had distinctly told him that he intended to take the Mercantile Marine Bill at twelve o'clock, after the other Orders of the Day were disposed of; and he distinctly remembered the Home Secretary observing that they could not proceed with the Bill at twelve o'clock to-morrow. The right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade might have meant that he would proceed with the measure before twelve, but he said that he should not do so till twelve—he certainly fell into some mistake, and deceived not only himself but him (Lord J. Manners).
 SIR G. GREY  said, that as he had been appealed to, he felt it due to himself to say, that he had entered into no engagement whatever, but contented himself with observing that twelve o'clock to-morrow was a time already occupied. Beyond that he had not opened his lips, but he was bound now to state, that he certainly understood his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade to say, that after the debate which then occupied the attention of the House was concluded, he should move the third reading of the Mercantile Marine Bill; but certainly no one expected that that debate would have been so soon over.
 ADMIRAL BOWLES  said, that the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade told him, not that he would wait till twelve o'clock, but that he would proceed with the Mercantile Marine Bill, even if no opportunity of moving it occurred before twelve o'clock; that, if necessary, he should go on with it as late as twelve o'clock.
 LORD J. MANNERS  said, that if the right hon. Gentleman had told that to him, he should not have been taken by surprise, but he never said anything of the sort.
 MR. ANDERSON  rose to say, that he had spoken to the right hon. President of
 480
 LORD J. MANNERS  thought nothing could be more becoming a great nation than to place memorials of individuals who had distinguished themselves by the good done to their country in a suitable building. An opinion, however, prevailed, and was extending itself, that Westminster Abbey was not a proper place for containing such memorials. No one would for a moment think of objecting to the monument to the memory of Sir Robert Peel being erected in the Abbey; but he gave notice that, if a similar proposition should be made hereafter, he should oppose it.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that there was no building more suitable than Westminster Abbey for containing public monuments.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  was surprised that such a Motion should have come from the hon. Member for Salford, who was always ready to prevent business after twelve o'clock, when it came from a different side of the House from his own. He objected altogether to the present Bill, and would therefore move that it be read a third time that day three months.
 LORD J. MANNERS  wished the House to understand that this Bill would repeal all the Statutes of Mortmain.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the Bill would only repeal the Statutes of Mortmain in so far as libraries and museums were concerned.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  said: Sir, perhaps there never was a Bill introduced into this House under such unfortunate auspices. Though professedly for the amusement and instruction of the working classes of the people, its real object now turns out to be actual, permanent, and forced taxation. Sir, the second reading of this Bill was not a triumphant one. As regards Ireland, I object to the principle of this Bill, as tending to impose a new tax upon an already pauperised people. I object to it, as it would not be of the slightest benefit in the city I have the honour to represent; for it cannot be imagined that a peasant, fatigued after his daily toil, could be so impressed with the love of literature, or the study of the antique, as to set off, even under the influence of a bright summer evening, to walk six or seven miles to improve his mind, and then walk back to ponder over and digest what he had seen and heard. Sir, I think this proposition monstrous and ill-timed; and although no person can be more anxious than I am for every fair opportunity being given to the working classes to gain useful knowledge, still I never can consent to this method of procuring it, by taxing the many for the supposed advantage of the few. I beg to move that the provisions of this Bill do not pass into law in Ireland.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  supported the Motion.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  hoped the hon. and gallant Colonel would not press his Motion. They had taken care that the people of Ireland should be taught to read; but, having done so, no libraries were established from which proper books could be got: and he believed that was the reason why they were driven to read inflammatory publications.
 COLONEL RAWDON  hoped his hon. and gallant Friend would not press his Motion, seeing what was the sense of the House in respect to the Bill extending to Ireland.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  said, that as he conceived great injury would be done to Ireland by this Bill, he could not withdraw his Motion.
 MR. ANDERSON , in the absence of the noble Lord the Member for Colchester, begged to move the insertion of the following Clause:—
 "And be it Enacted, That so much of the General Seamen's Act, contained in Sections 50 and 51, 7 and 8 Vic. c. 112, as relates to seamen entering on board a ship of war, shall be repealed; and be it further Enacted, That if any seaman, after signing the agreement as hereinbefore required, or any apprentice, wilfully neglects or refuses to join his ship, or deserts, and then, or afterwards, is found or arrives at any place in which there is a Court of Justice capable of exercising jurisdiction under this Act, he shall, on due proof of the offence, and when practicable of a proper entry thereof in the official log-book, be summarily punished, by forfeiture of wages and imprisonment for a period not exceeding twelve weeks, with or without hard labour, at the discretion of the Court of Justice inflicting the same."
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he could explain that point. A good many years ago, when the Act was passed for the erection of Carlton-terrace, it was intended that the terrace should be carried somewhat further than it actually was carried. There were stables in connexion with Carlton-house, and, as the House was aware, these were given up to the late
 456 l. l. l.
 MR. DUNCAN  warned the noble Lord at the head of the Administration that he was doing a vast deal of injury to his Government by refusing to postpone this vote until next year.
 MR. SCOTT : I wish to ask a preliminary question. It fell from you, Sir, that the oath could not be put to the hon. Member upon the Old Testament, without a decision of the House to that effect. Now, I wish to know whether, if the decision of the House be to the effect that he; should be sworn upon the Old Testament, he could not then take his seat in this House, as a Member of this House, entitled to vote upon all questions? If that were it so, it would, I think, obviate the necessity I of any Bill being introduced into Parliament.
 MR. J. S. WORTLEY : There is something, I think, Sir, in the distinction which has been drawn by the hon. and learned Member for the city of Oxford; for although I believe it has been the usual practice, for the convenience of Members coming to the table to be sworn, to put the question as to which oath they proposed to take—that question has not hitherto appeared on our journals. But we are here in this position, that in consequence of the surprise
 407 bonâ fide
 MR. J. S. WORTLEY  said, he did not mean to follow the hon. and learned Gentleman into the arguments and details he had just addressed to the House. He was
 451 452
 MR. J. S. WORTLEY  said: I wish to test the feeling of the House on this question, and I will now submit a Motion for that purpose. I believe it will be found uniformly in the journals that the entry has always been, in reference to taking the "oaths," in the plural number—in fact, that the oaths have always been taken collectively. I move that the Baron de Rothschild he called to the table, and that Mr. Speaker be requested to ask him, "Are you willing to he sworn to the oaths required by Act of Parliament of every Member of this House on taking his seat?"
 MR. S. HERBERT  suggested that, as no Member had risen to speak upon the first question, the House might dispose of that by dividing at once.
 LORD H. VANE  seconded the Motion.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Whatever the form of question which may be put to Baron de Rothschild, I quite agree with the right hon. Baronet that to have the matter regularly before us, and in accordance with the orders of the House, it would be right that a Motion should be put and carried as to the mode in which the question shall be asked by Mr. Speaker, and that no question should be put except through Mr. Speaker, and by the direction of the House.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I rise to order. If the hon. and learned Gentleman wishes to have the question put, he had better put the question in writing.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  had thought the hon. Member, and those who acted with him, had made up their minds with respect
 437
 LORD J. RUSSELL  certainly would not, after what he had said, postpone that Bill if there was any objection to a postponement.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : This question is of course not new to me. I was told last year, as well as this year, that it was very likely Baron de Rothschild might be advised to ask to take his seat, and of course it became my duty to consider the question very maturely. I did so consider it, both last year and this; and last year I asked the then Attorney General, and this year I have asked the present Attorney General, and neither of them has been able to advise me to vote in favour of the seat being taken with the omission of the words "upon the true faith of a Christian." I could not either bring my own mind to that conclusion; and with this opinion, and with the best study I could give to the question, I have come to this result, which I have thought it my duty to state, as the question was before the House. As to presuming that the hon. and learned Member for Youghal may not bring arguments so convincing as to alter my judgment, that certainly I will not pretend to do; and if he should be able so to convince me, I must own that I have been utterly wrong, and follow him into the lobby.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, I am anxious to follow the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Abingdon, not only because he has most ably stated the arguments on this question on which he founds his opinion—that Baron de Rothschild ought not to be permitted to take the oaths at the table upon the Old Testament, but also because he has treated this question as I think it alone ought to be treated—as strictly a judicial matter of debate. Before I sit down I may have to notice some representations which have been made to the House to induce the House to treat the matter in a different spirit, but at present I shall refer immediately to the arguments of the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just spoken. That hon. and learned Gentleman has laid it down that oaths promissory have always been taken in a Christian form, and that this House is bound not only by the usage and law and custom of Parliament, but by actual statute upon the point. Now the principle on which I wish to proceed is this—the electors of the city of London have sent to this House as their representative a Gentleman elected by a majority of those who have voices in the matter. They have not only returned him once, but twice, to this House; and I say that it is due to them—it is due to the whole body of the electors of this united kingdom—that we should take heed that they are put in the enjoyment of the full right to which they can pretend—that nothing but a positive obstacle of law should induce us to refuse admission to his seat in this House a Member so elected, and claiming entrance. I think that we ought to give every facility in a case of this kind, short of that positive obstruction of law; and that when this point arises, and then only, we ought to refuse to the Member claing his seat admission, and the right to take it. The hon. and learned Gentleman has, I observe, been obliged in this subject not only to deduce from Acts of Parliament that which is not in their letter, and which moreover is not clearly prescribed by their enactments, but also to deduce inferences from the language of former Acts of Parliament—some of which have been repealed—but which the hon. and learned Gentleman seems to think ought, by inference, to he binding upon us on this occasion. I will endeavour, Sir, to inquire whether there are any of these Acts of Parliament which are so binding as to oblige us to refuse to Baron de Rothschild the power of taking the oaths in the form which he has
 429 430 "If a Jew should be indicted for perjury, and it is laid in the indictment that he swore  tactis sacro-sanctis Dei Evangeliis, evangeliis evangelium 431 432 433 434
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Possibly the House would allow him to take that Bill on Thursday instead of next day.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The House will recollect that when an hon. Member comes to the table to be sworn, the clerk places in his hand the New Testament, and the usual course then is to tender to him the printed form of an oath which is called in the entry the Protestant oath; but if the Member is a Roman Catholic, and desires to take the form of oath prescribed by the Act to be taken by Roman Catholic Members, he declares it. But in this case there was a preliminary objection raised by the Baron de Rothschild by the demand that he made to be sworn on the Old Testament, and not upon the New Testament, which had been placed in his hand by the clerk. That is the first question to be decided, and it seems to me that before asking the hon. Gentleman any further questions, we should decide that.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The hon. and learned Member for Bute has moved his resolution as a preliminary resolution. If that resolution is not agreed to, then we can resume the adjourned debate, and the Motion of the hon. Baronet for the University of Oxford can be put.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  replied, that there were certain returns which were by Act of Parliament directed to he laid before the House with respect to the Duchy of Cornwall, and these returns were always punctually given. With respect to the returns to which the hon. Gentleman referred, he had to say that the House, having in the early part of the Session negatived the hon. Gentleman's Motion that Parliament should assume a control over the revenues of the Duchy of Cornwall, he did not think it necessary to grant the returns which had been asked for.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he had mentioned the proposal to several hon. Members before bringing it forward, and he
 455
 LORD J. RUSSELL  was not proposing any grant to the Prince of Wales, nor was anything to be taken from the duchy of Cornwall. The proposition was, that when the Prince was 18 years of age he should have possession of Marlborough-house. Four months ago he stated that the Government would make this proposition. Whether the House settled this question to-night or next year was the same thing, hut he did not see any advantages in postponing the vote.
 MR. ANDERSON  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. DISRAELI  apprehended that it would be more convenient to adhere to the arrangement which had been made.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that to-morrow was fixed for the Parliamentary Voters (Ireland) Bill.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  wished to know whether the House, by what had passed, was precluded from discussing whether the Baron de Rothschild had any right to take the oaths of allegiance and supremacy?
 MR. NEWDEGATE : The right hon. Member who has just sat down has inadvertently said that the asking of the question why Baron de Rothschild wished to be sworn on the Old Testament, and his declaration that he considered that form of oath most binding on his conscience, was a step. The only step it is, is a step into a difficulty, for it is a farce to ask him to
 411
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said: I think that pursuing the course indicated as that already adopted by the House in putting the question in the first instance, is the most convenient mode of proceeding, because if that course be not taken, the two oaths must be tendered to the Baron de Rothschild, and he will then have to choose between them, so that nothing will be gained by rejecting the proposition to put the question in the first instance.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  wished to ask a question of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the city of Oxford, He had to ask if he could inform the House whether the hon. Gentleman who had been elected for the city of London would present himself at the table of the House tomorrow for the purpose of taking the oaths? He also wished to know, seeing the hon. and learned Member had declared his intention of renewing the discussion, whether he would renew it when the hon. Gentleman who had been elected for the city of London claimed his seat?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  had asked the question at the request of several Members who might have been inconvenienced by irregularity of discussion.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  seconded the Motion.
 MR. SPEAKER : In answer to the question of the hon. Member for Berwickshire, he will see at once that there are two questions—first, the form of swearing, and the other as to the oath to be taken. With regard to the form of swearing, if the House should decide that the hon. Member for the city of London be sworn upon the Old Testament, of course it would be my duty to call him to the table to be sworn; but then comes the other question, whether he would take the oaths that are prescribed by the Act of Parliament.
 Mr. SPEAKER : The Amendment is upon the Order of the Day. The only record upon the Journals of the House is, that Baron de Rothschild came to the table, and when asked that which is the usual question, he said, "I demand to be sworn upon the Old Testament." Of course, that being a novel claim, it could not be admitted without the assent of the House; and I requested the hon. Member to withdraw. With regard to the question now put to me, I do not think, unless it has the full consent of the House, it is desirable to put the question to Baron de Rothschild which has been suggested. Of course it may be put; but otherwise, according to our regular and ordinary rules, we must proceed with the discussion of the Order of the Day.
 MR. SPEAKER : Is it the pleasure of the House that the hon. Gentleman the Baron Lionel Nathan de Rothschild be called in, and that I put the question to him whether, in claiming to be sworn on the Old Testament, he does so because he considers that form of taking the oath the most binding on his conscience?
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  begged to move the Amendment of which he had given notice. He had no personal motive in moving as he did in this matter, but stood forward simply to speak for those who could not individually stand forward for themselves. He knew Well he would have the sense of the House against him on this matter. He could not command success, but he would nevertheless do his duty. It was a crying shame that a set of begging-boxes of all descriptions should have been sent about in behalf of this Exhibition, and that the highest in the land, the highest in rank, except the Sovereign, should be going about to extort money by threats, for the purpose of carrying on a measure so injurious to the interests of this country. No less than 1,500 foreigners had been disembarked in this country yesterday, many of whom, no doubt, had been surveying the ground where this Exhibition was to take place, and looking after matters with a view to their own interests.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  proposed to take the sense of the House on the matter. He thought that this attempt at increased expenditure was in perfect accordance with the extravagant system pursued by Her Majesty's Government.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that hon. Gentlemen seemed to be under the apprehension that there was some great expense to be incurred. The House might remember that some years ago the house was settled on Prince Leopold, and then on the Queen Dowager, with stables. She held the house with the stables in Carlton-ride. It was now the intention to complete Carlton-terrace, only one-half of which was fully completed; and for the purpose of finishing the incomplete half which ran into Carlton-ride, it was necessary to remove those stables, and to replace them on a smaller scale where they originally stood. It was a most advantageous arrangement for the public, as the terrace would be continued, and their property would be made more use of. It was no unreasonable request to ask that the stables should be taken away for the purpose of putting them where they were before. No establishment was to be kept up in Marlborough-house, and no expense would be gone to more than that now incurred by keeping up the National Gallery. There would be no establishment kept up beyond that which would be necessary in any case whatever; for they must have a porter at the gate, and somebody in the house, who would prevent it from suffering any of that mischief to which every unoccupied house was liable. The only question now was, whether they were prepared to take away the stables which were now adjoining the houses in Carlton-ride, for the advantage of the public, and in exchange for them to
 458
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The hon. and learned Member for Abingdon will allow me, with all respect, to suggest to him, that the course he now suggests would be simply an interruption to that course which he previously said he was prepared to adopt. The question now is as stated by the hon. Member for North Essex as to the form of oath, not which of the two oaths the Baron de Rothschild will
 408
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The course suggested partly by the hon. Member for Oxfordshire, and partly by the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon, appears to me to be the correct one. Baron de Rothschild has presented himself at the table of this House, and demanded to be sworn in a particular mode. What he is to swear we have nothing to do with now. The sole question is, as to the form in which he shall be sworn, the mode in which the oath shall be administered. He claims to be sworn in a particular way, and it is right we should know from himself why he prefers that particular way. That I apprehend to be the only question which is now to be put to him, and to that he will give his answer, if called upon. I must say I think it would not be fair to put any other question without the previous assent of the House; and that, I believe, is the view of the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon. I propose, therefore, that the Baron de Rothschild be called in, and that you (Mr. Speaker) ask him why he demands to be sworn in that particular form?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I quite agree with the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon, and we are all agreed, I think, that this being a novel case, and one in which we are acting  quasi
 SIR F. THESIGER  then submitted the Motion in writing.
 SIR F. THESIGER : I think even now we are in a difficulty with regard to having the proper entry in our records. The House will observe that the ordinary question having been put by the clerk at the table, whether the Baron claimed to take the Protestant or the Roman Catholic oath, no answer whatever was given to that question. The only answer given, which was no answer at all, was, "I desire to be sworn on the Old Testament." ["Oh, oh!"]It is very well to say "Oh, oh!" but, with submission, I think I am quite right, and that nobody can consider that an answer to the question put by the clerk. And that being the ordinary question put to every hon. Member on presenting himself to take the oaths, I apprehend that it is not put without an answer being required to it; and there having been no answer in this case, I shall propose that the question be again put to the Baron de Rothschild, and that he be asked whether he claims to take the Roman Catholic or Protestant oath.
 SIR F. THESIGER : Under no statute. I apprehend it is quite immaterial whether it is a question authorised by the statute to be put or not; but I take the question as I: find it in the journals, and as I understand it on the authority of Mr. Speaker, I that it is a question put to every hon. Member. ["No, no!"] With great submission, I understood Mr. Speaker to say that the question is one which is put by the clerk to every Member; and the question now is, whether on my Motion the House thinks it expedient that the Baron de Rothschild should have this question put to him, and of course that the House will decide for themselves.
 SIR F. THESIGER : We have not yet had the answer of Baron de Rothschild to the question which I think the House ought to put to him. Inasmuch as the question is a novel one, and as it is necessary that we should proceed with great care, I thought that if Baron de Rothschild came to the table and said, "I desire to be sworn on the Old Testament," which was, in fact, no answer to the question put to him by the clerk, that, at all events, the House being informed of the desire of the Baron de Rothschild, would have requested to know why he desired to be sworn in that particular form. I do not think the question we should put is that which has been suggested by my right hon. Friend; I do not think that we ought to invite the Baron to declare that that is the form most binding on his concience. But, inasmuch as the Baron has presented himself at the table of the House, and desired to be sworn in a form which is unknown to the House, we are bound to inquire why, and for what reason, he desires to be sworn in that particular mode. It is very possible that the answer which the Baron will give may render it necessary for the House to put a further question; but I will not anticipate that necessity, because it is quite sufficient for us at present to discuss whether he shall be invited to the table, and asked the question in the form I propose
 400 Cries of
 SIR F. THESIGER : I rise to say a word in explanation. The question I wish to have put to the Baron de Rothschild will, I think, have an important bearing, if answered one way or the other, on what is called the preliminary question, though I confess I am not able to distinguish between what is called the preliminary and the main question in the case. I think it is important in the argument that we should ascertain, in the first instance, which of the forms of oath the Baron de Rothschild proposes to take, and that, I say, has an important bearing on what Gentleman on the other side are pleased to call the preliminary question.
 SIR F. THESIGER  rose and said, that his object was not to give unnecessary trouble, but that they should proceed regularly, and with the leave of the House, if such was their wish, he would withdraw his Motion.
 SIR F. THESIGER  regretted that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose had introduced the subject of religious liberty into this discussion, because they were not considering whether it was expedient that Baron de Rothschild should be allowed to take his seat, but all they were called upon to decide at the present moment was, whether, in the particular mode proposed, a person who came to the table of the House for the purpose of being sworn, and proposed to be sworn upon the Old Testament as the form most binding upon his conscience, could be permitted to take the oaths, and having so taken them, whether he could take his seat accordingly. Now, that was the question, and the only question, which the House had to decide. It had very properly been called a question rather of a  quasi onus 416 onus 417 418 ex mediatate, sex probos et legales homines, sex legales Judœs. v. 419 ex necessitate, 420 Corpus Christi; 421 422 423 contemporei expositio 424 "That in cases in which an oath may lawfully be and shall have been administered to any person, either as a juryman, or as a witness, or deponent in any proceeding, civil or criminal, in any court of law or equity in the United Kingdom, or on appointment to any office or employment, or on any occasion whatever, such person is bound by the oath administered, provided the same shall have been administered in such form and with such ceremonies as such person may declare to be binding; and every such person, in case of wilful false swearing, may be convicted of the crime of perjury in the same manner as if the oath had been administered in the form and with the ceremonies most commonly adopted." 425 "And whereas the following words are contained in the latter part of the oath of abjuration, namely, 'Upon the true faith of a Christian,' be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that whenever any of His Majesty's subjects professing the Jewish religion shall present himself to take the said oath of abjuration, in pursuance of the above-recited Act, or of this present Act, the said words, 'Upon the true faith of a Christian,' shall he omitted out of the said oath in administering the same to such person; and the taking the said oath by such person professing the Jewish religion, without the words aforesaid, in like manner as Jews are admitted to be sworn to give evidence in courts of justice, shall be deemed to be a sufficient taking of the abjuration oath, within the meaning of this and the said recited Act." 426 "I have no objection whatever to the oath of abjuration, except to the words 'Upon the true faith of a Christian,' as being quite inconsistent with the form in which I am sworn, and it would no doubt make me, if I adopted those words, a very unfit public officer, and a very dishonourable individual; and it would be besides, in my opinion, an offence and an insult committed against the community at large. "As far as you know the members of your persuasion, and the rules and regulations which govern them, they could not take an oath with those words in it, 'Upon the true faith of a Christian?—Most assuredly not." 427
 MR. GOULBURN : It was put to Mr. O'Connell—who said, in reply, that he was ready to take two of the oaths, but not the third.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that he thought that the reason given by the noble Lord was not sufficient to justify the course which he had taken. The noble Lord stated that it was his wish to have an arrangement now made in order that the public some seven or eight years hence, when it may be proper to give a residence to the Prince of Wales, may not be annoyed when the removal of the pictures would be required for that purpose. If it should be a proper thing that Marlborough-
 457
 MR. TRELAWNY  said, perhaps it would be better if he moved for the returns he wished as an amendment. [An Hon. MEMBER: You can't.] The House ought to be exceedingly jealous with regard to the revenues of the Duchy of Cornwall. It was well known that in two instances in the last century Parliament had been called on to pay the debts of the Prince of Wales, and they had once taken the property of the Duchy of Cornwall as a security for debts contracted by the Prince of Wales.
 MR. TRELAWNY  believed that if the returns he asked for were granted, it would appear that so large a revenue might be produced from the duchy of Cornwall that it would be unnecessary to ask the House to vote any establishment for the Prince of Wales.
 MR. TRELAWNY  wished to know, before assenting to the resolution, why the noble Lord had refused to grant certain returns which had been moved for with respect to the Duchy of Cornwall?
 MR. HENLEY  said, that he did not see any reason why this House should hamper itself with what may happen in nine years hence. How could anybody say that there may not be changes of opinion as to what may be desirable to be done with either Buckingham Palace or Marlborough-house during that period. On similar matters changes of opinion had taken place within the last twenty-five years. Suppose then that they now voted that this house should be given as a place of residence to the Prince of Wales, and that a change of opinion took place, they would be compelled to buy the Prince of Wales out of that which they had originally given him, and then they would have to assign to him another house. With regard to the stables, they were the property of the Crown, and did not require any Act of Parliament to give them over to the Crown. He thought it unreasonable to ask the House now to decide upon giving Marlborough-house as a residence to the Prince of Wales in nine years. As to the argument of the noble Lord, he did not think it worthy of the consideration of the House, and he would give his vote in favour of postponing the consideration of the question.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to ascertain the Baron de Rothschild's reason, and he thought the question should be asked why he desired to be sworn on the Old Testament?
 MR. HENLEY  said: Before the Order of the Day for the adjourned debate is read, I wish, Mr. Speaker, to ask you this question—whether, to give a proper  locus standi
 MR. HENLEY : My only object is to get something formally upon the records of Parliament, because the entry seems to stand so bald at present, inasmuch as a proceeding is entered of which we do not know the reason. This is the usual form of courts of justice.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the difficulty was, that in this case there was a record upon the journals of a question that had been put. The hon. and learned Member for the city of Oxford said such questions did not appear upon the journals; but there it was, in this case, actually printed in the records from which the journals were made up—the Votes. The question appearing there without an answer being given, made all the difference.
 MR. HUME  said, that if Baron de Rothschild were again called in, it did not follow that the question would be answered. No answer would be given to an improper question; and certainly this appeared to him one of that character.
 MR. HUME  suggested the insertion of the words "Member for the City of London" after the name of the Baron de Rothschild, as this was to be a formal record of the proceedings.
 MR. HUME : I apprehend he has already claimed to be sworn; the question now is, does he desire to be sworn? There is a great difference between claiming and desiring; but I am sure if he were called in and asked the question, he will answer that he does desire it.
 MR. HUME  thought that before the House voted residences and establishments to the Prince of Wales, they and the public had a right to know what amount of savings had arisen from the income of the duchy of Cornwall, where it was, how it was applied, and whether this property had been properly taken care of. The question of voting Marlborough-house would then be fit for consideration, but until that period it was wholly unnecessary for the present to hamper a future Parliament.
 MR. HUME  would remind the noble Lord that he had objected to the removal of the Vernon pictures to Marlborough-house. What he wanted was that the Government should remove the Royal Academy in order to make room for that addition to the national collection. They would then have only one establishment instead of two. In order to take the sense of the Committee on the matter, he would move that the Chairman report progress.
 MR. HUME  said, it appeared to him that the resolution they were now asked to agree to was rather premature, considering that the Prince of Wales was only nine years of age. It would be recollected that a misunderstanding took place before with reference to Marlborough house, when it was voted to the late Queen Dowager. It was generally understood that Her Majesty was to keep it in order herself, but it turned out that the House had resolved that it should be kept in repair at the expense of the nation, and a hill for 44,000 l.
 MR. HUME  said, that the ground for making the demand was now changed. At first the damand was made for the endowment of Marlborough-house, but now it was for the extension of Carlton-terrace. He did not see any necessity for connecting the name of the Prince of Wales with Carlton-terrace. He hoped that the Government would postpone the consideration of the question till next year.
 MR. HUME  said, that they ought not to add another building to the establishments of Royalty, while it was evident that they could not all be occupied. He wished to know why the Government were sustaining this grant; they should leave the question to a Parliament that was to come after them. He asked the noble Lord not to press the matter on the House now for a decision, as a more fitting time would yet come for its consideration.
 MR. HUME : I wish only to say that that question was not put to any other Member, and that it appears to me you ought not to put a question to the hon.
 410
 MR. HUME : I think we have now come to the resolution or amendment of which I gave notice, and I will move it now if you please, on the Motion of the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford.
 MR. HUME  said, that in consequence of what had taken place to-day, matters would be somewhat altered, and therefore he begged to move that Baron de Rothschild be sworn on the Old Testament He was sorry, he observed, in this age to witness such a contest as the present, one which resolved itself into a question of religious differences. It was melancholy to think that England, which was considered so much in advance of other nations, should in reality be so backward and so much behind them. In the United States, for example, no individual was excluded from the enjoyment of civil rights by reason of any religious differences. It appeared a melancholy fact—one which would do great discredit to the House—that we should be refusing the hon. Member for the city of London that portion of his civil rights to which he was justly entitled. The question was—for it was not his intention to address many words to the House—whether the clerk should now proceed to direct Baron de Rothschild to be sworn, as he desired, on the Old Testament. He hoped there would not be much opposition raised to that question. The report which had been prepared and laid on the table of the House in April last contained the whole of the systems which had existed from the earliest ages connected with the oath taken before Parliament; and any candid man would see thereby that the difficulties which had been thrown in the way of taking oaths had been greatly relieved, until now that they came to that position in which they found the present hon. Member for the city of London placed. He entreated the House, as they were mindful of charity, not to use such means as would drive individuals into the belief that the
 414
 MR. HUME  expressed a hope that the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon would withdraw his Motion, and not give the House the trouble to divide.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  would object to an adjournment of the present debate even to the next day. The question being one of privilege, the discussion ought be continued. After the somewhat extraordinary speech of the noble Lord, those who supported the claim were placed in a dilemma. If his own opinion had any weight with the Gentlemen on his side of the House, he should recommend them to grant no supply to the noble Lord till he had brought in a Bill to remedy the grievance brought before the notice of the House. The noble Lord, after his speech, was bound to proceed by Bill immediately; and he (Mr. Osborne) hoped that Gentlemen favourable to that proceeding would join him in refusing supply at present. He would move that the debate be resumed at Five o'clock.
 MR. B. OSBORNE : I quite agree with the hon. and learned Gentleman that it is necessary we should proceed with care and deliberation in this business; but though there can be no doubt that the House has the power to put any question which it may seem fit to it to put, yet I think, in justice to the hon. Member for London, who is about to be called to the table, that he should be warned that it is in his discretion to answer any questions that may be put to him or not, as he may think proper. Therefore I hope that the hon. Gentleman, when called to the table, will not answer
 401
 MR. SHEIL : I rise for the purpose of moving an amendment. The Amendment is this: "That Baron Lionel de Rothschild be called in, and sworn on the Old Testament." [Mr. B. OSBORNE: That is my Amendment.] Then I beg pardon. That Amendment has not been put, and therefore I hope the House will allow mo to state why I think this is the stage when such an amendment should be put. What have we already done? We have resolved to ask the hon. Member for the city of London why he chose to be sworn on the Old Testament. That was the act of the House. We have received no answer to that question, and, having received no answer to that question, it remains to be considered what we are to do? Why, we must follow up our own questions and the answers given thereto by an appropriate step. It is, however, suggested to mo, by an hon. Member sitting close by, that I am taking this Amendment out of the hands of an hon. and gallant Gentleman who gave notice that he should move it. If that is so, I will not say another word.
 MR. SPOONER  thought that he had heard the word "stables" in the resolution. He wished to know why stables were to be provided?
 MR. MANGLES : The right hon. and learned Gentleman says, that the friends of Baron de Rothschild are special pleading, and trifling with the subject. Now, I ask him candidly to say, whether it is the friends or the opponents of Baron de Rothschild who have raised this preliminary question as to the particular book of the Bible upon which the Baron is to be sworn? Is it the friends of Baron de Rothschild, or those who are opposed to him?
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, if they were to have a discussion upon every suggestion that was made, they would not finish the inquiry before the end of the present Parliament, much less in the present Session. It appeared to him very extraordinary, as they were such sticklers for precedent on Friday last, that they were now prepared to depart so completely from precedent as was proposed. According to the old form which was pursued in Lord Fanshawe's case, in Sir H. Mounson's case, and in Mr. Archdall's and Mr. O'Connell's cases, all the oaths at once were presented before the Member elected, and he was asked to take those oaths. He examined them altogether, not one by one, and then he stated his objections to all the oaths, or to any of them, Mr. O'Connell stated that he had no objection to the oath of abjuration or of allegiance, but to the oath of supremacy. [An Hon. MEMBER: We haven't come to that.] He knew that; but he wanted to show the House that they ought to come to it. He did not wish to lose time in the discussion of this question. He thought that the citizens of London were entitled to have an early decision of the whole matter, and that they had a right to require the House either to admit their Member, or to give them an opportunity of proceeding to a new election. What he should propose, therefore, was, that Baron de Rothschild be again called in for the purpose of having all the oaths exhibited to him. He could then state whether he objected to them, and what his objections were; and he thought that the House
 402
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, it was evident, from the speech which they had that morning heard from the noble Lord the Member for London that the Ministers of the Crown had no intention of supporting the Motion for enabling the Baron de Rothschild to take his seat in that House. In the view which he himself took of this question, and therefore in the mode in which he proposed to discuss it, he feared that he should be rather doing injustice than otherwise to the case of that Gentleman; for he doubted that the House would ever he allowed to go into that which constituted the more important part of the question. For this reason, then, he should trouble the House with only a very few remarks. He was sorry to observe that his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Abingdon bad committed himself to such propositions as the House had hoard from him. He would take, for example, the observations made by his hon. and learned Friend with regard to the case of the Quakers. From the period of the Revolution till the year 1828 the affirmation of Quakers could not be received in criminal cases; but surely it would not be supposed that his hon. and learned Friend was ignorant of the Bill that had passed upon this subject; and then his hon. and learned Friend, forgetting all that he had said about the Quakers, and forgetting also the real state of the facts, asserted that no one had ever been permitted to sit in that House without first taking the oaths, and that too in whatever manner was supposed to be most binding upon men's consciences; and even the hon. and learned Member went the length of saying that the Host was used as the medium of the ceremony of taking the oaths in that House. Now, there was not the least ground for any such statement. Did the hon. and learned Member really forget that Mr. Pease, the Quaker Member, had been admitted first without oaths, and though almost immediately afterwards a Bill was passed legalising the affirmation of Quakers in lieu of oaths? That was the thing wanted—they wanted that the Gentleman elected for London should take his seat, and that any further measures necessarily consequent upon such a step should be forthwith adopted, and that then the House of Commons do invite the House of Lords to unite with them in those measures. The main point at issue, as the House must remember, was the
 440 Benedictus de Talemunt et Josephus Aaron Judei, Justiciarii Judeorum. Sacramentum fidelitatis Regi debitum pretextu officii sui; "Abrahamus filius Vines sit clericus Regis in scaccario Judeorum, loco Abrahami filii Muriel; acceptis ab eodem Abrahamo sufficientibus plegiis de fidclitate." "Quum Dominus Henricus Rex habere solebat quendam Judeum intendentem officio eschaetarix de catallis et tenementis quæ ad ipsum quâcum-que ratione contigerint, assignavimus Benedictum de Winton Judeum ad idem, &c., accepto ab eodem Sacramento corporali fideliter quod se habebit in officio predicto quamdiu steterit in eodem, &c." 441 "Sex (vel duos, secundum numerum, &c.)de ditioribus et potentioribus Judeis nostris N. et de singulis villis comitatûs tui, in quibus Judei manent; ad tractandum nobiscum tam de nostrâ quam suâ utilitate." l. 442 443
 MR. C. ANSTEY  would ask the hon. Member for North Warwickshire if he intended to renew the discussion?
 MR. ANSTEY , in confirmation of what his hon. and learned Friend had stated, would add that when he took the Roman Catholic oath he was obliged to demand it. He claimed the Roman Catholic oath, and it was tendered to him in due form. He appealed to every Roman Catholic Member in the House whether the same form had not been observed in their cases respectively.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  wished to give the noble Lord at the head of the Government an opportunity of explanation. He had stated very justly that this was a judicial question; he (Mr. Anstey) wished to ask him, before his unfortunate and unadvised speech went forth to the country, whether Members were to understand that whatever might be the arguments they should bring forward in this discussion in exposition of the right of Baron de Rothschild to his seat after taking an oath in which the words "upon the true faith of a Christian" were omitted, it was the intention of the noble Lord to give his vote with those who had hitherto opposed any concession upon this subject?
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY : If the noble Lord forced the House to divide, he would place hon. Members in a most unpleasant position. It certainly did appear to be wholly premature for the House to be discussing the question of a residence for a youth of nine years of age. The Prince might dislike the house as a residence when he became 18. The present vote, following as it did a recent vote of that House with regard to another member of the Royal Family, which was regarded as a piece of great extravagance out of doors, might lead the public to infer that the House had nothing to do with their surplus revenue but to find palaces for the Royal Family. He trusted that the noble Lord would consent to postpone the resolution.
 MR. CAREW  said, that as long as so much mystery was observed about the income of the duchy of Cornwall, it was the duty of hon. Members who represented the west, and of financial reformers generally, to resist any grants to the Duke of Cornwall.
 MR. W. P. WOOD  thought it would he improper in him to let the question go to a division without making some observations, more especially since the address which had been made to the House by the noble Lord at the head of the Government. He regretted very much that the noble Lord should have thought it necessary to pronounce any opinion at all upon the subject which, by some, was called the second question in the matter. The truth was, they could not tell whether they would come to that second question or not; they were at present on the first question, an important preliminary question, namely, whether the Member for the city of London was to take the oaths at the table of the House. The question was, whether they would adopt the resolution of the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, or the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose. With reference to the Motion of the hon. Baronet the Member for Oxford Univer-
 444 445 Roman Digest; v. "If you will not admit the oath of an idolater"—for that was the question referred to him—"there is no adequate method of making a covenant with him, or of binding him to keep his word, or of preserving the public peace. It is not forbidden by any law of God to employ for a good purpose the oath of that man whose fault consists in swearing by false gods, but who keeps the faith to which he is pledged." 446 Je le jure; Je le jure. v. "All occasions do not arise at once; now a particular species of Indians appears; hereafter another species of Indians may arise; a statute very seldom can take in all cases, therefore the common law, that works itself pure by rules drawn from the fountain of justice, is for this reason superior to an Art of Parliament." 447 "The law of England is not confined to particular cases, but is much more governed by reason than by any one case whatever. The true rule is laid down by Lord Vaughan, fol. 37, 38. 'Where the law,' saith he, 'is known and clear, though it be unequitable and inconvenient, the Judges must determine as the law is, without regarding the unequitableness or inconvenieney. Those defects, if they happen in the law, can only be remedied by Parliament; but where the law is doubtful, and not clear, the Judges ought to interpret the law to be, as is most consonant to equity, and least inconvenient." tactis sacro-sanctis Dei evangeliis, "That in all cases in which an oath may lawfully be and shall have been administered to any person, either as a juryman or a witness, or a deponent in any proceeding, civil or criminal, in any court of law or equity in the United Kingdom, or on appointment to any office or employment, or any occasion whatever, such person is bound by the oath administered, provided the same shall have been administered in such form and with such ceremonies as such persons may declare to be binding." 448 "Which said oaths and declarations shall be in this and every succeeding Parliament solemnly and publicly made and subscribed, betwixt the hours of nine in the morning, and four in the afternoon, by every such Peer and Member of the House of Peers at the table in the middle of the said House before he takes his place in the said House of Peers, and whilst a full House of Peers is there, with their Speaker, in his place, and by every such Member of the House of Commons at the table in the middle of the House, and whilst a full House of Commons is there duly sitting, with their Speaker in his chair, and that the same be done in either House in such like order or method as each House is called over by respectively." 449 450
 MR. W. P. WOOD  had to state, in answer to the first question put to him, that it was the intention of the hon. Member for
 461
 MR. W. P. WOOD , believing there were many Members who were desirous of addressing the House on the main question. and after the speech of the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown, upon which he (Mr. P. Wood) should certainly like to offer some opinions, possibly at some length, was in favour of the debate being adjourned.
 MR. W. P. WOOD : I apprehend that the only possible question to be put to Baron de Rothschild is, whether or not he considers an oath so taken in form binding upon his conscience? That question, I
 398
 MR. W. P. WOOD  said, there was really nothing in the point thus raised by
 405
 MR. W. P. WOOD : With great submission, it does not appear to me that there is anything in the objection.
 MR. CODRINGTON : Sir, I rise to claim the indulgence of the House while refer to a matter which is personal to myself. On Friday last, during my absence from the House, the hon. Member for Bristol alluded to me, and made assertions with regard to my conduct, which are not founded in fact, and which are calculated to disparage my character, and the character of the troop of yeomanry which I have the honour to command. I will not enter into all the personalities in which the hon. Member indulged; but he said that during the incendiary riots known by the name of the "Swing riots," "the lords lieutenant of counties called out the yeomanry, but they could not get the yeomanry to come; that it was a general; complaint throughout the country; that at that time fire-raising was the order of the day, and every yeoman feared he might become a marked man, and the lords lieu I tenant reported to the Government the inefficiency of the whole of the yeomanry corps of the west of England"—that "the opinion of almost all lords lieutenant with whom he had spoken was, that the yeomanry were useless as a constabulary, because they could not be brought to bear upon any given point on a sudden emergency; that they might carry a troop of Life Guards from London to Leicester in less time than it would take to assemble an effective troop of yeomanry in Leicester; that they might carry a couple of guns, with their attendant artillerymen, from Woolwich to Bristol, in less time than it would take to assemble an effective body of yeomanry in Bristol, for an effective body of yeomanry could not be assembled in an average-sized county within forty-
 438 'Marched up a hill, and then marched down again;'
 SIR G. GREY  said, that except with the general concurrence of the House, the debate ought not to be postponed to another day.
 SIR G. GREY  proposed that, as there was to be a Commission at a quarter before five o'clock, the debate should now be adjourned, unless the House were ready to divide at once.
 SIR G. GREY : Yes, but there were no preliminary objection in Mr. O'Connell's case, as there are in this case. I think the House ought to put aside altogether the question of Baron de Rothschild's creed. The question is, as it appears to me, should he be sworn in that form which he considers most binding on his conscience? Any preliminary objection to the oaths may be taken after that. The question is, to consider the whole subject collectively, and not to consider it as distinct from another question which may arise afterwards. This question stands distinctly on its own merits, and it ought to be decided without anticipating anything which may hereafter suggest itself.
 SIR G. GREY : As I understand it, the question was put by the clerk, for his own information, and not by the direction of the House. In the case of Roman Catholic
 406
 SIR G. GREY : The suggestion, as I understand it, is, that Baron de Rothschild be called in, and asked whether, having asked to be sworn upon the Old Testament, he admits that to be the form of oath most binding upon his conscience? The hon. and learned Member for Oxford, as I understand, has no objection to that course. But, of course, it is for Baron de Rothschild to answer or not, as be thinks fit. I understand from you. Sir, that if the House concurs in the propriety of that course, there can be no objection to its being adopted. No objection being made, it appears to me that the best course would be to move that Baron de Rothschild be called in, and the question asked from him.
 SIR J. GRAHAM : I confess I think it would be expedient that the question should he put to Baron de Rothschild; because, as the matter stands at present, it
 399 "That Baron Lionel Nathan de Rothschild, one of the Members for the city of London, having presented himself at the table of the House, and having previously to taking the oaths requested to be sworn on the Old Testament—being the form which he is ready to declare to be binding on his conscience—the clerk be directed to swear him on the Old Testament accordingly."
 SIR J. GRAHAM : I wish to speak to order. There still remains, as it appears to me, an important question of a judicial character, and it is of the last importance that order should be strictly observed in a question of this nature. I would suggest, therefore, for the consideration of the House, as strictly in accordance with order, that no question whatever should be put to Baron de Rothschild except through you, Sir, and that every such question should be in writing, and be moved, seconded, and put from the chair and carried, before it be put by Mr. Speaker to Baron de Rothschild. I have expressed my opinion that we ought not to proceed to debate the Motion of the hon. Member for the University of Oxford, and the
 403
 SIR J. TYRELL : I quite agree in the importance of proceeding with deliberation and circumspection; but I submit that, in point of fact, the Baron de Rothschild has not refused to take any oath whatever. He has simply asked to be sworn in a particular way, and it is for the House to deliberate and decide upon the question, whether he shall be sworn in that way or not?
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  could not follow the noble Lord without acknowledging the moral courage and the prudence of his speech, and thanking him for both. But he would respectfully ask the noble Lord in what state he would place Baron de Rothschild when he came to the table? The noble Lord seemed to forget that the taking the book in the hand and kissing it was not the first but the last act connected with the taking the oath, and that the hon. Member for London must hold in his hand the three oaths, and must be considered as binding himself to all the three. Let it not be forgotten that these oaths were not imposed by mere resolution of I the House; they were as much parts of the statute law of the land as Magna Charta or the Bill of Rights, and, whether right or wrong, they bad absolutely and essentially the force of Acts of Parliament. It was quite a mistake to suppose that the question was decided by Lord Denman's Act.
 435 ejusdem generis;
 SIR T. D. ACLAND  seconded the Motion.
 SIR T. D. ACLAND : The question I wish to ask, Sir, is, "Does the Baron de Rothschild really desire to take the oaths required of every other Member of this House? It seems to me that his previous declarations implied the contrary.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he would express as shortly and distinctly as
 506 quasi 507 508 509 510 511 512
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it appeared to him the seat did become vacant, assuming that Baron de Rothschild substantially refused to take the oath of abjuration. The statute of the 6th Geo. III., c. 53, enacted that all persons refusing to take the oath of abjuration should be "subject and liable to the same penalties and disabilities as by the laws and statutes aforesaid were enacted." In the laws and statutes previously referred to, was included the statute of William III.—[Mr. P. WOOD: No, no!]—the statute of William III., which declared that a person was disabled from sitting and voting.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL : The one statute over-rode the other.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  read the words which referred to the penalties imposed by the statutes now subsisting. They were as follows:—
 "And that all and every person and persons who are enjoined and required to administer, take, or subscribe the oath of abjuration and the assurance in the said above-mentioned Act contained, shall respectively administer, take, and subscribe the oath of abjuration, and subscribe the assurance, according to the form herein set down and prescribed in such courts within such time limited, in such manner and with due observance to the same requisites, and with benefit of the same savings, provisoes, and indemnities as by the said Act above mentioned, or by any other Acts, or any other part of them now subsisting, are directed and enacted: and in case of neglect or refusal, he or they shall be subject and liable to the same penalties and disabilities as by the laws and statutes aforesaid are enacted." 516
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  desired there should be no misunderstanding on this point. His hon. and learned Friend would admit there had been no direct repeal of the Act of William III. He contended, however, that it had been virtually repealed, and that other penalties had been imposed.—[Mr. W. P. WOOD: And another oath.] He could not admit that the Act had been repealed. The later statute found the statute of William III. in force, and enacted that the penalties enumerated in "existing statutes" were to be continued.
 MR. V. SMITH  was not prepared to assume that the Baron de Rothschild had refused to take the oaths, yet that was the first declaration in the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon. That hon. and learned Gentleman also proposed that a new writ should be issued for the city of London. On what ground did he make that proposition? The most eminent legal authorities differed as to whether the law disabled Baron de Rothschild from sitting in Parliament or not. The report of the Committee which had been presided over by the hon. and learned Member for the city of Oxford, who had argued this question with so much ability, referred to the statute of the 1st of George I., c. 13. That Act altered the form of the abjuration oath to be taken by Members of Parliament; the report stated that, as the form had been again further altered, the Committee did not consider it necessary to set it out at length in their report, and that they would merely remark that by section 17 the penalties for non-compliance were precisely the same in respect of Members of Parliament as those contained in the 13th of William III., c. 6, except that the declaration—
 "That the offender shall be deemed a Popish recusant convict, and shall forfeit and suffer as such, and shall be disabled from holding or executing any office or place of trust, civil or military," 517
 MR. V. SMITH  said, this was a matter for the House of Commons itself, and not for any Minister of the Crown, to decide. But when the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Abingdon talked of proceeding with excessive caution, he (Mr. V. Smith) must say a man that more rashly rushed to a conclusion than the hon. and learned Gentleman he never knew. To the present Motion it was impossible for the House to assent; because the hon. and learned Gentleman had been in such a hurry that he made a mistake in his Motion, and stated what was untrue, namely, that Baron de Rothschild had refused to take the oaths. Baron de Rothschild came to the table, and took every essential part of the oath; and when he came to a certain form at the end, he said, "I omit these words." No notice was taken of this at the time, and no hon. Member got up and remonstrated against it. Baron de Rothschild then covered his head (which is the custom with members of the Jewish persuasion), he kissed the book, and said, "So help me God!" If that was not taking the oath, he (Mr. V. Smith) should like to know what was. If, therefore, the hon. and learned Gentleman had not been in such a hurry to proceed without cau-
 530
 MR. M. O'CONNELL , in voting for the proposition of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, reserved to himself the right of resorting to every constitutional means of obtaining a fuller and fairer franchise. Some allusion had been made by an hon. Member to his deceased father, whose motives had been misunderstood, and, who, Session after Session, had been prepared to extend the franchise, but that object he was prevented from accomplishing in consequence of the opposition he encountered, which was finally successful.
 LORD SEYMOUR  hoped the House would not, at that late hour, go into the question of the management of the forests, which really had nothing to do with the subject before the House. By the arrangement which was proposed with regard to
 578 l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. CLEMENTS  said, that every Member who had spoken against the proposal of the noble Lord to alter the 15 l. l. l. l. l. 551
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I am sorry to detain the House, but I think the hon. Member for Manchester has raised questions, the discussion of which I cannot altogether avoid; because the hon. Gentleman has not confined himself to this Bill, but has thought fit to lay down propositions which, as I conceive, tend to disparage the present constitution of the country, and might lead to the establishment of some other. The hon. Gentleman found fault with me for having proposed upon this as upon some other occasions, to agree to something different from that which I had originally proposed, and to yield in some degree to the expressed opinion of the other House of Parliament. Now, I consider it is nothing with regard to this question to consider the two Houses of Parliament together, and to say that a majority of sixty-eight in the one House, is to be balanced against a small majority of twenty-two in the other, and that we ought to have measures carried by a majority of the two Houses together. It is evident that, if the two Houses are placed together, in one assembly, that will be the consequence; but as long as we have the two Houses of Parliament, if Amendments are made by the other House, and sent down to the House of Commons, the House of Commons must deal with them as the decisions of the other House of Parliament. Now, the hon. Member seeing that take place, proposes what I understand to be, with regard to any measure of this kind, that I should declare at the beginning of the Session that the Government desire to bring in certain measures—that as to this 8 l. 560 561 562
 LORD J. RUSSELL : My recollection differs from that of the hon. Member, and I think on the occasion in question I point-
 563 l. 564
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he would not discuss the matter of the registry further, but simply move that the Lords' Amendment, omitting Clauses 18, 19, and 21, be disagreed with.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Some hon. Members have asked me, and especially the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, questions with respect to the course I have proposed to adopt. Now, I have stated, I think it desirable this resolution should be adjourned, and I am fully aware that, when it comes before us on Thursday next, the resolution I may have to propose cannot be brought forward as an amendment to the resolution of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Abingdon; but if the adjourned debate comes on, I shall propose to negative that resolution; and then the hon. and learned Attorney General can propose such a resolution as he shall think fit. It appears to me that this is the better course to adopt. The hon. and learned Member for Cockermouth has advised me not to take the odium of postponing this
 533
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he thought it better, before they came to any vote upon this question, or before they discussed minutely the 8 l. l. 534 s. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 535 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 536 l. l. l. 537 l. 1.
 Lord J. RUSSELL  said, that what was proposed with respect to the stables would be an advantage instead of a new charge upon the land revenues. The whole advantage; to the public would be about 800 l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, after what had taken place, that it was doubtful whether the omission of the words "on the true faith of a Christian," were sufficient to justify its being recorded that Baron de Rothschild had refused to take the oath. I think the House ought to have time to deliberate as to whether either the Acts of Parliament, or the precedents and usage of the House, make it necessary or incumbent on it to proceed immediately to issue a new writ. I wish that time should be allowed for the utmost deliberation; and I hope the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Abingdon will not press his Motion at the present time, but that he will' consent to defer it to a future day to enable us to consider what course ought to be adopted.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I rise, Sir, to move that the debate be now adjourned to Twelve o'clock on Thursday next; and I beg to state, that the hon. and learned Attorney General will then propose such a resolution or resolutions as he and I shall think most conducive to the dignity and usages of the House.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I rise, Sir, merely for the purpose of asking the House to come to some decision respecting the order of its proceedings. I think it might be better to adjourn for a few hours and then resume this question. If the hon. and learned Member for the city of Oxford, or the right hon. Member for Northampton, think they are not in a fit state to decide this question without further delay, it will be for the House to consider whether it will grant that delay. I wish to know particularly what the hon. and learned Member for the city of Oxford represents Baron de Rothschild to state to be his wish; because the hon. Member for the city of London ought at all events to have no reason to complain that his case was not fully heard.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : After what the hon. and learned Member for the city of Oxford has said, I move that this debate be adjourned till Six o'clock.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I think, Sir, when the hon. and gallant Member for Middle-
 525
 MR. DISRAELI : The general opinion being that the point is narrowed to a very limited issue, namely, whether an Act of Parliament shall be repealed or not, I think it advisable that if the debate is postponed, it should be postponed for a longer time than a few hours, to enable us to give a serious consideration to so grave a question. In that case, if the House would agree to an adjournment till to-morrow—["No, no!"]—it might be convenient for the House when it resumes at five or six o'clock, to proceed this evening with the Order on the paper of to-day for considering the Lords' Amendments to the Irish Franchise Bill. I know that this can only be done by the hon. Gentlemen having Motions on the paper consenting to give up their right to the precedence; but considering the time this question of privilege has taken, it would be better if we could come to an understanding that we shall proceed with the Lords' Amendments to the Irish Franchise Bill at six o'clock, and adjourn the present debate till to-morrow. I throw out this suggestion to the consideration of the noble Lord at the head of the Government.
 MR. DISRAELI  hoped, if the adjournment took place till Thursday, they would be enabled to proceed with the consideration of the Lords' Amendments on the Irish Franchise Bill at six o'clock that evening. He understood that hon. Members with notices of Motion had expressed the most amiable disposition to advance public business, and if the hon. Member for Stroud would withdraw his Motion, there would be no obstacle to proceeding with the Bill that evening.
 MR. DISRAELI  begged to say that the right hon. Baronet had substantially confirmed his statement.
 MR. DISRAELI : I think, Sir, the experience Lord Stanley gained in the administration of Ireland, and the acquaintance he has with its social condition, offer  primâ facie 569 l. l. 570 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 571 l. l. l. l. l. 572 l.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member rose to order, and he cannot propose that Motion. I directed the hon. Member for the city of London to retire, because he did not take the words in the last oath which are prescribed by the Act of Parliament. I therefore desired the hon. Member to withdraw, in order that the House might come to a decision upon the case.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  believed the whole proceeding to be a gross job.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would not follow the hon. and gallant Member into the wide subject he had opened, but would merely refer to one document, an account of the expenditure of last year in England and in Ireland for the poor and for county purposes. In England the sum charged on the Consolidated Fund, and formerly paid out of the county rates was 258,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. FRENCH  could not concur in thinking with the hon. Member for Wenlock, who had just spoken, that the present Bill, either in its tendencies or results, would extend the democratic principle. He feared its consequences would be to
 540 l. l. l. l.
 COLONEL DUNNE  intended to vote for the 12 l. l. l. 550 Cries for a division.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he had hoped, when he consented to postpone the discussion on the vote at present before the House, that he should be granted the opportunity of bringing it forward at, at least, as early and favourable an hour as that at which he yielded to the wishes of the Government, in postponing it; but he found that the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department had decided on bringing the vote on at that late hour, and although he expected the disadvantages he at present laboured under, from the advanced period of the night, as well as from the fatigue the House must feel after sitting with little interruption, since twelve o'clock, and after two debates on subjects most important and exciting, yet he considered it his duty not to lose the last opportunity of bringing before the House a subject which he considered of extreme importance to Ireland, and which he thought ought to engage the earnest attention not only of that House, but of the country. Although the subject was necessarily connected with some of the most essential interests of the country, and although it would be necessary, in elucidating it, to make statements of figures, at all times wearisome, yet he should endeavour to do so as shortly as he possibly could. On the occasion of the Estimated Votes, No. 3, for law and justice, he had pointed out what he asserted to be a gross injustice to Ireland, and showed that while within a few years, in fact since 1845, this House had remitted a sum between 700,000 l. l. l. 580
 MR. SCULLY  felt, that as he had voted for the 8 l. l. l. l. l.
 SIR F. THESIGER  said, he was perfectly secure in leaving the question in the hands of the noble Lord; and for the purpose of removing any impediment which might be offered to the noble Lord by his resolution, he was content to withdraw it. If the House would not permit him to withdraw his resolution, he was ready to have it negatived, on the understanding that his object in doing so was to make way for the proposition of the Government.
 SIR F. THESIGER  then moved—
 "That Baron Lionel Nathan de Rothschild, one of the Members for the City of London, having refused to take the Oaths prescribed by Law to be taken before a Member can sit and vote in this House, Mr. Speaker do issue his Warrant to the Clerk of the Crown, to make out a New Writ for the electing of a Citizen to serve in this present Parliament for the City of London, in the room of the said Baron Lionel Nathan de Rothschild."
 SIR F. THESIGER : I am extremely anxious to leave this question entirely to the noble Lord. [ Cheers. 529
 SIR F. THESIGER  said, he was extremely anxious that the House should proceed in this matter with all proper caution and deliberation. In proposing the resolution in the form in which it was submitted, he believed he was following the course of precedent. There could be no doubt whatever that instances had occurred in the journals of the House in which persons had come to the table, and upon their refusal to take the oaths there had been an immediate Motion for the issue of a new writ. In the present instance, Baron de Rothschild, after going through two of the oaths, and the greater part of the third, came to the words, "on the true faith of a Christian," which in his (Sir F. Thesiger's) opinion were a necessary and essential part of the oath, and then closed the book, saying, "I omit that portion of the oath, because I do not consider it binding on my conscience." [Mr. HUME: "I omit those words," was the expression.] "I omit those words," and Baron de Rothschild then kissed the book. Now, he had certainly understood, when Baron de Rothschild said, "I omit those words" for the reasons he explained, that it was a distinct refusal to swear those words. He (Sir F. Thesiger) had no desire to preclude by any misrepresentation a Member who had been returned to that House; but if this was a refusal to take a substantial portion of the oath, he should like to be informed in what mode the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the city of Oxford proposed they should ascertain clearly and distinctly whether it is the intention of Baron de Rothschild to take the oath prescribed by Act of Parliament. He was in the hands of the House, and was ready to pursue any course they might think fair and right.
 SIR F. THESIGER  apprehended, then, the hon. and learned Attorney General would readily grant that there was no
 521 locus penitentiœ,
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  objected to the right hon. Gentleman's comparison. It was unfair to take the whole of the charge for the constabulary.
 MR. MOORE  said, that the unusual attendance of hon. Gentlemen on the benches opposite, and indeed in all parts of the House, announced very significantly that this was no longer a mere Irish question. Ireland was indeed the battlefield of party warfare, the Irish franchise was the first picket to he driven in; but as for the rights of the Irish people in the matter—the justice or injustice of this measure to Irish constituencies—he believed that such considerations occupied about as small a space in the minds of cither party, as the rights of the aboriginal inhabitants of America in the settlement of the Oregon territory. First, with regard to this side of the House, tin; noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government had, during the present Session, been impressed, as it seemed, with a very deep and a very indignant sense of the disgraceful state of the Irish Franchise. But the state of the Irish franchise was not a thing of to-day, or of yesterday, nor of this Session or the last. He might be allowed to remind the House that the county which he had the honour to represent, containing upwards of 300,000 inhabitants, had been three times contested within the last half-a-dozen years, and that the numbers polled on these occasions varied from 800 to 900 men. At anytime during these six years, up to the present Session, the noble Lord might have passed, almost without opposition, any reasonable measure for the reform of the Irish franchise. Not a soul on either side of the House eared a farthing whether Mayo contained 1,000 or 10,000 voters. There was no party object to be served by the change, and the consequence was, that this Bill had hung up for daws to pick at for successive Sessions. And how was it, and why was it, then, that the Whigs, who had been playing at Tories for the last few years, were now in arms for reform? How was it that Saul was again
 543 Critic, bonâ fide 544 l. 545 546 s. s. s. 547 s. s. l. 548 549
 MR. MOORE  wished to ask whether it was the House or the noble Lord that had the power of superseding the notices on the paper?
 MR. AGLIONBY  hoped the House would not hesitate to take a division on the Motion of the hon. and learned Member immediately. He could not consent that the hon. and learned Member should throw on Government all the responsibility and odium of further delay. The Government had quite enough odium and responsibility as it was, and they certainly ought to support hon. Members in opposing the resolution, and in rejecting it at once. Let them make the field clear for Thursday next, and then take their own course honestly and conscientiously.
 MR. AGLIONBY  explained. He had not referred to any odium attaching to the noble Lord, but to the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Abingdon's throwing odium upon the Government.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that the Bill had been brought in in accordance with the intentions of the Committee to which the former Bill had been referred.
 COLONEL SALWEY  believed that Marlborough-house would be occupied forthwith, and that there would be very considerable expense to the public.
 MR. MILNES GASKELL  said, the Motion which had just been made by the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown, was one that not only affected the constituency of Ireland, and the character of our Parliamentary constitution, but that also concerned rights and privileges inherent in another branch of the Legislature: it was, therefore, in his (Mr. Gaskell's) view, one of peculiar interest and importance. He deeply regretted that the noble Lord had not felt it to be consistent with his public duty to acquiesce in the Amendments which the House of Lords had made; he hoped, however, that before they consented to adopt a course which in all probability would be followed by the rejection of the Bill, they would at least calmly and carefully consider whether valid and sufficient grounds had been adduced to justify it. Now he believed it was not disputed by any Gentleman who heard him, that the practical effect of this Bill, as sent hack to them by the other House of Parliament, would be a very large increase in the constituency of Ireland; and in his (Mr. Gaskell's) opinion, it would be time enough to discuss the question of a still further extension of the franchise, when they had tested the operation of this measure, and had some means of judging whether the apprehensions of those who viewed even the amended Bill with feelings of distrust and of alarm, were likely to be realised. It was easy to say that the basis of representation should be wide and popular; that an undue limitation of the constituent body was not consonant to the spirit of free institutions, and that a representative system resting upon such a basis was insecure and dangerous. He (Mr. Gaskell) would take leave to say that there was another form of government still less secure, against which it was equally the duty of that House to guard, and of which they were far more likely to experience the effects, namely, a mixed form of government like their own, with a larger infusion of democracy in its composition than was compatible with the maintenance of the Monarchy. The real question before the House was, what proportion of the rate-
 538 539
 MR. BRIGHT  said: I am anxious to make an observation or two on this Bill before we decide on accepting the proposition of the noble Lord. I do it with reference not only to the question itself, but
 552 addressing the Opposition 553 l. l. l. l. l. 554 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 555 l. l. l. 556 557 558 l. l. l. 559
 MR. BRIGHT  would save the noble Lord the trouble of proceeding. On the occasion referred to, the discussion was on the Motion of Mr. Hume with regard to Parliamentary reform, and what was referred to was the fact of the representation of Manchester being balanced by that of many small places.
 MR. HATCHELL  said, the enacting part of the Bill consisted of only ten lines. It was introduced to explain a doubt respecting the Bill of last year.
 COLONEL RAWDON  said, that the cry for the division came from the benches, which were well filled, on the other side of the House, and perhaps was stimulated by the fact that those on his (the Ministerial) side were not so full as they ought to be. This Bill had been sent up to the other House without any pressure from without, and with a considerable majority in favour of an 8 l.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, the debate had now lasted nearly five hours, and during its progress he was surprised at the silence of the hon. Gentlemen on the other side. He was glad the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire had at last spoken out on behalf of the House of Lords. He informed them that the House of Lords, in increasing the franchise to 15 l. l. l. l. s. 573 l. l.
 MR. REYNOLDS  begged to state, that what he did say was, that if the noble Marquess the President of the Council had not proposed a 12 l. l.
 MR. REYNOLDS  objected to proceed-
 584
 MR. REYNOLDS  was not ready to proceed with such a discussion at such an hour.
 MR. REYNOLDS  would move the adjournment of the House, The Bill had been brought in without any communication with the ratepayers of Dublin, whom it would very seriously affect; or with him, who was the representative and the Lord Mayor of that city.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that on the second reading of a Bill a statement of its provisions ought to be made.
 MR. ROEBUCK  wanted to know why they were going to adjourn at all? All the real facts were before them, and their sole
 532
 MR. ROEBUCK  hoped the House, on coming to a decision, would not proceed too fast. There were two propositions now before them. First, there was the refusal to pronounce the words "on the true faith of a Christian;" the next proposition was, whether the refusal to take these words was in fact a refusal to take the oath. The second proposition was one which they must resolve amongst themselves: all that they were authorised to assume by the hon. and learned Member for the city of Oxford was, that Baron de Rothschild refuses to take these words. He (Mr. Roebuck) should be prepared at the proper time to argue that he had taken the oath.
 MR. STANFORD  said, he hoped the debate would be adjourned, as he did not wish to record his vote till after careful deliberation. He had not had the advantage of other hon. Members who had heard this important and grave question discussed in other Sessions of Parliament. Therefore he wished for time, and hoped he would not be compelled to vote immediately, when there was such a conflict as to the legal view of the question.
 MR. TRELAWNY  would support the Hon. Member for Montrose in opposing the Resolution. He had again and again urged the Government to afford the House some information as to the management of the revenues of the Duchy of Cornwall. He thought he had been somewhat unfairly treated by the Government on that subject. A return which bad been laid before the House relative to the New Forest showed that in many cases the property had been most grossly mismanaged. It bad been supposed that the timber in that forest was appropriated to purposes of shipbuilding in the public dockyards; but the fact was, that a system of collusion had existed between persons connected with the forest and private shipbuilders, and the latter obtained the timber at a merely nominal value.
 MR. HUME  was very glad to hear there had been an increase; but he should like to know what had been the net increase in the land revenue. He maintained that the whole revenue of the Woods and Forests was less than nothing. He believed the Crown lands were so badly managed that scarcely any revenue was derived from them. He complained that these important propositions were brought on at so late a period of the evening, when they were assented to as a matter of course. There was a time when he could sit the Speaker out of the chair, but he could not do that now. He did not see why they should now grant Marlborough-house to an individual who could not want it for nine or ten years to come. There must be something behind the scenes—some job or other, no doubt; and, unless some explanation was afforded, he would record his vote against the Resolution.
 MR. HUME  appealed to the House if the noble Lord was not doing an act of grave injustice to the hon. Member for the city of London? The question stood now as recorded, that the House had admitted for the time a new writ ought to issue. Really the question ought to be disposed of one way or other. In justice to the hon. Member for London, the resolution ought to be forthwith negatived or withdrawn.
 MR. HUME  wished to know whether Marlborough-house was not a portion of the property belonging to the Crown lands? He protested against the arrangement proposed by the Government with regard to Marlborough-house until the House was informed what funds there were at the present moment to the account of the Prince of Wales. He believed the land revenues of the Crown had been so egregiously mismanaged, that they produced little or nothing towards the public revenue. He understood that for ten years the accounts of that department had not been made up, and that the system of management had been most discreditable to the Woods and Forests, he would call upon the House to postpone assenting to this Resolution until they were in possession of further information on the subject.
 MR. HUME  wished to ask one plain question. It would be quite impossible for him to attempt to enter into the legal arguments of the case, after the very masterly and very able speech of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the city of Oxford; but he wished to observe that one argument had been used which had not been answered by the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon. The hon. and learned Member called upon the House to agree to a Motion to the effect that the hon. Member for the city of London had virtually vacated his seat, because he had not taken the oath of abjuration in the prescribed form; and he wished to ask him by what statute or by what law he considered the hon. Member had rendered his seat vacant? Now no one, he apprehended, would doubt that the Baron de Rothschild
 515
 MR. HUME  said, the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon seemed somewhat surprised at some little demonstrations of wonder at his conduct being exhibited on that side of the House. The hon. and learned Member now bowed, and said he was very anxious to leave it all to the noble Lord. Why did he not do that at first, instead of stepping forward to interfere with the course of the noble Lord? The hon. and learned Gentleman's speech was altogether inconsistent with his practice; he said one thing, and did quite another. For his (Mr. Hume's) part, he hoped the House would not accede to the hon. and learned Gentleman's wish; he trusted they would at once proceed to the division, and negative his Motion.
 MR. HUME  said: I rise to order, Mr.
 487 Loud cries from the Opposition of
 MR. B. OSBORNE : Sir, before the House goes to a division, I wish to state very shortly the reasons why I do not wish to address the House on this question. I am one of those who take what the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General calls the common-sense view of this question, and I intend not to allow my judgment to be misled by the quibbles of lawyers, or by "the uncertain" mode of proceeding (to call it by a mild name) of the Prime Minister. ["Oh, oh!"] I repeat it, because this question has from the beginning been prejudged. Sir, we have been dragged through a most disgraceful proceeding in this House. What was the course that the Government pursued yesterday? Yesterday they came down and moved, through the mouth of their Attorney General, that Baron de Rothschild be heard at the bar by his counsel. Well, but the noble Lord, after putting the hon. Gentleman to great expense in retaining counsel, and after having raised the expectations of the city of London, the noble Lord gets up and says, "Very true. I have consented that the hon. Member be heard by counsel, but my mind is made up, and whatever the counsel's arguments may be, I call upon the House and my supporters to decide against it." Therefore I feel that the question has been prejudged. We are told that this is a judicial question; but we know very well, by the course that Her Majesty's Government have taken, that it is not a judicial question, and that it is made a party question by them. They have been tampering with the question before the House. There can be no use in adjourning the debate. But if I have no hope from this House, I have faith in the citizens of London; and I tell the House that it is engaging in a conflict from which it can only come out with disappointment and disgrace.
 MR. B. OSBORNE : What became of the statute of George III?
 MR. B. OSBORNE  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. SHEIL : Such attention, Sir, as I may have the good fortune to obtain, I shall reward with brevity. My hon. Friend the Member for Dundalk has spoken as if it depended on the noble Lord at the head of the Government, by some, process of gentle violence, to prevail on the House of Lords to accept the Bill in its original form. But that expectation would be hopeless indeed, and it remains for the noble Lord, by a compromise—at some sacrifice of pride, perhaps, but not of honour—to use his utmost endeavours, in the present state of the Irish registry, to induce the House of Lords to mitigate the injustice into which they have been betrayed. I entertain a hope that they may be induced to retrace their steps. A little reflection ought to convince them that they have done Ireland great mischief and great wrong. What can be more preposterous, for example, than the course which they have followed with respect to the self-acting registry? They have retained it in cities and boroughs, and substituted a notice to be served by claimants in writing in the counties of Ireland. If a man ought not to be registered in a county against his will, why should he be so registered if be resides in the city of Cork, or the borough of Clonmel? By rejecting the self-acting registry, the Lords will get up a perpetual canvass in every county of Ireland. Not contented with the fury of an election, they will insure the preliminary animosities of a registration. The sacerdotal and territorial influences will be engaged in a perpetual wrestle—the injunction of the priest will be encountered by the inhibition of the landlord, and the notice to register will be followed by the notice to quit from his consecrated rostrum, whose eloquence, unfashioned perhaps, yet fervid and impressive, reaches to the heart of the peasant, whether he be rated at 8 l, l. 567 l. l. l. 568 l.
 MR. ANSTEY  said, although he should certainly give his vote in favour of the Motion of the noble Lord, yet it would he with considerable reluctance that he did so. And if he agreed to the proposed compromise, it was with the determination not to regard it as a final settlement of the question of the Irish franchise, but with a reservation of a right to avail himself of the earliest opportunity, in conjunction with his friends, to propose an enlargement of the franchise, not only of the people of Ireland, but of the people of England and of Scotland also. He considered the conduct of Her Majesty's Government had been weak and truckling on this occasion; more especially so in another place. The second clause of the Bill, relating to joint occupiers in counties, was given up by the Marquess of Lansdowne before any objection whatever was made to it.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  wished to ask the noble Lord, whether he proposed an adjournment on the ground that the resolutions he intended to frame would be of such a character that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Abingdon and his friends, would allow their resolution to be negatived when they heard them next Thursday, in order to insure the success of the noble Lord's proposition?
 MR. ANSTEY  said: I do not know whether this is the proper time for me to move the resolutions of which I have given notice. I will not, of course, stand in the way of the business of the House; but I wish to know whether it is competent for me, upon the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon, to move the two resolutions of which I gave notice last night.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, that although he considered the speech of the hon. and learned Attorney General both illogical and self-contradictory, he believed it to be the ablest that could be delivered on that side of the question. He believed, too, that it had been made with the view of giving some sort of justification to the indiscreet and unreasonable speech of the noble Lord at the head of the Government on the previous day. His hon. and learned Friend, however, had forgotten one point, and had, in consequence, fallen into the very error of the noble Lord. He forcibly reminded the House that this was a judicial question. If so, why was it to be prejudged? Why was it made a Cabinet question? Why was the law officer of the Crown put forward to defend the course of the Prime Minister? Surely it would have been more seemly and decorous in hon. Gentlemen on the Treasury bench to have allowed the friends of Baron de Rothschild to have exhausted the arguments in support of his claim before they called upon a majority to disaffirm it; for no one could doubt, after the speech of the noble Lord the day before, and of the hon. and learned Attorney General that day, that such would be the course pursued. He protested against this prejudging of a judicial question. The speech of his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General was no reply to the arguments of the hon. and learned Member for Oxford. He contented himself with the  sic volo sic jubeo 513 514 "It was of very great importance that there should be a Committee. It appeared to him that the question both as to the Acts of Parliament, and as to the manner in which the House interpreted the Acts in the case of Mr. Pease, were of very considerable consequence. He was at a loss to understand how it was that Mr. Pease made affirmation in the way he did, and that afterwards an Act should be passed appointing the mode in which that affirmation should be made, for, if the House were justified in admitting Mr. Pease upon His affirmation, it appeared to be unnecessary afterwards to enact, by a fresh Act, that he should make that affirmation in a certain way." fiat justitia ruat cœlum.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, he felt considerable difficulty in rising, after so many able lawyers had spoken; but the question was, whether they were fit in that House to decide the matter at variance or not. If it was a judicial question, and the House were the judges, he took it that it did not require the learning of a lawyer to enable them to form an
 522
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  said, it was not his intention to detain the House at any length, but simply to confine himself to the two propositions which had been placed before them. The hon. Member for Wenlock, who had spoken first in the debate, and his friends, wished to retain the Bill as it had come down from the House of Lords; and the noble Lord at the head of the Government had invited them to adopt a 12 l. l. l. 565 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. verbatim et literatim 566
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  said, that when he considered the present state of the Irish franchise, and the utter helplessness of the Irish people, he felt himself compelled to take the best measure that he could get; but in concurring in the present proposition of the Government, he wished it to be understood that he did not consider it as a permanent arrangement of the franchise in Ireland.
 MR. W. P. WOOD : I have communicated with Baron de Rothschild, and I am authorised to say that what fell from him may be taken as a refusal to take these words.
 MR. W. P. WOOD  said, the Act of 1st Geo. I., had been distinctly repealed, and a new oath and new penalties had been substituted.
 Mr. W. P. WOOD  would ask the hon. and learned Attorney General to read the words which he supposed continued in the succeeding Act the penalties in question.
 MR. W. P. WOOD  said, that as the object of the adjournment was to enable the noble Lord to submit some proposition to the House which could not be submitted as an amendment on the resolution of the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon, on which the sense of the House must be taken, he could not see why they should not dispose of that resolution now.
 MR. W, P. WOOD : I understand that several hon. Gentlemen wish to take part in this debate, and as I certainly desire to have the question discussed in the fullest and amplest manner, I therefore think it should be adjourned till the earliest opportunity.
 MR. W. P. WOOD : Sir, I must withdraw what I have stated. I had thought that several hon. Members near me wished to address the House; but they have since informed me that they do not wish to do so. If that be the case, then I apprehend that it is the wish of everybody that we should proceed to a division at once.
 MR. W. P. WOOD : Do I understand that the Motion for a new writ is seconded?
 MR. W. P. WOOD : My hon. and learned Friend the Member for Abingdon
 488 489 490 491 "The penalties are precisely the same in respect of Peers or Members of the House of Commons not complying with the provisions of the Act, as those contained in 13th William III., c. 6, except that the declaration that the offender shall be deemed a Popish recusant convict, and shall forfeit and suffer as such, and shall be disabled
 492 493 Digest, "An Act that the solemn Affirmation and Declaration of the People called Quakers shall be accepted instead of an oath in the usual form." "Divers Dissenters, commonly called Quakers, refusing to take an oath in courts of justice and other places, are frequently imprisoned, and their estates sequestered by process of contempt issuing out of such courts, to the ruin of themselves and families," "Every Quaker who shall be required upon any lawful occasion to take an oath in any case where by law an oath is required, shall, instead of the usual form, be permitted to take his or her solemn affirmation or declaration:" "Solemn affirmation and declaration shall be adjudged and declared to be of the same force and effect as if such Quaker had taken an oath in the usual form." 494 "That any person who shall refuse to take the oath hereinbefore recited, or, being a Quaker, shall refuse to declare the effect thereof upon his solemn affirmation, as directed by the Act of William, he shall not be capable of giving any vote for the election of any Member to serve in the House of Commons, for any place in Great Britain" "That in all cases, wherever the effect of the said abjuration oath may be legally tendered or required of the said people called Quakers, or any
 495 "And I do make this recognition, acknowledgment, renunciation, and promise, heartily, wilfully and truly, omitting the words 'upon the true faith of a Christian.'" 496 "Whereas the inconveniencies experienced by the people called Quakers in taking declarations are not sufficiently removed, be it enacted that in all cases where by law any Quaker is required to subscribe the declaration of fidelity in the form mentioned in the Act of the 1st year of His present Majesty, or to make a solemn declaration or adjuration in the form provided by the Act of the 7th and 8th of William III., or to take the abjuration oath in the manner prescribed by the Act passed in the 1st year of His Majesty's reign"— "That in order to avoid the difficulties that have arisen under the Act for remedying this grievance, the Quaker, when he is required to take the oath of abjuration, shall take this form, instead of the form prescribed by the Act 1st George I." 497 "That it appears to this House that Mr. Pease is entitled to take his seat on making a solemn declaration and affirmation to the effect of the oath directed to be taken." 498 499 l. l. totidem verbis. 500 mutatis mutandis. mutatis mutandis, totidem verbis. Mutatis mutandis, v. 501 502 503 prima facie 504 505
 SIR B. HALL  did not object to the adjournment to Thursday, but he wished to remind the House that the resolution of the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon would have still to be decided on when the question next arose, and would have to be put from the chair before the noble Lord submitted his resolution. He, for one, should insist that the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon should be affirmed or negatived by the House, and would not allow it to be withdrawn.
 SIR G. GREY  felt, to a certain degree, the difficulty which had just been stated by his right hon. Friend. The Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Abingdon, he believed, recited that Baron de Rothschild had refused to take the oaths prescribed by law; what he understood Baron de Rothschild to say, and what he presumed would be entered upon the journals of the House, was, "I omit those concluding words because they are not binding upon my conscience." He (Sir G. Grey) was prepared to vote against the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for the city of Oxford, that the seat was full, but thought the House ought to proceed with great caution and deliberation before agreeing to the issuing of a new writ. It must be remembered that this would be a precedent for future time; that there would appear upon the journals a statement that a Member came to the table, took the first two oaths prescribed by law, and took the last with the omission of certain words, alleging as a reason for not taking those words, not that he could not conscientiously take them, not that he positively refused or declined to take them, but that he omitted them because they were not binding upon his conscience. Now, he (Sir G. Grey) thought, with the hon. and learned Attorney General, that those words formed part of the oath prescribed by law, and that the House was not authorised to exercise a dispensing power, and say that the oath was complete without those words; but he thought the House ought to have something more than the mere statement of a Member that he omitted them because they were not binding upon his conscience before they proceeded to declare the seat vacant. There was also another question raised by the hon. and learned Member for the city of Oxford, namely, whether, assuming the refusal to be final and complete, the seat thereby, under the existing statutes, became vacant. He understood the hon. and learned Member to refer, first, to the 30th of Charles II., which had no reference to the oath of abjuration, but referred merely to the two other oaths, and that that Act expressly declared that in the event of a refusal to take those two oaths
 518 "That from and after the 25th day of March, in the year of our Lord 1702, no person that now is or hereafter shall be a Poor of this realm, or Member of the House of Peers, shall vote or make his proxy in the House of Peers, or sit there during any debate in the said House of Peers; nor any person that now is or hereafter shall be a Member of the House of Commons, shall vote in the House of Commons, or sit there, during any debate in the said House of Commons, after their Speaker is chosen, until such Peer or Member shall from time to time respectively take the oath aforesaid, and subscribe the same in manner following (that is to say), the said oath shall be in this and every succeeding Parliament solemnly and publicly made and subscribed, between the hours of nine in the morning and four in the afternoon, by every such Peer and Member of the House of Peers, at the table in the middle of the said House, before he takes his place in the said House of Peers, and whilst a full House of Peers is there, with their Speaker in his place; and by every such Member of the House of Commons, at the table in the middle of the said House, and whilst a full House of Commons is there duly sitting, with their Speaker in his chair." "That if any person that now is or hereafter shall be a Peer of this realm, or Member of the House of Peers, or Member of the House of Commons, in this or any succeeding Parliament, shall after the said 25th day of March presume to vote or make his proxy, not having taken the said oath and subscribed the same as aforesaid, every such Peer or Member so offending shall from thenceforth be deemed and adjudged a Popish recusant convict to all intents and purposes whatsoever, and shall forfeit and suffer as a Popish recusant convict, and shall be disabled to hold or execute any office, or place of profit or trust, civil or military, in any of His Majesty's realms of England or Ireland, dominion of Wales, or town of Berwick-upon-Tweed, or in any of His Majesty's islands or foreign plantations to the said realms belonging; and shall be disabled from thenceforth to sit or vote in either House of Parliament, or make a proxy in the House of Peers." 519 "From and after the 4th day of June, 1766, the oath of abjuration in the said Act (1st George I.) shall be administered in such manner and form as hereinafter set down and prescribed." "And I do make this recognition, acknowledgment, abjuration, renunciation, and promise, heartily, willingly, and truly, upon the true faith of a Christian." "And that all and every person and persons who are enjoined and required to administer, take, or subscribe the oath of abjuration and the assurance in the said above-mentioned Act contained, shall respectively administer, take, and subscribe the oath of abjuration, and subscribe the assurance according to the form herein set down and prescribed in such courts within such time limited, in such manner and with due observance of the same requisites, and with benefit of the same savings, provisoes, and indemnities as by the said Act above-mentioned, or by any other Acts, or any part of them now subsisting, are directed and enacted; and in case of neglect or refusal, he or they shall be subject and liable to the same penalties and disabilities as by the laws and statutes aforesaid are enacted." 520
 SIR G. GREY  said, after what what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for the city of Oxford, namely, that the words of Baron de Rothschild were to be considered a refusal to take the words in question, he proposed to follow the precedent adopted in the case of Mr. O'Connell. Mr. O'Connell came to the table and refused to take the oath of supremacy. That refusal was not held to be final by the House; but, after debating the question, the House decided, not that a new writ should issue, but that Mr. O'Connell was not entitled to take his scat without taking the oath. Mr. O'Connell was then called in, and he asked to look at the oath. "I decline to take it," he said, "because it contains two propositions which I believe to be untrue." The course in that case would have been to communicate to Baron de Rothschild that the words were essential, and it would be for him then to decline to take them. If the words uttered by Baron de Rothschild were to be regarded as a refusal to take the words, and they could appear upon the journals of the House, another objection would be got rid of.
 SIR G. GREY  felt it necessary to say a few words, in consequence of the misrepresentation into which both the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire and the right hon. Gentleman the Lord Mayor of Dublin had fallen with respect to what had occurred in another place. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire had said that the noble Marquess the President of the Council, who had charge of the Bill elsewhere, gave the Bill a stab in the back, and instead of proposing an 8 l. l. 574 l. l.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the Government did propose through the Marquess of Lansdowne an 8 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 SIR G. GREY  said, his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General for Ireland was ready to go on with the discussion, but the right hon. Gentleman the Lord Mayor of Dublin was not, and had moved the adjournment of the House.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  insisted that before another charge was thrown upon the land revenues of the Crown, the House ought to know the extent of the burdens upon them.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  thought the right hon. Member for Northampton had been permitted to use language of a totally unparliamentary character towards his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Abingdon. The right hon. Gentleman said, his hon. and learned Friend had made a Motion that was "false" in fact—for these were the words; but let those who thought these words conveyed no imputation, consider the same language for a moment as applied to themselves. However, he would say no more as to that; but he rose chiefly because the right hon. Gentleman stated that the hon. Member for the city of London had taken the oaths. Now, if he (Sir R. Inglis) limited himself to one point in the oath of abjuration, he should still feel justified in calling the right hon. Gentleman's attention to what was the fact. Baron de Rothschild might have taken "an" oath, but he had not taken "the" oath—which was the whole point at issue. Supposing he had omitted to take Clause 3 or Clause 4, would the right hon. Gentleman then have said that he had taken "the oath." He (Sir R. Inglis) did not mean to deny that Baron de Rothschild might have taken "an oath," which he called the oath of abjuration; but he denied that he hail taken that oath which the law of the land and the usage of Parliament combine in requiring every Mem-
 531
 SIR R. H. INGLIS : Yes, I had the honour of seconding it.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  seconded the Motion.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, it would he impossible to get through the public business if such objections were taken to the progress of Bills late at night in that period of the Session.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, there would be no objection.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  thought it rather hard in his hon. Friend to allude to topics which had long since been discussed in the House, and upon which the House had long since come to a decision. He maintained that they did not properly arise upon the consideration of their Lordships' Amendments to this Bill. He felt disappointed that his hon. Friend opposite, the hon. Member for Wenlock, had not met the proposition of the noble Lord in a different tone than that which he had exhibited on the present occasion. He did not think the House was yet aware of the state of things which they had to remedy in Ireland. His noble Friend, in referring to a recent election at Mayo, deduced that as an example of the reduced state of the Irish constituency; but this Bill had been framed upon the calculations of the constituency, exhibited in the returns which were in the hands of hon. Members. Referring to this return, let him call their attention to this very county of Mayo. The county of Mayo, by the earliest returns, was represented as possessing a constituency of 591; and we knew that those 591 really and truly amounted to no more
 541 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that by
 542
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that a doubt existed upon the point, which this Bill was intended to set right, and there was no question that it would prevent a great deal of litigation and expense. To permit large numbers of persons to vote in Dublin without paying taxes, would be an abolition of the compromise come to last year. He therefore hoped that the House would permit the Bill to be read a second time.
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  asked if there would be any objection to act upon the new valuation in districts where it was completed?
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  begged to repeat what he had stated when the Bill was formerly under discussion, that he regarded the adoption of the poor-rate as the basis of the franchise as exceedingly objectionable. He thought that that basis would operate most injuriously on the working of the poor-law itself, and would furnish no criterion by which to judge of the qualifications of the ratepayer. If the different parts of Ireland were looked at it would be found that a man rated at 8 l. l. l.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  should move as an Amendment, that the House go into Committee upon that day three months. He denied that the Bill would effect its object, even in the metropolis; and he strongly objected to confining its provisions, supposing it to be an effective Bill, to the metropolis—drawing a line, in fact, round London, and saying, "Here, up to this point, you must observe the Sabbath, but beyond that point you are at liberty to break it." The Bill was neither more nor less than a piece of undigested nonsense. It was all very well to say that the small tradesmen desired the Bill; but the fact was that they were the worst enemies of the poor, for it would always be found that when a battle of classes commenced, it was the class immediately above the lower which tyrannised most. He objected to the Bill also as an oppression of the Jew by the Christian. He believed that much of the favour with which the Bill was viewed by certain tradesmen, was owing to a jealousy of the Jews who were in the same line of business as themselves, and who, having kept their own Sabbath, did not of course feel it necessary to keep the Sunday also. But he objected to the Bill most of all because it was a war of the rich against the pleasures, enjoyments, and conveniences of the poor. The tendency of the measure was to oppress the poor, and to let the rich escape untouched. If the Bill should get through Committee, he gave the House fair warning that on the bringing up of the report he would move a series of Amendments, conceived in an opposite spirit, and directed against the running of private carriages, and the employment of domestic servants on the Sunday. He did not intend to do this for the sake of obstruction, but for the purpose of producing a reaction. He might be deemed tedious in his arguments, but for that he did not care; for if by his tediousness he defeated the measure, he cared not by what term it was designated. He warned the House that if they passed this unjust, wicked, absurd, and disgusting
 586
 MR. TRELAWNY  seconded the Motion.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the preliminary question as to the principle of this Bill was practically decided last Wednesday, when it was read a second time by a majority of 101 to  22. bonâ fide
 COLONEL THOMPSON  wished to correct an idea which had forth among some of his friends, that he supported this mea
 587
 MR. HUME  supported the Amendment. The people were not to be made religious by Act of Parliament; and the only effect of this measure, if it was passed, would be to operate as oppressive and coercive upon the poorer classes of the community, without making one single person more go to church. The days of penalty for opinion were gone, and, if this Bill injured the interests of but one man in a hundred, it ought to be rejected. If the Government thought such a measure expedient, the Government ought to have brought one forward, whereas here, upon a question closely affecting that religious liberty of the subject, as advocates of which the Whig Ministry had risen to power, there was only one Member of the Government present.
 MR. TRELAWNY  opposed the Bill. He entertained many objections to it; looking at it as being the offspring of shortsighted religious bigotry, and thinking that it was opposed to the general course of popular progress. He objected to a sour and sectarian observance of the Sunday, and would have no objection to see museums and similar places of recreation open to the people upon that day.
 MR. SPOONER  said, the object of the Bill was to relieve thousands of persons in the humbler ranks from the severe competition to which they were now exposed on the Sahbath, and to enable them to avail themselevs of the high privilege of enjoy-
 588
 MR. T. S. DUNCOMBE  wished to know who was responsible for this Bill, which the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Homo Department had repudiated: who was the father of the Bill, who was the godfather of the Bill? Where was the hon. Member for Ashton-under-Lyne? It was said he was in Jerusalem. The hon. Gentleman the Member for East Surrey, who had moved that the House go into Committee on the Bill, had not said a word as to the position in which he stood with regard to the measure; and the hon. Gentleman who had moved the second reading of the Bill was not now a Member of the House. It was said that the working classes demanded this Bill; why, the working classes knew nothing about it, and would know nothing about it, until, if it passed, they found the shops closed at which, heretofore, on Sunday mornings, they had made the purchases they had no other time for making. As to the petition said to have emanated from the operative classes in support of the Bill, they had been worked up, under false pretences, by the canting hypocrites of Exetcr-hall—gentlemen who set up to be by no means as other men, but who were, at the very utmost, no honester, or better, or straightforward than other men; with no fewer carnal infirmities, not a bit more moral in any way; who lifted up their eyes and invoked the blessing of God on their operations one day, and the next, if it so suited them, betrayed the cause on which they had invoked that blessing without the smallest ceremony. The public had already had more than enough of Exeter-hall in their cant on the Post Office Sunday arrangements; and this Bill was eminently calculated to aggravate the public disgust. It was to be admitted that the measure was not so flagrantly bad, so malignant, as previous measures on the subject; but he knew the sort of men by whom it was brought forward. Once let them get the bigotry-wedge in, and be sure they'd lose no more time than they could help in driving it home. The best security for the proper observance of the Sabbath by the humbler classes, was the kindly development of their own good feelings, and the example to good of those above them in life.
 MR. B. WALL  said, that this Bill affected the interests of many thousands, and indeed millions, of the people, and
 589 d. 590 entrées l l. l. l, l. 591
 MR. ALCOCK  regretted that the hon. Gentleman who had taken charge of the Bill in that House had resigned his seat, and was consequently unable to defend its provisions. The supporters of the Bill had been denounced as actuated by a Sabbatarian, a puritanical, and a hypocritical spirit, and on that subject somewhat hard words had been used. He could only say, for himself, that he was actuated by no such feelings. He supported the Bill, because he thought it necessary that some means should be taken to protect the respectable tradesmen in different parts of the metropolis, who suffered from the present system of Sunday trading. So far from the Bill being of a stringent character, the provisions proposed were of the most mild and moderate character.
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY  said, that his views respecting the observance of the Sunday differed very materially from those entertained by a great majority of Members of that House, and also by the great majority of those for whom Parliament legislated. He did not regard the observance of the Sunday as commanded by Divine authority. He regarded the observance of Sunday, and of other holydays, as a precept of the Church. He regarded those holydays, as set aside by the precept of the Church, to be as strictly observed as the Sunday; and he considered that the Church had the power, if it thought fit so to do, to alter the observance of the Sunday to Tuesday, Wednesday, or any other day of the week. If the observance of the Sunday were established by Divino authority, the Church would have no power to make such an alteration. In Rome, in Sardinia, and in many of the German Catholic States, the shops were as generally closed on the Sunday as they were in any part of London; while in some of the German Protestant States, the shops were as generally open on that day as they were in Paris. He could not sympathise, on the one hand, with those who wished to have the Sunday desecrated, as he considered; or, on the other hand, with those who desired to have it observed with a rigidness he thought unnecessary, and therefore he would not vote upon the principle of this measure.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  said, as it was impossible the Bill could be passed this Session, he thought they were wasting
 592
 MR. C. ANSTEY  wished to say, that he had received communications from the proprietors of several first-rate weekly newspapers, stating that the Bill would have a most injurious effect upon their interests.
 MR. W. J. FOX  thought it would be singularly inexpedient, while these parties were suffering severely by the new postal regulation, to follow that up by another measure injuriously affecting their interests. They were useful to the public in communicating early information.
 LORD D. STUART  believed that the present measure might be made one of a very useful character, and knew that some such measure was wished for by a large portion of the inhabitants of this metropolis. Not only tradesmen, but a great many journeymen and working men, had petitioned for it. But he must say, it ought to be taken up by the Government, and not left to a private Member. He regretted the opposition which had been offered to the Bill by his hon. and tedious Friend opposite. ["Oh!"] He had a right to call his hon. and learned Friend tedious, and that without meaning any discourtesy, because his hon. and learned Friend was tedious, and said he was tedious, and that he had endeavoured to be tedious. Having said so much, he (Lord D. Stuart) was bound in justice to add, that his hon. and learned Friend had perfectly succeeded in his attempt, and he might be congratulated upon his success. If hon. Gentlemen were determined, at this period of the Session, to obstruct the measure, it was to be feared it would be of no use to press it; but if they would meet the supporters of the Bill in a candid spirit, and go into Committee, there was ample time to deal with it, after the great consideration the subject had received.
 MR. ALCOCK  then intimated that he would not press the Bill further this Session.
 MR. THORNELY  believed that, if the practice of paying wages on a Friday were to be adopted, so as to give the Saturday for marketing, the necessity for any
 593
 MR. G. THOMPSON  protested against the spirit in which the opposition to the Bill was conducted, and the wanton attack upon the feelings of a very large portion of the community. He must deny that the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (the Member for Youghal) had the slightest pretension to claim to be the mouthpiece of the working classes, lie must deny also that any among them, save the dissolute and irreligious, were against the Bill; indeed, he had never come in contact with a decent working man who had communicated to him any solid objection to it. It was not, in that House, placed upon religious grounds, but was brought forward as a Bill for diminishing unnecessary trading on Sunday, and putting an end to abuses which brought discomfort and irregularity into many families. He knew that persons who had a reverential regard for the Sabbath had made considerable sacrifices of their feelings in putting forward a measure solely for the decent regulation of trading on Sunday; and he thought the Bill was entitled to respectful treatment. He was sorry to find that the Bill was to he withdrawn; he should, have preferred seeing the whole responsibility of its not being passed thrown upon those who had set themselves up as its opponents.
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  begged to join in the protest against the hon. Members for Salisbury and Youghal having any claim to be considered as the exponents of the views of the working classes, lie (Lord 11. Grosvenor) had attended a meeting of the working classes, where, after speeches on both sides, there was a division, and it was five to one in favour of the Bill.
 MR. W. J. FOX  would ask why, if the working classes were so much in favour of the Bill, they had given so much occasion for its introduction? As for those persons who pleaded conscience, why did they not observe the day? Surely the salvation of their souls was worth the sacrifice of the day's profit. Did men want to "serve God and mammon?" But, as in the instance of the Post Office, the convenience of the many was to give way to a plea for the few. Generally speaking, there was in this metropolis a very becoming observance of the Sabbath; and, if there were two or three districts in which it was otherwise, such outlets might he necessary in the condition of society; and at any rate
 594 s. s.
 MR. HEALD  expressed his belief, that it was impossible to make a people religious by means of legislation, but that public feeling was strongly against Sunday trading.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  vindicated himself from the imputation that he ever said the subject was one for legislation, or ought to be taken up by the Government, He was opposed to any legislation at all in the matter; but he had said that if there was anything good in the present Bill, Government ought to take it up. He believed they must leave the question of Sunday trading to be dealt with by public opinion and the religious feeling of the country.
 SIR G. GREY  thought the hon. Member for East Surrey had exercised a wise discretion in consenting to withdraw the Bill. He was by no means sorry it had been introduced, as the discussion which had taken place could not fail to be of benefit; and if the suggestion of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, that the men should he paid their wages on Friday instead of on Saturday night, was carried into effect, it would greatly conduce not only to the observance of the Sunday, but to the comfort, welfare, and happiness, of the working classes. [The right hon. Baronet then read a letter from a gentleman employing a large number of workpeople in the metropolis, in which he described the advantages of paying his men their wages on Friday night, and the evils of the present system. The working man rarely received his wages till after six o'clock on Saturday; he knew he would not have to rise at five o'clock, next morning, and went off to an alehouse, where he left 2 s. s. 595
 MR. R. FOX  said, that he arose to resume an old debate. His hon. Friend the Member for Rochdale had moved that this Bill be read a second time that day three months. He (Mr. Fox) implored the House to assent to the proposition for throwing out this Bill. He begged to inform the House that this Bill was a mutilated abstract of the original Landlord and Tenant Bill of his right hon. Friend the Chief Secretary for Ireland, of which it contained the five clauses in favour of the landlords, whereas all the clauses in favour of the tenants were cut out of this professing Landlord and Tenant Bill. Now, these clauses might possibly contain something useful, which, however, he denied altogether, either as regarded landlords or tenants; but he would not consent to discuss them now. There was at this moment violent political excitement in Ireland on the subject of the relations between landlord and tenant, and the House of Commons could not avoid considering that subject amongst the earliest of their duties next Session. The proper course would be, if there were any weight in the Bill now before the House, to discuss all this subject early next Session. The tenantry of Ireland had been promised a settlement of their claims during this Session. None had been given to them, and he implored the House and the Government not to send over to the people of Ireland this landlord Bill as the only, result of their deliberations
 596
 MR. HUME  thought that if the Government intended to bring the whole question before the House next Session, such partial legislation as this Bill contained would be useless. Nothing, in his opinion, could be more injurious than constant legislation, and the Government ought really to state what they intended to do with respect to the Bill before the House.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that without pledging himself to all the details of the Bill, his right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland had already stated his opinion that the House ought to take the second reading, and that there were several of the clauses calulated to be of considerable benefit. In that opinion he entirely agreed. No one could doubt that the frequent carrying off of crops at night and on Sunday, and the conflicts which ensued between the police and the people, were very serious evils, and it was desirable for the benefit of all classes that some provision should take place on the subject. He should vote, therefore, for the second reading, as some of the clauses were valuable, but was by no means prepared to give his assent to the Bill as a whole.
 MR. DICKSON  considered that some measure was imperatively called for, in order to prevent the cutting and carrying off crops at night and upon Sundays by the tenants.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  called on the House to consider well before they rejected a measure which, in effect, assimilated the law of the two countries. Every material clause was intended to do justice between landlord and tenant. Was it unjust, for instance, to enable a landlord to bring an ejeetment against a tenant who owed him a year's rent? Well, it could not be done under the present state of the law, and the Bill sought to remedy so great an injustice. Another clause was intended to meet a state of things which could not be understood in this country. When a landlord had got possession of his land from a tenant, after an expensive law process, it often happened that the tenant returned immediately, and by force or fraud got into possession of the land again. As the law stood, there was so much confusion and injustice about it, that the landlord was obliged to allow the man to remain in possession till he had brought another eject-
 597 598
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that the citizens of Waterford had great reason to congratulate themselves upon having secured the services in Parliament of the hon. Baronet who had last addressed them, and who took upon himself to assert in that House that the great mass of the tenantry of Ireland were robbers, cheats, and swindlers.
 SIR H. W. BARRON : That is false.
 MR. SPEAKER : The phrase which the hon. Baronet has used is unparliamentary, and I must call upon him to retract it.
 SIR H. W. BARRON : Then I say it is untrue.
 MR. SPEAKER : But does the hon. Member retract it?
 SIR H. W. BARRON : As the phrase is held to be unparliamentary, and as you, Sir, say that it ought to be retracted, I obey your orders.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, it was by no means an unusual tiling for hon. Members in that House to use strong negatives, and frequently to express them in unparliamentary language, while, as they were immediately obliged to withdraw those phrases, there was no danger attaching to such a course of conduct. On the present occasion the hon. Baronet had used expressions which he was compelled to withdraw; but using such language in that House was not the same thing as using it out of doors. The hon. Baronet had stated that any one who voted against going into Committee or reading a second time the Bill then before them, would, in effect, sanction a system of fraud and swindling. Without intending to quote the language of Scripture irreverently, or to impute any intentional misrepresentation to the hon. Baronet, lie would say that he had borne "false witness against" the country. The hon. Baronet, moreover, said that the landlords of Ireland were the most maligned, the most calumniated people in the whole country; and the hon. Gentleman then went on to say that on that question he was willing to appeal to the decision of twelve English gentlemen; from whom he (Mr. Reynolds) very much doubted that the hon. Baronet would receive a favourable verdict. He certainly could not reckon upon the support of such a gentleman as the Rev. Mr. Sidney Godolphin Osborne, an English Protestant clergyman, whose writings with regard to the state of Ireland had excited and merited the warmest gratitude of the unfortunate people of that
 599 600
 MR. W. BARRON  denied that he had brought any wholesale accusations against the tenantry of Ireland. What he said was that, in nine cases out of ten, in disputes between landlord and tenant, the landlord was the injured party; and that he would leave to the judgment of any competent tribunal. He never knew any case come before a court of justice in which it was not manifest that the landlord was the aggrieved party.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he was willing to except the two clauses to which the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary objected, and merely to retain that part of the Bill which made it penal fraudulently to cut or remove crops on a Sunday, together with such other portions of the Bill as might be necessary for giving effect to that.
 COLONEL RAWDON  was glad to hear what had fallen from his hon. and learned Friend, because it obviated to a great extent his objection to the measure. He believed some legislation on the subject was necessary, but at the same time could not help adverting to the singular title of the Bill. It was entitled an Act "to improve the relations of landlord and tenant;" but there was not a single clause in the Bill with reference to the improvement of the tenant. The whole object of it was to give more power to the landlord, and he thought it ought to be entitled "a Bill for the most speedy and effectual recovery of rent in Ireland."
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, the measure was to all intents and purposes a landlords' Bill. Was this a time for passing such additional restrictions upon the people of Ireland? The attention of the people of that country had been drawn to the Bill; with one voice they denounced it, and that voice would now be more loudly heard but that they thought there was little probability of the measure being carried through Parliament at the present period of the Session. He conceived that the Legislature was not entitled thus to interfere with the rights of property. The crop was the property of the tenant, and Parliament ought not to restrict him as to the times of cutting or removing that crop. Moreover, in the north, if not in the other parts of Ireland, the tenantry were not, and ought not to be anywhere, at the mercy of the landlords. The tenant-right existed
 601
 MAJOR BLACKALL  said, that any person who knew Ireland must be aware that if they expected peace in that country they must give a power to the landlord to pre-vent the fraudulent taking away of crops—a practice that had led last year to much misery.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  said, he should not detain the House many minutes, but he wished to express his anxiety for the adoption of the clauses No. 6 and 7 of' this Bill being enacted, and to corroborate what had fallen from his hon. Friend the Member for the city of Waterford. In his opinion these clauses were essentially necessary for the preservation of tranquillity in Ireland. He would only state one case which occurred in his own immediate neighbourhood, where life had been lost for want of this Bill. A large party of persons assembled upon a Sunday morning, and being accompanied by a number of carts and horses proceeded to take possession of a quantity of corn and other produce, under distress for rent. Unfortunately a collision took place between the peasantry and the police: one man was killed, and several severely wounded. The magistrate in attendance was insulted, and the riot consequent was not quelled without great difficulties, after the arrival of the military and more bloodshed. Even this single occurrence, he thought, proved the necessity of an enactment to preserve life and property.
 MR. P. SCROPE  was against any plan for increasing the power of the landlords, and he regretted to observe that, notwithstanding all that was said, nothing was done for improving the condition of the tenantry. The right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary was anxious that the same law should exist in England as in Ireland; but what would be said if the farmers of England were forbidden to cut their crops between sunset and sunrise?
 SIR G. GREY  said, the law would not
 602
 MR. P. SCROPE : Well, it might be a good clause, but when the Government professed in the Queen's Speech to legislate on a large and comprehensive scale for the benefit of both landland and tenant in Ireland, he certainly considered that the postponing of any general measure in favour of the tenant, as well as the landlord, was not keeping faith with the people of that country.
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  thought it impossible to discuss the question during the present sitting; he therefore moved that the debate be adjourned.
 MR. A. G. HAMILTON  hoped the hon. Gentleman would not persist in his Motion.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  was opposed to the penal clause, which would subject tenants to the proceedings of informers if they worked in their fields after sunset. He would recommend the hon. Member to withdraw the Bill.
 COLONEL RAWDON  thought it very inconsistent to proceed with the second reading of a Bill several important clauses of which had been withdrawn.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, the Bill had come down from the House of Lords, and the alterations which might be made in it could not be made until it went into Committee; it was therefore necessary to read the Bill a second time.
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  said, the Bill had passed the other House without discussion; it was, therefore, of essential consequence that it should receive the most full and calm consideration in that House. He should oppose their proceeding with it.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  opposed the Bill, on the ground that it would lead to the appointment of a number of officers with large salaries.
 MR. WYLD  hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary would press the Bill. It had received the approbation of the large body of the miners of this country.
 MR. WAWN  said, the right hon. Baronet had not given a single reason why they should proceed with that Bill; he should therefore move that the debate be adjourned.
 MR. HUME  said the measure was one of great importance, and every suggestion would he fully attended to in Committee. He hoped his hon. Friend would give way, as assenting to that stage of the Bill was merely saying that some steps should he taken to put a stop to those lamentable accidents. The subject would receive the fullest attention in Committee.
 MR. FORSTER  hoped the right hon. Baronet would not press the second reading at that late hour (a quarter to six o'clock).
 SIR G. GREY  said, that it had undergone a long discussion in the other House, and had there met with the approval of many of the largest coal proprietors.
 SIR G. GREY  in moving the Second Reading of the Bill said, he had had communication with various parties connected with coal mines, and had received from them suggestions which he was perfectly ready to insert in the Bill, which it was known to the House had originated in the House of Lords, where there were many large coal-mine proprietors.
 MR. V. SMITH  was not, like the hon. Gentleman the Member for Berwickshire, at a loss to form an opinion whether the Government intended to persevere or not with the Bill this Session. In the present state of the House they could carry almost
 621 622
 MR. H. BERKELEY  wished to make a short explanatory statement. In a recent debate he had animadverted upon the conduct at the Bristol riots of a regiment of yeomanry, which he was made in the reports, by an error no doubt, to describe as the West Somerset; whereas, in fact, he had meant the North Somerset Regiment. Now, in the  Times
 MR. H. BERKELEY : Well, at all events, the letter was most offensive. It was as follows:—
 "Sir—Lately there appeared in your columns the 'lie official;' now I must as plainly give the
 637 "One thing is certainly established, that the imaginative powers of the hon. Gentleman (having, as in the recent debate, a total disregard for truth) are of that order which generally tends in the long run to bring odium on the originator, rather than injury to the parties to whom he re ferred. With regard to the Bristol riots, his statement of the conduct of this regiment is a pure fiction, as not a single member on that occasion received marching orders.—I am, Sir, your obedient servant, "JOHN CHAPPIE." Times,
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  said, that two bills had been filed in Chancery against the directors, and an injunction had been granted against proceeding with the works. Under these circumstances the House ought not to interfere with the case; for, though the Court of Chancery might be tedious, it was on such a matter likely to be as speedy as a Committee. Besides, a Committee would not have the power of examining a witness on oath; and, without going into the painful question of what had happened in the House of Lords, he might say that the power of examining the prime mover of this business on oath would afford a strong sanction to his evidence. As to cutting down the two hills, it was usual with railways to set to work first where there were the greatest difficulties.
 SIR D. NORREYS  suggested, that instead of forming the enclosure according to the plan proposed, it might be better to inclose a much wider space, to place the arch in front of it, as well as to form roads connecting both Constitution-hill and the Birdcage-walk with Pall Mall. It was evidently desirable that the Palace should be protected, in the event of crowds or any popular excitement, by a fence placed at a considerable distance from it, perhaps as much as 150 yards.
 MR. STAFFORD  wished that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had given the different items of this vote separately. Would the construction of the railing, as proposed, be such as to involve further expense for the gardens?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had distinctly stated that nothing should be done that would involve the necessity for further expense. The question as to the removal of the marble arch was
 643
 MR. HUME  suggested, that the marble arch should be taken to Charing Cross, and be placed at an entrance to be made there into the park. Unless they could make some use of it, it appeared to him the best way would be to sell it.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he had made inquiries as to what would be the cost of purchasing the property at Charing Cross, if it were desirable to put the arch there, and he found that it would be about 85,000 l.
 MR. HUME  said, a great deal of that was Crown property, and he hoped the leases would not be renewed.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  expressed himself of opinion that these votes should all come under one head. 561,000 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought his hon. Friend would agree with him that all these expenses should be brought before the House of Commons, and agreed to by them.
 MR. SPOONER  said, that the charge of 650 l. l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that he did not know whether the charge would amount to so much, but he had taken sufficient to cover it.
 SIR D. NORREYS  complained that the individual who was to superintend the valuation of Ireland had been withdrawn from that duty, and other duties imposed on him, which prevented him from performing the duty of valuation, for which he was so well qualified.
 MR. V. SMITH  did not doubt that the Board of Works in Ireland had important and multifarious duties to perform, but it was a question for the House whether the board should continue to perform those duties, and whether the public money should be voted for the maintenance of the board. In England such duties were discharged by local bodies, which were enabled to bring to bear on the affairs entrusted to them a much more effective supervision and control than could be exercised by any public office. He was strongly of opinion that it would be greatly for the profit of Ireland if a similar system could be introduced in that country.
 SIR R. FERGUSON  said, that the fault lay with the grand juries, who imposed the works alluded to on the Board of Works, which there was nothing to prevent their performing themselves.
 MR. DUNCAN  said, that as no explanation could be given, the only alternative was that the House of Commons should not grant the money.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, that if the right hon. Member would look at the estimate, he would see that the vote was for the whole amount of printing and stationery for the whole country, including the great amount for England, and reckon-
 654
 MR. V. SMITH  said, that very considerable improvements had been made, and were still progressing, in the mode of printing the Parliamentary papers; and, among other features, in the preparation
 657 l. l.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, that no printing for the Government offices could be executed without authority from the Secretary of State, and such authority was never given without due inquiry. With regard to the printing for the Railway Board, it was merely an estimate, and might not all be expended.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, that the charge for the printing of the catalogues of the National Gallery was the balance over the produce of the sale.
 MR. V. SMITH  said, that the manner in which this vote was originally introduced was very objectionable, but it was now altered. The Government had furnished a great deal of information on this subject. He wished, however, for further information as to how the building was to be carried on, and under whose superintendence. It appeared that the building was to be erected on the Mound at Edinburgh, which was certainly one of the finest sites in Europe; and he hoped, now his hon. Friend the Member for Edinburgh had got this vote, he would get those to superintend the work who would produce an edifice worthy of the nation and of the purpose for which it was designed.
 MR. V. SMITH  said, that after taking into consideration his Royal Highness's position, and the necessities of the public, he had previously supported the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose: and if the hon. Member had proposed that amount again, he would again have voted for it. He objected to the proposal of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, and he was rather surprised at his making it, considering that in a speech at Sheffield, the hon. and learned Member had formerly had the manliness to support the allowance to the Cambridge family. 5,000 l. l. l. 666 l.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, if the House would permit him, before the next Order of the Day was read, he begged to give notice that he should, on Monday next, move the two following Resolutions:—
 "1. That the Baron Lionel Nathan do Rothschild is not entitled to vote in this House or to sit in this House during any debate, until he shall have taken the oath of abjuration in the form appointed by law." "2. That this House will, at the earliest opportunity in the next Session of Parliament take into its serious consideration the form of the oath of abjuration, with a view to relieve Her Majesty's subjects professing the Jewish religion."
 MR. REYNOLDS  asked why the House should be called upon, at half-past one o'clock in the morning, to discuss such a one-sided measure as this? Let hon. Members read the admirable charge of Baron Pennefather in the  Times
 MR. B. OSBORNE  denounced the speech of the right hon. Member for Dublin, as a class speech of the most ferocious character. He had held up the Irish landlords as extortionate and as murderers. [Mr. REYNOLDS denied this.] That was the inference to be drawn. He had seen the system of cutting the crops and defrauding the landlords pursued to such an extent that he was convinced the House ought to come to some legislation on the subject.
 MR. NAPIER  thought that if this Bill, or something tantamount to it, had been law last year, some unfortunate circumstances attended with bloodshed and the loss of life would have been prevented.
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  characterised the Bill as one of a very injurious character, and stated that, at a future stage, he would express his opinions more fully regarding it. To discuss the Bill at that late hour would be a perfect farce; but he would take the opportunity of saying that no Minister, nor, indeed, any Member of that House, would dare to introduce such a measure for England; though, by the mere force of numbers, they were prepared to impose it upon Ireland.
 MR. REYNOLDS  hoped, that at that late hour the right hon. Gentleman would not proceed with the Bill.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, he had that day postponed the Bill to suit the convenience of the right hon. Gentleman, on the understanding that no opposition would be offered to its being proceeded with after the other Orders of the Day.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, it was true he had given his reluctant consent to that arrangement, but he did not expect that the Motion would come on so late as two o'clock in the morning. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General for Ireland had on a former occasion stated that this Bill was the result of a compact; but he (Mr. Reynolds) denied that any compact whatever had been entered into with his constituents. The hon. and learned Gentleman, at the same time, took the opportunity of sneering at his (Mr. Reynolds') constituents, and of remarking that he (Mr. Reynolds) had said that he was the representative of the respectable electors of the city of Dublin; or that, at least, he (Mr. Reynolds) thought so. Well, he did think so; and he thought so still. And he would take the opportunity of telling the hon. and learned Gentleman, that his (the Solicitor General's) superior in office (the Attorney General for Ireland) was the first man who recorded his vote in his (Mr. Reynolds') favour at his election. He had not the honour of being acquainted with that hon. and learned Gentleman, but he begged to say that he had been elected by a large majority of the citizens of Dublin, among whom he had lived during the whole of his life, and that he had not been compelled to seek a seat in an English rotten borough.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that he believed the hon. Gentleman's constituents would be just the persons to wish it to pass. Persons who made inventions never allowed them to become public until they had secured a right to them by patent; and under this Bill the exhibition of these articles would not be such a publication as would prevent the obtaining of a patent.
 MR. F. MAULE : I put the question to the Military Secretary about two days ago, and asked him if any arrangement had taken place with respect to the disposal of the regiment of Guards? Lord Fitzroy Somerset then informed me that no arrangement had taken place; and I have not heard that any arrangement has taken place as to the disposal of that regiment.
 MR. F. MAULE : No, Sir, I do not.
 MR. F. SCOTT  wished to know from Her Majesty's Government, whether it was their intention to assent to all the Amendments introduced into this Bill by the House of Lords. If it was their intention, he begged to say that the Bill would be very different in its character from that which the Government considered essential at the commencement of the Session. The hon. Gentleman proceeded to say that he should offer one or two remarks, in order to show that the Bill could not be expected to receive the sanction of the Australian
 616 617 618 l. l. l. s. d. s. s. s. 619
 LORD C. HAMILTON  said, the hon. Member for Montrose had said the majority in favour of this vote consisted of those who were in office, and those who expected it; but he would ask the hon. Gentleman, whether those who opposed the vote might not consist of a third party—those who had been disappointed?
 LORD D. STUART  thought the hon. and learned Member for Youghal was right in demanding redress of grievances before voting supply. He (Lord D. Stuart) had vainly endeavoured to extract from the noble Lord a statement of the substance of his resolutions. The House had a right to the information sought for, and the House had been very ill treated by the Government. Although the noble Lord had undertaken to lay resolutions before the House, they had not yet been presented; and under such extraordinary circumstances the hon. and learned Member for Youghal did right in interposing.
 LORD J. MANNERS  would ask, upon whom were the effects of a diminution of printing and other expenses to fall? Was it to be upon the working people or their employers? There was a strong feeling pervading the great body of the working classes in this metropolis with respect to the contract system which was so largely carried out. He thought it would be very unfortunate if that system were extended further.
 LORD J. MANNERS  called on some Member of the Government to give information to the Committee on the subject of the vote.
 LORD J. MANNERS  rose to order. He apprehended that the epithet just used was unparliamentary.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  had not had his attention called to the subject lately. In the last communication he had with his noble Friend the Secretary of State, he said he was taking measures to ascertain the matter with a view to which the address was presented. However, he would communicate with his noble Friend on the matter.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the hon. Gentleman was mistaken on that point. The Church had not objected to continue to manage its property as it had formerly done; but the State had stepped in, and wished a different distribution of church property to be made—that the incomes of the deans and chapters of cathedrals and of various prebends should be differently distributed for the good of the public at large. When the Prime Minister of the time proposed the change, the chief Pre-
 647
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I should have stated, Sir, in the first instance, what is the purport of the Lords' Amendments, and what the Government propose to do upon them, if the hon. Member for Berwickshire had waited until we came to the first of them. But I must add, in answer to an observation from my right hon. Friend the Member for Northampton, that some days ago, in reply to a question, I stated that the Government would propose to agree to the Amendments made by the Lords, so that the House is not ignorant of the course we proposed to take. Like my right hon. Friend, I think it far more convenient to deal with these Amendments as they are, than to go into other considerations as to the views of the Government in the early part of the Session, or the debates which took place upon those views admit that the greatest change made in the Bill by the Lords is the omission of the clauses with regard to the federative assembly. It will be recollected that my noble Friend the Secretary of State for the Colonies, and other Members of the Government, repeatedly stated that they thought it desirable to show that we were willing to allow the colonies to meet together for legislative purposes, by a body legally constituted for that purpose, but that we did not expect that for some years any such power would be called into action. When the clauses proposed for that purpose came under consideration, it was stated in this House that the smaller colonies would be overpowered by the great
 623 624 625 626
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the vote was one which could not be explained. Secret Service Money implied that it could not be made public. They only asked for it as in former years, in order that it might be applied to the public service.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that if the hon. Gentleman was not satisfied that there should be a reduction, he would be ready
 653
 LORD J. RUSSELL  was of opinion that it was very difficult to make any argument on the question whether 5,000 l. l. 665 l. l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said that, in answer to the question put to him by the hon. Member for Montrose, he could only say, that after having brought forward this vote seriously as the proposition of the Government, and having been supported by a majority of the House, he certainly should adhere to the vote.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General had been ready to state the nature of the resolutions in the course of the evening, when Mr. Speaker informed him that he would be out of order in doing so at that time. His hon. and learned Friend would bring the resolutions forward as soon as the House resumed.
 MR. DISRAELI  could not allow the assumption just made by the hon. Member to pass unnoticed. When the grant was first proposed, and the precedent of the Duke of Gloucester, who received 14,000 l., l.
 MR. DISRAELI  deeply regretted that any Prince of the blood should be placed in the position of His Royal Highness in having this application made to the House; but it was the Act of Parliament that placed a Prince in that position. He would not enter into a controversy as to what might be the rental of the estates of the Crown, if the Crown had been left in possession of them. If they had been properly managed, as they probably would have been if the Crown had been left to the resources of its estates for the support of its dignity, there would have been no necessity to apply to Parliament; but that was not now the question. He must confess his utter inability, if the case was to be argued upon severe principles of logic, to make out that 10,000 l., l., l., 667
 MR. DISRAELI  would be glad to know who was responsible for the manner in which this vote was proposed. It was signed "W. G. Hayter," and the vote for the Edinburgh galleries was preceded by these words—"The sum proposed to be contributed by the Government towards this important object is 25,000 l. 660
 MR. DISRAELI  hoped that the octavo form would be that hereafter employed in printing Parliamentary books. As to these publications themselves, he observed hon. Gentlemen were exceedingly apt to indulge in easy sneers upon blue books and their contents, but in his opinion there were no works sent from the press which contained a greater body of continuous and valuable information: whether for depth of investigation or amplitude of detail, he would back the blue books against the great mass of literature—productions that assumed much higher pretensions.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the Government of this country did not render its consular establishments abroad so available for the transmission of commercial information as the Governments of other countries.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  thought, that as the hon. and learned Member for Youghal was acquainted with the substance of the resolutions which the noble Lord intended to propose, he might allow the business in hand to proceed. The noble Lord would doubtless presently make the statement which he was bound in good faith to submit to the House.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  thought that the amount which would be saved by not promulgating Acts of Parliament would be small, and that it was not a point on which a saving ought to be effected. A greater saving was to be made by the manner in which the accounts were consolidated, than by any reduction in the cost of printing. There should be less printing, but that which was printed should be more available for use than the enormous volumes which were now printed. The Home and other departments of the Government should follow in this matter the example of the United States, where the public accounts were laid on the table of the Senate before the 10th of June last, including not only all the items which our accounts gave, but agricultural, shipping, and other statistics in the utmost variety of detail. In this country small returns were constantly called for, which would not be required if complete accounts were supplied at an earlier date.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that his constituents would, he feared, very much object to this Bill, since it would prohibit them from improving their designs and manufactures, which they were anxious to do.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. and gallant Member was entitled to explain anything that had been misunderstood, but not to reply to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, here was a vote for 35,000 l. 652 l.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  objected to the continuance of the Commission.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to the different opinions which had been expressed by the late Attorney General and the present Attorney General with respect to the intended use of Hyde Park for the proposed Exhibition in 1851. Sir J. Jervis had stated—
 "On the accession in each reign the parks, as well as the hereditary revenues of the Crown, were transferred to the Woods and Forests as trustees for the public. So long as the public— cestuique trusts "There was no right in the public to the enjoyment of the parks. The enjoyment of them depended solely on the grace and favour of the Crown. It was alleged that the Woods and Forests were trustees for the public. This he conceived not to be the law." 675
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the transaction to which the hon. Member referred occurred two years ago, and he was not prepared to explain it without making inquiry, which he would do immediately.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the arrear which had accumulated in bringing up the accounts of the Board of Works was as near as possible wiped off.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the great object for some time past had been to bring the different departments connected with the printing of public documents into one, and to place it under the control of one responsible officer, and a saving of 42,000 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could not place much confidence in such volunteer offers as that of the right hon. Member for Dublin.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was sorry he had not had the pleasure of meeting his hon. Friend on the spot. He was mistaken in supposing that the north pier of St. Catherine's Bay had been washed away; it was the north pier at Alderney, the western arm of which had been destroyed by a violent storm. Reports had been made in favour of these works by very eminent engineers, as well as naval and military officers. They had been designed to serve partly as harbours of refuge, and also for steamers at high tide, the services of which might be required for the protection of the island and
 645
 MR. CARDWELL  could inform the hon. Member for the West Riding that the Printing Committee were trying the experiment of the octavo form with every prospect of success. He was also glad to know that the same experiment was being tried in another place.
 MR. P. O'CONNOR  said, that a person named Somerville, better known as the "Whistler at the Plough," who had been discharged from the Army, had recently published a circular addressed to the Manchester school, in which he stated that he had been involved in great expenses in his exertions to put down the Land Company scheme; that he had been in daily attendance upon the Committee of the House upon that subject; and that he had received 10 l. l.
 MR. FRENCH  pressed for an answer to the proposal of his right hon. Friend the Lord Mayor of Dublin.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, it appeared the cost of printing for the military in Ireland was somewhat less than 700 l., l.; l. 659 l., l.
 COLONEL DUNNE  had heard with great pleasure the observation of the right hon. Member for Northampton, that in Ireland these matters should be managed in as local a manner as possible. Every Irishman was, he believed, agreed upon that point. A great many things were com-
 651
 MR. SCULLY  thought, if the right hon. Gentleman and the Railway Board refused to take up this subject, the House of Commons was bound to consider it. Where else were the shareholders to look for redress? [The hon. Gentleman, at some length, went into an analysis of the financial position of the company, and complained of the practices of the directors in their attempt to impede the action of the London deputation of shareholders, by inducing the shareholders to withdraw their proxies, as well as of the extravagance of the directors.] Among the items to which he particularly wished to call the attention of the House, was one for "a white-bait dinner at Greenwich," and for "the expenses of the journey of Sir Thomas Esmonde to London," at the height of the season. They might talk of referring the matter to the Court of Chancery; but it might go on for ever there without being decided, and the expense would be ruinous. It was very extraordi-
 641
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  believed that there never was a public department more overwhelmed with work during the last few years than the Board of Works, which had the charge of the fisheries, the arterial and local drainage, and the public works of Ireland.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that he did not see any reason why 5,000 l. l. Cries of Cries of l. l., l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. AGLIONBY  hoped the hon. and learned Member for Youghal would not divide, seeing that the noble Lord would state the views of Her Majesty's Government touching the admission of Baron de Rothschild at the earliest possible moment. Besides, the annuity to the Duke of Cambridge was not the last vote of supply; therefore other opportunities would arise for opposing the Government.
 MR. GOULBURN  was as anxious as any one to know what the noble Lord's resolutions were, but he protested against the Amendment, as being opposed to the ordinary practice of the House.
 MR. GOULBURN  could corroborate his hon. Friend, especially as regarded the prison returns.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, he wished to call attention to the system of valuation of land in Ireland. The declared object of the Valuation Act had been to obtain uniformity; and this object was now much more desirable, as the new franchise was founded on a particular valuation. No time ought to be lost in ensuring that that valuation should be uniform. It appeared in evidence before the Poor Law Committee of last Session, that in the western counties particularly, great discrepancies occurred in the proportion which the valuation of one union bore to another. He knew numerous instances where neighbouring unions varied 20, 30, or 40 per cent in their valuation. This must lead to grievous injustice on the county generally.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that to carry out the recommendations of the Committee would require an Act of Parliament. By an Act of Parliament the powers of the Board of Trade, for the superintendence of railways, were transferred to the Railway Commissioners, and it would require an Act of Parliament to restore those powers to the Board of Trade. He thought the question of economy the very least part of the subject, which involved considerations of a much higher nature. He could only promise, that during the recess the subject should be carefully considered, and in the next Session of Parliament, Government would be prepared to state the course they meant to adopt.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the delay of which the hon. Member complained, arose, as far as the Board of Trade was concerned, from the length of time that was required to procure returns from the colonies and foreign countries. He (Mr. Labouchere) had communicated with the Secretaries for the Colonial and Foreign Departments, and they had undertaken to procure from the diplomatic agents abroad the statistical information which was required.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  stated, that the Bill had a double object—one was for the protection of designs generally, and the other was to protect from piracy those articles which might be Exhibited at the Exposition of 1851, or any other public exhibition.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the Bill was not intended to revise and amend the law of patents.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  did not think there were any grounds laid for inquiry. The period of the Session was in itself no inconsiderable reason against embarking in such a proceeding; and there appeared other very substantial reasons against the Motion. All that could be heard would be statements and counter-statements, and the House had really no means of forming a judgment. The proposed inquiry into the circumstances of the alleged abstraction of documents from offices connected with that House, would be superfluous, for it had already taken place where it could be taken upon oath, namely, before the House of Lords; and that House, if blame had attached to the officers of the House of Commons, would doubtless have informed this House, that it might proceed to punish them. He could not consent to a Committee, which would imply blame on them, believing that there was not the slightest ground for suspicion as to the manner in which they had performed their duties. As to the abstraction of these documents, a more unfounded suspicion could not exist. As to the statement that the Commissioners of Railways did not enter into the necessary inquiries on this subject, he would tell the House what really had
 640
 MR. H. BROWN  thought the statement of the right hon. President of the Board of Trade very extraordinary, considering the Railway Commission, of which he was at the head, had been specially constituted to entertain such matters. The right hon. Gentleman could have found a much better excuse for refusing inquiry than saying the House of Lords had made no remark on the conduct of officers of the House of Commons.
 MR. BRIGHT : Can the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War give an answer to the question I have put respecting the appointment to the Guards? I wish to know, without any quibbling, whether the appointment of the Duke of Cambridge to the Guards has taken place or has been decided on?
 MR. BRIGHT : I wish to ask a plain question. Does not the right hon. Gentleman know that it is decided that the Duke of Cambridge is to have that regiment?
 MR. BRIGHT  wished some further information to be laid before the House on this subject.—[Sir W. G. CRAIG: The papers have been laid on the table.] He had not received the papers. Edinburgh was a place whore people were very competent to do these things themselves. He did not see why Edinburgh should have such votes, when Liverpool and Manchester had nothing of the kind. He protested in principle against such a vote for the city of Edinburgh.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that on looking over this item he found something which made him think that the whole of this detail was done for the purpose of making things pleasant in the House. He had had an opportunity of speaking under the gallery one evening with a gentleman high in authority in Edinburgh on this subject, and although he understood that the city of Edinburgh was to give the site for this building for some 1,000 l., l. l 661
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that not only on that side in the House of Commons, but out of doors generally, the opinion was that the sum proposed was an extravagant one. With regard to the Marriage Act, he was no party to it, and he regarded it
 668 l. l.
 MR. MACGREGOR  said, the question was, whether this Bill gave or took away any privileges from the colonists. He believed that it gave many of them privileges which they had never before possessed. Taking into consideration the moral and social condition of the colonies, he thought the Bill was a good Bill, and that it had been rendered rather more practical than otherwise by the Amendments of the Lords. He considered that the measure would be very acceptable to the colonists, and he would give it his cordial support, being anxious that they should be kept no
 634
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, no good could possibly result from the Motion, which might do a great deal of harm, in interfering with a case which was under consideration in a court of law. They had heard grave charges against the directors; but was it likely that a board, of which the Earl of Besborough, the Earl of Coin-town, and Sir Thomas Esmonde, were members, could be parties to such malpractices? He believed Mr. Nash was at the bottom of this Motion, and had made a tool of the hon. and gallant Member.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that if the Irish Government printing were left in Dublin, he would undertake that it should be done 20 per cent under the English charges.
 MR. REYNOLDS  denied that to be the case, and alleged that there was no such office in Ireland as the Queen's stationer. There was an office, indeed, conducted by Messrs. Grierson and Son, as the Queen's printing-office; but their occupation was chiefly confined to printing the  Dublin Gazette, 1.
 MR. REYNOLDS  objected to the grant. He found that all that Ireland had received during the year in stationery amounted to 300 l. l. l.
 MR. REYNOLDS  thought that no public department required a more thorough overhauling than the Board of Works in Ireland. More money had been squandered by the extravagance of that board, on the one hand, and its gross ignorance on the other, than by all the other public departments in Ireland. There was a job in connexion with the office of secretary, who received a salary of 500 l. 649 l. l. s. d.,
 MR. REYNOLDS  maintained that the Board of Works had too many commissioners, and that some of them were very inefficient. A man named Mason, a book-
 650
 MR. ROEBUCK  wished to know why the sum should be more than he proposed. The Ministers of the Crown had 5,000 l. 664 l. l. l.,
 MR. ROEBUCK  wished to suggest one consideration to his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, and asked him to consider why this Royal Duke should have such a high sum. He quite acknowledged that as long as they had a Royal Family
 662 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 663 l.
 MR. ROEBUCK  believed that the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire had made some mistake about the law, when he said that Prince George of Cambridge was precluded from canvassing the electors of Westminster if he had thought proper to do so. Such an application was not in accordance with custom, but there was no law against it.
 MR. ROEBUCK  wanted to know what his Royal Highness had to do with aping the fashions of Royalty by means of equerries? When he addressed his constituents on the occasion referred to by the right hon. Member for Northampton, what he said was, that it was absolutely necessary that the members of the Royal Family should be maintained out of the funds of the State, but that he considered the vote for them extravagant under the circumstances.
 MR. ROEBUCK  protested against an observation of the hon. Member for Reading. He (Mr. Roebuck) had thought it his duty to propose 5,000 l., l.;
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, it was useless to divide the House upon the Bill; but he held it to he his duty to enter his most solemn and earnest protest against it. He charged the noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Department with great want of discretion in the management of the measure. The House had just learned that
 631 632 633
 MR. STANFORD  would not have risen upon this occasion but for the imputation cast upon hon. Members sitting upon his side of the House. [Mr. HUME could assure the hon. Gentleman he did not allude to him.] He was very glad no improper
 673 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. HENLEY  hoped that in adopting the octavo form, they would not make the figures too small. At present old eyes had much difficulty in deciphering them.
 MR. HENLEY  asked whether the accounts of the Board of Works with the Treasury had been brought tip nearer than they were two or three years ago, when they were much in arrear, and when it was said in excuse, that the board was so overwhelmed with its duties that it had no time to make up the accounts.
 MR. HENLEY  objected that the Bill was a one-sided measure. It protected the inventions of the foreigner, but did not protect English inventions from the piracy of foreigners.
 MR. HUME  contended that the expenses of the Commission ought to be paid out of the church property. By voting them out of the public funds, they were paying so much more towards the maintenance of the Church.
 MR. HUME  wished to know if there
 648
 MR. HUME  said, there might have been a time when Secret Service Money was required, but since the war he did not see what necessity there was for it. When he first objected to this vote, he satisfied himself that a large proportion of the money was given in pensions to individuals who came from other places and in a variety of ways which it was not possible to prevent. But he should have expected that the incumbrances would fall off. It was true there was a reduction in the vote this year from 39,000 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. HUME  had been chairman of the Committee on these subjects, and he found, by the evidence taken before them, that in Scotland the public printing had amounted to 13,000 l. l. l. d. 655 l. London Gazette, Gazette Edinburgh Gazette. London Gazette l.
 MR. HUME  must tell his right hon. Friend that "none are so deaf as those who are unwilling to hear." It was needless to tell him (Mr. Hume) of the advantages of having all the public printing under the management of a single department, because he was the chairman of the
 656 London Gazette.
 MR. HUME  said, that he had given notice that he would move that the blank should be filled up with the sum of 8,000 l., l. l., l.
 MR. HUME  said, that some of his Friends around him were very anxious that the House should consider this to be his job. He considered it a reproach to the country that Scotland had not some establishment to promote the fine arts. The school of art had arisen under great disadvantages, and it was now acquiring such a station that the Government might fairly give it some assistance. There were many persons who knew much better than he did, the value of the works done by some of his countrymen. It was for the promotion of science and art generally, that this sum was now asked for. The city of Edinburgh had come forward with 14,000 l.
 MR. HUME  wished to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government whether he would persist in the vote for 12,000 l.,
 MR. HUME  thought that it was the bounden duty of the Government to prevent great companies like the Hudson's Bay Company from tyrannising over and setting at nought the rights of individual subjects.
 MR. HUME  hoped he might be allowed to state, in justice to the person who had been named, that he (Mr. Hume) and several other gentlemen collected a sum of money to purchase his discharge, under circumstances which attracted great attention at the time, and which were honourable to that individual, who had got into a scrape in his regiment, and had been subjected to punishment. Every act of that individual—["Order, order!"] When an attack was made on an absent individual, the House, he believed, generally allowed an explanation to be made; and he had only to say that every act of the person referred to, since he had been discharged from the Army, had been highly to his credit, and had met the approbation of his friends.
 MR. HUME  begged to ask the noble Lord the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he would have any objection to state the nature and the amount of the disputed claims made upon the Government of Tuscany for injuries sustained by British merchants at Leghorn?
 MR. HUME  should wish a Committee to be appointed on this vote. He advised the House not to vote any part of this money. He took the trouble to go over to Guernsey and Alderney, to look at these harbours. At Alderney he was not for-
 644
 MR. HUME  wished to know if any fresh authority or reason had been given for prosecuting those works; for it was clear that the Commissioners who had given evidence before the Select Committee on the Navy Estimates were panic struck; and he was sorry that the Duke of Wellington appeared to have lent himself to all these alarms. He could find no authority for the works that had been executed. Not a single individual could be found on the island to sanction the works, or say that they were necessary. He admitted that the northern arm at Alderney might have boon thrown out to screen steamers engaged in watching ships from the opposite coast; but the place would only accommodate two or three. He considered that every shilling-spent in those islands was wasted, and he hoped the expenditure would be brought to a close as soon as possible. It was; painful to see the gold and silver of England shovelled into the sea in such a manner. All that had been done would only afford security for one vessel in the event a war; and the loss would be much smaller were that one vessel taken. Indeed the whole island was not worth the amount that had been expended—300,000 l.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  expressed a hope that the hon. and learned Member for Youghal would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. COBDEN  said, that if they had a California under the table, there might be some force in the noble Lord's observation; but seeing that the taxes came principally out of the pockets of the working people, he did not see how they could be
 658
 MR. COBDEN  begged the hon. and learned Gentleman not to press his Amendment.
 MR. SPOONER  wished for some explanation as to the reduction in the amount of the vote.
 MR. SPOONER  said, the House had had no pledge that in case of a deficiency for the purpose of the Exhibition of 1851, they should not be called upon to make up that deficiency. He objected, therefore, to the House pledging itself to the necessity of, or to the benefit likely to arise from the proposed Exhibition.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  thought his object was misunderstood. He did not want to force the noble Lord to a disclosure of what he was so inclined to keep secret. His desire was, that the House should retain some control over the Government by withholding the public money. For his part, he would not vote a farthing of the public money to the Duke of Cambridge or any other person until the House had an opportunity of vindicating its privileges and doing justice to the citizens of London.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  thought that enough of the public money had been voted, and would therefore move that the Chairman should report progress. ["Oh, oh!"] He was prepared for that expression of feeling, but he would state the reasons which induced him to make the proposition that had called it forth. He had waited until Thursday had ended and Friday commenced (it was now after midnight) for the performance of a promise made by the First Minister of the Crown. A rumour had reached him, not from the noble Lord, but from the city of London, that it was the intention of the Government to sacrifice the privileges of that House to the will of the House of Lords, upon a matter which he and other Mem-
 669
 MR. C. ANSTEY  objected to the new clause which had been sent from the House of Lords relative to ticket-of-leave holders. He thought that and the subsequent clause ought not to be passed without a protest. There was already a too strong convict class in the colonies, and these new clauses would make that class still stronger by the infusion of a more degraded class of convicts. The present Bill was Earl Grey's Bill—it was not the noble Lord's Bill—that Bill had been superseded by the Amendments of the House of Lords, which the House of Commons were now required to agree to. Those Amendments he objected to, and protested against. The Bill was not suited to the wants of the colonies, and would not relieve the colonists from their representative difficulties. The Bill was a contemptible Bill, and rather than agree to it as a final measure, he hoped the House would reject it. He wished the noble Lord, who had already changed his opinions so many times, to take a week's time to consider whether he would not resist the insidious alterations made by the House of Lords.
 MR. THORNELY  said, this was a very large sum, and he found that there were prospective votes under this head, amounting altogether to 1,283,000 l.
 SIR T. O'BRIEN  supported the Motion. The Dublin meetings were unanimous that to proceed with the railway would be ruinous. He had been offered a release
 642
 MR. GLADSTONE  wished to give notice of his intentions with respect to some papers recently laid upon the table of the House referring to the proceedings of the
 638
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he should endeavour to follow the example of the noble Lord at the head of the Government by confining his attention to the Lords' Amendments upon this measure; but he must, in a single sentence, allude to the speech of the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster, because a great part of it had been occupied with references to himself. He would not say that the hon. and gallant Member's speech had been misplaced; but the hon. and gallant Gentleman had been so occupied with the cares and labours of the Session that he had not had time to peruse either one of the print of the Bill, or any of the Amendments placed upon the Votes, or to attend to one of the debates, or, lastly, to read any of the Amendments introduced during those debates. With regard to the personal allusions the hon. and gallant Gentleman had made, and the description he had given of various proposals which he alleged he (Mr. Gladstone) had made, and various other proposals which he had not made, instead of going through the series of statements made by the hon. and gallant Gentleman one by one, he begged him, wherever he had set down an affirmative, to make it a negative, and wherever he had mentioned a negative, to make it an affirmative, for then his statements would be as nearly correct as possible. There were three Amendments made by the Lords upon which he thought it necessary to make a few remarks. With regard to the two first, the omission of the federative clauses, and the alteration of the franchise in New South Wales, he entirely agreed with the noble Lord. It was quite plain, although the federative clauses formed an important portion of the Bill sent out to Australia in 1849, they did not form an acceptable portion. So far, therefore, as the colonies were concerned, the House was free to part with them without involv-
 627 628 629 630
 MR. W. BROWN  said, that he could not agree that so large a sum as 12,000 l. l. l.
 MR. W. BROWN  wished to ask a question respecting agricultural statistics. He thought it very desirable that they should be obtained, and as full as possible. They bad already had them from Ireland, and they were very striking and valuable.
 MR. HAYTER  said, the hon. Gentleman had not thought proper to give him any notice of the question—[Mr. O'CONNOR: I only heard of the matter this morning]—but it happened that the facts were perfectly fresh in his recollection. The hon. Member for Nottingham had endeavoured to throw discredit upon the person to whom he referred, and who, he (Mr. Hayter) believed, was quite as respectable as the hon. Member himself; but the statements he had made with regard to that person were not borne out by the circumstances of the case. The hon. Gentleman, with a view to throw discredit upon Mr. Somerville, who, he (Mr. Hayter) believed, was a very respectable person, had stated that he had been dismissed from the Army. The facts connected with the case were known to almost every Member of that House, and it was well known that Mr. Somerville was not dismissed, but that he was permitted to purchase his discharge, and obtained his discharge in consequence of that permission. At the time when he (Mr. Hayter) had what he must always consider the misfortune of being Chairman of the Committee appointed to inquire into the affairs of that company, which had obtained so unenviable a notoriety, and in
 635
 MR. PINNEY  having held a commission in the West Somerset Regiment of Yeomanry Cavalry for some years, wished to say a few words. From the reports which were given in some of the public newspapers, the yeomanry considered that the hon. Member for Bristol had made statements impugning the alacrity with which they had assembled when called out in aid of the civil power. In justice to the West Somerset Yeomanry, he ought to say that when he held a commission in that regiment they were twice called out in aid of the civil power, and on both occasions received the thanks of the Lord Lieutenant, who called them out for the promptitude with which they obeyed the call, arid the assistance which they rendered to the civil authorities on those occasions.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  said, that no grant ought to be viewed with more jealousy by the representatives of the people than this grant of Secret Service Money.
 SIR W. VERNER  begged to call the attention of the House to the proceedings of the Railway Commissioners, and the Waterford, Wexford, and Dublin Railway Company. He would therefore move an Amendment for that purpose.
 MR. W. P. WOOD  complained of the conduct of the Government. In the first instance, it was understood that the resolutions promised by the noble Lord would be printed in the Votes that morning. Subsequently it was announced that they would be laid upon the table in the course of the evening before twelve o'clock. It was now a quarter past twelve.
 SIR B. HALL  said, that whatever sup-port he might have, he should certainly
 646 l. l.
 SIR B. HALL  dissented from the doctrine of the noble Lord, that if they, the members of the Church, desired a better distribution of the Church's revenues, Parliament was to pay for it. He contended that the property of the Church belonged to them as members of the community; and it was unjust that the public should be taxed for obtaining a better distribution of that property, and for correcting the great abuses which had existed under the dignitaries of the Church. They desired that, by this commission, abuses should be remedied, and that the property should be made available for the benefit of the community at large who were members of the Church, as well as the bishops themselves; and Parliament ought not to vote any sum towards this expense. He looked upon the bishops merely as members of the same community, as trustees of the national property, in which they had only a life interest. He protested against this vote, whether it was to be an annual one, or only occasional; and he would certainly divide the House against it.
 SIR DE L. EVANS,  in explanation said, the right hon. Gentleman had certainly proposed to establish something like the commencement of a Peerage in the colonies. He was also disposed to create ecclesiastical privileges. But the right hon. Gentleman had denied these allegations, and charged him with ignorance. He begged to remind the House that on the 12th March last—["Order, order!"]
 SIR DE L. EVANS  could not agree with the hon. Member in his observations respecting the land fund, for his arguments to induce the Government to forego their claim to its control were utterly untenable. The mother country was at great expense in various ways upon account of the colonies, and it was utterly impossible for her to surrender all claim to the whole territory to the present inhabitants. Such a policy would not be acting justly towards future settlers. He approved of the Bill as a whole, but he felt some objection to several parts of it. He was opposed, for instance, to the appointment of a Church Establishment in the colonies; and he thought they would go on very well in religion as well as morals without the presence of an episcopate. At present he hardly ever heard of the settlement of a
 620
 MR. GROGAN  thought that Mr. Griffith's salary (1,500 l.
 SIR G. GREY  said, the returns were yet imperfect, but he proposed to lay before Parliament those which had been received from different quarters, with a statement of the reason why they had not come from other quarters. Several of the bishops stated that they had not the means of compelling returns from the different members of the chapters; and he feared it would be necessary to make an order for the returns on those individual members. As far as those returns had come in, they should be presented before the Session closed; but he begged to say it was not the Ecclesiastical Commission that had to make them.
 SIR W. G. CRAIG  said, that that portion of the site on the Mound which belonged to the corporation of Edinburgh would be purchased for 1,000 l., l.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, he was surprised to hear any one state that the Board of Works in Ireland had but little to do. He believed that no department in the empire had more duties to discharge, or discharged its duties under all the circumstances of the case in a more satisfactory manner. He should observe, with respect to a statement which had fallen from his hon. Friend the Member for Kerry, that Her Majesty's Ministers were fully sensible of the expediency of completing at the earliest possible moment a uniform valuation in Ireland, and that they would use their best efforts for the accomplishment of that object.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  replied, that the claims made upon the Government of
 636 l.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  said, he wished to take the opinion of Mr. Speaker upon a question whether this Bill had been properly introduced. The Act which it was intended to continue provided that the expenses of any constabulary employed under it should be defrayed out of the Consolidated Fund, and that such advances should be repaid by the district wherein the constabulary were employed. A tax was thus imposed upon the public. These provisions had been introduced into the original Bill in the usual mode in which clauses involving taxation were introduced, namely, through a Committee of the whole House before being added to the Bill. The Bill then ought to have been introduced into that House in the first instance, and not in the Lords. The Commons had always insisted upon their privileges where taxation was concerned; and he submitted that they ought to require the present Bill to be laid aside, on the ground of this irregularity.
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  presented a petition from the members of the English Homœpathic Association and others, complaining of the conduct of the deputy-coroner of Middlesex, in the case of an inquest upon the body of the late Richard David Pearce. The petitioners stated that the hon. Member for Finsbury bad appointed his deputy to inquire into the case of Richard David Pearce, and that that gentleman had shown so little knowledge of his duty upon that occasion that he had
 719
 MR. WAKLEY  rose to order. The noble Lord had been kind enough to show him a copy of the petition, and he found that the noble Lord was stating what it did not contain.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the noble Lord must confine himself to the contents of the petition.
 LORD R. GROSVENOR , in continuation, said, that the petitioners stated that the charge of manslaughter was ignored by the grand jury of the county of Middlesex, and that the case, when subsequently tried on the inquisition of the coroner's jury before Mr. Justice Maule, at the Old Bailey, on the 29th of October last, was stopped after the examination of two witnesses for the prosecution by Mr. Justice Maule, in the following words:—"This man seems to have been doctored as well as he could be; how any man can be found to say this defendant is guilty of manslaughter I cannot possibly imagine." The petitioners, therefore, prayed that, with a view to prevent for the future such prejudiced and inefficient performance of the judicial office of a coroner, that portion of the Act of Parliament known as the Coroners' Act, which enables coroners themselves to appoint their deputies, may be repealed, in order that the officer who actually performs the duties of the coroner may be of the choice and appointment of the county.
 MR. WAKLEY  expressed a hope that, if he was not exactly in order, he would be permitted, through the kind indulgence of the House, to address them on the subject of this petition. He would only occupy their attention for a few minutes. The petition contained allegations of a very trumpery character, and he was really surprised that the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex, though he was the president of the Homœpathic Association, and ought to have informed the House of that fact, should have presented it. The affair to which it alluded took place last October; Pearce was tried at the end of October. Now, if the deputy-coroner had been guilty of any illegality at the inquest, why had not an
 720 "We, the undersigned, having been twelve of the jurymen who acted at an inquest held on the 9th day of October last, in the parish of St. Pancras, Middlesex, on the body of the late Richard David Pearce, hereby willingly testify that the deputy-coroner, Henry Membury Wakley, Esq., who presided on that occasion, performed his duty in a most patient, able, and impartial manner; that he more than once stated to us in his summing-up, that he did not consider there was evi-
 721 722 l. l. d. l. s. s. d.
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  hoped that, after the terms in which the association of which he was president had been spoken of, he would be indulged for a few minutes while he vindicated that body and himself. I He quite admitted that it was very inconvenient, generally speaking, that the House should be made the arena for attacks upon men in the performance of their public duties; but sometimes it be-I came necessary to bring forward complaints of the kind. He thought the circumstances of the present case were sufficiently grave to warrant his interference.
 723
 MR. ROEBUCK  objected to the practice of bringing before that House judicial matters which had been fairly tried at the Old Bailey. He thought that instead of one man calling another a humbug and a quack, the House would be far better employed if they refused to countenance these personal squabbles. He hoped that the House would be protected in future against the presentation of such wholly irregular and improper petitions as these, which, got up to promote personal objects under public pretences, were so managed as to evade the rules of the House by a side-wind. The House of Commons was not a court of appeal from the Old Bailey.
 MR. HUME  was glad of the occurrence of anything which directed the attention of the Government and of the House to the expediency of instituting a public prosecutor, an officer, as every day's experience manifested, eminently needed to protect the innocent, and to enforce the prosecution of the guilty. The appointment of Mr. Wakley, Jun. to the deputy-coronership of Middlesex had been confirmed by the Lord Chancellor.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, that some apartments in Holyrood had lately become vacant, and they were being prepared for the occasional reception of Her Majesty in passing through Scotland. The vote was only for repairing and painting, and not for furniture.
 MR. HUME  thought that some reasons ought to have been assigned for such a Motion. When the existing measure was brought in, he voted for it, upon the express assurance that it would not be renewed without absolute necessity. There was clearly no necessity for its continuance now, because every account received from Ireland stated that the country was perfectly peaceful, and the people orderly and well disposed. Under these circumstances he could not consent to arm the Government with extraordinary powers, and he should give the Bill his decided opposition. The House ought to have some statement of the grounds upon which such a measure was proposed.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  had no objection whatever to state the grounds upon which Her Majesty's Government requested the House to renew, for a limited period, the powers which the former Act had conferred upon the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. It was gratifying to him to be able to say, that, in asking for permission to introduce the Bill, it was not in his power, as was the case when the existing Act was passed, to point to a long list of crimes and outrages in Ireland as the principal reason for adopting such a measure. On the contrary, the condition of Ireland, as regarded crime and outrage, had very greatly improved since that period. Still there were certain indications, apparent to all who troubled themselves to observe what was passing in that country, exhibited occasionally by the commission of some startling crime like that which was recently committed upon Mr. Mauleverer, and certain other appearances in the general condition of the country, that, he thought, should induce hon. Members to pause before they suddenly deprived the Lord Lieutenant of the powers he now possessed. He entreated the House not to consent to deprive the Lord Lieutenant of those powers, because he did not believe that any serious objection could be urged against their continuance. When they were discussing this Act on a former occasion, two objections were taken to it—the one being, that it was a severe measure of coercion; the other, that it was not sufficient for the purposes for which it was introduced. But neither of these assertions had turned out to be correct; on
 701
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had not alluded to the period to which he proposed these extraordinary powers should be limited, and which he hoped would be less than was suggested by the Bill which had come down from the Lords. He admitted that there were indications in various parts of Ireland which should make them cautious how they deprived the Executive of powers they conceived to be necessary for the suppression of crime; but, according to the right hon. Gentleman, the object of the present measure was to prevent improper
 702
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  said, he was under the necessity of opposing the Motion for leave to bring in this Bill. He had never before heard of such a measure being sought to be introduced without any statement being made to enable the House to judge of its necessity. He admitted that in the hands of the Earl of Clarendon the present Act, which it was now proposed to continue, had been administered with prudence and moderation; but that was no reason why its provisions should be continued, unless satisfactory reasons could be assigned for it. When the Bill was originally proposed, it was said that as it was a coercive law it should be accompanied by measures of a remedial character, calculated to improve the social condition of the country. He maintained that those promises had been broken. The people of Ireland had passed through intense suffering, and had borne their afflictions through years of famine with unexampled patience and endurance; and if there were any exciting causes abroad among them to crime and outrage, they must be attributed to the existing relations between landlord and tenant. Clearances and evictions were going on to a fearful
 703 704
 MR. REYNOLDS  sconded the Amendment, and said the right hon. Baronet the Irish Secretary had on this occasion adopted a different course to that of his predecessor in office, when asking permission to suspend the constitution of Ireland, and to curtail the liberties of the Irish people. The habit on former occasions was to relate a long list of crime and outrage; but the habit of the present Secretary for Ireland was to ask permission to re-enact the Act of the 20th December, 1847, and in doing so he said he was free to admit he could give no list of crime and outrage. There were "indications" of such things, the right hon. Gentleman said, but he had not condescended to favour the House with any translation of the word "indication." He had referred to the murder of Mr. Mauleverer; but there was nothing in that case to distinguish it from any of the agrarian murders which had taken place in the country, in proof of which the Lord Lieutenant had not thought it necessary to proclaim the barony where it occured. There was no political agitation in Dublin, nor any disturbance in any part of the country. Yet, because these pleasing results had occurred, the right hon. Gentleman asked the House, with only about forty Members in it, to suspend the constitution for four years. The only excuse he ventured to give for so monstrous a proposi-
 705
 MR. NAPIER , in common with all persons who were interested in the welfare of Ireland, deeply and sincerely lamented that the settlement of the landlord and tenant question had been so long delayed
 706 707
 MR. HUME  rose to order. They wore called upon to deal with Ireland as she now was, and the hon. and learned Gentleman was speaking of what took place ten years ago. Those cases might be true, but he submitted that they had no bearing on the question before them.
 MR. NAPIER  said, that one of those cases had already been referred to. However, he would not persevere. He would support the Government in this measure because he thought it necessary, even though Ireland was now peaceable. They were bound to see that the peace of the country was preserved, to prevent the commission of crime and outrage, and at the same time to protect the rights both of landlords and tenants, which were essential to the preservation of the general rights of property, and the peace and welfare of the country. Under these circumstances he should support the introduction of the present Bill, and he should also give his best assistance in aiding the Government to carry an effective measure for regulating the arrangements between landlord and tenant.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, I am anxious to address the House, because the hon. Gentleman who moved, and the right hon. Gentleman who seconded, the Amendment, have proposed to refuse those powers which the Government ask for, for a limited time, upon grounds which I certainly think will not be considered tenable by this House. What, in fact, they say is this: "You have had a law subsisting for some time, by which you have changed the state of society for the time from one of prevalent crime and outrage, from one of terror on the part of the peaceful inhabitants, from one of murder and assassination, frequently or repeatedly committed, into one of peace, order, and tranquillity; those outrages have been far less frequent than formerly; the
 708 709 710 711 712
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  said, the noble Lord, by consenting that the Bill should be limited to two years, had admitted that to propose to continue it for four years, was a monstrous proposition. This measure was first brought in at a time when many Members felt themselves forced to give an unwilling support to it, but it was to be of short continuance; and when they knew that Ireland was in a state of security and peace from one end to another, he thought it very strange that this Bill should now he brought forward. He was willing to admit that, in the present state of Ireland, there ought to be some law to prevent the unlimited possession of arms; but they ought to give up marking arms, which was useless, and the power of granting licences ought not to be in the hands of magistrates, which served as an incentive to the possession of arms.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he rose for the purpose of making an observation upon a portion, and he believed the principal portion, of the speech of the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin. The hon. and learned Gentleman had given notice some time ago that he would bring forward the case of the murder of Mr. Mauleverer, and that notice appeared on the paper for some days or weeks. He (Mr. Bright) was not aware it was coming on to-day, and he was not prepared to go into it; hut, for the purpose of justifying Mr. M'Ghee, he would state that he had looked through the whole case, and be-
 713
 MR. NAPIER  explained, with regard to the case of Mr. Mauleverer, that he should not have brought it on to-day if other hon. Members had not adverted to it.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he hoped that the hon. Gentleman, considering the lateness of the Session, would consent to the introduction of the Bill, and on the second reading he could state his objections to it. If he would do so, he should have a full opportunity of discussing the merits of the Bill.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  should oppose the progress of the present discussion. This Bill had been moved for without notice, and against the forms of the House, and it was for the purpose of coercion. He wished to adhere to the forms of the House for the purpose of preserving the constitution. They ought not to proceed with this measure without having before them the returns of crime and outrage. Why had those returns not been made?
 SIR G. GREY  said, the only departure from the ordinary practice was, that in ordinary cases leave was given without a debate, and in this case there was a debate.
 MR. SCULLY  said, the right hon. Gentleman had given no answer to the question of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Youghal as to the returns of crimes and outrage last year in Ireland. They were not moved for till the 12th of
 714
 SIR G. GREY  replied, that he was not aware those returns had been moved for at all.
 MR. MOORE  said, he had not the slightest objection that the debate should go on if that was for the convenience of the House; but he did not think it right that the statement of the hon. and learned Member for the city of Dublin should go forth to Ireland, containing, as it did, many erroneous statements, without an answer.
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  said, the statements of the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin were calculated to create so much misapprehension, both in Ireland as well as in this House, that he could not allow the Bill to be introduced till he had attempted to confute them.
 MR. HUME  called upon the Government to consent to the adjournment. The Bill proposed to suspend to a certain extent the constitution in Ireland, and it ought not to be hurried through.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  would then move the adjournment of the House.
 MR. BRIGHT  objected to Irish legislation being carried on at two o'clock in the morning. He had left the House last night on the understanding that what was called the Landlord and Tenant (Ireland) Bill would not be read a second time that night.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he would not bring this Bill forward later than eleven o'clock that night. He begged distinctly to deny that the principle of this Bill was a suspension of the constitution.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  disclaimed any intention to mislead the House as to the second reading of the Landlord and Tenant Bill.
 SIR G. GREY  said, the Bill had been read a second time on the understanding that it would be materially altered in Committee.
 MR. E. ELLIS  had only to say he hoped they were not about to add to the trouble and expense already incurred by ordering these returns to be printed.
 MR. W. PATTEN  quite agreed with the hon. Gentleman opposite that much needless trouble and expense were incurred in the preparation of returns, which were often calculated to subserve no object of public advantage. The returns could not be printed without the consent of the Printing Committee; but this was only one instance out of many of the great expense and trouble which were often incurred for returns equally valueless with the present. He remembered one instance in which no fewer than 30,000 letters had to be written for the purpose of obtaining the information wanted, and when it was obtained it turned out to be different from what had been anticipated by the hon. Member who moved for it.
 MR. ROEBUCK  thought it would be of great advantage to appoint a Committee, or some other authority, to superintend the ordering and preparation of returns. At present, when returns were moved for, it very rarely happened that a dozen Members knew what was passing in consequence of the buzz of conversation in the House, and in a single instant it often happened that the question was put, and the order of the House made, which led to a great expenditure of money and labour. This would be avoided if the previous sanction of a Committee were necessary to the procuring of returns.
 MR. SPEAKER  would remind the House that the Printing Committee some
 716
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, that at present, when the head of a Government department was asked whether he had any objection to lay such and such returns upon the table, he, being considered a party interested, was unwilling to offer any objection, unless there was some public reason for doing so. But it seemed to him that what was principally wanted was some impartial tribunal, who would look into the subject and decide in each case whether it was worth while to incur the necessary expense of procuring the returns.
 MR. DISRAELI  hoped the House would pause before imposing any restrictions upon the obtaining of information. He admitted there were considerable abuses under the present system; but still the abuses were not so great as they were twenty years ago. Considerable improvements had been introduced into the regulations with regard to returns since that time, principally, he believed, through the exertions of the hon. Member for Montrose; and he did not think there was anything at present to call for the interposition of the House. If hon. Members, before moving for returns, would consult the librarian, he believed that all the existing abuses would be checked, if not altogether prevented.
 MR. THORNELY  said, that if Motions for returns were referred to the particular department of Government which was supposed to possess the required information before they were agreed to, he could not help thinking that much expense would be saved.
 MR. HUME  thought that if Members would adhere to the recommendation of the Printing Committee to inquire whether the information required was not already before the House in some shape or other, and if, in addition to this, they would adopt the rule which he always observed never to move for returns unless they had some object in view beyond the mere desire to obtain the information, very much of the expense now incurred would be avoided.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  considered that many returns were made to meet the purposes of the department, rather than with
 717
 MR. COBDEN  said, that the conversation was originated not by the expense of printing, but by the expense of collecting the materials for printing. The rule which he adopted with regard to returns, and which he would recommend to others, was, never to remove for returns unless he meant to take some proceedings with regard to them. He thought there should be a Standing Committee appointed to whom all Motions for returns should be referred before they were ordered, with a view to ascertain, first, the probable expense of collecting the materials, and the time that would be required in collecting them; and, second, whether the information required was not already in existence. The library was already incumbered with returns which Members, with very little pains, might have collected from other documents already published; indeed, he must say, that he believed few persons examined into facts and figures more than he did, and yet he was astonished to find that the current statistical details published by the House contained almost everything he wanted.
 SIR D. NORREYS  said, he had given notice of his intention to ask whether it was intended that the House which they now occupied should stand after the completion of the new one until they had bad an opportunity of trying the effect of the alterations. They should take care that in allowing Mr. Barry to put a new ceiling as an experiment, which might after the vacation be found not to be successful, that they should find the present Houses still remaining, in which they might transact business, instead of finding themselves confined to one which was not so available. He hoped they would not be deprived of the present House till it was known the new one was available.
 SIR D. NORREYS  agreed with the hon. Member who had last spoken that some responsibility was required. Mr. Barry had had the uncontrolled expenditure of the largest sum of money that any one architect had ever had before. Well, were not the Committee ashamed of the result? ["No!"] Why, there had been an universal acknowledgment that the New House was a failure. He blamed Mr. Barry for not having placed himself in the position of adviser to the House, and presented such a report as would have shown the House what they were doing when they were incurring useless expenditure. The architect ought to consider himself like a physician, morally responsible to his patient for the result of his practice. He did not blame Mr. Barry for the deficient accommodation of strangers; because
 738
 MR. J. A. SMITH  said, with reference to what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer respecting the evidence of the last Committee not having been laid before the House, that this Committee had substantially sat for three several Sessions, and had taken a mass of evidence on the whole. The reports of the evidence taken in 1848 and 1849, both of them very voluminous, had been laid upon the table of the House, and the report of the evidence taken in the present year, although considerable in bulk, did not, he assured the House, contain a single fact upon which there could be a difference of opinion, or which materially varied from the facts contained in the other two reports. This last report might pos-
 746 747 l. 748 l., l. l. l., l., l. s. 749 l., l., l. 750
 MR. J. A. SMITH  wished to explain a single sentence in the report, which gave rise to a misconception. In the third paragraph, it was stated that Mr. Tidd Pratt decided a claim of 4,274 l. 753
 LORD C. HAMILTON  fully agreed in the opinions put forward by the right hon. Member for Dublin upon this subject. He believed that there had been important statements made by the accountants in respect to this matter, all of which had not as yet been placed in the hands of Members. These and all the evidence that they had on the subject, fully justified the grant that was proposed. The Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt, in 1844, allowed the poor unfortunate inhabitants of Dublin to put their moneys into the bank, when they well knew that it was insolvent, and that the trustees were no longer responsible. The Commissioners were then fully aware of the great deficiency that had been occasioned in the bank, and yet they did not take any measures to warn the public of the danger they incurred. The sham arbitrators appointed by Mr. Tidd Pratt were boys 15 years of age, who were told to disagree in order that Mr. Tidd Pratt might come in and settle the disputes. Mr. Tidd Pratt considered he was authorised to give advice, but not to investigate the affairs of the bank. He contended that an individual officially called in, had no right to put himself in hostility to any party. He could tell the House the present debate would not end the case, for when the additional evidence was laid before the House, he was satisfied the sense of justice which hon. Members possessed would induce them to support the vote.
 LORD D. STUART  agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Manchester that there should be more accommodation for strangers, and said, he could see no good, but great inconvenience, in the practice of making them withdraw during divisions. Last night, a division was called, and strangers had withdrawn, a Minister got up to make a speech, Members observed that the reporters had withdrawn, and, of course, began to cry out, "Gal-
 736
 LORD J. RUSSELL  would state what had occurred on the subject. He had informed Her Majesty, upon the report of the Duke of Hamilton, the keeper of Holyrood Palace, that the apartments occupied by the Countess of Strathmore were vacant, owing to the decease of that lady; and he asked Her Majesty whether She would wish to occupy those apartments during Her visits to Scotland. Her Majesty informed him that she would wish to occupy those apartments on her way to or from Balmoral. He (Lord J. Russell) then stated, as it was his business to do, that a small outlay would be required for repairs, and be thought, after such an intimation on the part of Her Majesty, that it was the duty of Her Ministers to take care that the rooms were water-tight and fit for Her Majesty's occupation.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that, after what had fallen from Mr. Speaker, it was better the House should not proceed with the consideration of the Bill. He would therefore move that the order for the second reading be discharged, and his right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland would immediately move for leave, to which he (Lord J. Russell) apprehended the House would not object, to bring in the measure again.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the hon. Member for Montrose looked with a proper jealousy on any grant of public money, but he thought he would see that this was not one to be complained of. It was not the commencement of a large expenditure; but there were some rooms vacant in Holyrood Palace, which had been occupied by the Countess of Strathmore. Her Majesty would provide the furniture for these
 725
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  said, that whatever might be thought of the accommodation provided for Members in the New House, he could not say much in favour of the accommodation which was likely to be afforded to strangers, which he thought would be found wholly insufficient. It was a matter for regret that those who came to hear the debates should find in the new less accommodation than in the old House. There were sittings for sixty-four visitors in the New House, but in that House he believed the number was greater. There were at that moment sixty-four persons in the gallery.
 MR. STAFFORD  asked whether a Bill for the removal of Smithfield market would be brought before them this Session?
 MR. STAFFORD  regretted that the hon. Member for Montrose had not made some distinct proposition, because, upon his showing, the New House of Commons was altogether unfit for the accommodation of Members. The hon. Gentleman had said this was a vote of which the House ought to be ashamed; and that appeared to be the opinion not only of hon. Members generally, but also of the community. But wherever they attempted to place the blame, it was shifted to some one else. If the blame was charged on Mr. Barry, he charged it upon a Committee, the Committee charged it upon another Committee, both the Committees put it upon the Woods and Forests, the Woods and Forests charged it on the Government, and the Government upon that House. There was no one who would not acknowledge that the proceedings with regard to this building had been most unfortunate. They had spent upon it nearly 2,000,000 l., 729 l., l.
 MR. DISRAELI  felt a little inclined to object to the hon. Member's proposed "vote of confidence" at this late period of the Session, and to its being introduced without notice. He wished to remind the Committee that it was now the 2nd of August, and yet they had been debating for two hours a Motion upon which no Amendment had been moved. Considering the present state of public business, he thought it highly desirable that this conversation—for it was nothing else—should cease. If, however, there was any such mysterious machinery about the New House as that to which the hon. Baronet the Member for Mallow had alluded, and by which an "Aye" would become a "No," the Government ought certainly to take the subject into their consideration. Such a machinery certainly should not be intro-
 739
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he had already protested against this interposition between labour and capital. He had had communications from several coalowners, who had represented that this interference with their property would be seriously injurious, and suggested that the measure be postponed till next Session. It was a piece of hasty and ill-considered legislation.
 MR. PACKE  thought the accommodation for Members in the New House was inadequate. During the debate on Irish legislation, in 1841, there were more than 600 Members assembled in that House, and if so large a number were collected in the New House, no place would be found for them.
 MR. PACKE  knew that in Whitehall Chapel, where formerly not a syllable could be heard, the congregation now, since drapery had been hung about it, heard perfectly; the echo was destroyed.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, his attention had only just been directed to the clauses in question, and they appeared to him to sustain the view taken by the hon. Member for Kerry. The Lords of the Treasury were authorised to issue certain sums out of the Consolidated Fund, which were to be repaid by the district. This being so, he thought the Bill ought to be laid aside, and another brought in.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, there were parties in the House—a very important and useful body, deserving every consideration—who ought to have opportunities of hearing and stating correctly what took
 727 l.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  begged to ask whether Her Majesty had made any request for this grant, or had any knowledge that such a vote would be proposed?
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, no one could be more anxious than he was to assent to any measures that might promote the comfort and convenience of any branches of the Royal Family, but he thought this was a regular job, got up by parties in Scotland. He would therefore move that the vote be reduced by 800 l.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that after the noble Lord's explanation he would not say another word against the vote.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  assured the hon. Baronet that it was not intended to pull down the present House of Commons, for the New House would not be fit for occupation by Members until next Easter, and therefore until that time they would continue to sit in the present House. A plan of alterations had been submitted to the Committee by Mr. Barry, which would be distributed to Members. The Committee were of opinion that, under this revised plan, the New House would afford more accommodation than was at present afforded. The only matter about which there was any doubt was as to the hearing in the New House. The Committee had examined several witnesses on that point, but they certainly had not been much enlightened by their evidence. It was, however, intended to try certain experiments with a view to improve the hearing in the New House.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that it would be a great convenience to Her Majesty in passing through Scotland to be able to sleep in Holyrood, and the apartments which had been given up were to be prepared for that purpose.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  could not avoid expressing his regret that the New Houses had cost so large a sum of money, and that the chamber designed for the House of Commons appeared unfitted for its purpose, both in point of accommodation and of hearing; but he did not think the discussion that had taken place was likely to lead to any practical conclusion. Now, with regard to the accommodation, a Committee of twenty-one Members had been appointed a short time ago, who had made most diligent inquiries on that subject. The plan to which he had before referred was the result of their inquiries, and he believed the sum asked for would be the utmost amount it would be necessary to expend to provide adequate accommodation for the Members. Under that plan more accommodation would be given to Members, both on the floor and in the galleries, than was afforded in the present House, and amply sufficient, he thought, for as many Members as were likely generally to attend. He agreed with the hon. Member for North Northamptonshire as to the great convenience and accommodation of the House in which they were then assembled, and be thought if they had as much, or rather more accommodation in the new House, they would have no reason to complain. He wished he could speak with equal confidence on the subject of hearing; but he must fairly
 730 l. l.,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  stated that it was proposed, in the first place, to remove the wood screen at each end two feet backwards. [Mr. BRIGHT: And the reporters' seats.] He believed they also would be removed two feet back. [The right hon. Gentleman then proceeded to point out upon a plan on the table various alterations proposed to be made for the convenience of Members in the means of access to different parts of the House, and in some other respects.] No Members would sit in the south gallery, but it would be appropriated to distinguished visitors and strangers. The side galleries would be widened, to allow two rows of seats.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that a Committee of the House, consisting of most experienced Members, had investigated the subject, and they had come to the conclusion that this was the best mode of affording the requisite accommodation.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  begged pardon of his hon. and gallant Friend, but he thought it better to wait, and give one answer to the numerous questions that were put to him. He agreed that Mr. Barry was entitled to a much larger remuneration than the 25,000 l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  should be very glad to take the money in any way most agreeable to the hon. Member, fie regarded himself as responsible that the money voted by the House should be applied in the manner detailed in the estimate; and he considered the hon. Member for Lancaster and his colleagues in the Commission responsible that no deviation took place from the plans as they were approved by the Treasury.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the circumstances under which the depositors came before the House were very painful. A Committee had been sitting on the subject of savings banks' defalcations, of which the right hon. the Lord Mayor of Dublin and the hon. Member for Kerry had been zealous, able, and indefatigable members, whose fault it certainly was not if the result was not so favourable to the depositors as they might have expected; and the Committee had reported to the House, and had represented the peculiar circumstances which rendered the case of the Cuffe-street hank different from that of any of the others. It was contended that if the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt and the Chancellor of the Exchequer had taken steps to interfere in the affairs of the bank some years ago, when their attention had been directed to them, a different result might have taken place; and there certainly was a probability that these losses would not have occurred if they had done so. In other cases there had been the grossest negligence, not to say worse, on the part of the trustees. In one instance, proceedings would be taken against the actuaries, father and son, who could not account for money in their hands. The Committee had recommended Government to contribute a grant to relieve the loss occasioned by the stoppage of the Cuffe-street bank, which had fallen on the poorest class of persons in Dublin, and who would otherwise be exposed to certain ruin. The sum proposed would enable Government to pay those poor people about 10s. in the pound. That was the extent to which they proposed to go. He hoped, under all the circumstances connected with the recommendation of the Committee, the House would not refuse the grant.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, that as to the first question of the right hon. Baronet, he had to state the Committee had been unanimous in recommending the case of the Cuffe-street depositors to the favourable consideration of the Government. The majority of the Committee had been of opinion that no such case had been made out with respect to the other banks. As to the question of the right hon. Baronet regarding the principle on which the Government had acted, it certainly had not been the recommendation of the Committee that a sum which would give every depositor 10 s.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that it was to be looked upon as a contribution to be paid by the public.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the great distinction was this—that the Cuffe-street savings bank had been insolvent 20 years ago, but had concealed its affairs from successive Governments. In 1838, however, a statement of its affairs had been laid before the Government; but the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer at the time, had not felt they had sufficient power to apply a remedy, and to compel the bank to wind up its affairs, but had merely recommended an investigation into the accounts, which the bank refused. In 1845, when the deficiency amounted to 25,000 l., 743
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there was no pretence for saying that in the case of the Rochdale bank the Government was at all implicated. The question there was one of pure sympathy and humanity, and the case was not be distinguished from that of any other savings bank failure. The case of the Cuffe-street bank was a very strong one. The fact of the deficiency was laid before the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt; in other words, before the Chancellor of the Exchequer of the day, and they did not think it advisable to take any step. It was that circum-
 759 Cheers.
 MR. MORRIS  would support the vote, because he hoped the liberality of the Government would not be limited to this case.
 COLONEL DUNNE  thought it would be advisable to postpone the vote, if they hoped to receive further evidence on the subject. But it was admitted that no such evidence was anticipated; for all the evidence that could be shown upon the subject was lying before them for a whole twelvemonth. The report distinctly stated that fault had been committed by the au-
 756
 MR. G. J. HEATHCOTE  wished to put a question to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, respecting the correspondence which had taken place between the Government and the corporation of London consequent on the recommendation of the commissioners in favour of the removal of Smithfield market, and also as the course Government proposed to take in the matter?
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  must protest against the course adopted by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer in this matter, first in the formation of the Committee, and next in the proceedings which they had taken. On what ground was this money demanded? As a charitable donation, as recorded. But if hon. Gentlemen would go over the whole ground, and take all the circumstances into consideration, particularly the mode in which the opinion was encouraged among the working classes that they had the Government security for their deposits in these savings banks, they must, he thought, come to the conclusion that a right to compensation was tenable, when, by the operation of institutions to which the working classes had been taught to look for support in age or sickness, and to which the Government had given their sanction, they had been brought to poverty and ruin. It would take too long a time to go through the whole statement of this case, but he was in possession of facts which, if he could detail them, would convince the House of the justice of the claims of these depositors. It was for that reason he had appealed to the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer to defer this vote; and his belief was, that if the attention of the House and of the public were properly directed to the whole facts of the case, the result would be a strong support of these claims. If the plea of the right hon. Gentleman was not for charity, but, as the right hon. Baronet had said, upon equity, in what position did the Government stand? When the question was first mooted, the right hon. Gentleman had opposed it in every possible way, and had interposed all the delay he was able in the way of any inquiry at all. For week after week, and month after month, the right hon. Gentleman had met the proposition of the Lord Mayor of Dublin with appeals to him to postpone his Motion for a Committee. At last he (Mr. Herbert) put a Motion on the paper on a supply night, to move a resolution, and the right hon. Gentleman then acceded to the proposal, and a Committee was appointed. That Committee reported at the end of the Session that they had not had time to make the inquiry, and recommended the institution of another investigation. In the next Session, the Lord Mayor of Dublin moved
 744 l., s. s. 745
 MR. LACY  thought it would be well to try the effect of hanging up a number of banners in the House, and placing drapery to the windows.
 MR. WYLD  reminded the House that upwards of 2,000 persons every year lost their lives in consequence of the ill ventilation of the mines, and that more than two-thirds of the coalowners of England had expressed their opinions in favour of the present Bill.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he thought the House did not properly treat those whom they chose to call "strangers." He thought that the turning of them out whenever there was a division, was an useless and almost barbarous custom, and there ought to be accommodation for a greater number than there was at present. Apart from feelings of private curiosity, he believed there was a great public advantage in allowing to be present as many as they could find accommodation for. They came and understood the forms in which the business of the House was conducted, many of them most admirable forms; they had created in them a strong interest in public affairs, which was communicated to
 735
 MR. BRIGHT  said, nothing had been done by Government to disabuse the public mind of the impression that prevailed, that Government were responsible to the savings banks. The Commissioners of the National Debt had connived at the deception, and were to a certain extent answerable for what had occurred. There was a great difference between the case of some banks that were spoken of, and the Cuffe-street bank. The state of the law was such as to make these savings banks in reality little less than a trap for the people who subscribed to them. He agreed with the hon. Member for Rochdale in thinking that there was an universal belief that the Government were responsible for the sums which they deposited. Speaking of the Government and the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt, he must
 758 l. l l l l l l l l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. ALDERMAN HUMPHERY  said, the present House was so small, that it held out an encouragement to vice; because Members who could not find room in the House went into the smoking-room, where they would not go if they could find room in the House, and some went into the library. They might see numbers in the library, where they sat and slept. That House was not sufficient for the Members, and the New House would only hold half the number. The hon. Baronet the Mem-
 734
 MR. ALDERMAN HUMPHERY  suggested they should draw up plans and estimates of the proposed alterations, and obtain the opinion of some four builders upon the likelihood of their being executed for the proposed sum.
 MR. ALDERMAN HUMPHERY  would like to know whether the Government had got estimates for all these alterations, and whether they amounted to 8,600 l.
 MR. ALDERMAN HUMPHERY  inquired what was to be done for the 8,600 l. l.
 MR. REYNOLDS  would maintain that the Cuffe-street case was distinct from all the others, because in that case both the local trustees and the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt had violated their duty, the former in not sending every year a true and full statement of the affairs of the bank as required by the Act of Parliament, and the latter in not closing their account with the bank, when they found the Act was not complied with. If they had done so, the bank would have been obliged to close its affairs, and the depositors would have been in a much better position than they were in now. Having served on the Committee during three Sessions, perhaps the Committee would allow him to make a few observations, and they should be but very few after the able speech of the Chairman of the Committee, who had left him but very little to say. He desired to address a few words to them, because he believed he was able to give a satisfactory answer to the question put by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon. The right hon. Gentleman had asked this question—upon what principle had the Committee, or the Chancellor of the Exchequer, recommended the payment of 30,000 l. 751 l.; s. d., s. 752 l. l. l., l. l. s. l.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, he had remonstrated against the Government proceeding with the present measure. It had been introduced without any notice to the citizens of Dublin, or any person officially connected with that city. He had felt it his duty to protest against it, but knew perfectly well that he had no chance of defeating it; and he could only congratulate the Government on the new ally whom they had acquired in his hon. Colleague, who would, nevertheless, he apprehended, be called to account by his constituents on his return to Ireland. He believed a more wanton or unreasonable attack had never been made on the franchise of the people.
 MR. WAWN  said, the Bill was decidedly objectionable in its present shape.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, the Irish Members had argued the question as if the depositors had an equitable claim on the Government. He had always considered that the depositors had only an equitable claim on the trustees—they had neither an equitable nor a legal claim on Government. It had been urged that the Commissioners of the National Debt were to blame; but hon. Members should recollect that the Commissioners had no power over the trustees. The Commissioners had over and over again urged the trustees to close the bank. The trustees would not consent, and the Commissioners had no power to compel them. If the money was given by way of compassion, then the same principle must be extended to all the defaulting banks in Ireland and England also.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the House was asked to give this money without laying down any principle, or stating any definite ground on which the vote was to be granted. The report of the Committee gave no hint of the course that ought to be pursued. They admitted there was no legal claim on the country, and they simply left the matter in the hands of the Government to adopt that course which they might think to be the best. A six hours' consideration was not sufficient to enable Members to come to a decision on the subject. If
 757
 MR. HUME  said, if the contract had been broken, it had been broken by the alterations made by Mr. Barry himself, and on that account he ought not to be paid. The late Sir Robert Peel penned the resolution of the Committee, and it was sent to the four architects before it was determined that Mr. Barry should build the House; and they were informed that that was the sum the architect would be paid. The Committee gave to Mr. Barry the number that was to be provided for, and the number of visitors, three times the number accommodated in the present House; and it was quite discreditable to find that an architect who received those instructions, both as regarded the number of visitors and of Members, should so completely have failed in every respect as he had done. They had heard of Committees. Who had appeared before the Committees and advocated alterations? Mr. Barry. Mr. Barry had found it convenient to get Committees appointed, to recommend alterations, and to be answerable for them, he receiving a percentage on the cost. It might be the fault of Mr. Barry with regard to ventilation; but the dispute between Mr. Barry and Dr. Reid was most discreditable. He agreed in the opinion that had been expressed, that the Chief Commissioner of Woods and Forests had already too much to do to undertake this matter, and he thought it ought to be committed to one individual, who would give his undivided attention to it.
 MR. HUME  thought this was a vote at which they had great reason to be ashamed. They had already spent a million and a half, a considerable portion of that sum having been expended upon a chamber for the Members of the other House which turned out to be altogether unfit for its purpose. Then, with regard to the New House of Commons, if there had not been data upon which to proceed, if there had not been opportunities of ascertaining the number of persons to be accommodated, and the space which could be appropriated, there might have been an excuse for the result. And yet the House was still called upon to waste the public money upon a man who had shown himself utterly incapable of adapting the building to the purpose for which it was intended. He did not deny that Mr. Barry had acquired a character for high taste in architecture; but the question was, were his acquirements practically useful? On their way to the New House of Commons they had
 728
 MR. HUME  thought, that in these days of quick transit, and considering what good hotels there were in Edinburgh, they were commencing an ill-advised expense. Sixteen hundred pounds appeared a small sum; but the Queen could not occupy those apartments without four times that expense being incurred. He thought they were going too far as regarded Royalty and Royal palaces, and they were not the friends of Royalty who brought such acts before the people in these times of depression. If he was satisfied that this sum would be the whole expense he would not say a word, but when it was remembered that when the Queen was in London there was an allowance of 192,000 l. l. l.
 MR. HUME  said, he was far from imputing any blame to Her Majesty, as the noble Lord seemed to suppose he had done. He greatly approved of the tours Her Majesty had taken in various parts of the kingdom; but, as a very liberal sum was allowed to defray the Royal expenditure, and as when Her Majesty was in Scotland her expenditure in this country would be diminished, he had thought this vote objectionable. As it seemed, however, that the grant was merely intended to place the apartments in tenantable
 726
 MR. HUME  wanted to know if Holyrood was to be fitted up as a palace?
 MR. LOCKE  feared it would be impossible to legislate satisfactorily upon a question on which so much diversity of opinion existed with regard to the preservation of life in mines. He had no objection to the passing of the present measure, as it was as little objectionable as anything that could be devised, although he did not think that the mortality would be lessened by it.
 MR. NAPIER  conceived the Commissioners were liable for the debts of the bank. It was not a matter of mistake; it was a question of duty; and, therefore, they should be held responsible as far as they could be. They were required to publish the state of the banks. If they neglected to do this, and if the public sustained injury from that neglect, according to the first principles of law they were liable. He would, therefore, vote for the 30,000 l., s.
 MR. NAPIER , as one who was well qualified to speak as to the capacities of the New House for hearing in, could say, that in consequence of the alterations, he had found great facilities in hearing when the House met in the new chamber on last Wednesday.
 MR. FORSTER  hoped that the plan of the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone would not be acted upon, but that the question should be left to Mr. Barry himself.
 MR. FORSTER  believed that in nine cases out of ten the fatal accidents which occurred were attributable to the men themselves, and not to the coalownere.
 MR. B. OSBORNE : It is a question for this House and the country to decide upon.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  retained the opinion which he had always held, namely, that the New House would be unable to contain the Members, and that they would not be able to hear in it. The only thing the House was fit for was to hold the Exhibition of 1851, and he thought it should be devoted to that purpose. They all knew that Committees were of no use, and nothing would come of appointing one to inquire into the circumstances of the case. He wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer a financial question, whether he had come to any determination as to the payment of the architect? That question had been going on for many years, and appeared to be still an undecided one. The original contract with Mr. Barry was broken. The original contract with that gentleman was for 25,000 l. l. l., l.,
 MR. B. OSBORNE  was inclined to think that the acoustic properties of the present House could not be particularly good; for he had put a question some minutes since to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, which did not seem to have been heard.
 MR. SPOONER  wished to know whether the ventilation of the New House was to be under the control of one person, or whether two were engaged in it?
 MR. SPOONER  said, that 800 l.
 MR. T. GREENE  said, that the ventilation of the chamber of the New House and the rooms immediately adjoining was to be under the control of Dr. Reid. The
 737
 MR. T. GREENE  said, his hon. Friend had to go back a long time, as far as 1841, for an instance in which above 600 Members had assembled in that House; but none could say that on ordinary occasions that House was too small for the Members who met in it. Allowing twenty inches for each seat, there was accommodation in that House for 446 Members, and on the same calculation there would be room for 468 Members in the new House. If they made it large enough to hold all the Members, it would be found utterly unfit for the transaction of business.
 MR. WAKLEY  thought the temporary roof had caused a great improvement in the hearing. The New House had not had the trial to which it was fairly entitled, and every one knew it was more difficult in a new building than in one accustomed to sound. No experiments had been made on the capacity of hearing in the House; and if the House was hung round with flags, as had been suggested, he thought a change for the better would take place. Where there was so much carved surface as the New House presented, the sound would always be more or less broken; and the reason why they heard so well in the present House was, because it offered plane surfaces on all sides, which reflected the sound directly. He proposed that they should sit in the New House until the end of the Session, in order to give it a fair trial.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  had a deep interest in this question on account of the constituency he represented. The question was an English question as well as an Irish question, and as you treated Ireland, so you must treat England. He admitted there was no legal claim on Government, but there was the next highest claim—the claim of equity and morality. He thought the sum ought to be paid in full.
 SIR B. HALL  begged to inform the noble Lord that there was accommodation for only fifty-three visitors in the gallery of that House.
 SIR B. HALL  said, that when Mr. Abercromby was chosen Speaker, 626 Members voted, 310 on the one side and 316 on the other; and the division was not then taken in the lobbies, but every Members was told in that House.
 SIR B. HALL  believed the New House would afford ample accommodation for the number of Members likely to attend. Out of the 656, there were not, perhaps, 300 who attended constantly, and if there was ascommodation for a great portion of the Members outside the body of the House, the business would go on quite as well. If there was accommodation on the floor for 320, and for 150 more elsewhere, it would be sufficient. The Committee desired Mr. Barry the other day to give them an estimate of what would be the fullest and amplest cost of the alterations; they requested to have an outside sum mentioned, so that they might not be called upon to provide anything more; and this estimate had been handed in under those directions. He (Sir B. Hall) would suggest that the whole matter should be placed under the control of the Chief Commissioner of Woods and Forests—no man was more fit for it; and that he should
 732
 MR. GROGAN  thought it was unnecessary to discuss the claims of the depositors, as the whole affair had been so fully discussed before. Why postpone the vote when the case had been fully gone into, and when so much suffering would be caused by delay?
 SIR G. GREY : Not this Session.
 SIR G. GREY  said, it was intimated on a former occasion that the Government concurred with the recommendations of the commission respecting the removal of Smithfield market to another place. A copy of that report had been sent by the Government to the corporation of London, on the 24th of June last, calling their attention to the recommendations contained in it as to the discontinuance of Smithfield market, and desiring to know if the corporation were willing to engage in the construction of a new market. An answer had been received only to-day from the City Remembrancer, which he would read:—
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  complained that no one was responsible for the money now being expended. The responsibility of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was limited to the proper appropriation of the money voted. There was also no responsibility with the Commission of which Earl de Grey was at the head, because they had no power.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  believed that his position was that of almost every Member of the House who had not been a Member also of the Select Committee to which the question of the savings banks had been referred. Until he had received his Parliamentary papers that morning, he had not the least conception that a vote of that kind would be proposed that evening. He had not read the evidence presented in the former Session, and he had already remarked that the proceedings of the Committee in the present Session were not yet printed or in the hands of Members. They were, therefore, under great obligations to the hon. Chairman of the Committee for giving them some light into the nature of the inquiry conducted by him in the course of the present Session; also into the proceedings of the Committee, and into the differences of opinion which existed among the members of the Committee. The right hon. Gentleman the Lord Mayor of Dublin said he was prepared, with thanks, to receive the vote, as an instalment of the debt due by the public. He (Sir J. Graham) had the greatest possible respect for the right hon. Gentleman and his constituents, but the British Parliament did not require his thanks. He represented his constituents, and said his claim was a just one. The right hon. Gentleman was satisfied with the decision of the Committee, as being more just than he had expected; and he hoped the House would disappoint him in the same manner, and do strict justice. If their claim was a just one, it would be met in the spirit of justice by the British Parliament. The question then they had to determine was one of very great importance, and they were asked to determine it, if not upon insufficient evidence, at least
 754 l., l. l. 755
 SIR J. GRAHAM : Was that contribution to be looked on as a matter of charity, or as a matter of justice? If of charity, he regarded the case as involving a most dangerous principle—if as a matter of justice, he must say, as the case stood, he held it as one of great difficulty and importance. He repudiated altogether the proposition that they should give funds out of the public Exchequer on the grounds of charity. On the other hand, if the claim was founded in justice and equity, it ought to be paid in full. It was unworthy of the British public to compound for 10 s. 742 l.,
 SIR J. GRAHAM : On the part of the Government, or on the part of the British public?
 SIR J. GRAHAM  wished for a more detailed explanation of those peculiar circumstances. The House was called on to grant this vote without reading the evidence, or seeing the report of the proceedings of the Committee. First, he would ask, were they unanimous in their recommendation? Next, why did the right hon.
 741 l. s.
 MR. HUTT  supported the Bill. So far as his information went, the coalowners of the north of England were unanimously in favour of it. He should like to know who the coalowners were who had represented to the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire that this Bill would be injurious to their establishments? All he could say was that the coalowners in two of the most important counties in England took a very different view of it.
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  agreed that it was impossible to expect the First Commissioner of Woods and Forests to undertake the duty suggested for him, and thought the Government ought to take upon themselves the control of the expenditure. Surely the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who came down to propose votes of the public money, might see that it was expended for the benefit of the public. He ought to call to his aid some scientific man to guide him in the future expenditure of money. He wished to put a question with regard to the ventilation of the New House and the Committee-rooms. He had now taken a share in the business of Committees for four Sessions, yet the ventilation of the Committee-rooms remained in the same defective state of which so many complaints had been made. The other day he saw five enormous boilers on one side of the court-yard, and he was told there were six others on the opposite side. He believed they were intended for the ventilation of one part of the new building. The expense would be enormous, and he did hope that before it was incurred the Government would take care that the money was well laid out.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  hoped that the 2 1. s.
 MR. BROTHERTON  also promised to turn over a fresh leaf next Session. He would propose at the commencement of it that at twelve o'clock every night Mr. Speaker leave the chair, and thus he would effectually aid the views of the hon. Member for Montrose. The late hours this Session had injured the health of many old Members, and therefore it was high time to improve the present system.
 MR. HENLEY  suggested that there should be a proper provision made for the inspection of works of this description from time to time.
 MR. HUME  thought the price should be so reduced as to bring the work within the reach of the bulk of the people. He suggested that a copy of the work should be sent to every public library.
 MR. HUME  said, that in lieu of the 385,000 l. 762
 MR. COBDEN  expressed a hope that the works of defence already begun would be reviewed, with a view to diminished expenditure. He believed that many of the works begun in a time of panic, when there was a species of engineering madness in the country, might with great propriety be discontinued. Why should the immense sum of 513,000 l.
 MR. HUTT  took the opportunity of calling attention to the want of liberality in the publication and distribution of the historical work called  Monumenta Historica Britannica, l. 1. s. 1. s.
 MR. J. A. SMITH  said, that before the hon. and learned Attorney General rose to make his Motion, he wished to put a question to Mr. Speaker, which he considered of some importance with reference to the proceedings of that day. The House would recollect that the hon. Member for London came to the table of the House the other day, and took the oaths in the form which was most binding on his conscience, and that, having done so, be signed, in accordance with the Act of Parliament, the declaration in writing, and left it upon the table of the House. Now, he wished to know why that important fact was omitted in the Votes, when all the other proceedings were so minutely described?
 MR. SPEAKER : The answer which I have to give to the hon. Member's question is, that I considered the proceeding to which he has referred as informal and irregular, and that on that account it could not be recorded in the Votes. The House will remember that, according to its usual practice, Members, in the first place, take the oaths of allegiance, supremacy, and abjuration, and then subscribe in a book prepared by the clerk the oath of abjuration and the declaration of qualification; and that, without having signed the oath of abjuration and the declaration of qualification, no Member can
 770
 MR. HUME  asked whether, if the paper had been prepared by the clerk, and signed, as in the case of Mr. Pease, the hon. Member for London would have been allowed to take his seat?
 MR. SPEAKER : I must remind the hon. Member, that in the case to which he has alluded, the House decided that Mr. Pease should be allowed to make an affirmation to the effect of the oath; whereas, in the present case, the House came to no decision whatever, except that Baron de Rothschild should be allowed to take the oaths in the mode most binding upon his conscience.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, in rising to propose to the House to adopt the two Resolutions of which I have given notice, and which appear in the Votes of the day, I have to observe that these are separate and distinct resolutions. And although I propose, in the observations I shall have to make, to comment on both of the resolutions, and to explain to the House my motives for proposing them, yet the House must bear in mind that they are distinct—that they will be put separately by you, Sir, from the chair—that it is perfectly competent to any hon. Member to reject the first resolution, and to accede to the second—and that it is, in fact, by no means necessary for the adoption of the one, that the other also should be adopted. Now, in the first place, it appears to me to be essential that the House should come to some decision upon this subject. After the statement just read of what took place at the table of the House when Baron de Rothschild came forward to take his seat, the House cannot, I think, with propriety, avoid coming to a determination upon this question; and I believe that, in point of fact, it would be nothing more than to treat what has taken place as a sort of mockery if the House should not come to a decision with regard to the claim of Baron de Rothschild to take his seat after he has gone through the form of taking the oaths in the peculiar manner which appears by the record of it preserved in our journals. He calls on us to decide that he is, in consequence thereof, entitled to take his seat: we cannot, consistently with what is due to the dignity of this House, elude this question, or avoid expressing a direct decision on the point which the Baron de Rothschild calls on us to determine. Besides this, unless we do so, how can the officers of the House act, or what direction can be given to them in the case of Baron de Rothschild present-
 772 773 "No person that is now or that hereafter shall be a Member of the House of Commons shall vote or sit during any debate in the said House of Commons, after the Speaker is chosen, until such Member shall from time to time have taken respectively the abjuration oath aforesaid, instead of the oath of abjuration, which by law ought now to be taken." 774 775 776 777 l. 778 779 in terrorem 780 781 "That the Baron Lionel Nathan de Rothschild is not entitled to vote in this House, or to sit in this House during any debate, until he shall take the Oath of Abjuration in the form appointed by law."
 MR. HUME  said, he had always been of opinion that the law would allow the Baron de Rothschild to come to the table and take his seat, acting fearless of consequences. After having heard Her Majesty's Attorney General declare that the law, as it stood, was so monstrous and absurd in and out of the House, he thought it lamentable to think that its amendment should have been so long delayed. Where, he should like to know, had been the talents of all the lawyers on both sides of the House for so long a period? The question was, was the Baron de Rothschild entitled to take his seat, he having taken the oaths? The Act said that the oath of abjuration should be taken "on the true faith of a Christian." It was provided by the 13th of Geo. III., chap. 7, that whenever a Jew appeared to take the oath of abjuration, the clause, "on the true faith of a Christian," should be omitted in his case. Now, the hon. Member for the city of London had appeared at that table to take the oaths, and the provision ought to extend to his case. But, even if any doubt remained, it had been entirely set at rest by Lord Denrnan's Act of the 1st and 2nd Victoria, chap. 105, authorising every natural-born subject to swear in the form most binding on his conscience. That Act had so completely removed every doubt from his (Mr. Hume's) mind, and his conviction on the point was so strong, that he had not hesitated to protest against the withdrawal of Baron de Rothschild after he had taken the oath in the form which he declared most binding on his conscience. Nay, more than that, so strongly was he convinced he was right, that had he been in the position of Baron de Rothschild, he would have taken his seat, subject to all the penalties declared to be involved in his doing so, satisfied that if brought before a court of law, the Judges would decide that
 782
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, he had a communication to make to the House with reference to the Amendment of which he gave notice on Friday. He had had a conference with Baron de Rothschild that morning; and, as he found that it was not the wish of the hon. Member to go through what he must call the solemn mockery of calling counsel to the bar to argue against a decision which had already been arrived at by those who thought they could command a majority in that House, he would now withdraw his Amendment that counsel be heard in the case. Upon the Government, therefore, would rest the responsibility of coming to that conclusion to which they invited the House to come. But to that conclusion he trusted the House would never come. Much rather would he see the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montrose carried, though, he must say for himself, that he did not concur in the doubts—
 MR. HUME : No more do I; but, nevertheless, doubts exist in the minds of others.
 MR. C. ANSTEY : With that understanding, he accepted the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montrose, although he did not see why they could not follow the course pursued in Mr. Pease's case. Mr. Pease was admitted by Resolution, and an Act afterwards passed declaring not what the law was, but what it should be. That course ought to have been pursued here. The Baron de Rothschild should have been seated, and afterwards a declaratory Act passed and tendered to the other House, to enable them to confirm the decision. However, he was prepared to take his hon. Friend's Amendment as it stood, and he should certainly vote for it. But, with regard to his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General, he must confess that he was more than ever deeply involved in the mazes of astonish-
 784 "Every person born in this country possessed all the rights of a fellow-citizen. The hon. Baronet stated that it would be requisite for him first to have the qualification which made it necessary to give him the means of obtaining those rights, he (Mr. Romilly) entirely dissented from that proposition. It was utterly futile to attempt to hold that any one born within these realms was not entitled to all the rights and privileges of a citizen. The burden of the proof that any particular class or individual was not so entitled lay upon those who denied this right to citizenship. It was for them to make out that those persons who were born in this country, in exactly the same situation in all other respects with the rest of their fellow-subjects, were not entitled to those rights and privileges, and to participate in those honours which belonged to and were participated in by the rest of their fellow-subjects." l. res angusta domi 785 786 787 "It is an entire mistake to suppose that the words of an Act of Parliament, that the fag-end of a declaration, can ensure religious motives in legislators, or religious legislation in Parliament….You are merely required to make the declaration 'on the true faith of a Christian.' There are no direct words of exclusion, but you leave exclusion to be inferred." 788
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, in the previous discussions which have taken place upon this subject, the deliberations were of so strictly legal a character that I have refrained from presuming to intrude myself upon the attention of the House. But the resolutions now upon the table have departed from that limited character which has hitherto characterised the propositions submitted to our consideration. The resolutions, indeed, which the hon. and learned Attorney General has brought forward, comprehend one of law and one of policy. I have, therefore, thought that perhaps the House would excuse me if, under the particular circumstances, I ventured to make a few observations on the position in which the hon. Member for the city of London now finds himself, and—relative to his position—on that now occupied by the House itself. The course, Sir, which has been pursued by the hon. Gentleman the Member for the city of London—which has been pursued by the electors of the city of London, and by those Englishmen professing the Jewish religion, in their attempts to obtain an alleviation of their grievances, and a removal of their disabilities—that course, Sir, during the present year, differs from the one which they have hitherto adopted. The change arises from the impatience—the very natural impatience, I admit—which the electors of the city of London, and Englishmen professing the Jewish religion, feel at the position in which they are now placed. It does not appear to me, Sir, that anything has occurred in the constitutional
 789 790 791 792 793 794 795
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire had declared his opinions to remain unchanged: he too retained the opinions which for more than
 796 797 798
 MR. ROEBUCK  reluctantly rose to give his opinion; but he must first say, in spite of the consistent opposition of the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, the question was already settled, but he did not think that the mode in which that settlement had been arrived at was such as to reflect honour either on the House or the Administration. It was no longer a legal question, but one of policy; and it was against the policy of the hon. and learned Attorney General that he protested. The House was no longer exercising a judicial function, as it did some time ago, when it negatived the proposition presented to it in that character. They were now volunteering a resolution, which was not called for by the case before them. It was a voluntary proposition on the part of a Gentleman representing the Government; it was a proceeding of the Administration. It was no longer a Bill propounded to the House by the noble Lord the Member for the city of London; it was now a Ministerial proceeding; and it must be propounded in the House in the shape of a Bill, and successfully carried through both Houses, or the honour of the Administration would be forfeited. There was no second course to be adopted. Every prophecy he had made had been verified. When the hon. Member for the city of London was returned, he had pressed him to bring the matter before the House. The answer was that it was in the hands of his Colleague, the head of the Administration, that the proposition would come forward backed by all the authority and strength of the Government, and that in
 799 800 801 802 803
 LORD J. RUSSELL  recommended that the debate should then be proceeded with, and brought to a close as speedily as possible, with a view to an immediate division.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, he had only a very few remarks to make. The legal portion of the question had already been so well argued by the hon. and learned Member for the city of Oxford, that it was unnecessary for any one else to say a word on the subject; he should therefore content himself with very briefly observing, in the first place, that he should not vote for the resolutions of the hon. and learned Attorney General. [ Cries of  804 Cries of
 MR. W. P. WOOD  said, he would not detain the House for more than ten minutes; but it was impossible for him to let the resolutions pass by without saying a few words upon them. They had already decided that by law the hon. Member for the city of London had taken the oath, and these resolutions were that, not having taken the oath, he should not be permitted to take his seat till he had done so. He was not then going to repeat the legal argument he had used on a former occasion, that the Legislature having severed the oath into two parts—that which was sworn to, and that which was sworn by—the Baron de Rothschild was excused from swearing "on the true faith of a Christian." That argument had not been answered yet, for it was no answer to say that if these words were left out, any person might leave out what he pleased. His argument was, that they might leave out what was sworn by; and it was no answer to that, to say if you can do that, you may as well leave out what is substantial. He admitted to his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General, that the House had no dispensing power. He protested as
 805 806
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  was anxious to say a few words to justify the vote he intended to give, because he regretted that he could not come to the same conclusion with the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the city of Oxford. There was no man in the House who would feel deeper gratification than himself at seeing the hon. Member for the city of London take his seat amongst them; but the present question was one on which every man was bound to speak and act according
 807 808 809
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that he was not going to make a speech, but to observe upon one point which had been addressed to the House by the hon. and learned Solicitor General, in which he was wholly at fault. The question of Mr. Pease had been alluded to, and it appeared to him to be the chief stumbling block in the way of the opponents of the admission of Baron de Rothschild. If he understood the hon. and learned Gentleman, he said that you might alter what was only of the form of the oath; but that you could not in any degree change the substance of the oath. Now, observe what had been done in the case of Mr. Pease. He (Mr. Bright) came into that House by virtue of a declaration, word for word, similar to that by which Mr. Pease had been admitted. Mr. Pease came to the table and declared not against this oath, but against taking any oath at all. First of all there was the oath of fidelity. He did not take that; he did not even affirm it. Then there was the oath of supremacy, which declares—
 "I, A. B. swear that I do from my heart abhor, detest, and abjure as impious and heretical, that damnable doctrine and position that princes excommunicated or deprived by the Pope or any authority of the see of Rome, may be deposed or murdered by their subjects or any other whatsoever." 810
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester had, no doubt unintentionally, mis-stated the facts with regard to the admission of Mr. Pease, and it was right that the House should know on what grounds it proceeded on that occasion. It proceeded by referring the matter to a Committee, and that Committee finding that there was a statute
 811
 MR. V. SMITH  hoped, after what had fallen from the hon. and learned Attorney General in the course of the debate, that the oath of abjuration would be speedily taken into consideration by Her Majesty's Ministers, and so framed or amended that hon. Members on taking it would in reality understand and know what they were subscribing to.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that before he replied to the observations of his right hon. Friend, he would take that opportunity of saying, that as the House sat so late (half-past four o'clock), it would be the most convenient course if it continued to sit on until after the commission, and then adjourn for two hours. In answer to his right hon. Friend, he begged to say that the discussions which had taken place had brought most prominently in view the real difficulties which stood in the way of a Jew taking the oaths required to be taken by hon. Gentlemen on being admitted Members. These difficulties resolved themselves into this, that the House approved of the mode of swearing on the Old Testament. A Jew had no objection to taking the oath of allegiance or the oath of supremacy; and the only point on which an obstacle had arisen occurred in the latter part of the oath of abjuration. That being the only matter objectionable to an individual who had been twice elected to sit in that House, it was desirable that it should be considered distinctly and of itself. He admitted the correctness of the objections of his right hon. Friend with regard to the provisions of the other oaths. The oath of supremacy was founded on apprehended danger to the Crown, according to the belief held in the reign of Elizabeth, and was framed against such dangers as existed in the reign of Anne and George I.; but the wording of the oath did not apply to the present day. It was a matter deserving
 814
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that whether they passed the resolutions then submitted to them or not, a time would come next Session when they would have full opportunity of stating their opinions on the matter. For his part he should enter his protest against the resolutions, not merely against the admission of Jews to that House, but also against the declaration of consideration in the next Session. He had sat many years in Parliament, and it had been his misfortune to hear that House pledge itself to the consideration of matters in the succeeding Session, and then falsify that pledge, by leaving the very matters in the same position as they were in which it found them on recording the pledge. For instance, there was the Roman Catholic question, which, Session after Session, was to have been taken up; but the determination was generally rendered abortive. He therefore thought that without adopting the resolutions then before them, every Member of the House would be at full liberty to pursue, in the next Session, whatever course he might think proper. He thought it impolitic to enter into the pledge required by the resolutions; and he also protested against the propriety of altering the law to facilitate the admission of Jews to Parliament, reserving to himself the right of stating his reasons on the fitting opportunity.
 MR. BRIGHT  agreed with much that fell from the right hon. Gentleman; but he looked on these resolutions more with regard to their hold on the Government, than he did to their hold on that House. He therefore wanted to know from the noble Lord at the head of the Ministry, for the satisfaction of the public in general, and of the constituency of the city of London in particular, if the Government as a Government intended to take up this question of the admission to Parliament of Jews, and if they were prepared to stand or fall by the issue of the question? For his part, he would not give the snap of a finger for the resolutions unless the
 815
 MR. HUME  did not see any use in the resolution after the intimation of the hon. and learned Solicitor General that the words in particular question were of the substance of the oath, and not merely of the form. The resolution had reference only to the form of the oath. Now the Amendment he had proposed regarded both the substance and the form of the oath.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, there were three requisites to be observed in the oaths, namely, the substance, the form of words, and the manner of taking. It was the form of words that excluded the hon. Gentleman the Member for the city of London from taking his seat in that House; and therefore he (the Attorney General) was desirous of altering that form of words in the next Session, for which purpose he introduced his resolutions, which were then before them.
 MR. HENLEY  wished the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to state what alterations he had made in the Bill.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he thought the more convenient course would be that he should state the alterations when he came to the schedule. He stated it the last time, and they got into interminable confusion, the clauses and the schedules were so totally distinct. At the same time, if it was convenient to the House, he would state it now. The first alteration that he proposed was, that the Act should take effect from the 10th of October instead of the 5th of July.
 MR. MULLINGS  proposed to insert the word "fraudulently." He thought if this word were not inserted, innocent persons might be made to suffer. The Crown would still have the power of calling on the parties liable to the duty. It would be a very hard case to make a solicitor a Crown debtor when after he had received the money he was served with a notice countermanding the directions to pay the stamp duty.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, this clause stood exactly as it passed in the former Bills. The point was raised and discussed, and it was settled that it should pass as it stood now. It was intended to meet the case of a party paying money over to a solicitor, and the solicitor detaining the money. It was perfectly true that the Crown had a remedy against the party, and in order not to be defrauded of the duty the Crown exercised that power, and the consequence was that the innocent party was called on to pay twice over. Now the attorney might, when he obtained the money, intend to pay it for the purpose intended, and if the word "fraudulently" were in the Bill, it might throw a difficulty in the way.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, it was in consequence of what took place on the last occasion that his attention was drawn to the point. The right hon. Gentleman had not taken into consideration the case of executors and administrators. There might be a dispute about a residue, and they might not choose to pay it over till they saw whether there were any of these claims. Having a remedy against the party, he thought they ought not to make
 820
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the word "fraudulent" that it was proposed to introduce was really not desirable. The object was to make the person liable who had received the money and not paid it over. It not unfrequently happened that after the lapse of a great number of years the Stamp Office proceeded against the person who was originally liable for the stamp duty, the legacy and probate duty, which the party believed had been paid, because an account of it had been delivered in his solicitor's bill. He had seen no solicitor of respectability, no solicitor at all, who objected to the clause giving the remedy against the solicitor. But if they put in the word "fraudulent," the effect would he this: The solicitor received the money with the intention nine times out of ten of paying-it over, but he retains it perhaps till the next day, and then some payments come due in his office, and he makes use of the money. After a little time it becomes inconvenient to pay over the money, and after a little further time it becomes impossible. But they could not say that was fraudulent. What they wanted was, that the party who received the money should be made liable, but the introduction of the word "fraudulent" would defeat the object.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the word "improperly" might be inserted. As the clause stood, the mere omission for an hour to pay over the duty made a man a Crown debtor.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  should not object to the word "improperly," but he thought the clause would be better without it, because an attorney who received the money was a Crown debtor if he neglected for an hour to pay the money over. You paid your solicitor 1.000 l.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the position of an attorney of large business, who might receive money every day in the week, would he this—that he would be constantly a Crown debtor, and could not convey an
 821
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the insertion of the word "improperly" would be destructive of the effect of the clause. It was proper that he should mention that the seller would not be debtor to the Crown until it was found by inquisition. The Barons of the Exchequer would not allow that until it was found by inquisition.
 MR. WALPOLE : Here by Act of Parliament you are making him a Crown debtor.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, that the clause provided that where the transfer of a mortgage with a further advance of money should be made by the person originally borrowing, then the duty should be the same as on the original mortgage. He proposed an Amendment to correct that. He thought it a hardship, if a person owed a sum of money, the party being doubtful whether the security would be enough to cover the sum, he went to a person and said, "Join me in the security," that he was to be subject to another duty.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that it was, in fact, a new transaction and a new mortgage. He admitted that cases of this description ran into very fine distinctions, but this way of acting was only an evasion of the tax. Where a new person was brought in to give new security, that was a fresh arrangement of money. He thought the proposal of the hon. Member for Cirencester was not admissible in this clause.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that, as far as he had heard the argument of the hon. and learned Attorney General, he thought that every transfer of a mortgage might be made out to be a new transaction—every time a man received money from A to pay off B.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the principle was, that where there was one loan of money, and only one loan of money, only one duty should be paid.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Yes, if all transactions were really honest. The object of this clause was to prevent the evasion of the duty in a case in which a perfectly new security was given.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, that all the solicitors were constantly falling into the mistake of not putting on an additional stamp.
 822
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  maintained that there could be no question about the construction of this clause. It was necessary, whenever taxes were imposed, to provide against various attempts at evasion. Not only was the law constantly evaded, but courts of law had determined that every mode by which you could evade was not only not fraudulent, but it was proper and right. He submitted that the clause was distinct and clear, and hoped that the Committee would abide by the clause as it now stood. The great object of conveyancers and solicitors was how they could avoid the Stamp Acts, and their utmost ingenuity was constantly exercised for the purpose of evading them. His hon. Friend was aware of that of which he was now speaking, and he had exerted his ingenuity and power of mind successfully for the purpose of evading the Stamp Acts.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  promised to undertake to consider the matter, and the Amendment was withdrawn.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, that he had no Amendment to propose, but he wished to call the attention of the House to the fact that at present it was the practice of the Stamp Office to affix a stamp to a deed six weeks after the date of execution. By the clause now before the Committee, a penalty of 10 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that it was not intended to make the slightest alteration in the present practice.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  then said, that before the Committee took into consideration the schedule of the Bill, he wished to state that there was one great alteration which he proposed to
 823 l. l. l. s. l. l. l. l. s. l. l. 824 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  wished to know whether the duty on lands was to go on without any maximum being stated. At present it was 25,000 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought it was only fair that large properties should pay in proportion to small
 825
 MR. W. BROWN  was glad to find that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had regulated his duties on this principle. He could see no valid objection to the  ad valorem
 MR. HENLEY  also approved of the  ad valorem
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he had presented petitions some time ago from some of his constituents, whose dealings were with very large sums of money; but he was glad most of their objections had been met by alterations made in the Bill. He was glad an  ad valorem l. l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he calculated the whole amount of surplus revenue at 1,500,000 l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. CARDWELL  thought the right hon. Gentleman, with all submission, stood where he did before. The right hon. Gentleman, when he first introduced the subject, said the actual loss on stamps would be 300,000 l. l. 826 l.
 MR. MULLINGS  could not agree with the Chancellor of the Exchequer as to the amount of the loss which the Exchequer would sustain by these changes. He believed there would be a large increase in the number of transactions, and there would also be an increase in deeds for larger sums.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  objected to the clause, because if they were to raise the revenue at all, by means of a Stamp Act, it was clearly inadmissible. It was true that the Court of Chancery allowed questions to stand over till the proper stamp was affixed to a document, where it was not sufficient. The consequence was, that the objection of the insufficiency of the stamp was seldom urged. If a court of law could do the same thing, the consequence would be that the objection would not be taken, and parties would not affix the stamp at all to the document. It was certainly difficult in some cases to know what the proper stamp was; but they en-
 827
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he did not refer to documents which were not stamped at all, but to documents which were insufficiently stamped.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  read clauses in some of the existing Acts, authorising the Commissioners to make regulations for the purposes therein stated. It was expedient to give general power to make regulations for managing the business of the Customs, instead of a series of independent powers in each particular Act. The Commissioners never possessed any such powers as would have enabled them
 829
 MR. T. EGERTON  said, that throughout the manufacturing districts a series of complaints were raised against the course taken by the Board of Customs; and he
 830
 MR. CLAY  said, his constituents, the inhabitants of Hull, looked upon the Board of Customs as the very last board in the kingdom which should be trusted with additional powers. He trusted the right hon. Gentleman would withdraw the clause.
 MR. HUME  thought that this legisla-
 832
 LORD J. RUSSELL  hoped this Motion would not be persevered in. If these repeated Motions for adjournment were persevered in, it would be impossible to proceed with the public business.
 MR. HUME  said, that stables could not be wanted for the young Prince. It seemed to be a mockery to vote money for stables for a Prince who was so young.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that his noble Friend the Chief Commissioner of Woods and Forests had explained the mode in which the Crown revenues were to be applied. The materials of Carlton-mews would be pulled down, and could be used for the erection of stables in Marl-borough-house.
 MR. HUME  thought this was the commencement of expense and folly. He told the Government, and he told the public, that if they went on multiplying places in this way, it was a mockery to talk about taking care of the public money.
 MR. MOWATT  asked the noble Lord whether these stables were  bonâ fide
 The CHAIRMAN  stated, that it was not competent for him to move the proposed Amendment, which was a total repeal of duties, without having a previous resolution of the House.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  objected to the
 837 l. l. s. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. ANDERSON  then said, that at the beginning of next Session of Parliament he should move the following resolution on the subject;—
 "That the ships of Spain having since the year 1824 been permitted to import goods the produce or manufacture of Spain into the ports of the United Kingdom, at the same rates of duty as British ships, and since the 1st of January, 1850, the carrying trade of the United Kingdom and its dependencies to and from all other countries having been opened to Spanish vessels on the same terms as to British vessels—whereas, during the whole of these periods higher rates of duties have been, and continue to be, levied on goods when imported into or exported from Spain and its dependencies in British vessels than in Spanish vessels, to the great detriment of British shipowners and the obstruction of trade, a humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that Her Majesty will be graciously pleased, in virtue of the power vested in Her by Act 12 &c 13 Vict., cap. 29, to cause such rates of duty to be levied on the importation or exportation of goods in Spanish vessels at the ports of the United Kingdom and its dependencies as may serve to countervail the differential duties levied in the ports of Spain on British vessels."
 MR. ANDERSON  complained of having been treated not altogether fairly, as it was only that morning that he and other Members were aware of this Bill being introduced, and consequently he had no opportunity of moving a previous resolution.
 MR. ANDERSON  proposed an Amendment to the Clause, to the effect that the inhabitants of the Orkney and Shetland Islands should be allowed to import wool for their own use duty free, under such restrictions and regulations as the Treasury might direct. He said, his object was to obtain for these islanders a boon, to which he thought he could prove to the Committee, and to his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, they were fully entitled. Also, that the granting of such a boon would involve very trifling if any loss to the revenue, and would be subject to no risk of fraud or abuse. The inhabi-
 831
 MR. ANDERSON  begged permission to make an observation in explanation of a question which he was about to put to the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, relative to a matter which he considered to be of much importance to the shipping and commercial interests of this country—namely, the differential duties levied on British shipping in the ports of Spain. It was surely high time now to take some measures to compel Spain to adopt a more equitable course of policy in regard to our shipping, than that in which she had persisted for about twenty-five years; and it was his (Mr. Anderson's) intention to have brought this subject fully under the consideration of the House pursuant to the notice which he had given. Like many other independent Members, however, he had never been able to obtain a suitable opportunity, and at this late period of the Session it was in vain to expect it. He should, therefore, take some other means of bringing it under public notice, and would now only beg to ask the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether he would have any objection to lay on the table of the House a copy of any correspondence which
 818
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  had already recorded his vote in favour of the grant of 12,000 l.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  hoped the hon. Member for Manchester would look after his operatives as well as the late lamented Duke of Cambridge had looked after the welfare of his fellow creatures.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there was a considerable number of rules, regulations, and orders, all of which were made in clear conformity with the Acts then existing, and these Acts formed a tolerably thick octavo volume. Some of these Acts had since been repealed, and doubts had been raised as to the validity of the regulations framed in accordance with them, though it was clear that when Parliament repealed the Acts, it did not mean to touch the regulations. To remove these doubts—very slight ones as they appeared to him—was the object of the clause.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The Board will only exercise these powers in accordance with the Acts of Parliament.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that these powers, of which the hon. Member for Montrose complained as almost unheard-of, had been in actual operation for 150 years, and through them the whole business of the country was conducted. They had been varied from time to time to suit the convenience of the transaction of business, and they were always made in conformity with the Act of Parliament.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there were two distinct parts of this clause. He had not the least objection to give up the second part; but he thought great inconvenience might arise from the omission of the first. He was perfectly willing to give up what the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ripon called the general power.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Commissioners had the power of issuing the regulations in nine cases out of ten.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had no wish to press the clause upon that occasion. He was sorry to have to state, that in consequence of the illness of his right hon. Friend at the head of the Board of Customs, he had not been able to communicate with him upon that subject.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the hon. and learned Attorney General was by no means happy in his quotation of statutes. If the hon. and learned Gentleman thought that the possession of such powers on the part of the Commissioners of Customs would be submitted to by the great body of the mercantile classes in the country, he read a very different lesson from that which he (Mr. Cardwell) was taught by the communications which daily reached him. He protested against their now, at the close of a Session, enacting that the Board of Customs should have power, by the mere regulations which they issued, to give vitality to Acts of Parliament already repealed.
 MR. G. HUDSON  hoped the House would be cautious with regard to this clause. The inhabitants of Sunderland, after constructing a large dock, were prevented from using it by the Lords of the Treasury.
 MR. BRIGHT  proposed the adoption of a clause to the effect—That in case the Duke of Cambridge be in receipt of any salary or emolument under the Crown, the amount of such sum shall be deducted from the annuity now granted. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had not on that night said anything with re-
 836 l. l. l. l.
 MR. HUME  rose to propose an Amendment. He would move that, instead of 12,000 l. l. l. s. s. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 834 l. l. Punch l. 835
 MR. HUME  said, that the rules were going beyond the powers conferred on the Board by the Acts of Parliament.
 MR. HUME  said, that the Acts upon which these powers were originally formed having been rescinded, he did not think that any power should be given to the Commissioners which properly belonged to that House. He only knew of one case in which such power had been given, and this was the case of the Poor Law Commissioners. Great dissatisfaction was expressed at the time this power was given. He could not understand how such powers could be given to any body but the House of Commons.
 MR. R. C. HILDYARD  wished to call the attention of the Committee to the circumstance that this proposed power of making regulations would enable the Board of Customs to put into operation Acts already null and void; the House, therefore, did not know what sort of measures they were calling into existence by this proceeding, and he hoped, therefore, that the Committee would consider what they were about before they proceeded to legislate to such an extent.
 MR. MITCHELL  hoped the Chancellor would withdraw this clause, which he could not help connecting with certain proceedings which had recently taken place in the city of London. For the last three or four months, the City had been scandalised by the most arbitrary conduct of the Board of Customs. That conduct was now about to be tested—the matter was  pendente lite
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that if the Commissioners at present possessed the power of making rules and orders from time to time, the clause was superfluous.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, that the Acts to which the hon. and learned Attorney General had referred were statutes which gave a limited power; whereas the step now proposed to be taken would be a step in advance. It would be one from limited to unlimited power; and he could not see the necessity for it.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, the right hon. Gentleman had explained one point—he must say not very satisfactorily—with respect to the regulations now existing. But the clause took two steps further, for it gave the Board of Customs power both to vary the regulations and to substitute new regulations for such of them as they might think proper, without these new regulations coming under the sanction or cognisance of Parliament.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, his objection certainly applied with most force to the latter part of the clause; but he thought the former required alteration. He would suggest to the right hon. Gentleman to postpone the clause, and bring it up on the report in an amended form.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  called the attention of the Committee to a clause which he could hardly believe he rightly comprehended; but if he did, he wished the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to explain why such a clause was necessary. The effect of the clause was to provide that all rules, regulations, and orders made by the Board of Customs in conformity with Acts which had been repealed should still be considered valid; and, further, that power was given to the Board of Customs to vary and alter those rules, regulations, and orders; nor did the clause stop1 there, but it went on to empower the Board of Customs to make new rules, regulations, and orders, in lieu of those which were framed in accordance with Acts which were no longer in existence.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that the question was one which had engaged for many years the attention of Her Majesty's Government, and many communications had passed between it and the Government of Spain on the subject, but hitherto without any satisfactory result. Those communications had been necessarily suspended during the interruption of diplomatic relations between the two countries, but would now be resumed; and in the present state of the negotiations it would not be advisable to lay the correspondence before the House. In the event of the Spanish Government not agreeing to equalise the duties, or to place British upon the same footing as Spanish vessels, it would also be unadvisable to state what course Her Majesty's Government in its discretion might think fit to pursue.
 MR. MOORE  said, he must oppose the Motion, although he had originally given it his support when it was brought under their notice. Although agrarian outrages and crimes had formerly been deplorably prevalent, no one could deny that they had lately very much decreased in consequence of the improved feeling of the population. He had seen those who were the foremost to protest against the remedy, the first to hail the cure; and, above all, he had seen the bloody, and capricious, and sanguinary ebullitions of unhallowed vengeance give place to a calm and mighty protest against the injustice from which they had sprung. The most exasperated, the most perverse, even the most guilty of the people of Ireland, had acquiesced in the justice of that wise sentence which proclaimed that murder under no circumstances, under no provocations, should dare to assume the seat
 867 Expressions of dissent. 868
 COLONEL RAWDON  could not refuse to
 869
 MR. SCULLY  said, it was his determination to oppose the Bill, and expressed some surprise that the hon. and gallant Member who last addressed them supported the Bill, because it was demanded by the Government. The state of things which called for this Act no longer existed, and he, for one, would be no party to its continuance, when the only reason that could be urged in its favour, was simply that Government wished it, though he was quite prepared to support a measure for the prevention of crime and outrage in Ireland of a remedial character. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland, when he originally proposed the measure, said it should be limited and partial in its character, and that it should he accompanied by remedial measures. The Session had now endurd for a long period, but no remedial measures had been proposed. The Irish people were disappointed; they received nothing hut coercive measures. The land question was undecided, and the Franchise Bill had been a failure, and would not give satisfaction to the people. The Church question still remained unsettled. Ireland was in a perfect state of tranquillity, crime had almost entirely diminished, the Judges at the assizes stated the fact in their grand-jury charges, and there was nothing to justify the continuance of this measure. He felt a pride in stating that in one division of the county which he represented (Tipperary), there had not been one capital conviction for the last four assizes. In no part of Ireland
 870
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH : I am not surprised, that so few upon this side of the House should have been found ready to defend, in discussion, the measure which the Government now asks leave to bring in. With the exception of what has been said by the hon. and gallant Member for the city of Armagh, not a word has been offered in justification of the course we are called on to sanction, by any one who is connected with Ireland, and who in this House is reckoned among the friends of popular rights. My hon. and gallant Friend has volunteered, however, his support of Her Majesty's Government, when support was never more needed. For whatever the numbers upon the division may be, there never was surely a measure so stringent in character, and of such wide applicability, for which so little by way of reason or argument has been advanced by its authors. Yet I must say that the statements and the admissions made by the hon. and gallant Member, so far from justifying the conclusion to which he has come, seem to me to warrant exactly the opposite inference, and to furnish grounds, if any were wanting, for coming to a different conclusion. He has told us that the agrarian oppressions and hardships the people endure, have been, and are, unparalleled. He admits that their long-suffering and forbearance have been, and are, unexampled. He confesses that Parliament has not hitherto done anything which might palliate this terrible wrong and misery; and therefore he says we should lose no time in passing this harsh and repressive Bill. The country is perfectly tranquil, and that is the
 871 872 873 874
 MAJOR BLACKALL  said, he had never heard a speech in that House more calculated to excite angry feelings, or to draw attention from the real subject before them, than the speech which the hon. and learned Gentleman had just delivered. The hon. and learned Gentleman had altogether mistaken the character of the Bill. It would not give additional powers to the landlord. He was also mistaken in supposing that it was not in operation in Ireland at the present moment. It was in operation in the county which he (Major Blackall) had the honour to represent, and he defied any one to deny that its operation had contributed to the peace of that county; and yet he had never heard any one say that it had interfered in the slightest degree with the
 875
 COLONEL CAULFEILD  said, he was glad to find that by the 18th clause, accessories after the fact of a murder were punishable to the same extent as the principal, even were he not overtaken. He should not have wished to have supported the Bill as it came from the House of Lords, but with the amendments which had been introduced by the Government, he would give it his support.
 MR. R. M. FOX  said, that, although he might be willing to give the present Lord Lieutenant the powers conferred by this Bill, he was not willing to give them to those who might come after him, who would not only deprive the people of their constitutional liberties, but would raise their food to a starvation price. In the next Session of Parliament, he would move, as an amendment to the first important Government measure, that the landlord and tenant question in Ireland was of paramount importance, and should be first taken into consideration.
 LORD C. HAMILTON  hoped that nothing would induce the House to believe that the moral, high-minded, and well-meaning people of Ireland looked with the slightest jealousy upon restrictions like those contained in the present Bill. On the contrary, they rejoiced in the tendency of such a measure to check the career of evil-doers, and to enable the peaceable and well-disposed to exercise their industry in peace. He regarded it as the grossest libel on the people of Ireland to represent them as so addicted to the commission of crime, or the protection of criminals, that any measure of restraint or repression must be odious to them. He thought the Government deserved great censure for having allowed the whole Session to pass without the introduction of a measure to correct the maladministration of the poorlaws.
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  said, he was one of those who from the commencement objected to the introduction of this Bill. He was fully alive to the great amount of crime which existed at the time the Bill was brought in, but he then said the existing law was sufficient, and that all they had to do was as they did in 1831, to issue
 876
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that there was one person who must be considered as being highly complimented by the whole course of this discussion; he meant the present Lord Lieutenant of Ireland; for, with all the ingenuity of the hon. Members who opposed this Bill, they had not been able to point to one instance in which he had used the large powers with which he had been intrusted in an unconstitutional manner. He maintained that the long and the short of the question was a vote of confidence or no confidence in the Government. The Government came forward and said, "We require such and such powers to enable us to conduct the Government of Ireland till next Session of Parliament." If hon. Members considered the Government of Ireland entitled to their confidence, there never was an occasion on which they might with greater propriety yield to their convictions than this. If, on the contrary, they thought the Government undeserving of their confidence, they ought not to have waited till the eleventh hour of the Session before bringing its conduct under the notice of the House. Attention had been called to the Irish
 877
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, it was rather a strange thing that the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House, justified his vote because he had confidence in Her Majesty's Government, seeing that he generally voted against them. The hon. Gentleman voted against another Coercion Bill, because he had no confidence in the then Government, so that the hon. Member had been consistent. He agreed in the compliments paid to the Earl of Clarendon; but it must be recollected that those extra constitutional powers might be vested in other hands. The fact was, hon. Gentlemen opposite supported the Bill, because those powers were to be exercised against Ireland, and to coerce the Irish people. They seemed to have a notion in
 878
 SIR D. NORREYS  supported the Bill, on the ground that the coercive powers had operated as a preventive of crime. Without saying that those powers were absolutely necessary now, he would ask who could take upon himself to say that they would not be so soon? In the transition state in which Ireland now was, it was better that these powers should be continued, than have a constant renewal of these discussions. He was convinced that to make the law felt, was the only way to ensure its observance in Ireland. He regarded the cry about the landlord and tenant question, as one of the popular delusions which were constantly prevalent in that country. As the Government asked for a renewal of this Bill, he would give it with confidence; nor did he fear its being abused by any other Government or any other Lord Lieutenant.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  confessed he was greatly surprised that any Member from the sister country could for a moment offer any opposition to the re-enactment of this measure. He considered it one of vast importance to Ireland. It had, in a great measure, restored tranquillity to that distracted country. It had restored
 879
 MR. HUME  contended that if the people of England were treated like those of Ireland, they would resist by force such an attempt to deprive them of their rights. The Government had made out no case for this Bill; in fact, there was no case to make out. On the former occasion he had thought it right to arm the Government with these powers. Nothing had been done since to give the people the civil rights enjoyed by the people of this country; on that ground he thought the representatives of Ireland fully justified in resisting this measure by every means which the forms of the House would allow. Sound policy alone would dictate to the Government some attempt at conciliation. This was the interest of England as well as Ireland; for in the absence of good government large and costly bodies of troops were necessary to keep the people of Ireland quiet. He should give every assistance to hon. Members who thought fit to avail themselves of all the forms of the House in opposing this measure.
 MR. REYNOLDS  tendered his thanks to the hon. Member for Montrose, on his own behalf and on that of his constituents, for his manly, generous, and frank declaration, which was, to him, consolatory and refreshing. He looked upon this Bill as a brand, a stain, and an insult on the Irish people. The right hon. Secretary for Ireland acknowledged that the country was tranquil, and yet he, because of his office, advocated this arbitrary measure. The Government asked for this Bill as a child asked for a toy—to play with during the recess; but, as the fable of the bull and the frogs had it, "what is sport to you, is death to us." Would they dare to propose such a Bill for England or Scotland. They would not. He felt that on his return to Dublin his constituents would naturally ask him why he supported a Government which thus treated Ireland; and he confessed the question would be a difficult one to answer. He was determined to oppose
 880 Laughter.
 MR. MOORE , with reference to the remark of the hon. Member for North Northamptonshire, that he had voted against a Coercion Bill on a former occasion because he bore a grudge to a particular Minister, and wished to drive him from office, said, he could not conceive that motives more abominable could possibly be avowed. He would say, moreover, that as long as Ireland was legislated for by such men as this, and upon principles such as these—
 881
 SIR J. GRAHAM  said, as the hour was approaching at which the House would probably adjourn, he wished to ask whether at the adjourned sitting they would proceed with the Orders of the Day, or with Notices of Motion?
 LORD J. RUSSELL  thought it desirable that the House, after discussing this question for two days, should finish the debate before they adjourned. He was desirous that the Orders of the Day should have preference at the adjourned sitting; but if hon. Members who had notices on the paper insisted on their right, there was nothing to prevent their bringing them on.
 MR. HUME  asked the noble Lord at the head of the Government when he would be prepared to go on with the discussion respecting the Ionian Islands, because it was essential that some statement should be made respecting the conduct of Sir Henry Ward?
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that he would give an opportunity of bringing the subject before the House on Friday or Monday.
 MR. HUME  wished to know when he might have an opportunity of submitting his Motion as to the propriety of laying the evidence which was taken before the Ceylon Committee on the table of the House?
 LORD J. RUSSELL  hoped the hon. Gentleman would reconsider his view on the subject. The evidence was very voluminous, and it being doubtful whether it should be reported to the House, the Committee decided that it ought not. It appeared to him that the best course to take was to inform the Governor of Ceylon of the evidence which had been taken, and in the next Session of Parliament he would be prepared to support a Motion for the production of the evidence. But he did not think it fair to circulate the evidence where the parties concerned were at a great distance, and before they could ascertain whether the charges were true or false.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  wished to say a few words on the question really before
 882
 SIR J. WALMSLEY  said, that when the measure on which the present Bill was founded was introduced in 1847, it was sustained by an array of figures and statistics which induced a large number of the Members of the House, and especially the English Members, to vote in favour of it. A large number of Irish Members also were induced to vote for the Bill for the same reason. He believed that there were thirty or thirty-five Irish Members voting in favour of the Bill, and only four against it. That showed that the Irish Members were anxious and desirous that every measure necessary for preventing crime in Ireland should be introduced and carried. But on the introduction of the Bill in the present Session, the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland made out no case for the measure before the House. On the contrary, it appeared to him he showed as plainly as words could show, there was no absolute necessity for the Bill. Neither had the noble Lord at the head of the Government made out any case in its favour. On the contrary, all that he could say in its favour was that it was a measure of precaution. It had been said that this question was a want of confidence in Her Majesty's Government. He could not concur in that view of the case. If he did, he should not follow the course he was about to do on the present occasion. He felt convinced that Her Majesty's Government would deal fairly, justly, and honestly towards Ireland, but they had a long series of misrule to contend with. He would, therefore, put it to the Government not to go on coercing the people of Ireland, for they had now arrived at a period in the history of both countries when Ireland must be governed by love, and not by fear. They never could rule Ireland by fear. He would therefore urge the Government to withdraw the Bill. This was not a vote of want of confidence in the Government, but this measure showed a want of confidence in the people of Ireland, and on that
 883
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, he so entirely concurred in what had been said by the hon. Member for Bolton, that it was very little he should add. He was strongly impressed with the necessity of creating a real and substantial union between England and Ireland. Times were coming which would call for everything in the shape of union which this United Kingdom, as it was called, could effect. Statesmanship was like seamanship. The best of seamen might go to the bottom; but if he was to keep afloat, it must be by watching the signs of the times, and taking early precautions against danger. So it behoved the statesman who saw the dangers approaching, to guard against them by a timely union of heart and mind, between England and Ireland. He hoped he had done something towards promoting that end, by impressing the necessity for such a course.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, that the present arrangements had been adopted upon the most mature and impartial consideration of the best mode of balancing different conveniences and inconveniences. There could be no question that the facilitation of communication between London and Dublin was a very important object; but, on the other hand, the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman would involve considerable expenditure. The Postmaster General, however, would, he was sure, continue to pay the closest attention to the subject, and be ready to adopt any practicable improvement.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  urged upon the right hon. Secretary for Ireland the expediency of striking out for the present all the clauses relating to infirmaries, and leaving the Bill a Bill relating to dispensaries alone. The subject of infirmaries was a very large and important one. They possessed property by bequest and otherwise; and it was not right they should be handed, as the Bill proposed, to the complete authority of the Commissioners. The profession was of opinion that the infirmaries should be exempted. If the Government would not consent to this, he would move an Amendment, that the governors of infirmaries should, if they thought proper, claim exemption.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  must resist the Amendment.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  was anxious to protect the practitioners in Ireland, who were generally men of very high merit, from the power of the Commissioners, who might, under the clause, determine the important question of medical qualifications arbitrarily. He considered all the medical offices should be open to all medical men who were at present qualified by law.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, he had no objection to introduce some proviso which would meet the case of institutions haying property, and which he would introduce on the report. He could not consent to mutilate the measure by confining it to dispensaries, nor to make its operation conditional on the consent of the governors of other institutions. Such an exemption would prevent the complete arrangement; that was contemplated, and interfere with the establishment of district hospitals. He believed also, that the abuses of the infirmaries were as great as those of the dispensaries.
 MR. STAFFORD , looking at the magnitude of the changes proposed, could not but wish that the Bill might be postponed till next Session. They were dividing on most important questions with less than fifty Members present, including very few Irish Members, and nothing was more easy than for the Government to over-ride whatever objections might be made.
 SIR R. FERGUSON  said, there were four lines in brackets in the clause, which exempted the Dublin hospitals from the operation of the Bill. He saw no reason for exempting these hospitals, in one of which the medical appointments were regularly sold. He moved that the words constituting this exemption should be omitted.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that every one in Dublin would testify that these hospitals were well conducted, and were of universal benefit to the people, without distinction of creed. If their management was handed over to this new board, it would neutralise many of the benefits now conferred by those institutions. The people of Dublin had the most unbounded confidence in the managers, which would not be the case if any change were made.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  opposed the Amendment.
 SIR R. FERGUSON  said, these hospitals did not differ from any other county hospital. The Meath Hospital was the hospital for the county of Dublin. The system of bargain and sale which prevailed in some of these institutions, loudly called for a change in the management.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, the Meath hospital was one of the most celebrated schools of medicine in Europe. On bringing up the report, he would insert a proviso, giving an option to these hospitals to come under the operation of the Act, if they thought it desirable.
 SIR R. FERGUSON  withdrew his Amendment.
 MR. REYNOLDS  then moved the Amendment of which he had given notice. As he was informed, the apothecaries of Ireland were 2,000 in number, of whom one-half were surgeons or physicians. It was apprehended that these gentlemen would be excluded from holding any appointment under medical charities unless some such words as he proposed were inserted. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland would perhaps say, that the apothecaries would obtain a status, under these words, to which they were not entitled; but up to a very recent period a clause or words were always intro-
 891
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  did not think that any such addition as was now proposed was ever introduced into the interpretation clause of such Bills, as that which they were now considering; and if he consented to insert the words he would be taking upon himself to decide a question which had been long a matter of dispute in the medical profession.
 MR. COWPER  said, that even if the mails were transmitted more rapidly from Dublin to London, it would be impossible to deliver them any sooner than at present, except by an entire reconstruction of the sorting arrangements. The letters from Dublin were delivered at the same time with letters from the north of England and Scotland.
 MR. O. STANLEY  concurred in the
 888
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  begged to say, that he remembered the occasion to which the right hon. Member referred when he accused me of interrupting him behind his back. He did not do so. He should be particularly careful in his conduct towards a person after the cessation of a previous friendly intercourse. The whole subject before the House had been debated, and Gentlemen, instead of going into Committee to proceed with the Bill, made the same statements over and over again.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  wished to say, in reference to an accusation that had been made against him in the course of the debate, that when the Irish Arms Bill was before the House he had followed the system now complained of, of repeatedly moving adjournments for the purpose of obstructing the Bill, that he had not taken that course, and in support of his statement he could refer to  Hansard.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  said, if the right hon. Gentleman the Lord Mayor had just cause of complaint at the great public inconvenience caused by the present mode of transmitting Her Majesty's mails between Dublin and London, how much more legitimate cause of complaint had they in the south of Ireland? After the arrival of the mails in Dublin, they were uselessly detained for four or five hours in the post-office there; and he almost doubted if his assertion would gain credence in the House, when he said a passenger coming from Holyhead in the same boat that conveyed the mails could actually reach the south of Ireland thirteen hours before the letters. He need not say any more to impress the House with the conviction that an alteration of such an evil was necessary.
 LORD C. HAMILTON  complained of the numerous speeches against time which had been made by the opponents of the Bill, and in particular of the painful effort of the hon. and learned Member for Dundalk. He protested in the face of the country against such a disgraceful abuse of a privilege. Those who had been guilty of it showed little regard for the dignity of the House, to say nothing of their own character. The House ought, if possible, to visit with some censure the efforts made to impede the progress of public business. [Mr. ANSTEY: Oh, oh!] He was aware that the hon. and learned Member was unable to comprehend anything about the dignity of the House, and he dared to say that the hon. and learned Member, in his cups with his companions, would rejoice in what he had done. It was not to be expected, however, that the hon. and learned Member should be able to understand or appreciate the dignity of that House. He was only capable of turning it into ridicule.
 LORD C. HAMILTON  disclaimed having used the words imputed to him. He; had said that he dared say the hon. and learned Member would do as described.
 LORD C. HAMILTON  said, the conduct of the opponents of the Bill in making such frivolous and vexatious speeches on the subject of adjournment was highly reprehensible. It was too bad that the progress of wholesome and salutary legislation should be impeded by such practices. It was all very well to talk about the rights of a minority, but it should not be forgotten that the majorities also had rights which ought to be respected. The conduct of the hon. and learned Member who was pursuing a course so factious and mischievous to defeat a Bill which would be so beneficial in Ireland, and the object of which was simply to prevent the illegal carrying away of crops, was like that of a vicious boy who might place a plank upon a railway line to overturn a train.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : No, I must decline.
 MAJOR BLACKALL  said, it would be a very great convenience to have an intermediate mail from Dublin, enabling persons who had received letters from London by the five o'clock mail from that city to despatch the business to which they referred and return an answer accordingly, without having a whole day's delay intervene.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, it was absurdly incongruous on the part of a Government which had only the other day justified the withdrawal of the Lord Lieutenant from Dublin on the specific ground of having established a more rapid communication between the two capitals, to permit the subordinates of the Post Office actually to impede that communication by their bungling arrangements.
 MR. HAWES  had read over the notice which the hon. Baronet had put upon the paper, with some care, in order to divine, if he could, the direction which this question would take, and he certainly was not quite prepared for the direction which it had taken. The despatches that were laid upon the table contained all the information that it was in his power to give. A circular had been issued from the Colonial Office to the Governors of the different
 885
 MR. HAWES  thought he had perceived that the suggestion which had been thrown out by the hon. Member for Oxfordshire during the discussion—namely, that the
 909 pro formâ
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that as the ground of the debate was now entirely changed—the proposal that seemed now to be most in favour being simply the assimilation of the law in Ireland to the English and Scotch law on the subject in dispute—he wished it to be understood that those who continued to refuse the application of a remedy for a state of things under which there was evidence of the existence of an organised system of fraud and violence, were, in so doing, pursuing a course which was nothing short of justifying, if not supporting, a violation of the laws of property in Ireland.
 MR. SPEAKER : The noble Lord says he did not use the words, which must be satisfactory to the hon. and learned Member. The words are certainly not Parliamentary.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman was not out of order if he referred to what was found in the Votes of the House of Lords.
 MR. SPEAKER  must remind the right hon. Member that he was going again into the merits of the Bill, and not discussing the question of adjournment.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the objection was not fatal to the Bill. If the Bill had ori-
 892
 COLONEL SIBTHORP : And the noble Lord?
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  rose to put one or two questions to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. There was a report that 14,000 l.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  did not say it had been advanced. He said there was a rumour to that effect.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  could at any rate give it a complete and unqualified contradiction. As to any pledge, he must decline coming under any promise in the way proposed.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, with reference to the statement made by the hon. and gallant Gentleman, that 14,000 l.
 MR. FRENCH  expressed a hope that the improvement would be brought into effect at the earliest possible moment, for the present arrangements were most embarrassing to Irish correspondents.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that the hon. Member for Manchester possessed as little knowledge of the law upon this subject as he did of the facts to which it related; and he was surprised that the hon. and learned Member for Dundalk should have adopted the authority of that hon. Gentleman upon this subject. The real question for the House to decide was, whether the existing law was in so satisfactory a state
 900
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, it was necessary after the speech of the hon. Member for Manchester, that he should make a few remarks. It was true, as stated by the hon. Member, that many of the witnesses before the Devon Commission had recommended the total abolition of distress; but it was also true that the Commissioners having given the subject their fullest and most anxious consideration, had come to the conclusion that it would neither be consistent with the rights of property, nor with the interests of the tenants themselves, that distress for rent should be abolished. They, however, recommended certain modifications in the law. They had recommended that distress of growing crops, though it was now the law in England, should be done away with
 897
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  appealed to hon. Gentlemen opposite to adopt those proposals. Surely no hon. Gentleman could approve of fraud and injustice. The law existed in England, and no one complained of it. Let the House go into Committee  pro formâ,
 MR. MOORE  did not object to the objects of the Bill, but to the means proposed for carrying them out. If such a conspiracy as had been referred to existed among any large body of the tenantry in Ireland, to remove the crops in order to defraud their landlords, he contended that it was the duty of the Government to have brought forward a Bill on this subject at an earlier period of the Session. If a Bill of this kind were brought forward upon their responsibility, he would willingly consent to any reasonable measure for repressing so monstrous an evil. But the real fact was that Irish landlords, pressed by the necessity of the times, had laid their heads together in another place, and had devised this Bill to facilitate the collection of their rents: and he strongly objected to such a mode of legislation, as establishing a most dangerous precedent.
 MR. BRIGHT  would remind the noble Lord that during the debate on the Franchise Bill he had himself divided the House no less than eight times on questions which the House had uniformly decided to be frivolous and vexatious. He (Mr. Bright) had observed, during the evening, that no lawyer had spoken in favour of the Bill; and on that ground he thought an adjournment necessary. Of the law officers of the Crown, only the hon. and learned Solicitor General for Ireland was present, and he had preserved a profound silence. They ought not to go into Committee on the Bill till they had the opinion of the law officers of the Crown, and knew whether the principal Members of the Government supported it. Till they had that opinion they were entitled to move the adjournment of the House with the view of obtaining an adjournment of the debate. And no imputation of factious opposition should prevent him from supporting such a Motion. He was astonished at the conduct of the Government, who had not the manliness to support the Bill, though there was no doubt it was suggested by the Lord Lieutenant.
 MR. BRIGHT  would then address himself to some points of the Bill, and conclude his observations by moving that the House do not go into Committee upon the Bill. The measure then before the House was one for making more stringent the law of distress in its mode of operation, and extending that law to a class of property under circumstances in which it did not at present apply. The law of distress was altogether, in this country as well as in Ireland, very questionable; and on that ground he was fortified in his belief that they would not be acting wisely to make that law more stringent than at present. It might be observed by hon. Members that the Devon Commission received a very considerable amount of evidence which went against the law of distress in Ireland, showing it to be a harsh and severe law, and that it was a law not alone harsh and cruel to the tenant, but often not beneficial or satisfactory to the landlord. That being the case, and knowing that the law of distress was based upon a very questionable principle, conferring on a particular class of property the right of recovery not extended to other classes, he should declare himself opposed to the proposition now before the House, namely, to add new stringency to that power in the case of Ireland, particularly in the present condition of that country. It was well known that for some time past there had been a sort of servile war between the landlord and tenant classes of Ireland. He believed the landlords there were, in a great number of cases, oppressing and coercing the tenantry; and that the tenantry were endeavouring to avoid, by fraudulent means, the payment of their rents. In fact, there raged a sort of social anarchy, arising from causes heretofore discussed in that House, but which anarchy, or the cause of which, the present Bill was not calculated to remove. The hon. Member for the University of Dublin was a member of the Devon Commission, and would, he doubted not, bear him (Mr. Bright) out in saying that abundant evidence was laid before that Commission to show that the law of distress was so unpopular that in cases where property was distrained for rent, it was next to impossible to find a sale for it. Like goods seized for tithes, or church rates, in this country, it was almost im-
 893 894 895 896
 MR. BRIGHT  submitted, that the Bill was not in order as it then stood before the House. The Bill, as it originally stood, was entitled a "Landlord and Tenant Bill," its object being to improve the relations between these bodies. At present it was proposed to call it "An Act to Prevent the taking away of Crops to avoid the Payment of Rent." There was only one clause retained in the Bill as it came down from the House of Lords, with part of another clause, to which, however, was tacked a long proviso. The Bill was in point of fact one for the creation of new criminal offences, and could not with any degree of justice be classed under the title of a Landlord and Tenant Bill, which was the character it pretended to on leaving the Lords. What he asked was, if this objection was not fatal to the Bill? and if not, he would proceed to state further reasons why the Bill should not be entertained.
 MR. REYNOLDS  rose to call attention to the great public inconvenience caused by the present mode of transmitting the mails between Dublin and London. At present, the mails left daily between Dublin and London. One left Kingstown at 12 o'clock in the morning, and the other at half-past 7 in the evening. It was to
 886 887
 MR. REYNOLDS  would withdraw his Motion for the adjournment of the House.
 MR. REYNOLDS  then moved that the House do adjourn. The House ought to adjourn in order that the subject might be more fully discussed. In Manchester the ratepayers paid 28,000 l. 905
 MR. REYNOLDS  wished to show reasons why the House should adjourn. He would not trespass further than by repeating what he had already stated, that he should offer all the opposition in his power to this Bill, and expressing his regret that the Government should give their sanction to a one-sided Bill like this. He would not go again into the merits of the Bill; but he hoped the House would adjourn.
 MR. BROTHERTON  thought that something ought to be done for the prevention of irregular debates. In the present temper of the House, it was perhaps advisable to consent to the adjournment of the discussion.
 MR. HENLEY  thought it was unfortunate that the law of Ireland was not the same as in England. ["Hear, hear!"] The English farmer was liable to punishment for the offence here. He knew the hon. Gentleman was a magistrate for Surrey, and he had no doubt similar complaints had been made to the hon. Member as to himself (Mr. Henley) of tenants taking away goods to prevent their being distrained for rent. The law, however, gave power to the landlord to follow them for thirty days; and if he did not then recover them, he could proceed against the tenant, who would be liable to six months' imprisonment. He could not see why this was not extended to Ireland; for he believed the only remedy at present was, to bring an action for double the amount of rent, thus making it a simple debt.
 MR. NAPIER  would, as a lawyer, remind the hon. Member for Manchester, who had taunted the lawyers with not having expressed any opinion on the question under discussion, that both in England and Scotland the case of the fraudulent removal of crops liable to distress for rent was, by law, punishable as a criminal offence. He would ask the hon. Member for Manchester what remedy he proposed to give the landlord against these frauds? If the landlord turned off the tenant, he was denounced as an exterminator, and his murderers would find some in that House to palliate their crime. He was to be denied the power of distraining for rent, and thus no remedy would be left to him against these frauds and robberies. This fraudulent removal of crops was no new thing. He had just received a letter stating that in one part of Ireland they had commenced putting it in practice already, and that if something was not done, "blood would be shed." If hon. Gentlemen opposite wished to take the responsibility of that blood, let them do so; but he would seek to promote the passing of the Bill by every fair means in his power.
 MR. P. SCROPE  hoped the House would bear in mind the cheers with which the observations of the hon. Member for Oxfordshire had been received, that the law of England should be applied to Ireland on the subject of landlord and tenant. If they acted on that principle, to which they had by their cheers almost pledged themselves, they would remove various objectionable parts of the Bill. Should they go into Committee, he trusted they would content themselves with putting the law affecting Ireland on the same footing as the law of England. He had a great objection to legislating on the subject at this period of the Session. There were provisions in the Bill so offensive and insulting to the tenantry of Ireland, that it was impossible the House could assent to them. The grievances of the Irish tenantry were innumerable. One of the worst of those grievances would be aggravated by the Bill, inasmuch as, having to pay rents on a range of prices which had been materially changed by the legislation of that House, and calculated on the supposition of successful potato crops, tenants, if they did not pay their rents to the last farthing, would find that by the Bill power was given the landlord to prevent them from selling their produce as they saw fit, and from carrying away their crops for the purpose of sale. They would find also that any informer might bring evidence against them to show that in the removal of their crops they were acting in a fraudulent manner. The effect of such legislation would be to encourage landlords to maintain extravagant rents, and keep alive that unfortunate state of feeling between landlord and tenant which it was so desirable to alter. The depopulation of Ireland had been proceeding rapidly; no fewer than 100,000 families had disappeared within the last year or two. Tenants ought to be protected from harsh and cruel evictions. The common law was said to be sufficient to prevent these; but an Act was passed not long ago to provide an effectual check. It was notoriously a dead letter. The right hon. Secretary for Ireland received many accounts of evictions from the constabulary; and it might be asked why those returns
 904
 MR. R. M. FOX  observed, that the Bill made every man to whom another paid rent a landlord under its provisions; so that not only a landlord in the proper sense, but every agent or driver, could prevent a man from digging a potato in his garden. One of the clauses would prevent a man from removing any of his chattels, and vehicles might be seized as if they were the property of the man whose house they were leaving. The provisions of the Bill were of so arbitrary a character that he could not, under any circumstances, give them his support. If the question of adjournment were negatived, he would be prepared to present his views in detail.
 MR. DICKSON  rose to order. The hon. and learned Gentleman, he presumed, had no right thus to refer to what took place in the other House of Parliament.
 MR. ALCOCK  hoped this Bill would not become law, for he considered that it would be very detrimental to the interests of Ireland. Nothing, he believed, would tend more to the advantage of that country than the introduction of English farmers, of English enterprise, and of English capital; but if an English farmer who settled in Ireland attempted to reap his crops by night, he might, under this Bill, be committed to prison, tried, and sentenced to hard labour. He knew an English farmer who went to Ireland two years ago, and who occupied 1,000 acres of land in the county of Gal way, who would be precluded by this measure from working after sunset or before sunrise. A large portion of the land in Ireland was subject not only to" rent, but to rent-charge. Although, therefore, a tenant might have paid his rent, the rent-charge might be due, and, if the tenant proceeded to reap his crops within the prohibited time, he might be informed against, fined, and punished with hard labour.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  opposed the Bill. He considered the hon. Member for Dundalk quite correct both in his law and in his facts. The principle of the measure was simply this, that if a tenant, however conscientiously, presumed to differ from his landlord as to the extent of his liabilities towards him, as to whether, perhaps, he owed him any rent at all, the landlord was to be in a position to remove the settlement of the question from a civil into a criminal court, and to subject the unfortunate tenant to fine and imprisonment, with or without hard labour, for a twelvemonth, leaving the tenant who would not submit to this tyranny no other alternative than a resort to agrarian justice. As to fraudulent removals, they were sufficiently provided against by the existing law. It was said that the Bill was merely to prevent tenants from moving their crops by night; why, the unhappy men were so engaged during the day, in the employment, perhaps, of the very landlord who was oppressing them, that they had only the night in which to attend to their own concerns. There were two principles which ought to govern any law upon this subject: one was that nothing should be done to prevent the tenant selling his own produce at the time he pleased himself; and the other was, that a distress should be levied at such a time as to avoid the probability of a disturbance of the public peace. Both those principles the present Bill violated. There was no provision in it to make the existing law more effectual than it was at present. It was a piece of landlord legislation, and, however accept-
 901
 MR. C. ANSTEY  was surprised at the lecture which the hon. Member for Kerry had bestowed upon the opponents of the Bill; because the history of Parliament could show no person who had more distinguished himself than the hon. Member by Motions of adjournment, for the purpose of obstructing Sir Robert Peel's Administration. [Mr. M. J. O'CONNELL: Never.] Oh, yes! He remembered the
 906
 MR. C. ANSTEY  wished to take the opinion of the Chair upon the language of the noble Lord. The noble Lord had spoken of him as a person incapable of comprehending what appertained to the dignity of the House, and said that when in his cups with his companions he would turn it into ridicule. He wished to know whether that was Parliamentary language,; and, if it were not, he hoped Mr. Speaker would visit the noble Lord with censure.
 MR. LENNARD  considered the cutting of crops on Sundays to evade the rent to be a downright species of felony, and one of the most dishonest practices that ever prevailed in any civilised country. He hoped that the Government would take care that the Bill passed during the present Session.
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  denied that it was a general practice to remove crops in the way alleged by the supporters of this Bill. The tenantry of Ireland did not deserve the imputations which had been so lavishly heaped upon them; and he could not but believe that there had been some great moral constraint pressing upon the mind of the right hon. Baronet the Irish Secretary when he consented to the second reading of the measure. He (Mr. M'Cullagh) condemned the mode in which this Bill had been introduced and proceeded with. The last time it was discussed it was long after midnight; and he believed there was no formal advantage of which its promoters would not avail themselves in order to have it passed into law. Why was it not brought in sooner in the Session, if the necessity for it was so great as had been represented? Its framers had placed it in the hands of a Peer (the Marquess of Westmeath), the very last that
 898
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  held in his hand a copy of the Bill as it was printed by order of the House of Lords, and he found the name of the Marquess of Westmeath on the back of it. The measure originally brought in by the Government to amend the relations subsisting between landlord and tenant in Ireland had not been proceeded with, but its most stringent clauses were imported into, and now formed the whole of, the present measure; and he must repeat that Ministers could only have given their sanction to the second reading under some extraordinary feeling of constraint, or some overpowering sense of its necessity. Then, if that were so, why did they not adopt at once the responsibility of carrying it through Parliament? The hon. Member for Manchester had pointed out the difference between a civil wrong and a criminal offence; and he would only add to his statement, that, anciently, by the common law, nothing could be distrained that partook of the quality of the soil. It was only after 1688 that this principle was disturbed, and the right of distraint over growing crops was recognised by statute. This right, first established in England, was subsequently extended to Ireland; but the power was abused so universally and so notoriously that the Devon Commission, of which the sponsor for this Bill in that House (Mr. G. A. Hamilton), was a member, reported that it should be abrogated. Nobody proposed to take the power of distraint over growing crops from the landlords of England; but the Devon Commissioners reported that it was necessary to divest the landlords of Ireland in that re-
 899
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  thought that if they were colonists or British subjects in foreign countries, they would, no doubt, get justice from the hon. Gentleman the Member for Kinsale, and the noble Viscount the Foreign Secretary, but had not a chance of being treated as Englishmen, because they were mere Irish. The hon. Member for Oxfordshire had censured the Bill because it did not assimilate the law of Ireland to the law of England; and the hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin coolly asked them to go into Committee for that very reason. A tenant who committed a fraud in England was committed to prison in default of payment of the sum defrauded, but they should not confound such a just law with the provisions of that Bill.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  concurred with the right hon. Secretary for Ireland in wishing to prevent frauds; but he would not endeavour to do so by a one-sided Bill, which would prevent frauds on the part of the tenants, while it left the frauds practised by landlords unrestrained. He con
 903
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  seconded the Amendment.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  rose to put a question to his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies, in reference to some late despatches of his noble Friend who was at the head of that department. A certain foreign Potentate had appointed to a certain office certain persons in certain parts of Her Majesty's dominions. The question he wished to ask his hon. Friend was, whether Her Majesty's Ministers had advised Her Majesty to continue to recognise the precedence which such appointment gave other parties, whose orders had been conferred with Her Majesty's sanction?
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  thought the subject had been discussed with more warmth than was called for. All the Gen-
 902
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  thought it impossible to go into Committee at such an hour, and in the then temper of the House, with the prospect of making any progress; and, therefore, the House had only to consider whether they would adjourn the debate, or go into Committee  pro formâ, 908
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  then said, as it was impossible the debate could lead to any result, it would be better that it should be adjourned.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  objected both to the principle and details of the Bill, and begged to move that it be read a
 913 l., l l., 914 l. l l. 915 l. 916
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  explained that he had not meant to make any charge against the House of Lords when he expressed his regret that this Bill had emanated from that House. He might observe, also, that he had always entertained and expressed a high opinion of the exemplary conduct of Irish landlords generally under the difficult circumstances in which they had been placed.
 MR. BERNAL  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he meant to be imperative in some clauses of this Bill, which would have a retrospective operation, and take away from friendly societies the advantages which they enjoyed under the Acts of George IV. and William IV.? He also wished to know if he would deprive them of the advantage of non-liability, and the power of assignment of life insurances?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not consider that what he proposed would have an  ex post facto
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, a great many of these societies effected insurances on lives up to
 928 l.,
 MR. SOTHERON  would consent to the Amendment.
 MR. STAFFORD  expressed his regret that the hon. and learned Attorney General had thought fit to censure the House of Lords for the course they had taken with regard to this subject. Such a censure was an unfortunate exception to the rule usually observed in that House, and it was, in his opinion, especially ill-timed when the Members of the other House seemed not disinclined to waive their own opinions on certain questions. After carefully considering the position of Irish landlords, and reviewing the whole question of incumbered estates, he had come to the conclusion that the best course would be to let the Incumbered Estates Act work as it now stood, and not by passing this Bill to increase the difficulties of carrying out that measure and diminish the small chance of success. He thought the provision contained in the 4th clause of this Bill relative to the fifteen years' purchase might he applied in a manner which the framers and promoters of the Bill had not contemplated; for, if they attempted to fix a minimum rate for the purchase of land, they might set a precedent for fixing the rent of land. He agreed in the observations of the hon. Member for Tipperary, with regard to the Securities for Advances Bill. He regretted that that Bill had not been passed; and he did not think the opposition with which the measure had been threatened was such as to justify the Government in abandoning it, backed as they were by so many promises of support, without reference to party distinctions, from both sides of the House. He understood, however, that it was the intention of the Government to bring that Bill forward again at the earliest possible period next Session, and to pass it through both Houses. He considered that there
 921
 MR. F. FRENCH  said, he had heard with extreme surprise the speech just delivered by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General. The hon. and learned Gentleman had said that that measure had been framed solely with a view to promote the interests of the landlords in Ireland; but he (Mr. French) felt persuaded that a more incorrect statement than that had never been made. He could not help believing that not the owners but the puisne creditors of the property submitted for sale in the Incumbered Estates Commissioners' Court had reason to complain that the sales had been pressed forward with a haste which had tended very much to diminish the amount realised by that property. The hon. and learned Gentleman was aware that in the property at present before the court, the owners could not be said to have any interest. The rental of the property advertised for sale was 625,000 l. l. 917 l. 918 l. l l. l 919 l. l.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he had not been surprised at the attack which had been made by the hon. and learned Attorney General, though in no coarse or vituperative language, upon the landlords of Ireland; nor was he surprised at the opinion expressed by that hon. and learned Gentleman with reference to this Bill. He (Colonel Dunne) considered it most unjust to force the land of Ireland into the market at this moment, when the country was still suffering from the effects of a famine, and when an immense tax was imposed upon the landed proprietor for the support of the poor. He looked upon the Incumbered Estates Act as a measure of confiscation; and he thought its operation should be as much as possible restricted. With that view he supported this Bill. He had a Statement, from which it appeared that some estates had been sold at three, some at four, and others at five and at six and a half years' purchase. Was it right to sell these estates in such a time of depression? And then with regard to the poor-rate. He did not object to the support of the poor, but he did object to their support being thrown all upon one class, the mortgagee and the annuitant escaping. But this was not merely a landlord question, it was a creditors' question. He knew of an estate which produced 3,500 l. l. l l. 922
 MR. SCULLY  would support the hon. and learned Attorney General in his opposition to this Bill, and he only regretted that the hon. and learned Gentleman had not as earnestly and vigorously opposed Bills of a similar nature on former occasions. An attack had been made upon the Incumbered Estates Commissioners, on the ground that they forced the sales of land, but the fact was, that the owners themselves were the parties who sought to effect sales. The objection of the hon. Member for Roscommon as to the non-distribution of the proceeds of the sales, was answered by a statement which had been issued by the Commissioners, to the effect that an amount of from 360,000 l. l. 920
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, he felt it necessary to make a few observations. He was aware that, at the present period of the Session, when so many Members had left town, the Bill was at the mercy of the Government; and he feared, from the intimation just given him by the hon. and learned Attorney General, he had little consideration to expect from them. The principle of the Bill was to place some restriction, to put a drag, upon the operations of the Act of last year. Whatever might be the opinions held with regard to that Act, every one, he thought, would admit that nothing but strong considera-
 911 l., l. l. 912 l. l.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he would withdraw the Bill.
 MR. MOORE  thought that Gentlemen were only pronouncing funeral orations. The Bill was dead.
 MR. BRIGHT  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he was not surprised at the rebuke which had been offered by the hon. Member for Roscommon and the hon. and gallant Member for Portarlington to the hon. and learned Attorney General for what they termed his attack upon the House of Lords. But with regard to the question before the House, it appeared to him that it would be impossible to state the facts of the case without expressing a strong opinion on the other branch of the Legislature, and especially with regard to the Bills which had passed with such unusual rapidity through the other House of Parliament. He was certain that if the House of Commons at an earlier period of the Session had had laid before it the various Bills which had come down to them recently touching the affairs of Ireland, there would have been an almost unanimous condemnation, at least on the part of those Members who represented Great Britain, of those measures. There were four Bills which had come down from the House of Lords recently, of which this was one. The whole of these Bills had one tendency. They were introduced by the same parties and with the same motives, and those were to get all that could be got by any means for the landlords, and to pay nothing on the part of the landlords that could possibly be avoided. Now, he would take the Bills in order; and he hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin, who was taking a note, would, if he could, explain upon any other principle than that, the character of the Bills which he was submitting to the House. They attacked the hon. and learned Attorney General because he had been stating what he believed to be facts with regard to the House of Lords legislating in a totally different spirit when the landlord had to receive, and when the landlord had to pay. He was about to show that the hon. and learned Attorney General was more than justified in what he said. There were four of these Bills, one of them was called the Distress for Rent Bill, another had the title of the Landlord
 923 924 925 1. 1. l. 926
 MR. HATCHELL  looked upon the Bill as condemned, but wished to bear his testimony to the high character and qualifications of the Incumbered Estates Commissioners. Baron Richards had spent his life in the consideration of titles, and in the practice of the equity courts. Dr.
 927
 MR. NAPIER  would not detain the House many minutes. The question was, whether the principle of the Bill was so vicious that it ought to be rejected on the second reading. Much had been said about the landlords. How were they to pay their debts unless they were armed with reasonable means for the recovery of their rents? Encouraging the tenantry to defraud their landlords was not maintaining the rights of property. Suppose the Lords had attended to the rights of landlords; had the Commons attended to the rights of tenants? What right had they to cast such a charge at the Lords? The impression as to the operation of the Bill in regard to Parliamentary titles was, he conceived, erroneous; but, if clearer words were desired, let them be introduced into the Bill. There was a great abuse existing now. At present a judgment creditor, for any sum over 150 l.,
 MR. SOTHERON  trusted the discussion would not be so much prolonged as to prevent his proceeding with the Friendly Societies Bill.
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  said, as he might not have another opportunity, he wished now to tender his thanks to the hon. and learned Attorney General for having rescued them from this additional wrong; and he hoped that the hon. and learned Gentleman would give them the same assistance on other occasions as he had done on this. He thanked him for having prevented fraud from being perpetrated—he did not say intentionally—by one class against another.
 MR. BERNAL  wished to call the attention of the hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies to the defective state of the regu-
 934
 MR. HUME  opposed the adoption of the clause.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  objected to the insertion of the words without due notice being given to all persons whose interests would be affected, and to whom considerable inconvenience would be occasioned; but he would not object to consider the question of an improved system of Customs accounts in another Session.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHE-
 950 , in reply, stated that it had been found necessary to introduce it in consequence of the recent Act for the advance of certain further sums for the improvement of land, containing one word which the law officers in Ireland were of opinion would have the effect of preventing a proprietor, who had taken a loan for one portion of his estate, transferring it to another portion. The Bill was intended to authorise such transfers.
 MR. J. A. SMITH  said, he thought the sum fixed by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer was too low a sum. He thought it should be fixed at 200 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, these societies were for the benefit of the lower class of people, and 100 l.
 MR. AGLIONBY  supported the proposition for 200 l.
 MR. HUME  considered that fixing it at 100 l.
 MR. J. A. SMITH  said, not one of
 948 l.
 MR. P. SCROPE  observed, that if they did agree to 200 l.
 MR. J. A. SMITH  said, he was willing to accede to that.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he allowed existing insurances to remain as they were, but that the Act would apply to future assurances.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  asked whether it was intended to subject friendly societies to all the clauses and provisions of the Acts relating to savings banks? and whether Government would guarantee the continuance of the rate of interest proposed to be given under this Bill—3 l. s. d.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that it was not intended to subject the moneys invested on behalf of friendly societies to the regulations of the Savings Banks Acts. With regard to the hon. Baronet's second question, he begged to state that there was a certain number of friendly societies to which, by law, an interest at the rate of 4 l. s. l. s. l. l. s. d.
 MR. HENLEY  objected to the clause, on the ground that it was inconsistent with the second clause; and he suggested the omission of the words, "according to the rules of the said society."
 MR. SPOONER  said, that in some societies the member had by the rules the power of having the sum paid to his widow; if these words were struck out, he would not have that which was perhaps his reason for belonging to that society.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  thought it would be advisable to omit the words. It did not appear desirable that there should be various systems or rules prevailing; it would be better that there should be one rule, the rule of law, as to the distribution of an intestate's effects; and if a person wished his property otherwise distributed, he could make a will.
 LORD D. STUART  apprehended that it was not the habit of the class of persons in question to make a will.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that it was never contemplated that there was to be such a nominee system as had grown up, enabling people to evade to such an extent the stamp and probate and legacy duty, and, if so minded, to cheat their creditors. He believed there was a person of high rank in this country whose life was insured for no less than 5,000 l.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  said, that estimates for 3,500 l. l.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, he felt himself under some embarrassment with respect to the clause proposed; for although he did not object to the principle of the clause, it proposed to displace one which had the approval of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the University of Dublin. The effect of the clause would be to give increased power to the local boards. He should not object to the clause if he might not be thought, perhaps, guilty of a breach of faith to his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the University of Dublin, by whom Clause 8 had been supported, and who was not then present.
 COLONEL DUNNE  supported the clause proposed to be substituted for Clause 8, which he thought a much better one than that.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, he hoped the hon. Member would draw up a clause instead of Clause 13, in accordance with that one which he had just introduced. He (Sir W. Somerville) had undertaken to draw up a clause in accordance with Clause 8, but he could not now promise to do so.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Dublin was not in his place; and he thought he had some reason to complain if notice had not been given of this question. He believed it was the hon. Gentleman's intention to adopt the Amendment of the hon. Member for Oxfordshire, for assimilating the law to that of England. He knew not what course he would pursue after the declaration now made by the right hon. Baronet.
 MR. HAWES  should be exceedingly sorry if the House imagined that the Colonial Office was indisposed to attend to the observations either of the hon. Member for Rochester or the hon. Member for Montrose on this subject. Both of them had paid great attention to it, and the hon. Member for Rochester had considerable experience and an intimate knowledge of the state of our colonies. He fully admitted the distress which prevailed in the West Indies, and he greatly deplored it. He thought the proprietors entitled to every sympathy which the Legislature could extend to them, consistently with the principles of commercial policy which he believed were now firmly established in this country. The observations of the hon. Member for Rochester had been almost entirely confined to the nature of the contract which ought to be sanctioned between the employer of labour and the labourer. The observations of the hon. Member for Montrose related to a totally different subject, namely, the general supply of labour. He proposed, in the few observations which he intended to address to the House, to keep these two subjects quite distinct. The hon. Member for Rochester said, he was convinced that a contract of three years was absolutely necessary. His noble Friend at the head of the Colonial Office—and he (Mr. Hawes) shared the feeling with him—did not rely with any confidence upon long contracts of that kind, because it was quite in the power of the labourer, if he was unwilling to work, to make the contract a burden instead of a benefit; and there was nothing they could do to enforce the contract without resorting to means which would be justly objected to by a large portion of the people of this country. He was aware that there was a prevailing opinion among the planters and others in-
 936 937
 MR. HINDLEY  trusted no alarm would be created amongst the depositors in savings banks; and that, if trustees did not do their duty, the Government would act as they had done in the case of the Cuffe-street savings bank.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was certainly with very great regret he had come to the conclusion that he must postpone even the discussion upon this Bill until next Session. He had wished such a discussion to take place,
 953
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, that the Lough Corrib Company had undertaken certain works which they were unable to proceed with, and that an Act had been passed in consequence to enable the Board of Works to carry out not only the object of the company, but to effect certain works of great value to that part of Ireland. The company had executed a certain quantity of works near Galway, and had improved the navigation; and it appeared that they had, on the whole, made improvements to the extent of 5,000 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the advantage obtained would be, that a certain portion of the channel of the river was excavated by the company, and the public would get the benefit of that improvement.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, it would have the effect of lowering the level of Lough Corrib, and much land near its shores would thereby be gained by the owners of the adjoining estates; but those persons would be taxed
 951
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  said that, as far as he was concerned, he entered into no compromise with regard to this Bill, which he considered most obnoxious and disgraceful. But it was difficult to continue a debate where all the speaking and arguments were on one side.
 COLONEL DUNNE  would be glad to know what was to be done with any profit arising from those works—was it to be handed over to the Treasury?
 MR. ARKWRIGHT  thought it very unfair for the Government to bring forward Bills at the end of the Session in this way, when it was impossible to pass them if the ordinary forms of the House had been complied with. He would move that the Bill be read a second time that day three months.
 MR. ARKWRIGHT  wished to know why the Bill was introduced at so late a period of the Session.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he was not in this House when the observations referred to had been made, but he had been informed of their tenor. If the House would indulge him for a few minutes, he would state the position in which he felt himself placed in consequence of the intimation which the right hon. Secretary had just given. In the first place, as he understood the right hon. Gentleman had spoken of the stringency of the clauses for
 945 Derisive cheers.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  would be no party to withdrawing a Bill which he continued to think necessary; but if any one else chose to move that the Order be discharged, he would not resist it.
 MR. MOORE  wished to ask a question of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department with
 938
 MR. MOORE  said, he wished to give notice of his question, but he had not had opportunity.
 MR. AGLIONBY  also declared his opinion that the Government had taken the wisest course with reference to this measure.
 MR. AGLIONBY  was glad this Bill was introduced; because it would only do a small and very tardy act of justice to a body that had spent large sums of money for the improvement of Ireland. The 5,000 l. s.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that, though he admitted that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had no alternative but to withdraw the Bill, he deeply regretted the necessity for taking that course. The Bill was an improvement on the present law; but he would recommend to the right hon. Gentleman the propriety of making the responsibility of the State with respect to the savings of the poor as complete as possible.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, as he had heard no good answer to the arguments that had been urged against his Bill, he should vote against the second reading. This Bill of three clauses renewed the Coercion Act of 1847, which contained 23 clauses, and which was not fit for any civilised country; but only for men in their savage and uneducated state. On that ground he opposed its application to Ireland. This Bill was proposed on the ground that the Earl of Clarendon had not abused the provisions of the Act. That might be very true, but the Earl of Clarendon had under him officials, for whose proper conduct he could not be responsible. As an instance of that he would mention that permission to carry arms had been refused to a most respectable gentleman in Dublin—he alluded to Mr. J. H. Thomas, of Ranelagh. He had that day received a letter of a similar kind from an individual who stated that he had been refused a licence to carry arms by a shopkeeper who was a magistrate, which refusal he attributed to political hostility. If this measure was to be applied to Ireland, why was it not also applied to England and Scotland on the principle that "what was sauce for the goose was sauce for the gander?" But in addition to what he had stated there was no guarantee that the Earl of Clarendon would remain in Ireland. There were 30,000 troops of various kinds in Ireland, and were they not enough to keep the peace without this Algerine Act? He knew nothing more likely to irritate the people of Ireland than such a measure, and he would do everything in his power to strangle it, because he looked upon it as a wanton outrage on the people of that country. He would divide the House on every stage of the Bill, and he begged to return his thanks to the hon. Member for Rochdale, for the manly stand he took upon this and on all other occasions, when the rights of his country was concerned.
 MR. REYNOLDS  then moved that the Order of the Day for going into Committee be read, for the purpose of being discharged; which was agreed to without opposition.
 MR. HENLEY  expressed his entire concurrence in the course adopted by the Government.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he had every reason to believe that the promoter of the Bill would adopt his Amendments.
 MR. HUME  repeated his complaint of want of free labour in our West India colonies. He had always contended that they never could put down slavery in Brazil and Cuba until they could make free labour cheaper than slave labour. If, therefore, they refused to assist our colonies to procure free labour, so as to enable them to reduce the cost of their produce, and undersell the Brazilians and the Cubans, they must be considered a party to the perpetuation of slavery. Was it not better to buy a slave on the coast of Africa and make him a free man in our colonies, than to allow the Brazilians and Cubans to buy him and continue him in a condition of slavery? It was said that Exeter Hall would not permit such a thing. Pooh, pooh, for Exeter Hall! Exeter Hall had done too much evil already, and he hoped the time was come when less attention would be paid to the ignorance and prejudice which emanated from that quarter.
 MR. HUME  wished to know whether, before the next stage of the Bill, the Government would be prepared with a return of the districts in Ireland in which the Act had been put into operation, together with the charge to the counties in Ireland and to the public, on account of additional constables required in consequence of its passing. He understood that the Irish Members had come to an arrangement to give
 943
 MR. HUME  said, the statement of his hon. Friend, he was sure, was too true. The neglect and want of attention of the colonial authorities had brought on those evils. He was ready to state, on the part of the people of Trinidad, that they wanted no favour; they only wanted that the same laws which affected vagrants in this country should be carried out there. They wanted labour to be free; at the present moment it was restricted. He could not see why labourers should not he imported from the coast of Africa. They were slaves there, but the moment they got to our colonies they would be free, and if three years contracts were necessary, he thought they ought to be allowed. The labourers would be under the protection of magistrates paid by this country, and they would have all the rights of freemen. There was a prejudice against importing slaves from the coast of Africa, which he thought had just grounds when slavery existed in our colonies, but he could see no ground for it now. Unless something was done for the colonies,
 935
 MR. HUME  wished to be told what good it was when done?
 MR. HUME  wanted to know what was the value that the country got for this sum of 5,000 l.
 MR. HUME  felt glad that the right hon. Gentleman had adopted the course suggested to him. The measure was one of great importance; and he therefore hoped it would be the very first thing entertained next Session. It was full time that these banks should be put on a footing different from heretofore; and as certain resolutions, the results of reports, were in his (Mr. Hume's) possession, he would lay them on the table to-morrow, with a view to their being printed, when hon. Gentlemen would have full time during the recess to read them over, and thus make themselves minutely acquainted with the subject before coming to legislate on it in the next Session.
 MR. P. SCROPE  said, that the Savings Banks Bill had been promised on the first night of the Session, and yet the Government were unable to get even a discussion upon it. The sooner the right hon. Gentleman brought in a Bill next Session to place these institutions upon a firm and satisfactory footing, the better.
 MR. R. M. FOX  had no fear that the provisions of the Bill would be abused by the Earl of Clarendon; but he feared that if the present Government were succeeded in office by their opponents, a Lord Lieutenant might be appointed who would be less worthy of being entrusted with them.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  hoped the Government would at least make some attempt to show that this was not an unconstitutional Bill. By giving extraordinary prerogatives to the Crown, either the constitution was suspended or destroyed. It could not be denied that the powers in this Bill were most extraordinary. Hon. Members had been placed in a false position by the Bill being imperfectly described, and not sufficiently explained, on its introduction. Were such a measure proposed for either the manufacturing or agricultural districts of this country, the attempt to pass it would be absurd; it would be thrown out at once. If this measure was necessary, why was it not accompanied with remedial measures, or rather, why did not such measures precede those of a penal character? All the liberal Irish Members were opposed to this coercive policy: nevertheless the Government showed a determination to persist in it. It was true the Earl of Clarendon had exercised these extraordinary powers in a manner which could not be complained of; but the fact that his Lordship succeeded in preserving the peace of the country during a very critical period, without any such extraordinary powers, was a proof that they were unnecessary. They only served to familiarise the Irish with slavery; they were at most but a  pis aller; 941
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, that, in doing anything with regard to inland navigation, it appeared to him that the report of the Select Committee on the Irish Fisheries might advantageously be consulted.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  said, he should take this opportunity of reiterating his opposition to this Bill. The first clause of the Act, now in force, gave power to the Lord Lieutenant to proclaim any district, and to increase the constabulary, which was, in effect, a standing army. He was also empowered to levy taxes to defray the cost—to prohibit the carrying of arms—to search houses for arms—and other extraordinary powers. No one could doubt that those powers, however necessary at one time, were unconstitutional. There were two modes of governing a country: one by enacting just laws, and calling on the people to preserve the peace for themselves; the other by enforcing or continuing unequal laws; and this system had prevailed in Ireland ever since it was a part of the united kingdom. A policy of coercion and extermination was in force under the Earl of Clarendon at that moment. The noble Earl had given facilities for eviction, and had called for no law to mitigate the misery which flowed from these proceedings. On these grounds he (Mr. S. Crawford) felt it his duty to protest most strongly against this Bill. It was a delusion to sup-
 940
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  agreed in the necessity for postponing the Bill, but expressed a hope that the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer would bring forward such a measure next Session as would give ample security to depositors.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that his not rising immediately after the mover and seconder of the Amendment did not proceed from any disrespect towards the opponents of the Bill; but hon. Gentlemen would remember that two discussions had already taken place on this subject, and that on the first occasion his noble Friend the First Lord of the Treasury, and his right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland, both stated the grounds which had led the Government to ask for the continuance of the Act for a limited time. He understood, besides, that the hon. Gentleman who now opposed the second reading of the Bill, did not wish to raise another debate on the question, but merely to enter his protest against the measure. He was not aware that he could add anything to what had already been said by his noble and right hon. Friends. The object of the Bill was not oppression, but the security of life. When first proposed, outrages of a shocking character had occurred. He rejoiced to say that the Act had been instrumental in checking such occurrences, though recent experience had shown that they had not ceased altogether. He admitted that the Bill was of an exceptional character, and he should be happy to find that its further extension was unnecessary. At the same time he fully concurred with what had already been stated on the part of the Government, that at present the Government,
 942
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the fact of Government finding themselves unable to proceed with a Bill on the general subject, would by no means justify them in resisting a salutary improvement of the law limited to a particular case. He confessed, however, that he could not have supported the Bill as it came down to them from the Lords; and, even with the alterations which had since been introduced into it—though it had thereby been rendered very different from the Bill which had come down to them from the Lords—he felt that it would be impossible to agree to it. It had been alleged, that the practice of clandestinely carrying away crops by night was a great evil, and involved a much more serious penalty than the parties would be liable to in this country. The Bill had been committed  pro formâ; l. 939
 SIR G. GREY  said, that he would make inquiries respecting the return which the hon. Member alluded to.
 SIR G. GREY , seeing the hon. Member for the University of Dublin in his place, begged to ask him whether, after what had been stated in the course of the preceding debate, with regard to the inexpediency of proceeding with his Bill, it was his intention to go further with it?
 SIR G. GREY  said, that this Bill had come down from the House of Lords, and it contained much matter that would constitute extremely valuable improvements
 947
 SIR G. GREY  asked, whether the hon. Member would consent to withdraw the Bill?
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, he thought it very extraordinary that Government should introduce a measure to compensate persons for an unfortunate speculation. The House should certainly have some explanation.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  put it to the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether, as the House had now arrived, at so late a period of the Session, and considering the vast number of petitions presented against the Bill, it would not be desirable to postpone the consideration of the subject until next Session, so as to allow of a consolidation of all the statutes relative to the savings banks, and an inquiry into the whole subject? The right hon. Gentleman, he admitted, had done all in his power to bring the question forward; but he hoped he would concur with him, that at the present hour (10 o'clock) it was impossible to go into a discussion of the Bill.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  would have admitted there was force in what had been urged on the impropriety of attacking an absent man, if unhappily he had not been before them in the shape of his own statement. They had heard him, and they had not heard anybody else; in fact he had it all his own way. There had not been one allegation on the part of the hon. Member for Montrose that was not based solely and entirely on what had been laid before them as the evidence and declaration of the principal agent in these transactions. For instance, some doubt had appeared to be entertained as to whether a certain proclamation contained the words "dead or alive;" they had been mentioned in a way which had led himself to doubt, whether there was not something apocryphal or overstrained about the story. But at page 12 of the printed papers he found the words—"I have offered, on the part of the Government, 1,000 dollars for each of the two leaders, if brought in, living or dead." There, therefore, could be no longer any doubt upon that point. It had further been said that nothing had been done on political grounds; but at page 9 it was writ-
 1003
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  had himself opposed the proviso as most objectionable; but the question was whether the House would have the Bill with the proviso in it, or no Bill at all. If they were to put an end to the Railway Commission to-morrow, this measure would still be perfectly efficient, because the functions now performed by the Railway Commissioners would merely be transferred to the Board of Trade.
 MR. REYNOLDS  rose to move, that the Bill be committed that day three months. He appealed to the Government (they having had an entire night for reflection) whether they intended to persevere in attempting to pass this Bill, and to inflict another gratuitous insult on the people of Ireland? He scarcely hoped to succeed, although he believed he ought to succeed, because the accounts received every day by the post more than corroborated what had already been stated respecting the peace and good order which existed in the country. Some said it was entirely owing to
 960
 MR. G. THOMPSON  said, he could support the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman with perfect consistency, because he was one of the small number who opposed the Bill when originally introduced by Government. On the present occasion Her Majesty's Ministers had displayed a degree of taciturnity which argued the weakness of their cause. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, in the able and temperate address which he delivered when asking leave to introduce the measure in November, 1847, told the House distinctly and repeatedly, that he proposed the measure with great reluctance, but that his object was to lessen the evils which had grown out of the state of the relations between landlord and tenant, and that if the measure were passed, and the Lord Lieutenant armed with the extraordinary powers which it would give him, it should be followed by measures adapted to remove the cause out of which the evils which they all deplored originated. Looking back, however, to their legislation since 1847, he did not remember a single Act which had passed that House calculated to reach the seat of the evils which the right hon. Gentleman had admitted were the fruits of the existing state of the law of Ireland. Under
 961
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that ever since he had had a seat in that House he had taken a lively interest in the affairs of Ireland, and although he had on a former occasion resisted a Coercion Bill, he felt that he was acting quite as consistently as the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down in giving his vote in favour of the Bill now
 962 Cries of
 MR. MOORE  said, that of all the reasons that had been given for voting in favour of this measure, the strangest was that which had been stated by the hon. Member for Cockermouth. That hon. Member had said that he voted for it because it had not been proved to be unnecessary.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he had assigned the existence of crime and outrage as his reason for supporting the Bill.
 MR. MOORE  said, that the hon. Gentleman had forgotten the admission of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and also of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland, that crime and outrage did not at present exist in Ireland. The hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets had taunted the Irish Members with not having done their duty on this question; but he begged to remind the hon. Member that when the Irish Members made their first stand against this measure, they had neither the voice nor the vote of the hon. Gentleman. With respect to the party with whom that hon. Member acted, he begged to thank them in the warmest terms for their support on this occasion; but he was bound to say that this was the first time, and that on every previous occasion
 963
 MR. G. THOMPSON  explained that he was ill in bed on the first occasion when this Bill was discussed, or he would have been but too happy to attend in his place to oppose the measure.
 SIR T. O'BRIEN,  in reply to the taunt that the Irish Members showed no unanimity on questions deeply interesting to their country, instanced some English measures on which the same want of unanimity amongst the English Members was evinced, alluding more specifically to the Bill for improving Spitalfields, which they discussed on the previous day, and on which they found, not merely English Members differing, but even those who represented the metropolis, although the measure was purely metropolitan in its character. He must oppose this Bill, as totally uncalled for.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, that the conduct of the hon. Member for Cockermouth was most extraordinary. When Coercion Bills were first brought under the notice of the reformed Parliament, the hon. Member was one of a small band of English Members who voted with the late Mr. O'Connell against them, although a much stronger case was made out for them then, than there had been on the present occasion; and now they had the hon. Member voting for the present measure, simply because he was ignorant that it was unnecessary. This was not a question of opinion, it was a question of fact. He called upon the supporters of the measure to show that the existing law was insufficient for the existing emergency. He admitted that there were murders in Ireland, just as there were murders in England; but he maintained that the existing law was as strong in the one country as it was in the other to reach the murderers. He admitted that in Ireland convictions could not always be obtained from jurors; but were there no cases of English juries refusing to convict a murderer, because they thought it a less crime to violate their oath than to assist in taking away human life? He should support the Amendment.
 SIR G. GREY  did not think the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets was quite just towards the Irish Members, in attributing insincerity to them with reference to this measure. In point of fact, he thought that their opposition had been most strenuous and consistent. The Bill
 964 965 966
 MR. MOORE  said, the exact words used by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland were, "I have no statement to make of crimes and outrages."
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that what he stated was, that he had no long list of outrages to read to the House. On the contrary, he was very glad to assure the House that the state of crime had greatly improved.
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, that the right hon. Baronet had told the House that crimes of the description which this mea sure was specially intended to put down had not entirely ceased in Ireland. Such was unhappily the fact; and they were not likely to cease entirely in that country while the system existed which was the great stimulus to crime. But the right hon. Gentleman had also stated that those crimes had materially diminished. The single argument which had been urged in favour of this Bill was this: Crimes of a certain description, and of an atrocious character, were very abundant in Ireland some three years ago; they had now very much diminished; this Act had been the efficient cause of the diminution, and therefore it should be continued until the outrages were entirely put down. Now, this argument involved a fallacy. If the Bill had been the efficient cause of checking crime and outrage in Ireland, how had it done so? There were two modes in which it might have operated—either by making the effect of its formidable powers evident at once, and staying the tide of crime while it was
 967 968
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he had already stated his reasons for supporting the Bill, and saw only additional reasons for adhering to that course in what had lately passed. The whole conduct of Her Majesty's Government during the present Session, with respect to Ireland, had been calculated to exasperate class against class, to inflame jealousies between landlords and tenants; so that the Bill was absolutely necessary to suppress a series of disturbances and outrages which would otherwise inevitably take place. Nothing could be more lamentable and discreditable than the conduct of Government with respect to a question compared to which all others fell into insignificance, and which was now convulsing Ireland from one end to another—that of landlord and tenant. In the face of the promises they had made in the Speech from the Throne, to introduce a Bill for the amendment of the law of landlord and tenant, they had not only withdrawn their own measure on that subject, but appealed to the hon. Member for Dublin University to withdraw that of which he had the charge. He thought the whole responsibility of defeating the efforts which had been made, and the wishes which were entertained on all sides, and by none more than the Irish landlords, for the improvement of the law on this subject, ought to be cast on the heads of the Government. By the whole proceedings of Her Majesty's Government, which terminated so disgracefully yesterday, they had shown that they preferred other and minor considerations to the settlement of a question in which the tranquillity and welfare of Ireland were so deeply interested.
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  said, he had no intention at any time of offering what was called a factious opposition to this Bill, but he should certainly vote for the Amendment. He called the attention of the Government to a course pursued by the Commissioners under the Incumbered Estates Act. There was a desire to sell estates "cleared," as they were called, and the Commissioners refused to recognise any one as tenant unless he
 969
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  said, that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, in quoting from the returns which he (Mr. O'Connell) had moved for, had made an omission which showed more of official dexterity than of statesmanlike ingenuousness. The right hon. Gentleman had omitted the offence of robbery of arms—an offence which, more than any other, afforded a correct test of the state of Ireland. From that return it appeared that in the first half year of 1848 the robberies of arms were 100; in the second half year, 137; in the first half year of 1849, 67; in the second half year, 46; and in the first half year of 1850 they were 51.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he felt as strong an objection as any one to this Bill. He believed that the Government themselves had produced the necessity for the measure, while throughout the Session, the only remedial measure passed had been the Franchise Bill, and that had nothing to do with the peace of the country. He had not opposed the introduction of the Bill, feeling that some such measure was necessary: but he would grant it for the shortest possible time. The all-absorbing question in Ireland was tenant-right; a sort of Parliament on that subject was now sitting in Dublin; and no doubt it would give rise to great agitation. He recommended the Government, instead of slandering the magistrates and abusing the landlords, to adopt just and conciliatory measures.
 SIR B. HALL  thought a Bill of this nature ought not to be brought in so late in the Session; the House had now spent two hours in discussing whether they should go into Committee or not. The manner of disposing of the public business had come to such a pass that it was absolutely necessary the whole system should be revised, or it would be impossible to get through the business of the country. He must protest against important Bills, with deceptive titles, being brought forward at a period when most Members were wearied with their labours. Since the period of the Reform Bill, he had never known a
 970
 MR. SPEAKER  intimated that the statement was out of order.
 SIR B. HALL  said, he was using it as an argument against important Bills like this being pressed at so late a period. He would take another opportunity of going into the statement to show the amount of time wasted, and the number of important Bills that had been abandoned. On the present question he should certainly vote for the Amendment.
 The CHANCELLOR or THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had no objection to the statement of the hon. Baronet, provided it were made in proper time.
 MR. MOWATT  considered that no just ground had been shown for continuing this measure. In asking for additional powers, the Government signed their own condemnation. He should have supposed they must, ere this, have been convinced of the inefficiency of Gagging Acts, Alien Bills, and other coercive measures. To deal with crimes without going into their causes, was most unstatesmanlike. It was incredible that a people like the Irish would commit such appalling murders as had been recently recorded, except they were suffering from the conviction of extreme wrong. One of these wrongs was the absence of manufactures in their country, which our policy, so called, had put an end to. The power of inflicting two years' imprisonment for the mere possession of arms was most monstrous. The Bill was a reproach to the Government, especially looking at the time and the circumstances under which it had been brought in.
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  did not think the time of the House had been wasted in the two hours' discussion of that morning, as the wrongs of the Irish people
 971
 MR. P. SCROPE  could not but sympathise with the Government, under the attacks which they suffered from all sides, as to the principle of this measure. He hoped it would be a warning to them to cease governing Ireland by coercive measures.
 MR. GRACE  thought that no case was made out for the continuance of this measure. He had supported it in the first instance as neeessary to restore peace and tranquillity; that object being effected, the necessity no longer existed.
 MR. HUME  suggested to the Government to yield to the reasonable proposition now made. The former Act was based on the existence of certain facts, which in his opinion formed some justification for the Government in introducing it. But no such facts were produced on the present occasion. For this reason he should support the Motion; but he hoped the Government would accede to the proposition, and would not press the House to pass it for a longer period than one year.
 MR. REYNOLDS  supported the Motion. He hoped the Government would see the propriety of not pressing the Bill on the people of Ireland beyond what was absolutely necessary.
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  said, that Ireland was now, generally speaking, free from agrarian outrages, and, therefore, there could be no pretence for demanding the continuance of the Bill beyond one year. If Ireland became more disturbed, the Government would then be able to come to that House with a good case to ask for a continuance of the measure for a longer period.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  hoped some Member of the Government would attempt an answer to the arguments which had
 973
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the object of the measure was not to punish crime, as had been supposed, but to prevent crime. With regard to the time which it was to continue, it was possible that the condition of Ireland might so improve, that the Act would not be any longer necessary. So it might in three months. But the Government did not think it right that this subject should be made a matter of discussion next year, and they only proposed to continue the measure for the ordinary period that all similar Bills were passed.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  was afraid that the object was to continue this Bill from year to year, in order that Parliament, in a fit of desperation, should pass a permanent Arms Act. He, for one, should never consent to such a proposal. If it was the object to suspend the liberties of the people of Ireland, let them do it by an annual measure. He should vote for the Motion of the hon. Member for Mayo.
 MR. SCULLY  thought the grounds stated by the hon. Gentlemen the representatives from Ireland were such as ought to induce Her Majesty's Ministers to accede to the proposition of limiting the operation of the Bill to twelve months. He wished that the queries of the hon. Member for Montrose, relative to the returns of robberies of arms, with the localities in which they occurred, had been answered; and also it was important that they should know what increase had taken place in the number of constabulary, and the extra expense incurred thereby. He hoped Her Majesty's Ministers would not drive them to a division, but accede to the proposition of limiting the Bill to one year.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  protested against the renewal of the Bill for any term whatever. He thought Her Majesty's Ministers would do better to bring to a fair termination the disputed points between landlord and tenant.
 MR. MOORE  said, he was not then going to reply. The call upon Her Ma-
 974
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, the Bill before the House was one for the discouragement of crime in Ireland; and that being the case, be considered that the continuance of the Bill for a period longer than twelve months would have a beneficial effect in discouraging and repressing crime, particularly the dreadful crime of murder. It was, indeed, desirable that the period for which it would be necessary might be short. What was desirable for Ireland, as for England and Scotland, was, that they should induce habits of order and obedience to the law; and having induced these habits and that obedience, they might then rely on the operation of the ordinary law for the prevention and punishment of ordinary crime. By limiting and shortening the duration of Bills, they withdrew the repression imposed upon crime, the consequence of which was that crime revived; and then, again, they were obliged to have recourse to extraordinary measures to repress it. He, therefore, thought that, if they wished the measure should not in reality be of lengthened duration, they had better now consent to its enactment for two years, as such a course would be wiser than applying again for a renewal. The hon. Member for Rochdale had alluded to the question of landlord and tenant, with a view to the intentions of Government in the next Session. He agreed with the hon. Member in the general principles laid down by him, that although they could not prevent dissensions and differences occurring between landlords and tenants by statutable enactments, it was yet desirable that any defects that might be found to exist should be removed; and that the tenant should have due remuneration for his improvements, as well as the landlord full security for his property. Her Majesty's Government proposed to introduce next Session a Bill for the settlement of the relations of landlord and tenant in Ireland; and he earnestly
 975
 MR. MOWATT  thought the Government was bound to inquire into the causes that produced these murders referred to by the noble Lord, with a view to removing them. There appeared in the papers a few days since an account of some 600 persons having been ejected and thrown upon the world. If unfortunate creatures were treated in such a way, what was left them but to turn round like wild beasts on their destroyers? The murder of Mr. Pike was perpetrated in presence of an entire village; which showed how utterly gone the sympathy of the public was for the unfortunate victim. Penal and preventive laws would never answer; they should remove the causes.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, he would move, on the third reading of the Bill, that its operation be confined to one year. He could assure the Government that no Coercion Bill would remedy Ireland, until the causes of her disaffection should be removed. The temporalities of the Irish Church, and the question of landlord and tenant, demanded settlement; and there would be neither peace nor quiet until they were settled—and indeed, in his opinion, there should not be. He believed the sufferings endured by the Irish people would justify them in resisting their oppressors to the death; and the peace and order that prevailed was not owing to Algerine or Coercion Acts, but to the high religious feeling of the people, as well as the lessons of patience inculcated by their revered clergy.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : With regard to what had been said by the right hon. Gentleman the Lord Mayor of Dublin, he thought that the question of the time to which the Bill should be limited had already been sufficiently discussed.
 LORD C. HAMILTON  denied that he had ever expressed his approval of the conduct of Marshal Haynau. This was the second time the hon. and learned Gentleman had made the assertion, and the second time that he (Lord C. Hamilton) had given it a distinct denial.
 LORD C. HAMILTON  said, that although he was generally opposed to the views maintained by Sir Henry Ward whilst he was a Member of that House, he felt that he would be acting the part of a coward if he did not come forward and state that circumstances had come to his knowledge which seemed to him completely to justify the steps which had been taken. Sir Henry Ward had acted on open manly English principles, and he was only surprised that the attack upon him should have proceeded from those who were the former supporters and admirers of his views and opinions, at least on certain points, in that House. He believed that the hon. Member for Ashton-under-
 1001
 LORD D. STUART  denied that the Members of that House who were disposed to support the Motion did in any respect sympathise with those who in the Ionian Islands were guilty of crime and outrage. It was said that the proclamation of martial law had become necessary in the Ionian Islands. Now, that was what he wanted to see proved. He would not go into the details of this question, but there was one point which affected the character both of Sir Henry Ward and of the Government, upon which some explanation was necessary. He (Lord D. Stuart) had supported Sir Henry Ward in some of the Motions he made when he was one of the Liberal representatives of the people, and he had learned with pain and sorrow of things done by him in his government which it was impossible to justify. He was informed that a proclamation had been issued by the Governor of the Ionian Islands during these troubles, in which he offered a reward for certain criminals to be brought to him dead or alive. Now, was it true or false that Sir Henry Ward had made such a proclamation? If it were not true, the Government would rejoice at having the opportunity of contradicting a statement so injurious to the Lord High Commissioner. But if it were true, he (Lord D. Stuart) stood there as a
 998
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the speech which the House had just heard from the hon. Member for Manchester called for a few remarks. That speech appeared to him to proceed, throughout, upon the assumption that Sir Henry Ward was grievously to blame for having suppressed the outrages which were being committed in the island of Cephalonia. What were the facts? A horrible murder had been committed: surely that was to be punished? A house, in which a family resided, was deliberately and wilfully set on fire; the house was surrounded by armed men, lives were lost; various bodies of insurgents appeared in arms in different
 994 995 "Finally, in reply to the sixth assertion, namely, that Her Majesty's troops were never fired on or opposed, I beg permission briefly to state what occurred on the afternoon of the 31st of August last, on the disembarkation of my detachment at Catoleo, and march up to the village of Scala. On arriving off Catoleo, in the Ionian steamer, on the above afternoon, we saw the hills in that neighbourhood occupied by considerable parties of the country people, all in arms, and in the direction of Marcopulo, one body, consisting of some hundreds, with a banner, was assembled. Two or three shots from the steamer seemed to deter them from venturing into the low ground at Catoleo, I but large numbers were seen taking the line of hills in the direction of Scala. By four o'clock the detachment had disembarked, and commenced the march up to Scala, the advance led by Captain Boyd. He had proceeded little more than half a mile when a shot was fired (apparently directed at him) from the high and broken ground on the left. This appeared to be the signal for a general attack on the troops, as it was immediately followed by continuous discharges from behind the rocks, banks, and olive groves scattered along the heights on our left flank. The left of the advanced guard was consequently reinforced, and a strong support placed in rear of it, the skirmishers at the same time inclining to the left, in order to gain the high ground and turn the right flank of the insurgents. This movement gradually forced them back, and evidently disconcerted their preparations, as they seemed to be extended, under cover, along the heights, expecting the troops either to make a flank march under them, or attack them in parallel order. Whenever the ground, however, presented extraordinary difficulties in their favour, they still held it with some determination, and especially at one point directly under the Scala, where a very deep and narrow gully intervened between the troops and the hill on which that village is situated. The greatest part of the line was obliged to cross this gully; and such was the fire and opposition offered by the insurgents, who were behind walls, and in a thick olive grove on the steep ascent up to the village, that whilst the skirmishers were descending into and climbing up the further side of the gully, the supports on the opposite side were obliged to keep up a brisk fire over their heads, in order to keep under that of their opponents." 996 997
 MR. HAWES  said, he could not regret that an opportunity was at length afforded him of offering a defence, and making a vindication, to the best of his power, on behalf of an hon. Friend, who, he believed, when the case was fairly stated, and the circumstances were known—when the papers before the House were not garbled, and the true nature of the outrage was exposed, would not be found open to the censure to which for months he had been exposed. For months his hon. Friend had been the object of attack and abuse for acts alien to his nature, and altogether foreign to his disposition; he was a man whose feelings were altogether opposed to violence and cruelty, and it would be found that he had not forgotten those principles of constitutional liberty, by adherence to which he won his reputation in that House, and would win like reputation in the Ionian Islands. He (Mr. Hawes) was not about to speak with indifference of the proclamation of martial law, and was quite aware of the fearful character of that proceeding, and of the great responsibilty resting upon any one who restored to that tremendous
 981 "The insurrection has not yet spread beyond the district in which it commenced; but the most horrible atrocities have been committed by the peasantry, who have burnt the houses of ten or twelve of the resident proprietors—cut off the heads of two men who refused to join them, and the feet of Signor Rodoteo Metaxa, killed the pri-
 982 "The insurrection broke out by the attack upon the constabulary on the 27th and 28th of August, and the firing, on the same day, of the house of the Cavalier Metaxa at Scala, at whose murder, and that of four of his servants who were burnt with him, Vlacco and the priest Nodaro presided, while the whole population of Scala looked on with flendish exultation. Between the 28th and 31st of August the houses of seven other resident proprietors were burnt, murders of the most diabolical character were committed, property to an immense extent was destroyed, men were seized and imprisoned in order to enforce compliance with the most iniquitous demands, and, although the actual outrages were confined to the four districts which I have so often named, attempts were deliberately made to extend the system of terrorism throughout the country, every resident proprietor being informed that he and his family were to be the next victims. Many slept in the churches, others wandered for days and nights together, with their wives and children, in the woods, and, so general were the alarm and confusion thus created—so imminent was the danger that the example of Scala would be followed, and that the peasantry generally, fanaticised by the appeals made to their passions, and by the temptations of easy plunder, would join in the movement, that I am satisfied that within a week that island would have been a desert, had the Government shown the slightest symptom of vacillation, or failed in applying the promptest and most stringent remedy." "Such monstrous, barbarous, and inhuman acts have terrified the entire population of this island, and disturbed the tranquillity of the peace-
 983 "We have been robbers, murderers, and everything that is horrible, and we justly deserve the punishment we are about to receive." "It was not the Government or the English that destroyed him, but his countrymen; the village of Dargata sold him for gold." "That to his Excellency the Lord High Commissioner, Sir Henry George Ward, should be conveyed the full concurrence of the Senate in the provident and necessary measures so opportunely taken by his Excellency in the exercise of his high powers; as well as the gratitude of the Senate, for having restored to Cephalonia that peace which so long and so seriously has been disturbed, and re-established order over the whole island; and, for this signal benefit, that the distinct thanks of the Senate should be expressed to his Excellency." "They are not ignorant that the heart of your Excellency has been deeply pained, as would be
 984 "Less certainly could not have been done to subdue a revolt, marked by acts of atrocity and blood unexampled in the history of the country, even in remote times." "The Legislative Assembly, therefore, feels that it is its duty to unite with the Senate, with the local Government, and great mass of the population of Cephalonia, in thanking your Excellency for the prompt and efficacious measures justly adopted to suppress an insurrection of which it trusts the Ionian Islands will present no other example. "And the more willingly is this obligation fulfilled, for having, in the performance of its duty, examined the documents laid before it, and which will be published, the chamber is persuaded that amongst the sentences which from the necessity of prompt punishment were executed by the courts-martial, there was not one which had not been merited by the gravity of the crime or crimes for which it was applied. "And these punishments, the injuries suffered, the rigour used, and all dire consequences, are but the natural results of the extraordinary measures which the extraordinary state of the country rendered indispensable; which the generous spirit of your Excellency has not ceased to deplore; which the Assembly equally deplores, and which it can only attribute to the infamous assassins and unworthy promoters of the disorders which have now ceased." 985 "The total number of capital punishments inflicted in Cephalonia between the 26th of August and the proclamation of the amnesty, on the 26th of October, was twenty-one, in which are included Theodore Vlacco, the priest Nodaro, and the other leaders and sub-leaders of the conspiracy, who have taken part in every crime committed between the 26th of September, 1848, and the massacre of the Cavaliere Nicolo Metaxa with his four unoffending servants, in August, 1849, at Scala. But were these twenty-one criminals condemned without proper opportunities of defending themselves? I have directed a full report of the trial of Theodore Vlacco, to he laid before you; and I affirm here, in the face of Europe, that in every other case the same forms were observed and the same opportunities of defence afforded. Vlacco called no witnesses; but in some cases eight and ten witnesses for the defence were examined. Most of the trials lasted a whole day. Many were adjourned because the prisoner wished to produce further evidence. Each court was attended by a sworn interpreter, and presided over by an officer of known experience. As an additional precaution Dr. Rivelli, the Advocate Fiscal 'of Cephalonia, was present, by my directions, during the whole of the proceedings at Sisi and Gerasimo, and Dr. Tommasi at Scala, in order that the officers presiding might be enabled to consult them if necessary. Not a doubt has been raised by either of these gentlemen as to the perfect equity of the sentences passed. I have myself read the whole of the evidence in every case of capital punishment, as well as in those in which the sentence of death was commuted into imprisonment, with or without other penalties; and I can vouch not only for the earnest desire evinced to spare life where a reasonable ground for clemency could be found, but for the fact, that not one man suffered for the single offence of bearing arms against the Queen, or firing upon the Queen's troops, though these are acts which are dealt with as high treason by the laws of every civilised community. All were proved, upon the clearest evidence, to have been guilty of assassination, robberies of money, plate, or bonds, incendiarism, attacks upon female honour—crimes for which they might have been made amenable to the ordinary courts of justice had not the restoration of order depended upon the promptitude of their punishment." "I will not trouble your Lordship with the details of the painful duties thus imposed upon me,
 986 987 988
 MR. HINDLEY  said, that having been only a few weeks since in the Ionian Islands, he was surprised to hear of the Motion of his hon. Friend, because from all he had heard in Corfu he was convinced it was not supported by public opinion, at least in that island. It was rather hard to call upon that House to judge harshly of the conduct of officials abroad, without knowing all the particular circumstances of the case. He had spoken to persons who were perfectly disinterested on the question, for they had no personal or political relationship with Sir Henry Ward, and he found that they entertained the highest opinion of the Governor in consequence of the manner in which he put down these disturbances. It should not be supposed that these disturbers of the public peace were persons who sought to vindicate the liberties of their country, but they were persons met together for the purpose of pillage, plunder, murder, and every crime of which human nature was capable. He hoped that House would show no sympathy for such persons, but would prove, by rejecting the Motion, that they had regard to the property, safety, and liberty of the inhabitants of the Ionian Islands. Sir Henry Ward had reduced the expenditure of the island 19,000 l., l,
 COLONEL DUNNE,  having been many years in these islands, attached to the staff of the late Governor, wished to remind the House that the Ionian Islands were not a colony, but were living under their own laws, and under a constitution very different from ours. It was under these laws of the island that Sir Henry Ward proclaimed martial law. He had submitted his acts to the Senate, and they were the only body he was responsible to. If the Senate of Corfu had complained of him, then Parliament might have taken cognisance of his conduct. But his conduct had not only been approved by the Senate of Corfu, but also by the local bodies and by the inhabitants of the islands generally. It was all very well to say that 900 troops were surely able to put down 400 insurgents; but those who spoke thus must be ignorant of the nature of the country, because the rocks, passes, and steep mountains, ren
 999 1000
 MR. MOWATT  could not help asking, after what they had heard from the representatives of the great railway interest in that House, that with this proviso this Bill would be worse than useless, why it should be pressed forward by the Government?
 MR. SCULLY  should much regret the loss of the Bill in consequence of the insertion of the proviso. He felt assured, if it was passed in its present form, it would be productive of much good, both in this country and Ireland. The amount of capital locked up in 59 lines was 2,792,000 l l.
 MR. G. THOMPSON  denied that the question before the House implied a vote of censure on Sir Henry Ward. The commission applied for was with a view to inquire into the origin and causes of these events, that the best means might be taken of hereafter avoiding them, and promoting the welfare of the people. He thought great injustice had been done his hon. Friends the Members for Montrose and Manchester by the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government. That noble Lord had represented them as shameless defenders of murderers and robbers.
 1004
 MR. TURNER  was satisfied that it was a mistake to suppose that this proviso would be prejudicial to railway companies in courts of justice. It merely declared that railway companies should be able to avoid
 1008
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, when the Bill came down from the other House, some leading persons connected with railways complained that there was no reason why any description of property should be exempt from liabilities to which all other kinds were liable. There was a reasonable ground of objection in this respect; but the question was whether they should take the Bill with this proviso added to it, or reject it altogether. His own opinion was, that they should take it as it was, rather than incur the risk of its loss. The House had rejected a great many Bills for abandoning specific lines of railway, which it was proposed to carry out, because this Bill was before Parliament; therefore he thought it might be attended with some injustice not to pass it. Several Gentlemen connected with railways in that House had said that they would rather not have the Bill than assent to this proviso; but he believed that there were several railway companies who would take advantage of this Bill as it stood. It should be remembered the adoption of this Bill by a railway company was altogether optional. It was supposed that the proviso might prejudice the case of railway companies in courts of justice with regard to the contracts in question: he had consulted the hon. and learned Attorney General, and had his clear opinion that this could not be so. He was, therefore, for assenting to the Lords' Amendment.
 MR. BRIGHT  seconded the Motion.
 MR. BRIGHT  was not in the least degree surprised at the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies. There seemed to be an  esprit de corps 990 991 "Martial law is proclaimed throughout the districts of the island of Cephalonia, to which the late insurrectionary movement, marked by acts of such atrocity, extended, and to such other districts as it may have spread to." 992 993
 MR. HUME  said, that he was sorry to occupy the time of the House; but having taken a warm interest in the affairs of the Ionian Islands for many years, and having introduced the subject early in this Session, with the view of obtaining the fullest information on a subject which had attracted the attention of all Europe—he meant the proceedings of Sir Henry Ward as Commissioner of the Ionian Islands—he could not allow the Session to pass without making an effort to procure for the inhabitants that which they had so long desired. The melancholy situation in which they were now placed was much to be regretted by any man who looked back to the history of the Ionian Islands. He had had a former opportunity of alluding to this question, but the House having been counted out, the decision did not appear upon the Votes of the House, and it became necessary to renew this notice. The noble Lord the Member for Aylesbury was anxiously looking forward to finish the speech which he had begun, but he was confined to his bed and was unable to attend. He (Mr. Hume) was anxious that the hon. Secretary for the Colonies should have the opportunity of offering any answer he could give as to the proceedings of Sir Henry Ward, of which he complained; and he should be pleased if he could learn from the noble Lord at the head of the Government that he was willing to concur in the object of his Motion, which was to send out a Commission to the inhabitants of these islands, in order that the facts connected with their misgovernment might be brought to the ears of the Government at home; believing, as he did, that our Government had not been in possession of the real truth as to the state of these islands. In order to show that he had ground for that, and that the House ought to listen with attention to any thing that came from that quarter, he would only refer to the proclamation which had been alluded to on a former occasion. It was the proclamation of Her Majesty's Commissioner in the year 1813, for the government of the islands at that time when the Ionians put themselves under the protection of the British Government. General Campbell said—
 977 "I am directed by the Prince Regent, to impress on the minds of the inhabitants the deep interest his Royal Highness feels in the prosperity of these islands, and recommend the adoption of such measures as may be best calculated to secure the general happiness of the Ionian islands, and support freedom and prosperity." 978 979 "As Her Majesty's representative, I have the right to proclaim martial law—I have the entire disposal of Her Majesty's forces—I have a right to lay an embargo on shipping—I can order persons to leave the island, and take up their residence on other islands; and all these powers I have used." "I am perfectly aware I ran the risk of being denounced as a persecutor and a tyrant for taking these steps, but I had no choice. I had to deal with semi-barbarians, and I must treat them as such; they respect nothing but actual force." 980
 MR. LOCKE  supported the Amendment. The Bill, as carried to the House of Lords, gave to landowners adequate compensation in respect of any lands which they might have agreed to sell to a railway company, which lands were not afterwards required in consequence of the railway being abandoned. The fact was that the Bill was merely brought in for the purpose of perpetuating the Railway Commission, by giving it an appearance of being employed. If this proviso were retained, not a railway company in the kingdom would avail itself of the Bill.
 MR. MULLINGS  cordially concurred
 1007
 MR. C. ANSTEY  would state, without fear of contradiction, that when the atrocities committed by the Austrians in Hungary were represented in that House, the only Member who rose, not to express his indignation at those atrocities, but to be the apologist of them—whether committed by Marshal Haynau, or by any other instrument of Austrian tyranny, he cared not—was the noble Lord. And now what said the noble Lord? He said that the offences for which these persons were put to death were not political offences. In point of form the noble Lord was right; but who could doubt that the original motive of these offenders was political? One very important question remained to be considered—one on which they had no information, owing to the unfortunate silence
 1005
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, that it appeared that forty-four persons had been sentenced to death, of whom twenty-one had been executed under the orders of Sir Henry Ward, and that the noble Lord the Member for Tyrone, who had on a former occasion been the defender of Haynau, had ventured to defend the atrocious conduct of the Commissioner of the Ionian Islands.
 MR. CHAPLIN  said, that this particular Amendment had been carried in the House of Commons by a majority of seventy-seven to fifteen, and they ought to have very weighty reasons urged before they consented to reverse their former deliberate judgment. It would be most preposterous that a landowner should be permitted to exact the same sum for lands which were not at all entered upon, that it had been proposed to give for those lands, on the supposition that the lands would be occupied for the purposes of a railway. Fair compensation was all that landowners could justly demand. He moved as an Amendment that the House do disagree to the Lords' Amendment.
 MR. W. P. WOOD  said, the proviso to which such strong objection was entertained, did not enforce anything, but merely prevented vested rights and interests from being defeated. He cared nothing for the Bill one way or the other; but if it was to pass, he wished that it would be accompanied with this proviso.
 SIR DE L. EVANS  thought, from the long experience they had had of Sir Henry Ward in that House, that they should be very slow in listening to the injurious statements which had been made against him. A good deal of stress had been laid upon the small number of people against whom Sir Henry Ward had to act, and on the circumstance that his troops suffered nothing from their firing; but these afforded no proof that they were not insurgents. A body of 400 insurgents in the mountains were very capable of keeping at bay even 4,000 of the best troops in Europe. Look
 1002
 MR. SPEAKER  informed the hon. and gallant Member that the House could not entertain his Amendment, as the Bill before the House was for amending the Act relating to the copyright of designs, and there was nothing in the preamble which concerned the Exhibition of 1851.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he had had his say, and did not care.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that in consequence of the unsatisfactory replies given by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the First Minister of the Crown, to questions respecting the expenditure of public money for the Exhibition of 1851, he begged to repeat the questions he had already put on this subject. He had a right to call
 1010
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  objected to this as a most unusual course.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, on this as on other occasions on which the subject had been broached, he must refuse to give any such pledge or
 1011
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that he should move the third reading, as well as the report, on Monday.
 MR. FORSTER  complained that this Bill had been galloped through its previous stages in a most unseemly way, which precluded all discussion upon it. He should not oppose the Bill; but it was very necessary to caution the public and the workmen in collieries against relying upon it as a substitute for that caution, prudence, and personal vigilance which alone could prevent those fatal accidents. If, relying on the Bill, they relaxed that care which alone could secure them against danger, the most fearful results might follow. In the case of the large collieries, like that with which he was himself connected, the Bill must be a dead letter, because they had as competent inspectors always on the spot as could be found by the Government to act under the Bill. In their workings they employed 1,500 men and boys, and for the last fifteen years their casualties had not exceeded on an average more than one man a year. The same caution and the same system prevailed in the other large collieries belonging to the Earl of Durham, the Marquess of Londonderry, and others. Then, with respect to the smaller collieries, he very much doubted whether the Bill would not do more harm than good in their case, by removing a portion of the responsibility from the owners to the Government inspectors. This sort of legislative interference with trade was most dangerous, particularly in a case of this kind, where you attempt to supply individual care and prudence by Act of Parliament, which is impossible. But it was most important that it should go forth to the workmen that there was nothing in this Act to protect them against the consequences of their own reckless imprudence, and that any reliance upon it for that purpose would be most fatal to their own security.
 MR. SPOONER  thought it would be much more satisfactory to the public, if they had a distinct statement from the noble Lord at the head of the Government that no public money would be required for the purposes of this Exhibition.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  begged to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer if he had any objection to give an assurance to this effect?
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  said, that twenty Irish Members had voted for the
 1023
 MR. HAWES  said, it was not in his power to refer to the evidence to contradict the statements of the hon. Gentleman; and no Member who had not been on the Committee could form a correct judgment. The report of the Committee contained this sentence:—"Your Committee are of opinion that the serious attention of Her Majesty's Government should be called to the evidence taken in the course of this inquiry;" and his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose was one of those who voted in the majority. With regard to the printing of the report, a Motion was made and a question put to this effect—"That the whole of the evidence taken before the Committee be reported to the House." For that Motion the Ayes were only two; the Noes were ten, and the hon. Gentleman whom he saw on the third bench was one of those who agreed that the evidence should not be laid before the House. [Sir
 1046 1047
 MR. NEWDEGATE  wished to know whether a Committee appointed by that House to inquire into certain matters had any right to suppress the evidence laid before them? He also wanted to know what the Government had been about? Were they aware of all these circumstances? Did it need a Committee of the House to inform them of the state of Ceylon? Or did they sanction all the acts of the Governor? If the Committee gave them the first information as to the nature of these acts, they had taken the gravest proceedings in total ignorance of the circumstances under which they were taken. Either they knew of, or did not know of, all the circumstances appearing in that evidence. If they did not know of them, they had been sanctioning the proceedings in total ignorance of that which it was their duty to understand. If they did know of them, they had sanctioned proceedings which every Member of the Committee seemed to lament and condemn. Two years were allowed to elapse before any remedy was adopted for the evils with which the colony was oppressed, and it was impossible for any Member of the House to shut his eyes to the fact that the Government of Ceylon would be recorded in the blackest page of their colonial history. And all they had now was the assurance that Her Majesty's Government, having got the information, would keep it to themselves.
 SIR J. WALMSLEY  said, that having been referred to in the manner that he had been by the hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies, he must observe that he had voted in the manner stated because he considered that it would be improper to publish private and confidential letters. The House might, however, soon be placed in a somewhat different position; for very near the close of the proceedings letters were received from two of the witnesses, whose evidence was considered private and confidential—he referred to Mr. Wodehouse and Sir James Emerson Tennent—praying
 1048
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  said, the question was not whether the Government were justified in recalling Lord Torrington, but whether the House would, under existing circumstances, order the printing of certain documents which he believed a majority of the Committee were now of opinion that they ought never to have received. It was absurd to talk of the matter as a suppression of evidence. The fault, if fault there had been, lay in the Committee having admitted a great deal more than they ought to have done. But, less or more, the whole of what had been taken before them was now matter of record; and the sole question the House was called upon now to determine was, whether it was for the interests of the public service that a particular portion of it which was supposed to affect the character of an absent man, should be prematurely published. He used the phrase advisedly; and he thought that when the House considered the state of the case as it stood at the present moment, it would recognise the justice and propriety of at least deferring any decision. The whole of the evidence taken by the Committee during the Session of 1849 was already before them. No ground of personal exculpation had, even by his accusers, been found against the Governor of Ceylon or his principal advisers, in that voluminous body of testimony; and as little would be found in the evidence taken during the present Session, up to a comparatively recent period, when the Committee thought proper to allow the production of private and confidential letters. Were they prepared to vote, that when a public servant had undergone a searching scrutiny into all his public acts during the greater portion of two successive Sessions of Parliament, without
 1049 in extenso à fortiori 1050
 MR. VILLIERS  said, he thought the House ought to be informed why many Members of the Committee had felt a difficulty in reporting the evidence on the general subject of the inquiry to the House, without also reporting that which was termed private and confidential. It was this—that the latter evidence affected the credit of some of the witnesses, and it was not deemed right to report their evidence without allowing the House to know that other evidence had been taken which much weakened the effect of that testimony. This evidence certainly consisted of private letters; but the Committee had possessed themselves of it with no understanding that it would not be published. It was ultimately, however, considered, that as these letters had been written by those who were not then in the country, and who were not aware of their production, that it would not be proper to publish them until such persons had been apprised of the fact; and this accounted for none of the evidence being reported. The conduct of the Committee had been censured for not having made a report themselves; hut he thought that the Committee were justified in not making a report by the inquiry not being complete, and, in his judgment, it could not be rendered so in a Committee of the House of Commons. In the first place, he thought that where charges of a criminatory character were brought against individuals at a distance, they ought to be investigated where there was somewhat more of regularity and responsibility than there was in a Committee-room upstairs; and in the next place, owing to the distance of the colony, the expense and delay of bringing witnesses were so great, that they were precluded from getting much evidence which in the progress of the inquiry was shown to be necessary; and from not having persons present who ought to have been examined, or statements confirmed that had been made, it was difficult
 1051
 MR. BRIGHT  wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies whether he understood him right when he fanceid him to say that this postponement of
 1052 1053
 SIR J. HOGG  was sorry the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose had not taken this discussion on a distinct Motion. [Mr. HUME: I have done so.] No, the hon. Gentleman had taken it on a Motion to print the evidence; and it was competent for him to take it on the policy of Lord Torrington alone, for everything relating to the declaration of martial law, and the evidence in reference thereto, had been laid on the table of the House and printed, and might be referred to by every Member of the House, if the hon. Gentleman had brought forward a distinct Motion calling attention to the evidence that was published. Now, the complaint against the Committee was, that they had taken upon themselves, contrary to the duty and usage of the Committee, to state what evidence ought to lie upon the table. He contended that it was perfectly competent for the Committee to do so. It was a thing of every day's experience; but the House might overrule the decision of the Committee. But when the proceedings of a Committee were produced before the House, and it appeared from those proceedings that only two out of the twelve members of the Committee were favourable to the printing of the evidence; the good sense of the House would be generally found to be in accordance with the majority of the Committee. After the Motion to print the evidence had been negatived by the Committee, another propo-
 1054 1055
 MR. HUME  stated that in his draft report he had characterised the conduct of Lord Torrington as unnecessary and unjustifiable, and it was purely out of mercy that he had not made use of stronger terms. The great importance of the documents which were kept back was shown by the fact that nothing would have been done to Lord Torrington by the Government, except for that "Ceylon gossip," as it had been called. The Government were only injuring themselves in the course which they had taken in this matter; and one of his (Mr. Hume's) first acts in the next Session would be to bring the whole subject before the House, and he would give notice of his intention to do so before the present Session closed; and, what was more, he would carry out his Motion, and
 1056
 MR. SMYTHE  wished to ask the Foreign Secretary—1. Whether there was any objection to lay before Parliament copies of instructions to Mr. Hood, senior, Lord Howden, Captain Gore, Mr. Hood, junior, and Mr. Southern, some time agents in La Plata? 2. Whether our relations with France in La Plata were of such a nature as to afford any hope of a successful issue from the offer of our good offices made in the third article of the new convention? 3. Whether security to the lives and property of British subjects residing in the Banda Oriental had been guaranteed?
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the hon. Baronet had entirely confined himself to the mode of conducting public business, and had not entered into the question of the policy of different measures; but at the same time he (Lord J. Russell) could not say he agreed with the hon. Baronet in the general tenour of the remarks he had made to the House. It appeared to him that the House had really conducted an amount of public business such as he believed no assembly in the world had ever conducted before, and, whatever might have been the case in one or two Sessions, the present Session certainly afforded an example of great attention to public business, and of but few departures from the general understanding to facilitate the passage of useful Bills as speedily as possible. It should not have been forgotten that a portion of the Session had been occupied with a question on which the House had gone over the whole foreign policy of Government, and it was obvious that the principal speakers could not dispose of so important a subject without going into it at considerable length. The hon. Baronet had said, much to his (Lord J. Russell's) surprise, that hon. Members were not aware of the precise business to be brought forward, especially on Government nights. Now, that certainly might have been the case some years ago, for then, when there were twenty or thirty notices on the paper, the Minister might have brought any of them forward without notice; but that was no longer the case. He (Lord J. Russell) had been the first to alter that custom, and he had introduced the practice of giving notice and of printing in the Votes with the Orders of the Day those Bills, naming two or three especially which were likely to occupy the greater part of the time of the House, to be brought in before the other orders. The Government, not confining themselves to that notice, had made a still further regulation, by which the Orders of the Day were taken on Government nights in the order in which they stood upon the paper—a regulation which was of some inconvenience to the Government, but of obvious advantage to the House. The hon. Baronet had also omitted to state that in the course of the Session the Government must occupy a very large number of nights in the discussion of the Estimates. They had the Navy Estimates, the Army Estimates, and
 1036 1037 1038 1039 1040
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that as hon. Gentlemen who sat on his side of the House did not act together as a party, and as the hon. Member for Montrose and the hon. Member for Manchester, with some others on the opposite benches, had proved extremely rebellious during the present Session, it was obvious that machinery intended for two parties in the conduct of public business, was not suited for the purpose. He had heard with astonishment the proposal of the hon. Member for Manchester to divide the House into sections to consider matters of detail. Who were to decide what were matters of detail, and what were matters of principle? The attempt to decide that point on such a question, for instance, as the Irish Franchise Bill, would involve the House, not only in long debate, but in acrimonious dispute. He deeply deplored that Government had not attempted to legislate on the subject of landlord and tenant in Ireland; and the reason given by the noble Lord for his abandoning it, that the demands from one side were so unreasonable, would be of greater validity next year than now. Had the recent conference exhibited any moderation of tone, the noble Lord might have withdrawn the Bill, if the Irish representatives had opposed it; but they had no opportunity of expressing any opinion upon the measure, and it had been withdrawn  sub silentio 1043
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he wished to know whether the right hon. the Home Secretary did not contemplate the employment of a very large additional police force on the occasion, which would seriously augment the burdens of the people.
 MR. MOORE  said, the hon. Gentleman who had moved the Amendment had passed a strong invective on Irish Members and a warm eulogium on himself, and had contrasted the indifference and apathy of Irish Members with the activity and zeal and diligence of himself and his friends. But if Irish Members were indifferent to the reforms contemplated by the hon. Member for Montrose, he would remind the House that only three English Members had voted against the renewal of the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act. He received the support of the hon. Member, however, with gratitude, though it would be more welcome if accompanied with less of self-laudation. He had great pleasure in seconding the Motion.
 MR. G. THOMPSON  rose to move, that the Bill be read a third time that day three months. He did so, because no case had been made out for the continuance of this unconstitutional Act, and because he believed that, far from tranquillising Ireland, it would arm the people with a strong argument to be used against the Government, especially as there was no measure either now before the House or already passed, which went to the root of the grievances that this Bill was proposed to
 1020 1021 1022
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, there can be no doubt of the great industry exhibited by the House. I can justly say, that at least 200 hon. Gentlemen have been worked harder in the last six months than an equal number of labourers taken from any parish in England. Nevertheless, I think Her Majesty's Ministers would do well to take a suggestion from the hon. Baronet who has introduced the subject, with regard to adopting a better working system in future Sessions. One great fault of the House is this, they have so many matters of detail brought before them, that it is impossible to have them considered in a House so numerously composed. I therefore think it would be well if the House were to be divided into sections for the consideration of details, leaving the House at large to decide on the principles, by which means, I doubt not, business will be got through much more satisfactorily than at present. The noble Lord at the head of the Government has referred to a few Bills, amongst the rest the Landlord and Tenant Bill. Now, that very Bill I pressed upon the noble Lord several times during the Session, and urged the necessity of Government making it a measure of first importance. It is now a measure of first importance, not alone as regards the people of Ireland, but with regard to what has just taken place. A conference has been sitting in Dublin of earnest men from all parts of Ireland. Now, Sir, without agreeing in all that has been said and done by that conference, we cannot shut our eyes to the fact of its importance, and that it will be the means of evoking a more formidable agitation than has been witnessed for many years. Instead of the agitation being confined, as heretofore, to the Ro-
 1041 1042 Samson "His race of glory run—his race of shame."
 MR. BRIGHT  begged to explain. The practice of dividing the House into sections was practised in the United States and France, and with success. The hon. Gentleman mistook him if he supposed that he (Mr. Bright) approved of all that had been said and done by the Dublin conference; but he wished to call attention to the fact. As regarded the game laws, he should say the tenant-farmers were powerless at present to carry any measure of the sort through that House. But with corn at 40 s.
 MR. HUME  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the President of the Board of Control what provision had been made for the widow and adopted son of the late Pertaub Singh, Rajah of Sattara, now detained in exile at Benares, and the reasons for withholding from the legal heir the private property of which his late Highness was possessed at the time of his deposition, and which, according to the documents on the table of the House, it was guaranteed by the Governor of Bombay and by the political resident, Colonel Ovans, should be held at his disposal.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he did not expect that one of the first votes he would be called upon to give on his re-entering the House would be against a Coercion Bill for Ireland. When the Coercion Bill was introduced in 1846, the noble Lord at the head of the Government stated that it was time that the policy of governing Ireland by standing armies and Coercion Bills should cease, and that a spirit of conciliation and remedial measures should be substituted. On that occasion the House supported the noble Lord, and threw out the Bill by a considerable majority. And now, at the end of four years, Ireland was left entirely as she was; nothing had been done to remedy her grievances, and she was still governed by standing armies and Coercive Acts. Still, if he thought a single murder would be prevented by the passing of this Act, he would be the last man to oppose it, degrading as it was to Ireland. But what did these crimes proceed from? It was the hand of the oppressed against the oppressor. They heard much of these crimes, but there were other crimes as atrocious of which they heard nothing. Look at the evictions which were so frequently taking place, by which hundreds of families were exposed to starvation: was that a condition of things that ought to exist? The noble Lord had the power, by making a proper relation between landlord and tenant, to stay the hand of the assassin, and stop the effusion of blood in Ireland. He had seen the condition of the serfs in the worst parts of Russia; he had seen the several tribes of the North American Indians; and he declared that the condition of the Irish, and the state of their dwellings, were worse than anything he had seen in either of these places. And yet in the United States of America, where all men were equal, and where parties flocked from all the nations of the earth to improve their
 1024
 SIR A. ARMSTRONG  had voted with great reluctance for the introduction of the Bill, and for its continuance for one year. He was not now about to impeach the good taste or the good sense of Members who wished to make Irish landlords the victims of English misrule; the only harm he wished those Members was, that they had estates in Ireland, and were obliged to reside upon them. The crude, inapplicable, and vicious legislation of Parliament for that country compelled the people to make laws for themselves, which they scrupulously enforced, whilst they set many of the laws of Parliament at defiance. What Ireland required was commerce and manufactures to afford remunerative employment to the people, and a home market for its agricultural produce. It was the duty of statesmen to open up the sources of industry and beneficial employment for the people. "The good shepherd would lead his flock." Were the Government prepared with some great and comprehensive measure for placing remunerative employment within the reach of the Irish people? Were they prepared to do battle with the cotton millionaires and the merchant princes of England for a fair share of the commerce and manufactures of the united kingdom for Ireland? Were they prepared to contend against the tyranny of overwhelming capital? Ireland ought to be placed in a state of perfect civil, religious, political, commercial, and manufacturing equality with England. Let the Government charter for a limited term a company of cotton spinners and a company of woolstaplers for each of the three Irish provinces that had no manufactures deserving the name. Let a Royal dockyard be established for building ships for Her Majesty's Navy. Let Ireland have a fair number of representatives in that House. Let the anomaly of the Protestant Church Establishment be abated. With measures like these, the foundation of Ireland's prosperity would be laid, and there would he no need for Coercion Bills.
 SIR B. HALL  rose, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of the House to a return headed 'Public Bills," lately printed by order of the House. It was not his intention to enter into a review of the foreign or domestic policy of the Government; his only object was to call the attention of the House to what had been the conduct of public business during the present Session, and merely with the view of placing the subject before the House, in order that they might not in another Session of Parliament have their time so completely taken up as it had been this Session, and also that they might have what time was taken up better occupied than it had been during the present Session. He never knew any Session of Parliament since the passing of the Reform Act in which there had been a more anxious desire to transact and get through the business than during the present Session; and he had observed also that the debates had not been adjourned, with the exception of the foreign policy debate, lasting for four nights, and in which twenty-five Members spoke during thirty-eight hours. There
 1030 1031 1032 1033 1034
 SIR G. GREY  said, he believed the report to which the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln had referred, relative
 1026
 SIR J. HOBHOUSE  said, the question put to him by his hon. Friend was in a great degree answered by the paper to which he had alluded, that was to say, with reference to the provision the Government proposed to make for the widow and the adopted son of the late Pertaub Singh, Rajah of Sattara. His hon. Friend was aware that when Sir James Carnac first of all made a statement of the provision intended for the family of the ex-Rajah, the statement given to the deposed Rajah was that the widow should receive 800 rupees a month. When he died, that sum was offered to the ranee, the surviving widow, but she refused to receive it, stating it was inadequate. In consequence of the opinion so entertained by her, the home authorities communicated with the Indian authorities, and instructed them to
 1027 l. l. "The Government deem it necessary to state that they have gone into the whole claim advanced by the ex-Rajah," that is, with reference to his private property, "and they think his claims should be declared inadmissible, except that which relates to private property which can be shown to have belonged to him. The 120,000 rupees, therefore, which are to be paid to him, that is, the  12,0001 l. 1028
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that the negotiations which had been going on for some time between the Government and General Rosas, having been concluded by a treaty, it would not of course be consistent with his public duty to present the copies of the various proposals which had been made from time to time, for the purpose of bringing about an arrangement, but which had not been successful in their results. Now, however, a treaty, and, as he thought, a satisfactory treaty, having been concluded—and if the House did not think it satisfactory they could discuss it next Session—he did not think it would be just or right to produce former proposals which had been unsuccessful. With regard to the second question, they thought it better for the interests of all parties that
 1029
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, in 1847 he moved for a return which was to explain to that House and the country the changes that were taking place in foreign tariffs, and this Session he moved for a continuance of that return, which he had now before him, but he found that it was extremely inaccurate. The information was supplied by the Consuls of this country abroad; and he had fancied that it would have filled up a great gap in the information which had been hitherto supplied to this House. Until he moved for the return in 1847, that House was entirely without information as to the duties levied by foreign countries, und the differential duties levied on the commodities of this
 1071
 MR. NEWDEGATE  was obliged to the right hon. Gentleman for having so far acceded to his request as to obtain copies of foreign tariffs. He did not wish to have those documents translated, but he hoped free access would be allowed to them.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that it was quite true that the attention of the Government was some time ago called to this question, which was a matter in which the health of Her Mejesty's subjects was concerned. A new process was discovered some time ago, and there was reason to suppose that a certain quantity of lead might remain in the sugar, and cause deleterious effects. He thought it his duty to make inquiry some months ago, and a report was made by some experienced chemists. An analysis of the sugar refined by two refiners was made, and the report of the chemists was submitted to two medical gentlemen, who presented a report to the Board of Inland Revenue. It did not appear that any deleterious matter remained in the sugar, but there was reason to believe that a quantity of lead remained in the treacle to such an extent as if taken in great quantities would prove prejudicial. He thought it his duty to submit these reports to the party who had invented this mode of refining sugar, and he offered to abide by the best test that could be offered—namely, that he and his family would eat any quantity of the treacle. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) thought it right that the public should be in possession of the reports on the one hand, and of this statement on the other. He held them in his hand, and perhaps the best way would be to move that they be laid on the table of the House, and then they would be printed, and the public would have the opportunity of forming its own opinion.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he entirely concurred in the object of the hon. Gentleman, namely, that it was most desirable this House and the country should have as complete and accurate information as possible on the subject of foreign tariffs, and the changes which from time to time were made in them. The return to which the hon. Member had referred was moved for early in the Session, and the Board of Trade immediately requested the Foreign Office to address a circular to British Ministers and Consuls abroad, asking them to obtain such information as was necessary to complete the return. He (Mr. Labouchere) had laid upon the table as it arrived the information which had been transmitted to the Board of Trade. The board could be responsible for the accuracy of that information only to this extent, that it was derived from the best sources to which they had access—through the medium of British Ministers and Consuls abroad. He was, of course, unable to compare the documents transmitted to him with the existing foreign tariffs; and therefore he could not say that inaccuracies might not have occurred in the return. The Board of Trade had, however, done more than this; for, in the course of the Session, the Foreign Secretary had, at their request, written to British Ministers and Consuls abroad, directing them to obtain copies of all existing foreign tariffs, and to communicate to Her Majesty's Government all alterations that might at any time be made in those tariffs. The Colonial Secretary had also undertaken to obtain similar information with regard to the tariffs of our own colonies. The hon. Gentleman had asked whether he (Mr. Labouchere) would consent to a Motion that the foreign tariffs, AS they were received by the Government, should at once be printed and submitted
 1072
 MR. LABOUCHERE , in reply, said, that the report had been already completed, and delivered in to the Treasury, by whom it had been laid upon the table of the House, where it now was. It was not in his power to say what steps the Treasury might take on the subject, and it would hardly be right for the Treasury to pledge themselves to any ulterior course until they had first duly considered the subject. The report was already printed, and any hon. Gentleman could refer to it.
 MR. THORNELY  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether the attention of the Government had been called to the new mode of refining sugar? His object in
 1070
 MR. THORNELY  wished to know whether the report of the Committee appointed to consider this subject had been completed, when it would be presented to the House, and whether and when any change back to the old practice would take place?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, all that bad taken place on this subject was, that the Commissioners appointed to consider the question, in conformity with the Address of the House, had presented their report, which was now on the table of the House. He could not enter into the details of that report further than that its general tenour was, that the regulation for the entire suspension of the delivery and transmission of mails on Sundays should be repealed, and that they should revert to the transmission and delivery of letters on Sundays, accom-
 1078
